2019 Sustainability Report Contents Editorial Policy 2 Human Resources to Translate into Assets 76 Environment 38 Company 3 Recruitment of Human Resources 77 Promoting the Environmental Management 39 Message from the Chairperson of the Sustainability Committee 4 Human Resources Development 78 Responding to Climate Change 45 Appropriate Appointment and Allocation of Personnel 81 Corporate Mission Vision Values 5 Responding to Water Resource Problems 48 Promoting Diversity & Inclusion 83 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework 6 Resource Recycling Initiatives 49 Creating an Environment in which Every Individual 86 Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders 9 Initiatives against Environmental Pollution 50 Can Achieve Their Full Potential Participation in Initiatives 12 Environmental Performance Data 51 Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives 91 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality 15 Reducing Impacts on Biodiversity, 56 Creating New Value 98 and Promoting the Conservation and Recovery of Ecosystems Identification and Review of Materiality 16 Data of Personnel Affairs 100 Secure sustainable supply of essential products 18 Enhance quality of life 21 Social 57 Create an eco-friendly society 25 Governance 104 Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, Materials, Food and Products 58 Develop talent leading to value creation 29 Integrity and Compliance 105 Supplying Food and Products with Ensured Safety and Security 60 Build an organization with integrity 33 Corporate Governance and Internal Controls 110 Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure 61 CCO Interview 37 Risk Management 113 Responding to Health Needs and the Needs of an Aging Society 63 Promotion of Supply Chain Management 116 Responding to increasingly Diverse Consumer Demand 65 Social Contribution Activities 66 Evaluation by Society 122 Respect for Human Rights 75 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 124 Link buttons Cover Photo: Mitsui & Co. has defined Mitsui’s material issues (“Materiality”) for the company to focus on, 2019 Sustainability Report Link to website with the aim of meeting the expectations of a variety of stakeholders and contributing to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled, as set out in our corporate mission. The images shown on the cover mainly represent the Mitsui’s Materiality outlined in Link to related information the Our Stories pages of this year’s Report. 1 Editorial Policy We publish our Sustainability Report with the aim of delivering an explicit message to our stakeholders Scope of Coverage in the Sustainability Report: that Mitsui & Co. commits to creating new values through a wide range of business activities, and Mitsui and major consolidated subsidiaries and associated companies. The scope of coverage for numericontributes to societal and corporate sustainability. cal data is provided individually in appended notes. As an annual report that complements the Integrated Report, our Sustainability Report 2019 emphasizes comprehensiveness and continuity, and provides detailed environmental, social, and Covered Period: The Sustainability Report 2019 mainly covers our initiatives carried out in the period from April 2018 to governance (ESG) information. Furthermore, in accordance with Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality, which was newly March 2019 (the fiscal year ended March 2019), as well as part of our policy and action plans for the fiscal identified in April 2019, we associated such ESG information with the 17 goals and 169 targets of the year ending March 2020. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and reported our activities in line with the ESG factors. We also introduced actual examples of how we are generating new value that provides solutions Independent Practitioner’s Assurance to societal issues for each Materiality in the “Our Stories” pages. The “★” logo indicates that the sustainability information concerned has been given limited assurance, for On our websites, we focus on ensuring convenient browsability and searchability of information the purpose of increasing its reliability, by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. in its independent related to sustainability, and have posted our ESG policies and data, as well as a GRI standards comparison practitioner’s assurance report. chart. Our websites also provide details of our social contribution activities to complement the information contained in the Sustainability Report 2019. Publication Date: August 2019 (Previous publication date: August 2018; next publication scheduled for August 2020) Sustainability Guidelines Our Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Core option of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. GRI Standards Comparison Chart Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 version) established by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan ISO26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) Published by: Sustainability Committee, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Contact: Corporate Sustainability Division, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 1-3, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan Nippon Life Marunouchi Garden Tower A Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements This material contains statements (including figures) regarding Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (“Mitsui”)’s corporate strategies, objectives, and views of future developments that are forward-looking in nature and are not simply reiterations of historical facts. These statements are presented ：+81(3)3285-1111 to inform stakeholders of the views of Mitsui’s management but should not be relied on solely in making investment and other decisions. You should be aware that a number of known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to outcomes that ：+81(3)3285-9030 differ materially from those presented in such forward-looking statements. ：www.mitsui.com/jp/en/sustainability/ These risks, uncertainties and other factors referred to above include, but are not limited to, those contained in Mitsui’s latest Annual Securities Report and Quarterly Securities Report, and Mitsui undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. 2 Company Corporate Profile（ As of March 31, 2019） Company Name Major Business Areas Organization Chart（ As of April1, 2019） MITSUI & CO., LTD. Utilizing our global operating locations, network and information resources, we are multilaterally pursuing business that ranges from General Meeting of Shareholders Date of Establishment product sales, worldwide logistics and financing, through to the July 25, 1947 Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board development of major international infrastructure and other projects in the following fields: Iron & Steel Products, Mineral & Metal Resources, Board of Directors Head Office Audit & Supervisory Board Member Div. 1-3, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan (registered Infrastructure Projects, Mobility, Chemicals, Energy, Food, Food & Retail head office location) Management, Healthcare & Service, IT & Communication Business, President & Chief Executive Officer Corporate Management Committee Nippon Life Marunouchi Garden Tower Corporate Development Business. Internal Auditing Div. (Head Quarter Business Units) 3-1, Ohtemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan Iron & Steel Products Business Unit JA Building Our Business Secretariat Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Business areas Human Resources & General Affairs Div. Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Representative Legal Div. Mobility Business Unit I Tatsuo Yasunaga, President and Chief Executive Officer Corporate Logistics Div. Mobility Business Unit II Number of Affiliated Companies for Consolidation New Head Office Building Development Dept. Basic Materials Business Unit Common Stock Subsidiaries: Japan 70 Overseas 208 Corporate Planning & Strategy Div. Performance Materials Business Unit ¥341,481,648,946 Mitsui & Co. Global Strategic Studies Institute Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit Equity Accounted Investees: Japan 45 Overseas 168 Investment Administrative Div. Energy Business Unit I Number of Employees Information Technology Promotion Div. Energy Business Unit II Total Assets ¥11.95 trillion Regional Business Promotion Div. Food Business Unit 5,772 Total equity*1 ¥4.26 trillion Corporate Communications Div. Retail Business Unit Consolidated 43,993 Corporate Sustainability Div. Healthcare & Service Business Unit Revenue ¥6.96 trillion CFO Planning & Administrative Div. IT & Communication Business Unit Number of Offices and Overseas Trading Affiliates Profit for the Year*1 ¥414.2 billion Corporate Development Business Unit Global Controller Div. 139 offices in 66 countries/regions Core Operating Cash Flow*2 ¥570.5 billion Finance Div. Offices in Japan: 12 (Head Office: 1 Offices: 6 Branches: 5) Risk Management Div. Offices in Japan Overseas Trading Affiliates: 95 (Head Offices: 34, Others: 61) Investor Relations Div. Head Office: 1 *1 Attributable to owners of the parent (Business Supporting Unit) Office: 6 Overseas Offices: 32 (Branch: 2, Others: 30) *2 “Cash flows from operating activities”“changes in operating assets and liabilities“ Planning & Administrative Div. (Metals) Branch: 5 (As of April 1, 2019) Planning & Administrative Div. (Chemicals) Overseas Trading Affiliates & Overseas Offices: Planning & Administrative Div. (Energy) Total 127 Planning & Administrative Div. (Food & Services) Overseas Trading Affiliates: Head Office 34 Worldwide Network Planning & Administrative Div. (Innovation & Corporate Development) Overseas Trading Affiliates: Others 61 Business Solutions Div. (Mobility & Infrastructure) Overseas Offices: Branch 2 Financial Management & Advisory Div. I Overseas Offices: Others 30 Financial Management & Advisory Div. III Financial Management & Advisory Div. IV 3 Message From the Chairperson of the Sustainability Committee Toward the realization of a sustainable society, Mitsui & Co. will contribute to a brighter future filled with aspirations. Shinsuke Fujii Representative Director, Executive Vice President Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief Privacy Officer Takashi Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui & Co.*, stated, “Let not short term gains tempt your 2015. While taking into consideration international frameworks such as the SDGs, as well as the mind, seek only enduring prosperity by embracing grand aspirations.” We have inherited these values of perspectives of both a wide range of stakeholders and the potential impact on our business activities, we looking toward the future and the commitment to societal and corporate sustainability. Those values also engaged in active discussions within and beyond Mitsui. This process culminated in the constitute an unshakeable foundation for the Mitsui of today. announcement of our new Materiality in April 2019. The realization of a sustainable society has become an urgent global priority, as evidenced by the The newly identified five material issues are: “Secure sustainable supply of essential products,” “Enhance adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030 by the United Nations, and the growing quality of life,” “Create an eco-friendly society,” “Develop talent leading to value creation,” and “Build an importance of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) aspects to various stakeholders. We are told organization with integrity.” These constitute the basis for conducting all of Mitsui’s business activities and that, in order to prevent climate change from having a severe impact on the Earth, and on people’s lives, promoting sustainability management with a focus on social and corporate sustainability. we need to limit the increase in temperature compared with the level before the Industrial Revolution to Furthermore, we enhanced the functions of the Sustainability Committee established under the 1.5-2° C. International efforts are now accelerating, including calls for the achievement of greenhouse gas Corporate Management Committee, and in order to accelerate sustainability management initiatives on a emission reduction targets under the multilateral framework of the Paris Agreement. global group basis, we created the Corporate Sustainability Division that plays the role of promoting and With the aim of contributing to solving such problems, in July 2018, Mitsui announced that it would driving sustainability management on a company-wide basis. no longer accumulate new thermal coal assets for coal business that discharges a large amount of The corporate mission of Mitsui is to “Strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the greenhouse gas. We also set the target of increasing the portion of our renewable energy based power aspirations of the people can be fulfilled.” Under that mission, we will continue to respond to the trust and generation capacity to 30% by 2030. In December 2018, we expressed our support for the expectations of all stakeholders, including our customers, business partners, the countries and regions in recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which was which we engage in business activities, and our shareholders. Moreover, through a wide range of business established under the auspices of the Financial Stability Board. activities, we will contribute to sustainable economic and social development on a global scale, as well as In addition to the growing international importance of sustainability, we are also aware of the to finding solutions to global issues, such as climate change. continual change in megatrends with the potential to affect our business activities. In response to these changes, we decided to review the Materiality (material management issues) that we identified in March * Legally speaking, there has been no continuation between the former Mitsui & Co. and the current Mitsui & Co. 4 Corporate Mission Vision Values In 2004 Mitsui systematically and clearly set forth in written form the implicit values we share and issued our Mission, Vision and Values. We believe that sharing this management philosophy is even more Mitsui & Co.’s Core Values important than ever as we work to create true value around the world through our global activities. The former Mitsui & Co.* which was established in 1876, was disbanded as part of the dissolution of Japan’s zaibatsu (industrial conglomerates) shortly after the end of World War II. The current Mitsui Mission Vision Values was founded by employees of the former Mitsui that shared the values of the original company: “Challenge and Innovation,” “Open-Mindedness,” and “Focus on Human Resources.” The Mitsui of Mission today continues to contribute to the creation of new value for society. Strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled. The way we work and the way we think are still very much based on the values espoused by Vision Takashi Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui, and are reflected in our stance toward our Aim to become a global business enabler that can meet the needs of our customers throughout work. The principles of Mitsui’s approach to sustainability as social responsibility have always the world. reflected its founder’s values, a way of thinking unchanged to this day. Values * Legally speaking, there has been no continuation between the former Mitsui & Co. and the current Mitsui & Co. Build trust with fairness and humility. Aspire to set high standards and to contribute to society. “Let not short term gains tempt your mind, seek only enduring prosperity by embracing grand aspirations.” Embrace the challenge of continuous innovation. “I started Mitsui with the goal of realizing trade on a large scale, not in pursuit of money, but from the desire to work.” Foster a culture of open-mindedness. “Mitsui has a pool of very talented individuals. This is Mitsui’s most important asset.” Strive to develop others and oneself to achieve full potential. Takashi Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui 5 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework Mitsui & Co.’s Value Creation Basic CSR Policy Companies can only be sustainable if the societies they operate in are sustainable, and unsustainable Mitsui’s Basic CSR Policy, which is built upon our management philosophy of Mission, Vision and Values companies cannot fulfill their social responsibilities. At Mitsui & Co., we try to anticipate changes in society serving as the foundation of our business activities, was formulated in 2004 and reviewed in 2013 to reflect with each era. We reflect on how we should advance our capabilities and ceaselessly challenge ourselves input from society and our stakeholders. In our CSR policies, our approach to sustainability as our social to express our potential in ways that bring the most benefit to society. responsibility is clearly incorporated, and we earnestly continue to strive for its realization. We believe that we must continually improve the way we engage with environmental and societal issues, listen closely to our stakeholders, and ensure that we have a clear understanding of key concerns, issues, and expectations. It is then our responsibility to contribute to addressing issues and meeting Basic CSR Policy expectations in the most effective way possible. 1. We will conduct our business activities with honesty and integrity, make prudent efforts to We continue to ensure that all of our employees share our management philosophy, as expressed in understand the culture, traditions, and customs of countries and regions around the world, and our Mission, Vision, and Values, and to strengthen our robust management platform, including our reinforce the importance of CSR with each of our employees. Based on our conscientious governance and risk management systems. At the same time, working alongside our stakeholders, our aim management, we will strive to enhance corporate value to stakeholders and to produce value to is to pursue business in a manner expressed in our “360°business innovation.” slogan. In doing so, we society. place a strong focus on five material issues of Mitsui’s new Materiality, which we have revised in April 2019 2. We will make every effort to actively contribute to the achievement of a sustainable society through as important management priorities in achieving a sustainable development of society and Mitsui. The the promotion of sustainable development as well as maintaining a strong awareness of the newly identified material issues are: “Secure sustainable supply of essential products,” “Enhance quality of importance of preserving the global environment. We will also emphasize the importance of life,” “Create an eco-friendly society,” “Develop talent leading to value creation,” and “Build an organization interactive communication with stakeholders to understand their concerns and fulfill our with integrity.” accountability for our CSR activities. The slogan noted above and our Materiality reflect the fact that one of our greatest strengths is our 3. We recognize the significance and importance of the human rights contained in the general ability to connect ideas, information, customers, and business partners to create new value around the principles of international standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Throughout world so as to strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be all occasions of our entire business activities, we will give due consideration to basic labor rights. fulfilled. This is what Mitsui is expected to do and how Mitsui strives to create new value in pursuit of social 4. As a global company with operations throughout the world, we will support Mitsui & Co.’s group sustainability. companies in the practice and implementation of our CSR policies, and will sincerely seek our business counterparties’ understanding and cooperation to support this initiative. 6 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework Sustainability Management Framework In the fiscal year ended March 2005, Mitsui & Co. established the CSR Promotion Committee (currently the President & CEO Corporate Sustainability Division Secretariat of sustainability committee, Environmental management, Social contributions Sustainability Committee) under the Corporate Management Committee to develop Mitsui’s internal framework with respect to sustainability, and to work to raise sustainability awareness among employees. Corporate Management Committee Corporate Planning & Strategy Division Corporate governance, Internal controls Reflecting the growing interest in the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and ESG in recent years, we established the Sustainability Committee on May 1, 2017, in order to further clarify our Sustainability Committee Investor Relations Division Efforts related to shareholders and analysts unchanging stance toward creating new value for society through business activities and to pursue Cross-Organizational Collaboration further mutual sustainability between society and the company. Environmental & Societal With the Sustainable Committee playing a central role, Mitsui promotes sustainability-related activities Advisory Committee Corporate Communications Division Corporate communications based on cross-organizational collaboration to meet the needs and expectations of society in relation to Labor environment, Health and safety, companies’ social values and initiatives. Human Resources & Diversity management, General Affairs Division Human resources development On April 1, 2019, we established the Corporate Sustainability Division, whose role is to promote and drive company-wide sustainability management and to accelerate various initiatives on a global group Legal Division Integrity, Compliance basis. The Corporate Sustainability Division will strive to raise sustainability awareness and share values at the Mitsui & Co. global group level, with the aim of contributing to the achievement of sustainable social Internal decisions, Administration of subsidiaries and affiliated companies, and economic development in various countries and regions around the world, while also contributing to Investment Administrative Division Specially designated business management system solving global environmental problems such as climate change issues. We also appoint Sustainability Promotion Officers in each of the corporate staff divisions, headquarters Finance Div. Efforts related to financial institutions business units, overseas regional business units, and branches and offices in Japan, developing our internal network to facilitate planning and promotion of sustainability activities together with the frontline staff, including provision of support for implementing sustainability management and awareness-raising Business Units Corporate Staff Divisions Overseas Regional Business Units Branches and Offices in Japan activities at each unit. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we held a Sustainability Promotion Officers meeting on a Sustainability Promotion Officers Sustainability Promotion Officers Sustainability Promotion Officers quarterly basis, where we explained new policies relating to our sustainability initiatives and other important information discussed and formulated by the Sustainability Committee, and shared reports on surveys and measures related to supply chain management. Moreover, the Sustainability Promotion Officers in business units and corporate divisions and offices in Japan have taken the initiative in organizing various sustainability awareness-raising programs, such as in-house sustainability seminars and lectures by speakers from partner companies and external experts, as well as workshops regarding sustainability within the actual business. We also held a lecture during Mitsui Sustainability Month, and lectures on Mitsui’s sustainability management in the New Hire Induction Training. In this way, we are urging employees to consider sustainability issues from the perspective of their everyday business. 7 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework Sustainability Committee Furthermore, the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee has been established as the advisory body to the Sustainability Committee. The committee members are selected mainly among external experts who are familiar with a broad range of fields — including climate change, environmental policy with As an organization under the Corporate Management Committee, the Sustainability Committee aims to respect to water and energy, etc., technology trends, human rights and other matters — as well as promote management with a greater awareness of the sustainability of both society and Mitsui, and attorneys and other knowledgeable individuals. provides advice to management on management policy and business activities from a sustainability standpoint. The Sustainability Committee consists of the CAO (the Committee Chair), CCO and CFO (the Vice Sustainability Committee Meetings in FY 2019 Chairs), and the GMs of the corporate staff units, including the Corporate Sustainability Division, Corporate Planning & Strategy Division, Investor Relations Division, Corporate Communication Division, Human Meeting 1 (May 16, 2018) • Deliberations on our response to climate change issues Resources & General Affairs Division, Legal Division, Investment Administrative Division and Finance • Report on the concepts underpinning Integrated Report Division. The committee has the following duties: 1. Develop basic policies on the company’s sustainability management and fundamental plans for Meeting 2 (October 9, 2018) activities to promote sustainability and CSR. • Deliberations on the revision of Mitsui’s Materiality • Report on trends in climate change issues, and a report on the assessment results for DJSI 2018 2. Review and make proposals on the company’s management policies, as well as policies and selection strategies of the business units and corporate divisions from the perspective of sustainability. 3. Present proposals on company-wide environmental policies. Meeting 3 (December 21, 2018) 4. Make proposals on sustainability-focused business activities (understanding risks and opportunities • Continued deliberations on the revision of Mitsui’s Materiality • Report on participation in COP24 in connection with response to climate change issues, and approval involved in business). for support for the TCFD recommendations 5. Deliberate and establish the basic policy of the effective disclosure of information to stakeholders. 6. Consider and present proposals relating to progress reviews and monitoring required for Meeting 4 (March 7, 2019) • Continued deliberations on the revision of Mitsui’s Materiality management. • Report on the results of our response to climate change issues, report on sustainability promotion 7. Configure and establish the internal structure for promoting sustainability management of the activities and environmental and social contribution activities for the fiscal year ended March 2019, as company. well as action plans for the fiscal year ending March 2020 8. Identify the material issues to focus on each year for promoting sustainability and CSR activities of the company and ensure progress on these. 9. Respond to issues related to sustainability and CSR, both internal and external to the company. 10. Decide and report whether to support individual proposals which qualify under the matters of Specially Designated Business, and indicate the necessary cautions for projects that will be supported. 11. Approve important matters (basic policies, business plans, etc.) relating to the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund. 12. Select proposals from internal applicants for the Environment Fund grants. 13. Select proposals from external applicants for the Environment Fund grants. 14. Decide and report whether to support an exceptional acquisition of forests or the disposal of company owned forests, which is out of the scope of the guidelines on the acquisition of a new forest and disposal of company owned forests, based on Rules on the Management of Company Owned Forests. 8 Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Mitsui & Co. places emphasis on interacting with and having dialogue with society. For this reason, we disclosures and continual communication with our stakeholders. closely assess the effects of its diverse and global business activities on society, identify and acknowledge Through interactive communication with its stakeholders, each of Mitsui’s employees and officers is stakeholders of particular interest. endeavoring to acquire a firm understanding of what society expects from and requires of Mitsui. Based In particular, we are committed to the development of relationships based on mutual trust with a on this understanding, we strive to respond to changes in market environments, and constantly evolve to diverse range of stakeholders, including local communities, business associates & consumers, NPOs & create new value through our business activities by exercising our unique capabilities, and thereby NGOs, employees, shareholders & investors, and government bodies, through proactive information contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. Local Communities Business Associates & Consumers NPOs & NGOs We contribute to sustainable growth and development of societies and economies We identify the needs and expectations of our business associates and We identify solutions for environmental and societal issues by networking through our wide-ranging business activities and society-centric contribution activities in consumers, supply safe and reliable products and services, disclose accuand collaboration with various NPOs and NGOs. Through the Mitsui & Co. countries and regions throughout the world. We also aim to achieve harmonious coexisrate corporate information, and take measures to address problems in Environment Fund, we provide support for research and initiatives by NPOs tence with local communities through contributions in such areas as local industry develsupply chains. and NGOs that are working to solve environmental problems. opment, creation of employment opportunities, infrastructure development, enhancement of quality of life of local residents, and the improvement of educational environments. • Our relief efforts in the disaster • Educational activities to enhance the • Mitsui & Co. websites • Supplier questionnaire and on-site • Discussions and local visits for cooper• Responses to questionnaires from affected regions in which we conduct ability to solve problems through the • Corporate Brochure/Advertisements/ surveys ation with NPOs/NGOs NPOs and NGOs business Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy (EducaCorporate Video • Initiatives that align with our policies • Participation in seminars hosted by • Collaboration with NPOs and NGOs • Contribution to development of local tion for Sustainability) • Recruitment pamphlets and rules on the handling of conNPOs and NGOs through the Mitsui & Co. Environment communities through oversea funds • Global educational activities through • Integrated Report sumer products: “Consumer Product Fund and the Mitsui & Co. Environment programs such as scholarships and • Sustainability Report Handling Policy,” “Consumer Product Fund Mitsui-endowed lectures, and support • Activities based on the Supply Chain Handling Regulations” for the Brazilian community in Japan CSR Policy • Receipt of feedback and inquiries Coexistence with local communities Meeting social needs Collaboration to resolve social issues Mitsui & Co. Strengthening of each individual Timely and accurate disclosure of information Contribution to nation building Employees Shareholders & Investors Government Bodies In order to let diverse range of employees work energetically and exert their We strive for continuous improvement of our corporate value and appropriWe are committed to complying with related laws and regulations formucapabilities, we strive to carry out diversity management by enhancing workate market recognition by fulfilling transparency and accountability in lated by government agencies and local governments in the countries and place environment, developing various internal rules, providing human resources management with timely and accurate disclosure of information, and by regions where we engage in business activities. Furthermore, through coopdevelopment programs, and placing right people in the right positions. We are engaging in interactive communication with shareholders and investors. eration with governmental agencies and local governments, we propose and committed to being an organization with integrity on a global group basis with promote business projects that align with their policies and contribute to the each employee possessing a high level of awareness of compliance. development of nations and industries in a way that only Mitsui can. • Discussions with labor unions management and employees, as well • General meetings of shareholders investment) • Participation in policy councils • Support for human resource develop• Diversity Cafe as among employees) • IR meetings (presentations on financial • Securities Report • Participation in consultation and ment through trainee-receiving pro• Training programs and seminars • In-house and external whistle-blowing results, Investor Day, briefings for • Integrated Report advisory meetings with government grams for staff members of local • Mitsui Engagement Survey channels individual investors) • Newsletter to Shareholders agencies and offices governments • Compliance Review Month • Intranet/In-house newsletter of Mitsui • Separate engagement for IR and SR • Mitsui & Co. websites • Secondment to the World Bank • Roundtable Meetings, New Active Talk & Co. (departments in charge of exercising • Surveys from ESG research • Activities through business and Wednesday (dialogue between the voting rights and responsible organizations industry groups 9 Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Initiatives in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2019 Business Associates & Consumers Mitsui conducts supplier on-site surveys each year under our Supply Chain CSR Policy. Any issues Local Communities identified through site visits or exchanges of views are used to improve our business operations. Mitsui aims to contribute to local communities, and to the solution of local and global societal issues, from In the fiscal year ended March 2019, an on-site survey was carried out on a Chilean salmon farming, the perspectives of both business strategy and social contribution. We have participated in the processing, and sales company, Salmones Multiexport S.A., and on a feed company. TOMODACHI Initiative, which is a public-private partnership led by the United States government and the P.117 Supplier On-Site surveys U.S.-Japan Council, and the TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program was launched in 2013. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, ten young professionals were selected from Japan and ten from the United States to visit each other’s countries; the American delegation visited prefectures in the Tohoku region that A sustainability-focused procurement code, including specific standards for palm oil, has been had been affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Through activities such as these, we have been formulated for the Olympic and Paralympic Games to be held in Tokyo in 2020. In connection with this, supporting recovery efforts in the Tohoku region by creating new human networks and tackling various Mitsui representatives participated in a mission to Malaysia and Indonesia, organized by an oil and fat issues such as post-earthquake reconstruction and regional revitalization. Mitsui has also been providing industry association, to verify progress on initiatives related to the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, of various forms of support to deepen mutual understanding between the peoples of Japan and Brazil, and which Mitsui is a member, and activities under the Malaysia Sustainable Palm Oil (MSPO) and Indonesia to find solutions to problems facing the Brazilian community in Japan. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) systems. we provided scholarships to Brazilian children living in Japan (447 children at 26 schools), as well as activity grants to NPOs and other organizations (14 organizations in total) that are working to foster the NPOs & NGOs development of a multicultural society for Brazilians in Japan. Furthermore, in July 2018, we ran the Mitsui In order to contribute to finding solutions for intricately interrelated environmental and societal problems, SASUGAKU Academy course, as a program of education for sustainable development, for 29 elementary we place great importance on dialogue and collaboration with NPOs and NGOs, which possess highly school children, with the aim of helping participants to develop the ability to build a sustainable future. specialized knowledge and experience. Similarly, in our business activities, we also draw on dialogue with Under the theme “What will a healthy life be in the future?”, participants discussed health-related issues local NPOs and NGOs to identify various environmental and societal issues and take on the challenge of and approaches to the solution of those issues. creating solutions to these issues. By doing so, we are contributing to the realization of a sustainable The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund has supported 56 projects including a social development project society based on harmony between the economy and the environment. An example of this process is our based on the use of renewable energy in a community in West Java, Indonesia, and a sustainable integrated approach to forest conservation in Cambodia. In cooperation with local NPOs and NGOs, we development project focused on youth capacity building activities at the Ifugao rice terraces in the are working to prevent illegal logging of tropical rainforests, and also helping local communities to build Philippines. sustainable livelihoods that do not rely on logging. Mitsui also has been providing support to disaster-affected communities in Japan and overseas. In the P.56 Biodiversity Conservation Activities in Cooperation with NGOs fiscal year ended March 2019, we provided donations in relation to an earthquake in northern Osaka, a torrential rain disaster in Western Japan, an earthquake in eastern Iburi, Hokkaido, and an earthquake on Sulawesi Island, Indonesia. P.66 Social Contribution Activities 10 Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Employees Shareholders & Investors We create various opportunities for dialogue with employees with the aim of creating an environment in Recently, there has been growing interest in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which individual employees can enjoy motivating work and continue to achieve growth together with the and ESG investment. In this environment, we have believed it was important to clearly convey the company. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, after consultation with the union, we partially amended our sustainable nature of Mitsui’s businesses and the potential for corporate value growth over the medium to human resource management system to allow talented young employees to achieve early promotion and long term through explanations of the business risks and opportunities we identified as well as the to be appointed to higher positions. We also amended the labor-management agreement pursuant to strategies and initiatives we were pursuing to address them. To this end, we have decided to turn our Article 36 of the Labor Standards Act to reflect changes to the Labor Standards Act effective from April conventional annual report into an integrated report in the fiscal year ended March 2019. Moreover, as we 2019. Mitsui actively provides forums for exchange of views between employees and senior management did in the fiscal year ended March 2018, we held an Investor Day, and explained our company-wide and organization heads concerning management strategies, human resource development, and other mediumto long-term strategies. Our external directors attended a panel discussion, and explained matters. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, there were a total of 16 such dialogues. strengthening corporate governance (such as enhancing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors), and In addition to face-to-face dialogues, we also implemented the Mitsui Engagement Survey in exchanged opinions about what measures or information are required to implement or disclose, through November 2018. The aim of this comprehensive survey, which covered employees in the Head Office and more fine-tuned communication with the market and from ESG perspectives. Mitsui will continue to branches and offices in Japan, employees working overseas, and regionally hired employees, was to enhance its communications with investors through high-quality information disclosure that is both gather data about the attitudes of individual employees and motivational working environments. The accurate and timely. feedback from the survey has been shared with the relevant organizations and regions for use in measures and improvement activities that reflect actual workplace conditions. Mitsui & Co. Investor Day P.90 Joint Efforts with Labor Unions Government Agencies P.88 Mitsui Engagement Survey Local governments transfer their employees temporarily to private sector companies as a way of training highly skilled people capable of adapting to economic and social changes and globalization. Mitsui has In November 2018, Mitsui formulated and published the “Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines— received a total of 157 trainees since its first participation in this program in April 1987. In the fiscal year With Integrity” as part of our efforts to build an integrity-based organization at the global group level. We ended March 2019, we received 11 trainees in the areas of machinery and infrastructure, chemicals, also conducted various training activities and programs throughout the year, including Compliance energy, and lifestyle industries. Review Month, and a compliance awareness survey to assess the compliance awareness among officers and employees. P.107 Compliance Program 11 Participation in Initiatives United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The United Nations Global Compact is a set of voluntary action principles for corporations proposed by The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a clear statement of global priorities and former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland in visions that need to be realized so that poverty can be eliminated and all people can enjoy dignity and January 1999. He proposed a means to harness the creative powers of the private sector to fulfill the equality of opportunity, with consideration given to balancing sustainable growth and the limits of the wishes of underprivileged people and meet the needs of future generations. It is neither a regulatory Earth. means nor a legally binding code of conduct, but rather a strategic policy initiative that encourages As a general trading company, Mitsui conducts a diverse range of business across nations and regions. corporations to come together as global citizens to solve the various problems that could arise as a result We believe that this allows us to make a wide-ranging contribution to the achievement of all the 17 goals of economic globalization. Participating corporations are asked to support and put into practice ten set out under the SDGs. We will continue to raise awareness of the SDGs on a global group basis, to reflect universally-accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. As of the SDGs in our business strategies, and to ensure that our business activities are constantly guided by a July 2019, over 13,600 corporations, labor unions, and civil society organizations from around the world are determination to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. participating in the UN Global Compact. In this report, we also explain the themes set out under Mitsui’s Materiality and SDGs, and how we Mitsui & Co. signed and pledged its support for the UN Global Compact have linked these to the SDGs to focus our efforts on tackling the SDGs’ 17 goals and 169 targets, while in October 2004, and has been participating as a member of the Global introducing some of the specific activities that we have implemented. Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), complying with the principles as part of its own corporate guidelines. Since then, Mitsui has been conducting a companywide survey every other year in order to check compliance with the UN Global Compact principles, and is working to comply with and practice the principles, as well as to pursue SDGs on a global group basis. Support for the UN Global Compact Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Labor 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and internationally proclaimed human rights; and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; abuses. 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Anti-corruption 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, environmental challenges; including extortion and bribery. 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 12 Participation in Initiatives Mitsui SASUGAKU: Hosting of a sustainability workshop for increasing awareness of the SDGs – World Economic Forum “Thinking about Business in 2030” In December 2018, we hosted a workshop using the workshop-style methods used in “SASUGAKU”* The World Economic Forum is an independent international organization that engages leaders from the entitled “Mitsui SASUGAKU – Thinking about Business in 2030,” with the aim of increasing the worlds of business, politics, academia, and other sectors of society to shape global, regional, and industry understanding of the SDGs. agendas in the spirit of global citizenship, through cooperation between the public and private sectors, for There were 35 participants on the day of the workshop, mostly Sustainability Promotion Officers. the improvement of the world situation. Sustainability Promotion Officers assigned to each organizational unit are responsible for supporting the As a partner company, Mitsui attends the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum held in implementation of sustainability management through our business activities. The workshop was Davos, Switzerland every January, as well as the regional meetings. conducted, focusing on risks and opportunities for Mitsui’s business, and on the creation of new value through business. In doing so, the “SASUGAKU Compass for Creating the Future” and “Future Japan Business Federation (Keidanren): Committee on Corporate Behavior & Chronology,” which are the main teaching materials of the SASUGAKU, social issues to be solved by 2030 Social Responsibility, Committee on Gender Diversity, as stated in the SDGs, and the “Future Forecasting Materials,” created based on disclosure data were Committee on Environment and Safety, Committee on Nature Conservation referred. Each group chose one of three themes—water, healthcare/wellness, and mobility—and explored business ideas by linking various elements from the aforementioned materials. The workshop Mitsui is a member of Keidanren’s Committee on Responsible Business Conduct & SDGs Promotion, which made participants realize that all of the ideas reflected the linkage between the SDGs and Mitsui’s works to ensure ethical behavior by businesses, promote CSR, and expand and encourage social Materiality. contribution activities by businesses and businesspeople, including support for disaster recovery efforts. We will continue to work toward deepening our understanding of the SDGs, and will engage in We are also a member company of the Committee on Gender Diversity, which implements the Action initiatives leading to solving many of the challenges that society will face through our business activities. Plan on Women’s Active Participation in the Workforce, urges employers to promote women to managerial and executive positions, and promotes initiatives for realizing a society in which a diverse range of human * SASUGAKU (meaning “Sustainability Learning”) was designed with the goal of developing recognition among people that the many challenges facing the society in which we live are issues that affect us all directly, and of finding the best ways of overcoming these challenges. Since 2014, Mitsui has offered resources, including LGBT people, are able to take on active roles. new learning opportunities for upper-grade elementary school children, who will create the future, in the form of the Mitsui “SASUGAKU” Academy. In addition, we are member of the Committee on Environment and Safety, which works toward the implementation of environmental policies designed to be compatible with economic activities, including the promotion of voluntary action plans and countermeasures relating to global warming, waste, recycling, and environmental risks. We also joined in the Task Force on Business and Human Rights and engaged in activities directed towards realizing a sustainable society (the aim of said Keidanren Committee) through participation. Moreover, since 2012, a Mitsui employee has been seconded to Keidanren’s Committee on Nature Conservation, a committee dedicated to conserving biodiversity and protecting the natural environment, to a) support nature conservation activities of NGOs, b) promote interchange between corporations and NGOs, and c) encourage corporations to act towards nature conservation and biodiversity. Japan Foreign Trade Council: Global Environment Committee, CSR Study Committee As a member of the Global Environment Committee of the Japan Foreign Trade Council Inc., Mitsui TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) monitors energy use for all trading companies and promotes reduce/reuse/recycle (“3R”) activities. We also gather information about new energy technology through our business activities, and contribute to the In December 2018, Mitsui declared its support for the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial development of the trading company sector’s voluntary action plan for environmental initiatives for a Disclosures) recommendations, which aim to facilitate companies to recognize financial impacts arising low-carbon, recycling-oriented society. from the risks and opportunities associated with climate change and to disclose such climate-related Mitsui also engages in activities as a member of the Japan Foreign Trade Council’s CSR Study Committee, information. which studies CSR-related issues and conducts surveys and research about trends in Japan and overseas. 13 Participation in Initiatives Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC) Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) As a member of the Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC), which was established by Keidanren, The Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) is an international non-profit organization that promotes Mitsui engages in activities that help Japanese companies to be accepted as good corporate citizens by environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial, and economically viable management of the world’s the countries and regions in which they conduct business, in accordance with the purpose of CBCC. Mitsui forests. works to ascertain the views of various stakeholders, including overseas CSR-related organizations, by Mitsui has obtained FSC® forest management (FM) certification at all 74 of its forests, which in total participating in presentations, seminars and business dialogue on CSR-related themes. approximately 44,000 hectares, while Mitsui Bussan Forest Co., Ltd., a Mitsui subsidiary, has obtained Chain of Custody (CoC) certification for the processing and distribution of cut lumber (FSC®-C031328). As the biggest supplier of Japanese-grown lumber with FSC® certification, Mitsui is helping to promote the FSC® Japan Forum of Business and Society (JFBS) in Japan and to discuss and draft the Japanese version of principles, standards, and risk assessments. Mitsui has obtained FSC® certification for its forest resources business as well, and promotes responsible As a member of the Japan Forum of Business and Society (JFBS), Mitsui is engaged in connecting theory management of forest resources. and practice in the business world concerning issues relating to sustainable growth, which affect the relationship between businesses and society, through wide-ranging collaboration and cooperation with academia, industry, government, labor, and NPOs/NGOs. We are engaged in academic research and Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) discussions on corporate governance, environmental management, social contribution, labor, human rights and other aspects, as well as in human resources development that embodies sustainability The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is a non-profit organization established to promote the education. sustainable production and utilization of palm oil through the conservation of tropical rain forests and In a panel discussion under the theme of “communications with consumers” during the JFBS Annual biodiversity. Mitsui supports the RSPO’s philosophy of contributing to sustainability through industry, and Conference in August 2018, a Mitsui representative spoke about our sustainability initiatives and the role has been collaborating on various business-based initiatives since joining the organization in 2008. of trading companies in the achievement of value chain sustainability. Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership The Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership was established through a collaborative initiative by Keidanren, the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of Corporate Executives) with the aim of promoting private-sector initiatives on biodiversity. As a member company, Mitsui promotes biodiversity conservation initiatives in partnership with NPOs, NGOs, research institutions, and other related entities in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, Mitsui contributes to conservation of biodiversity in its supply chains by promoting a sound resource-cycle policy in its business management focusing on the lifecycles of products and services. 14 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Mitsui & Co. prioritizes and focuses on sustainability in its corporate management. We have identified Mitsui’s material issues (“Materiality ”) for the company to focus on, with the aim of meeting the expectations and trust of a variety of stakeholders and contributing to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled, as set out in our corporate mission. In April 2019, we identified new Mitsui & Co. Materiality, in which we recognize societal issues related to our business activities in each material issue category, verify significant risks and opportunities for Mitsui in terms of the impact of societal issues, and disclose our approach toward each material issue. We explain the themes set out under each material issue of Mitsui ’s Materiality, and how we have linked these to the SDGs, to focus our efforts on tackling the SDGs’ 17 goals and 169 targets. Secure sustainable supply of essential products Ensure the sustainable and stable supply of resources, materials, food and manufactured products that are vital for the development of society. Enhance quality of life Contribute to the betterment of living standards and the development of local industries to realize sustainable societies globally. Create an eco-friendly society Accelerate initiatives towards environmental issues, such as responding to climate change and water resource problems, and contributing to a circular economy. Develop talent leading to value creation Respect diversity and develop human resources with the competence to create innovation and new value. Build an organization with integrity Strengthen our governance and compliance as a corporate group trusted by society. 15 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Identification and Review of Materiality In 2015, Mitsui & Co. identified its Materiality, which consists of five key material issues in areas that are The new Materiality encompasses material issues that could become risks or opportunities in the context important for our stakeholders and have significant implications for our business management. As the of our mediumto long-term business strategies, and will serve as a ground on which we engage in our importance of sustainability has been growing globally as expressed in the environmental, social, and each business activity. By positioning the new Materiality as a mediumto long-term key management governance (ESG) aspects and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and megapriority, all officers and employees of Mitsui will work together to ensure the Materiality is reflected in our trends with the potential to impact on our business activities are changing rapidly, we have reviewed our business activities. Mitsui will commit itself to sustainability management and strive through its diverse Materiality and identified five new material issues in April 2019. global business activities to contribute to both sustainable economic and social development in various In carrying out this revision, we took into account both the perspectives of various stakeholders in countries and regions, and the solution of global issues including climate change, and also pursue both of relation to the SDGs, the United Nations Global Compact, ISO26000, GRI Standards, other international them in a well-balanced long-term perspective. frameworks and ESG investment evaluations, as well as the impact on our business activities. In addition, Toward 2030, with a greater focus on evolution from “connecting” to “creating,” which is called for in our we carried out questionnaire surveys of officers and employees on a global group basis and exchanged Long-term Management Vision 2030 that we have formulated as our future image, we will identify views with our external directors, outside experts and through the meetings of the Sustainability challenges, set targets, and find solutions to achieve the goals. Furthermore, we will create changes, Committee, and interviews with the Sustainability Promotion Officers. After having such active discussions trends, and new value. within and beyond Mitsui, we obtained approvals from the Corporate Management Committee and the In order to respond to social challenges, needs, and expectations in line with changes in the times, Board of Directors, and finalized the new Materiality. and also incorporate, in our sustainability management, changes in impact on the economy, environment, and society in formulating a new Medium-term Management Plan, we will review our Materiality and specific themes to work on every 3-5 years in consideration of environmental changes and other factors. As a management approach in line with the GRI Standards, we have defined specific themes to work High Secure sustainable supply of essential on each material issue, and clearly indicated relevant policies and set targets accordingly. While promoting products Perspective of society and stakeholders such activities to work on the material issues, we have also identified material aspects as indicated by GRI 5 Material Standards, and have been making reports in accordance with the GRI Standards. Issues Enhance quality of life Create an eco-friendly society Develop talent leading to value creation Build an organization with integrity Perspective on Business Impact High 16 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Identification and Review of Materiality Flowchart for Identification and Review of Materiality Perspective of Society and Stakeholders Perspective on Business Impact ＜Stakeholders identified for communication＞ ＜Verification of compatibility with Mitsui & Co.’s management philosophy and policies＞ Shareholders/investors, business associates/consumers, government bodies, Mission, Vision and Values (MVV), NPOs/NGOs, local communities, employees, etc. Long-term Management Vision 2030 ＜International Initiatives Taken into Account (Basic Frameworks)＞ ＜Impact on Management＞ Review Materiality in Consideration of Environmental Changes and Other Factors. Review Materiality in Consideration of Environmental Changes and Other Factors. UN Global Compact, SDGs, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, Universal Declaration Medium-term Management Plan, Impact Assessment on Management of Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, Guiding (growth potential, profitability, risks and opportunities), Principles on Business and Human Rights, ISO26000, GRI Standards Specially Designated Business Management System Obtaining Internal and External Opinions Questionnaire surveys of officers and employees on a global group basis, Interviews with the Sustainability Promotion Officers, Exchange views with outside experts and our external directors Internal Discussion and Approval Sustainability Committee (organization under the Corporate Management Committee), Corporate Management Committee, Board of Directors’ Meetings Identification of Materiality Secure sustainable supply of Develop talent leading to Enhance quality of life Create an eco-friendly society Build an organization with integrity essential products value creation Value Creation and Solution for Societal Issues through Mitsui & Co.’s Entire Business Activities 17 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Secure sustainable supply of essential products Ensure the sustainable and stable supply of resources, materials, food and manufactured products that are vital for the development of society. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities As population continues to expand, especially in emerging countries, the sustainable supply of resources, Risks energy, raw materials, food, manufactured products, and other items essential for social development and Climate change-related supply failures affecting resources, energy, raw materials, food, manufactured products, etc the achievement of greater prosperity will become an increasingly important priority. Also essential is the Reputational damage resulting from safety and health problems affecting the final consumers of food development of sustainable, stable supply structures capable of responding to the effects of climate change. and manufactured products Population growth and expanding demand for resources, energy, raw materials, food, manufactured Opportunities products, etc. Ensuring sustainable supplies of resources, energy, raw materials, food, manufactured products, etc. Improvement of production and supply capacity to respond to the climate change Improvement of production and supply capacity to respond to the effects of climate change Safety and security of food and manufactured products Enhancement of competitiveness through the establishment of traceability, responsible marketing leading to demand expansion, etc. Mitsui & Co.’s Approach [Targets] Improvement of access to nutrition through the stable supply of food Theme Related SDGs Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Related policies and guidelines Identifying material topics in GRI Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, Mitsui has been building optimal supply chains from upstream to downstream levels, including Indirect Economic Impacts Materials, Food and Products procurement, production, and logistics, and contributing to the stable supply of resources, raw materials, and manufactured products (such as metals, chemicals, energy, and food). In the food business, Mitsui works to ensure supply stability and efficiency while also implementing countermeaLocal Communities sures against climate change, abnormal weather events, and other disasters. Supplying Food and Products with Mitsui regards safety and security as vital prerequisites for business operations. We have formulated ・Consumer Product Handling Policy Indirect Economic Impacts Ensured Safety and Security guidelines and rules for consumer products, while our relevant business units have adopted their ・Consumer Product Handling own detailed rules governing the handling of these products. We have made traceability manageRegulations ment a priority in the food business area, and are working to manage safety and security risks by Local Communities holding regular food safety seminars. In the healthcare field, we provide pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare institutions with information to ensure the proper use of medical products as part Customer Health and Safety of our responsible pharmaceutical marketing activities. 18 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Secure sustainable supply of essential products Enhancing Agricultural Productivity in Africa through the Provision of Farming Guidance and Materials 1.1, 1.2 Contribute to raising income levels for people in the East Africa region by working through ETG to boost agricultural productivity and increase the value-added of agricultural products. 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 2.a Provide support to help people in the East Africa region gain access to nutritious food, by undertaking the establishment of sustainable food production systems. Yuichi Narita Senior Project Manager, ETG Business Team, Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit In Africa, more than half of the working population is employed in the agricultural sector, therefore boosting agricultural productivity is very important for achieving economic growth. Rapid population growth in Africa since the 1960s has led to growing demand for food, but Africa’s self-sufficiency in staple food production such as grains is limited, and in many African countries there is a significant problem with food production being unable to keep pace with population growth. At the same time, the unsatisfactory state of infrastructure and distribution networks in many African nations creates problems on the sales side, with farmers unable to access markets easily. In May 2018, Mitsui & Co. began investing in and collaborating with ETC Group Ltd. (ETG), a conglomerate that is engaged in a wide range of business areas, including agricultural products trading, sale of agricultural supplies, and manufacturing and sale of everyday household goods. ETG is an enterprise which has business operations in 45 countries, mainly in Sub-Saharan Africa and the Indian Ocean Rim region, and which ranks number one in the East Africa region in terms of the quantity of fertilizer and miscellaneous beans* that it handles, as well as being one of the largest sesame trader in the region. Having been operating in Africa for over 50 years, ETG contributes towards the growth of the agricultural sector which is a key foundation for national development, by providing a product purchasing/sales platform that links together producer regions with other regions where there is demand for their products. Such contribution embodies the company’s philosophy of supporting farmers and growing together. Mitsui is helping to improve the quality of life of the region’s inhabitants by contributing, through ETG, towards the stable supply of agricultural materials, the building of the agricultural products value chain, and the enhancement of value-addition. * “Miscellaneous beans” is a general term for all types of beans except soybeans and peanuts. They are a major source of protein in India and in Southwest Asia. 19 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Secure sustainable supply of essential products Providing agricultural supplies and sales opportunities for Boosting farmers’ revenue is the key to business growth around 2 million farm households On the basis of several visits to Africa to determine When doing business in Africa, persistence is ETG has around 430 “Farm Gate” transaction centers (with warehouses the current situation for the farmers who are both attached), mainly located in East African nations, which serve as ETG’s customers and its suppliers, it became clear vitally important. By adopting initiatives that direct contact points linking ETG with approximately 2 million small that farmers’ incomes were too low for them to be embody real commitment, we aim to establish farm households. By adopting a bi-directional business model, in able to purchase adequate amounts of fertilizer. By which the Farm Gate centers purchase the crops that farmers bring increasing farmers’ incomes, it would be possible to a significant presence in the African market. while also selling the fertilizers, pesticides etc. that the farmers need create a “virtuous circle” in which farmers are able to for agricultural production, ETG provides farmers with a stable supply purchase agricultural supplies, which will generate a of agricultural materials and also opportunities to sell their crops. further increase in farmers’ revenues, enabling them to make further Unit, and the Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit. The main mission Besides distributing and selling the collected crops within Africa, investments in farming equipment. Raising farmers’ income levels is of the ETG Business Team is to provide support to enhance ETG’s ETG also processes crops to enhance their value-addition for export a vital precondition for ETG to achieve business growth. corporate value from a long-term perspective. Since the sale outside the Africa region, and imports raw materials from outside The main reason for low agricultural productivity in Africa is the establishment of the Team in January 2018, I have been providing Africa for manufacturing fertilizer which it sells to local farmers. To slow pace of adoption of irrigation and of new types of agricultural overall coordination, liaising on an ongoing basis with Mitsui staff support this distribution model, ETG has established a logistics equipment. However, even when attempts are made to provide who are on assignment to ETG and with specialist local staff, and network that links each Farm Gate center with major ports, utilizing farmers with better products and new technology, it is not always coordinating the activities of the different business units, with the over 600 vehicles to overcome the under-developed infrastructure in easy to accept a change for those who have been farming in the aim of promoting and supporting projects based on careful Africa. This logistics network has become a major source of strength same place for many years. Thorough communication is important evaluation of the optimal overall outcome. for ETG. However, the business of importing raw materials and to gain the farmers’ understanding and for them to make their own When promoting projects, we come to realize that it takes exporting goods to overseas markets can involve long waits for capital choice, and this is exactly what ETG has been doing for 50 years, unimaginably long time to bridge the gap between the ideal recovery, necessitating large amounts of working capital. With this in enabling ETG to build trust and grow its business. In order to further situation and reality. ETG’s founder and chairman has commented mind, Mitsui has prioritized strengthening ETG’s financial develop this framework, Mitsui and ETG have decided to encourage that, in order to put down firm roots in Africa and develop business, fundamentals, providing support to help ETG make improvements in a change in the farmers’ mindset from “producing, and then selling” patience is vitally important. While the members of our Team existing business areas, for example by optimizing logistics and to “producing to sell,” by adopting the Smallholder Horticulture recognize the need for steadfast determination, the fact remains that realizing operation that is not burdened by excessively high inventory Empowerment and Promotion (SHEP) approach developed by the every day is a continuing struggle. Having said that, with a levels, and to strengthen the company’s financial infrastructure Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which has already reasonable timeline and an appropriate level of cost-effectiveness in through adjustments to fund-raising, etc. achieved significant results in Africa. In May 2018, a Memorandum of mind, we intend to implement measures such as expanding Understanding (MoU) was signed between JICA, ETG and Mitsui; the infrastructure improvement including electricity generating facilities, provision of support began shortly afterwards, initially focusing on and growing sales channels, by further utilizing Mitsui’s integrated Malawi. This kind of project cannot be expected to bear fruit capabilities as a major trading company in order to establish a immediately, and we plan to maintain a long-term view. sizeable footprint in Africa through close collaboration with ETG.. My over 20-year business experience in Mitsui makes me realize Providing support to enhance corporate value from multiple perspectives, that no other industry will develop without the growth of food sector through a coordinated effort involving several business units that has direct linkage to social issues, and agriculture sector which The ETG Business Team to which I belong represents a first for Mitsui, underpins food production. Our role may seem small, but I firmly embodying an unprecedented collaboration between four different believe that, by making effective use of the platform that ETG provides, business units: EMEA Business Unit (Europe, the Middle East and we can contribute to the achievement of sustainable growth in Africa Africa), the Food Business Unit, the Infrastructure Projects Business through the development of food production and agriculture. 20 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Enhance quality of life Contribute to the betterment of living standards and the development of local industries to realize sustainable societies globally. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities Mitsui recognizes the importance of creating a global sustainable society through our contributions to the Risks improvement of living standards, community development, sustainable infrastructure development, the Reputational damage resulting from safety and health problems affecting infrastructure users transition to a sharing economy, the improvement of educational environments, and the creation of Decline in competitiveness due to the diversification of information dissemination methods and fund employment opportunities in the countries and regions where we engage in business. We also place great procurement means importance on the creation of society in which people can enjoy healthy and psychologically fulfilling Decline in service standards and other issues due to a shortage of healthcare personnel lives. Furthermore, as a company that has built diverse value chains in countries and regions throughout the world, we recognize respect for human rights under international standards as the foundation for Opportunities sustainability management. Development of sustainable infrastructure for improvement of living standards in developing and emerging countries Business expansion through the development of the sharing economy and healthcare eco-systems Infrastructure development in developing and emerging countries The creation of social infrastructure development markets based on ICT use in response to the trend toward smart cities Aging infrastructure in developed countries Development of new business based on the utilization of alternative financing methods, such as crowd Transition to the sharing economy funding and block chain systems Health maintenance, provision of healthcare, nursing, and welfare services, consideration for indigenous Service improvement through the securing of healthcare human resources peoples in relation to resource development and other activities Market expansion by meeting diversifying consumer needs Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Theme Related SDGs Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Related policies and guidelines Identifying material topics in GRI Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social As a company engaging in business operations in various countries and regions worldwide, we Indirect Economic Impacts Infrastructure continue contributing to the enhancement of quality of life through the development of local and social infrastructures that are essential for sustainable growth and development, promotion of various projects in relation to, in particular, electric power, water treatment, water supply and sewerage, Local Communities logistics, railroads, communications, and a shift to a sharing economy. 21 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Enhance quality of life Theme Related SDGs Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Related policies and guidelines Identifying material topics in GRI Responding to Health Needs and the Mitsui has responded to the global trend towards the aging of the population by developing senior Indirect Economic Impacts Needs of an Aging Society housing business and providing basic healthcare and other services geared toward a changing disease structure. In Asia, where healthcare demand is expected to expand rapidly due to population growth, economic expansion, and demographic aging, we are strengthening our business base centered on hospitals, which we see as core elements in the healthcare eco-system. Other priority areas include building up of hospital ancillary service business, an area with strong growth potential, and development of new business, such as prevention, disease management, remote healthcare and Local Communities personalized medicine through digital transformation and introduction of innovative technologies. We will contribute to the advancement of healthcare from the perspectives of accessibility, quality and efficiency. Responding to Increasingly Diverse With new needs and markets emerging along with a growing population and diversification of life Indirect Economic Impacts Consumer Demand styles, and global, diverse consumers gaining more power and their way of thinking being personalized in various ways, we are providing products and services that meet diverse consumer needs. Local Communities Social Contribution Activities In partnership with local communities, we promote initiatives that are aimed at local community ・Social Contributions Policy Economic Performance revitalization. ・Forest Management Policy We strive to build better mutual understanding between Mitsui and the young people who will lead the next generation in various countries and regions where Mitsui operates its business by providing Biodiversity Mitsui-endowed lecture programs at universities and training programs in Japan, as well as through provision of scholarships. In addition, we engage in activities to allow these young people to broaden their horizons and knowledge as next-generation global leaders, and to build various networks. In Mitsui’s forests at 74 locations (approximately 44,000 hectares) throughout Japan, we implement Local Communities multifaceted initiatives under our Forest Management Policy. Furthermore, we operate the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund to support university research, and NPO/ NGO activities targeted toward solving environmental problems. Public Policy Respect for Human Rights As a company engaging in business activities in many countries and regions around the world, we set ・Basic CSR Policy Security Practices our basic CSR policy as “to strive to understand the culture, traditions, and customs in each country and region and respect human rights based on international standards.” As an example of our initiatives regarding indigenous peoples, in Japan we have signed an agreement Rights of Indigenous Peoples in relation to Mitsui’s Forests with the Biratori Ainu Association and the town of Biratori in Hokkaido, providing for cooperation in protection and fostering of Ainu traditional culture for future generations. To raise the awareness of the management and employees regarding respect for human rights, we conduct e-learning and seminars, and implement measures to spread understanding of the UN Global Human Rights Assessment Compact throughout the organization. 22 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Enhance quality of life Contribution to Addressing a Variety of Different Medical Problems through the Building of a Healthcare Ecosystem 3.4, 3.8 Working through IHH to make it possible to provide high-quality healthcare services that include advanced, leading-edge medical treatment, at the most reasonable possible prices. Taiki Hayashi Deputy General Manager, Healthcare Business 1st Dept., Healthcare Business Div., Healthcare & Service Business Unit * Title as of the time of interview. According to population estimates compiled by the United Nations, the world’s population will rise to around 9.7 billion people by the year 2050. The Asia region in particular will see a dramatic increase in healthcare costs, mainly because of the population growth and aging of the population structure resulting from rapid economic growth and increased average lifespan, as well as the impact of changing disease patterns. At the same time, there are many regions in Asia where there is a shortage of hospitals, and the number of hospitals where the level of medical treatment provided is up to international standards is still too low. Mitsui & Co. established a Medical & Healthcare Division in 2008 to consolidate its medical and healthcare-related businesses and units. Today, Mitsui is involved in building new hospitals in regions where there is a shortage of medical facilities, using these hospitals as centers for developing related businesses such as specialist clinic operation, etc., undertaking the manufacturing and sales of pharmaceuticals and developing new drugs, providing medical talent referral services, and operating healthcare facility management and hospital catering businesses, and so on. By linking these different businesses together, Mitsui is building a healthcare ecosystem that contributes towards addressing a variety of different medical problems. Playing a core role in this healthcare ecosystem is IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH), Asia’s largest private hospital group with around 15,000 hospital beds in 12 countries. Mitsui first began investing in IHH and participating in its operations in 2011, and became IHH’s largest shareholder in 2019. By realizing easier access to healthcare in different countries and regions, and by enhancing the quality and efficiency of medical treatment provision, Mitsui is contributing towards the building of a society in which optimal healthcare is delivered to the places where it is most needed. 23 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Enhance quality of life Operating Asia’s largest private hospital business to help solve contributing to IHH’s management from the inside healthcare problems by having seats on IHH’s board, and by assigning Our healthcare ecosystem project is a business When Mitsui first began to develop its healthcare business, there was a Mitsui staff to work at IHH. Besides providing support serious imbalance in supply and demand in the healthcare sector in Asia; for stock market listing and for the establishment or for realizing sustainable healthcare development. while living standards had risen thanks to rapid economic growth, and the purchase of new hospitals, etc., Mitsui also took a We aim to provide the best possible medical incidence of infectious diseases had declined, lifestyle diseases were proactive stance towards providing introductions to becoming more common. With the aging of the population and the increase potential local partners—particularly in India and treatment for as many people as possible. in the size of the middle class, demand for medical services was growing China—to help IHH further expand the geographical rapidly. However, despite the need for advanced medical treatment, by scope of its operations. Such support being one of comparison with the situation in the advanced nations the number of the reasons, the number of beds in IHH hospitals has grown then this should lead to the creation of immense value. hospital beds was inadequate, and many hospital environments were approximately four-fold, and IHH’s valuation has risen around three-fold By proceeding with the building of an appropriate data platform, unsatisfactory from a quality perspective, creating a situation where it was since 2011. Building on Mitsui’s experience in the healthcare business— patient records and other data can be used as a basis for providing not possible to deliver appropriate services to people in need of treatment. including with IHH—Mitsui decided to increase its investment in IHH in medical services that are tailored to meet patients’ needs such as disease IHH provided high-quality healthcare services that included high2019, and is taking a more proactive role in IHH’s management. management, remote diagnosis, and personalized medicine. In working end, advanced medical treatment; it was one of the few private hospital Of the challenges that IHH faces in the future, priority is being given towards the creation of these services, the first priority is to build the groups in the Asia region that operated in multiple countries, and held to enhancing the value of the existing hospitals and implementing infrastructure needed for data acquisition, safeguarding and utilization, very high market share in Singapore and Malaysia. In addition to its high horizontal improvements across the company. The aim is to provide while also ensuring the anonymity of the data and strengthening data market share, IHH’s first-class medical environment and medical more efficient healthcare, by boosting sales through the development of security. Once this has been achieved, we can proceed with measures to technology made it a respected company with a strong brand which higher-level services, optimizing the cost structure through centralized utilize data effectively and efficiently, while also identifying medical patients trusted, and such strong brand also enabled IHH to attract and purchasing of pharmaceuticals, undertaking M&A activity and increasing needs precisely. The ultimate goal is to provide more advanced medical retain first-rate medical professionals that are in short supply in the Asia the number of beds in existing hospitals, and so on. services by integrating the collected data referred above with ancillary region. Given that IHH had the potential to realize a significant In addition, by sharing information and cases across countries—for businesses, and to put the services on a sound commercial footing. We quantitative and qualitative enhancement of medical service provision, example, by sharing knowhow and best practice between hospitals—we will be working steadily to realize the type of medical services that we Mitsui chose to work through IHH to address the problem of the disparity aim to increase the opportunities to provide more advanced, more are aiming at, over a 5–10 year time-frame. between supply and demand in medical services, and decided to invest efficient medical services in countries throughout Asia. and participate in IHH management. Providing the world with sustainable medical services Following on from the initial investment in 2011, Mitsui has been Utilizing Big Data to provide each patient with optimal medical treatment Demand for medical and healthcare services in the Asia region continues Mitsui’s goal is to build, strengthen, and expand a healthcare ecosystem. to outstrip supply, and the key factors in the provision of medical services In a world where there are a wide variety of healthcare service providers, including hospitals, medical practitioners, medical information and so on each playing an important role in their own specialist field, Mitsui is are not always integrated in an efficient manner. We hope to efficiently endeavoring to build large-scale medical infrastructure that links re-allocate the unevenly distributed resources through the building of a together the five key elements of locations, people, equipment, services healthcare ecosystem, aiming to eliminate the gap between supply and and information, with hospitals playing the central role. The most demand in this sector, and make medical service and healthcare important aspect is data utilization. IHH alone serves over 6 million provision sustainable. We believe that this will contribute to the outpatients and around 600,000 inpatients per year; if it were possible to enhancement and growth of society as a whole. Looking ahead to the effectively use not just this huge quantity of patient data, but also the future, Mitsui hopes to expand this kind of medical service provision on a data from the entire healthcare system, including ancillary businesses, global scale, cultivating the development of a business that will enhance access to healthcare for people all over the world. 24 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Create an eco-friendly society Accelerate initiatives towards environmental issues, such as responding to climate change and water resource problems, and contributing to a circular economy. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities As a company with business operations in countries and regions worldwide, Mitsui & Co. recognizes that Risks climate change and other impacts on the global environment could cause significant risks to the sustainImpact of tighter policies and regulations as part of the transition to a low-carbon society able growth of society and Mitsui itself. In recent years, the response of business corporations to climate Impact of new technologies and the creation of new markets on supply and demand in existing business areas change has become increasingly important in terms of the sustainability of society, especially since the Disruption of business operations due to the impact of cyclones, hurricanes, and other events linked to adoption of the Paris Agreement by the United Nations. We also recognize that the response to climate climate change change will create new business opportunities due to the accelerating shift to energy conservation, Impacts on the natural environment, such as the large-scale use of water in business operations renewable energy, EV/new technologies/new materials/multi-materials in the mobility field, and innovaImpact of leakage of hazardous chemicals tive services based on digital technology. Other priorities for Mitsui include the effective utilization of Increase of environmental costs due to the destruction/deterioration of eco-systems water resources, the management of forest resources, biodiversity, resource recycling, and the circular economy. Opportunities Accelerating market changes in the mobility area resulting from rising environmental awareness and Global warming, climate change the tightening of regulations Water resource shortages Expansion of markets for environment-related business areas, such as renewable energy Resource recycling, the circular economy Demand for high-efficiency power plants Environmental pollution Creation of new business models based on resource recycling and the circular economy Loss of biodiversity Expansion of business areas, such as energy conservation and renewable energy, resulting from energy diversification Handling of products and services that contribute to the creation of a low-carbon society by conserving energy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions Mitsui & Co.’s Approach [Targets] Increase in the percentage of renewable energy (including hydropower) in Mitsui’s equity-based electricity generation capacity to 30% by 2030 Increase in the ratio of sustainable certified palm oil including RSPO-certified procured to 100% by 2030 Reduction in energy consumption intensity by 1% or higher on average per year for Mitsui and its subsidiaries in Japan Improvement of the recycling rate in Head Office and corporate buildings in Osaka and Nagoya to at least 85% by 2020 Reduction of the use of resources (paper) in Head Office and all offices in Japan 25 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Create an eco-friendly society Theme Related SDGs Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Related policies and guidelines Identifying material topics in GRI Promoting the Environmental We implement environmental management systems based on ISO14001 and various international ・Environmental Policy Economic Performance Management guidelines to support an active response to environmental and social problems on a global group basis. As part of our commitment to consideration for the environment in our business activities, we Indirect Economic Impacts also actively obtain environment-related certification. Environmental Compliance Local Communities Marketing and Labeling Responding to Climate Change As a company engaged in diverse business activities, Mitsui continually reviews its portfolios to ・Environmental Policy Economic Performance minimize climate change risks. We also flexibly take up new business challenges made possible by our wide-ranging business development activities, based on long-term perspectives covering at least Indirect Economic Impacts ten years. To our renewable energy business and our efforts to promote modal shifts, we are also implementing initiatives that contribute to the improvement of energy consumption efficiency and the reduction of CO2 emissions. Energy* Responding to Water Resource Problems In response to rising global concerns about water resources, we are working through our water Indirect Economic Impacts business to conserve water resources and promote sustainable use. Water* Resource Recycling Initiatives Efficient utilization of resources and energy is a key part of Mitsui’s environmental policy. Under our ・Environmental Policy Indirect Economic Impacts comprehensive energy and environmental strategy, we engage in resource recycling (ground resources). We are also working to provide industrial solutions to environmental problems through Effluents and Waste* the effective utilization of waste products and by-products. Initiatives against Environmental Pollution Mitsui bases its environmental policy on compliance with environment-related laws and regulations. ・Environmental Policy Indirect Economic Impacts In particular, we engage in initiatives that lead to the reduction of water and soil contamination and the reduction of the quantity of chemical substances released into the atmosphere, with the aim of Emissions* reducing and preventing pollution. Effluents and Waste* Reducing Impact on Biodiversity and Mitsui has been promoting hydropower generation business and forest resource business that take ・Environmental Policy Biodiversity Promoting the Conservation and Recovery into account biodiversity, as well as production and sale of rice produced through farming methods of Ecosystems that encourage biodiversity. In addition, in company-owned Mitsui’s Forests at 74 locations (approx. 44,000 hectares) throughout Japan, we have designated 10% of the forests as “biodiversity conservaLocal Communities tion forests” and maintain and manage these forests accordingly. * P.51 Environmental Performance Data 26 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Create an eco-friendly society Aiming to Establish a Low-Carbon Society, and Using New Technology to Blaze a Trail to the Future 3.9 Cleaning PM2.5 particulate matter from off-gas, to reduce industry-derived atmospheric pollution 7.1, 7.2, 7.b Helping to spread awareness of and promote widespread adoption of LT’s new technology, thereby expanding renewable energy’s share of total global energy production 9.4 Enhancing the sustainability of industry The world’s first factory capable of manufacturing fuel from off-gas through the Circular Economy Junichi Katsuki Deputy General Manager, NexGen Energy Dept I, Energy & Innovation Div., Energy Business Unit I* 11.6 * Title as of the time of interview. Cleaning PM2.5 particulate matter from off-gas, to reduce health problems in urban areas caused by atmospheric pollution The Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which came into effect in 2016, represents a commitment by both the advanced nations and the developing nations to collaborate on addressing the issue of climate change. However, despite the efforts by individual countries and regions to reduce CO2 emissions, total global CO2 emissions actually increased in 2017, for the first time in four years. According to a report compiled by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the main reason for this increase was organic economic growth; therefore it is necessary to find ways of realizing CO2 emission reductions without negatively impacting sustainable economic growth. 13.2 In March 2014, prior to the Paris Agreement coming into effect, Mitsui invested in LanzaTech (LT), a U.S.-headquartered start-up founded in New Zealand. LT has developed Contributing to the expanded utilization of proprietary microbes for innovative gas fermentation technology that converts industrial off-gas, including carbon monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO2), into fuels and chemicals fuel ethanol the production of which does not compete with food production such as ethanol and isopropanol; this is the only technology of its kind in the world. One of the key advantages of this technology is that it can produce fuels and chemicals without competing with food production by large-scale utilization of off-gas from steel mills, oil refineries, etc. Mitsui is working with LT as its strategic partner; by combining Mitsui’s functions and expertise with LT’s technology, we are creating new businesses that can help to mitigate the impact of climate change, and contribute towards the establishing of a low-carbon society. 27 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Create an eco-friendly society Addressing industry’s challenges and realizing diversified for ourselves a moment in which the world starts to environmental benefits change. In May 2018, the first commercial plant using LT’s technology to produce Currently, Mitsui is providing support for LT in We believe that the world can be changed, fuel ethanol from the off-gas from a steel mill commenced operation in three main areas: developing new business with Hebei Province in China. With annual production capacity of 45,000 tons Mitsui’s business partners, providing logistics and that is why we are working to commercialize of fuel ethanol, this facility is the largest fuel ethanol producer in Hebei. functions for the projects adopting LT’s technology, revolutionary new technologies. This plant has met all milestones and shown stable production of ethanol. and introducing companies with which LT can In 2017, the Chinese government announced the new “E10 Policy,” collaborate on R&D as technical development the aim of which is to ensure that, by 2020, all automotive gasoline sold in partners. In particular, we are focusing on developing China is blended with up to 10% ethanol; the announcement of this goal new business; our mission is to use LT’s technology to create nextOctober 2018, Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited made its first successful has caused demand for ethanol in China to skyrocket. The current generation fuels, and then to increase the revenue and profit that this commercial flight using LT’s sustainable aviation fuel, and in June 2019 All situation is that demand for ethanol far exceeds supply, and 99% of business generates. By explaining the appeal of LT’s technology and its Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. (ANA) signed an offtake agreement for ethanol production in China relies on raw materials derived from food strengths, and the advantages of adopting LT’s technology, to Mitsui’s sustainable aviation fuel; a memorandum of understanding (MoU) has crops. In the future, Mitsui is aiming to realize the establishment of business partners throughout the world, we are exploring potential leads been signed between ANA, LT and Mitsui to undertake joint development multiple plants similar to the one in Hebei throughout China, and to for new business development. aimed at realizing the commercial production of bio-jet fuel in the future. promote the widespread adoption of ethanol produced using LT’s As regards plans for future global expansion, besides expanding the Starting from 2021, new International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) technology, which does not compete with food and thus provides greater scope of projects in China, we will also be exploring opportunities to regulations governing CO2 emissions will come into effect, which are environmental benefits. move into other countries and regions where there is high demand for expected to provide further stimulus for sustainable aviation fuel adoption. Another serious problem affecting China is air pollution. The steel ethanol. Mitsui’s Food Business Unit is the largest ethanol importer in industry has a higher level of PM2.5 particulate matter emissions than any Japan, and the chemicals division of Mitsui & Co. Deutschland GmbH is Taking the “4Cs” as the foundation and working to realize the other sector except electric power generation, and China’s steel industry the largest ethanol importer in Germany. By developing synergies in this commercialization of new forms of energy accounts for around half of total global crude steel production. Since area, we believe that we can develop even more attractive businesses Mitsui’s Energy & Innovation Division to which I belong has as its vision plants using LT’s technology can substantially reduce emissions of both that are more closely tailored to Mitsui’s strengths. the establishing of a low-carbon society, and has set itself the mission of CO2 and PM2.5 particulate matter, they can contribute to solving the At the same time, in the aviation sector, sustainable aviation fuel that building the foundations for new energy businesses in sectors that problems of atmospheric pollution and global warming. It is anticipated uses ethanol as the raw material is starting to be commercialized. In include next-generation fuels, energy management, carbon credit that promoting the widespread implementation of projects that use LT’s trading, etc. Using an evaluation framework that emphasizes the “4Cs”— technology will also help to improve air pollution in China. Cleaner energy, no Competition with food, Circular economy, and Carbon emission reduction—we are constantly working to generate new projects Mitsui had faith in LT’s technology, which is the only technology that have been evaluated both qualitatively and quantitatively. of its kind in the world, and provided consistent support Unless both Mitsui and society as a whole can operate in a sustainable Following Mitsui’s investment in LT in 2014, changes in the global market manner, then there can be no development in any meaningful sense. In environment made it difficult for Mitsui to maintain support for its order to realize this sustainability, I hope that we will be able to leverage investment in the company; however, because Mitsui was convinced that Mitsui’s capabilities to the maximum extent in providing the world with LT’s technology had the potential to change the world, we decided that new business models and new technologies which, when they become we would continue to provide strategic support. As a result of this widely adopted as standard, will help to create a world in which our commitment, today, many business enterprises are expressing interest in families and friends, and millions of people that we have never met, will be LT’s technology and are considering adopting it, and we are experiencing We are accelerating the implementing of new initiatives in collaboration with ANA (©ANA) able enjoy blue skies, clean oceans, security and peace of mind. 28 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Develop talent leading to value creation Respect diversity and develop human resources with the competence to create innovation and new value. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities We recognize that, in order to create innovations and new value for society through our business activities Risks in a sustainable manner, it is essential to develop the human resources who are key to all business activiDecline in the quality and competitiveness of human resources due to market and environmental changes ties, and at the same time, prepare the environment in which every individual can achieve their full potenOutflows of employees due to the loss of career development opportunities for diverse human resources tial with strong motivation. We also recognize the need to recruit and foster diverse people on a global scale and improve their creativity through workstyle innovation, as well as through the promotion of Opportunities “diversity & inclusion” as the basis for the creation of new value through reciprocal stimulation among Improvements in productivity, efficiency, and motivation along with accelerating workstyle innovation people with diverse backgrounds such as nationality, gender, and values. Recruitment of competitive people through selection processes centering on abilities and personal qualities, and fair and diverse recruitment activities Diversity & inclusion Fine-tuned human resources development with an increased emphasis on diversity Improvement on creativity through workstyle innovation and career development for diverse human Appropriate appointment and deployment of personnel on a global consolidated basis resources Improvement of corporate competitiveness by creating innovations through diversity management promotion Innovation platforms New value creation initiatives Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Theme Related SDGs Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Related policies and guidelines Identifying material topics in GRI Recruitment of Human Resources Our commitment to recruiting diverse people who can succeed in a global environment is reflected • Mitsui Global Business Management Employment* in our basic policy, which calls for fair recruitment without limitations based on age, gender, nationalGuidelines ity, university background, or other attributes. We provide opportunities to apply for positions in Japan and overseas. In our selection processes, we do not take into account attributes that have no bearing on an individual’s abilities and aptitude, such as country of origin and religion, but focus on the individual’s ability and personality. Human Resources Development Our goal is to foster diverse and strong individuals who can contribute to the management of our Training and Education global group and create new value. Centered on the OJT programs for gaining practical experience at workplaces, we also provide wide-ranging off-the-job training with various training courses. Appropriate Appointment and Allocation We pursue appropriate allocation of human resources in order for our diverse professionals to achieve Training and Education of Personnel their full potential, and to maximize our strategic potential as an organization. We aim to create a cycle in which our employees achieve personal growth through a wide range of experience, deepen diverse personal networks, and create themselves opportunities for further positive experiences. * P.100 Data of Personnel Affairs 29 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Develop talent leading to value creation Theme Related SDGs Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Related policies and guidelines Identifying material topics in GRI Promoting Diversity & Inclusion We promote diversity management, in which reciprocal stimulation among people with diverse • Action plan for the Act of Promotion of Training and Education backgrounds, such as nationality, gender, and values, drives creation of innovations. We are working Women’s Participation and Advancement to raise awareness and develop an environment for cultivating a corporate climate and culture of in Workplace “diversity & inclusion.” • Voluntary action plans on promotion of Diversity and Equal Opportunity women to managerial and board position Creating an Environment in which Every We aim to strengthen our overall competitiveness as a company by creating environments in which • Work Style Innovation Action Plans Employment* Individual Can Achieve Their Full Potential individual employees can enhance their efficiency and productivity and reach their full potential. • Mitsui & Co. action plans under the Act Through our workstyle innovation initiatives, we are modifying traditional approaches to work and on Advancement of Measures to Support introducing flexible, diversified workstyles that are not confined in terms of time or location. In Raising Next-Generation Children addition, we promote initiatives to create an environment in which individual employees can work in Freedom of Association and Collective diverse ways with a sense of high motivation, including support for people to manage both work and Bargaining childcare or family care obligations. Health Management, Occupational Health Our awareness that employee health is a vital asset for the company is reflected in our ongoing • Health Declaration Occupational Health and Safety and Safety Initiatives initiatives to create safe and healthy working environments in which our employees can achieve their • Mental Health Promotion Plan full potential and continue strengthening our corporate competitiveness. In addition to measures • Health Performance Index required under laws and regulations in the countries and regions where we have business operations, we have established systems to ensure an effective response to emergencies, such as accidents and disasters, and promote various initiatives to maintain and enhance health of the employees. Creating New Value Mitsui aims to achieve sustainable growth by exerting its comprehensive strengths, its capabilities to connect, to create, and to realize business that is meaningful for society. Traditionally, the main strength and roles of a general trading company was to create value by connecting various industries, companies, products, and other elements. Going forward, we will work to evolve beyond those roles and functions into an entity capable of taking the lead in creating business. * P.100 Data of Personnel Affairs 30 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Develop talent leading to value creation The Moon Platform̶Realizing the Shift from “Connecting” to “Creating” 4.4 Provide opportunities and a suitable environment for business creation, so that employees’ business ideas can contribute to the building of a sustainable society 8.3 Use Moon to promote the building of a corporate culture conducive to new business development and innovation Anna Hiraoka Entrepreneur in Residence (on assignment), Moon Creative Lab Inc. Mitsui & Co. has formulated a long-term business vision that outlines where Mitsui envisions being in the future. This positions Mitsui’s future path as changing from “connecting” to “creating.” In the past, Mitsui’s main function as a general trading company was to generate value by connecting enterprises together across a wide range of industries and sectors; however, Mitsui is now evolving to become a company that proactively creates its own businesses. Moon Creative Lab Inc. (Moon) performs the R&D function for Mitsui as a whole, and constitutes a platform that embodies the change from “connecting” to “creating.” Moon was established as an independent company in August 2018, consolidating the operations of Karugamo Works, which had previously been created by Mitsui as part of its strategy to generate new businesses, and Mitsui’s intrapreneurship system. Moon has offices in Silicon Valley, in the U.S., and in Tokyo. Moon welcomes business ideas that have the potential to help solve social problems and give Mitsui a major presence in future markets gathered from the Mitsui Group’s 44,000 employees, who have an in-depth understanding of a wide range of industries and products. Working together with the idea owners, Moon sets about creating unique, brand-new products and services. By building up experience through numerous projects of this kind, Moon is developing extraordinary capable business development teams. 31 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Develop talent leading to value creation To create a new business, you need to come up Reducing the amount of unhappiness in the world through a through active materialization of ideas followed by new business that makes effective use of AI improvements based on user tests. with creative business ideas and make them Moon is an innovation lab that goes beyond the scope of a Through my research, I heard from a patient’s come to life. This is what is meant by starting conventional trading company by generating completely new family about how hard it was to recover from the businesses. Moon has made it possible for me to be an entrepreneurpain of losing someone who they loved, and I a business from scratch. in-residence (intrapreneur) and start getting a business off the couldn’t help but feel the tears welling up in my ground while continuing to be a Mitsui employee. Since there are eyes. The most vital aspect of user experience just two of us in the team—the project leader and myself—there are design is trust; being involved in this project has really brought a lot of things that I can do, and also a lot of responsibilities. Day by home to me just how important it is for services to be empathetic. day, I am learning what it is like to start a business from scratch. Healthcare services are a type of service that is directly linked to At the moment, we are working on the development of a people’s emotions. I believe that, by using this project to provide platform for disease diagnosis services that make effective use of empathetic services, we can make at least a small contribution artificial intelligence (AI). Through this project, I believe that we can towards reducing the amount of pain and misery in the world. help to save many lives around the world, by providing faster, less painful, more precise diagnosis. Even for someone who has only been with the company for two The AI technology side is being handled by a Mitsui-invested firm years, it is possible to create a business from nothing that has cutting-edge knowhow in this field; Mitsui is handling the I was assigned to Moon two years after joining Mitsui, because of my market development and business design, with the aim of rolling out background in biology and cancer research experience. At Moon, the platform on a global scale, and Moon is playing the role of being young and having limited work experience is not a drawback; designing and enhancing the user experience. In starting this business at the same time, you can’t use these factors as an excuse, either. The from scratch, we are also receiving support from world-leading design biggest difference compared to working as part of a large team is that succeed in my current project of building a business that uses AI consulting firm IDEO, and through their approach called Design your commitment and judgement are challenged to an even greater effectively for disease diagnosis. I hope that this will provide stimulus Thinking, I have been able to undertake research interviews with extent. You are constantly having to formulate proposals in terms of for other young employees at Mitsui, who will think “If she can do it, doctors, patients and others, brainstorming sessions to come up with “What to focus on, what do we want users to experience, what then I should be able to do it too,” so that other people will continue various service concepts reflecting such interviews, and prototyping problems are we trying to solve, and how should we go about doing to take on the same kind of challenge. Secondly, I want to support this?”, and then implement them. I am constantly aware of the fact Mitsui to develop, to an even greater extent than at present, a that, without strong willpower, the project you are working on will not corporate culture and environment that enables individual make any forward progress, and you will then be unable to employees to exercise their creativity. Finally, I want to develop, successfully create a business that can generate new value for the within Moon, more new businesses in the fields of education and world. As I see it, that is what building a new business from scratch healthcare that I have developed the idea for, starting from scratch. involves. At Moon, and within Mitsui as a whole, there are many people with diverse backgrounds, creating a network that gives you access By continuing to realize my dream, I hope to inspire other to different viewpoints and different kinds of support. I feel that if I employees continue to grow and develop entrepreneurship at Moon, there are I have three dreams that I want to make come true. The first is to no dreams that I cannot make come true. 32 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Build an organization with integrity Strengthen our governance and compliance as a corporate group trusted by society. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities Mitsui aims to achieve sustainable growth as a company that is trusted by society by continually contributing Risks through the realization of business that has value for society. To achieve this goal, we recognize that it is vital Compliance violations, including anti-competitive actions, corruption, and bribery, resulting from a lack to raise awareness of integrity among all officers and employees (including ensuring compliance), as well as of integrity awareness on the part of officers and employees the enhancement of corporate governance structures and reinforcement of internal control. Business stagnation, scandals, and other situations resulting from dysfunctional corporate governance In supply chain management, we recognize the growing importance of consideration for human rights and internal control, leading to a failure to take appropriate management decisions, and the loss of and labor, safety and health, business ethics, environmental management, and other aspects, to ensure the stakeholder confidence as a consequence of such situations sustainability of procurement, production, logistics, sales, and consumption. Reputational damage resulting from human rights violations and environmental loads in supply chains Raising integrity awareness, including ensuring compliance among all officers and employees Opportunities Reinforcement of corporate governance and internal control Organizational revitalization and improvement in the company’s reputation through initiatives to raise Expanding responsibility in supply chains in terms of the environment and society the integrity awareness of officers and employees, including measures to ensure compliance Increasing importance of consideration for human rights in supply chains (e.g. labor practices, and impact Sustainable improvement of corporate value through achievement of highly effective corporate goveron local communities) nance and the continuous review Improvement of value and reliability across entire value chains through consideration for the environment, human rights, labor, and local communities in the entire supply chains Mitsui & Co.’s Approach [Targets] Achievement of 100% awareness of our Supply Chain CSR Policy among new suppliers 33 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Build an organization with integrity Theme Related SDGs Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Related policies and guidelines Identifying material topics in GRI Integrity and Compliance To maintain its reputation as a company that is truly trusted by society, the Mitsui & Co. group is • Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines Anti-corruption working at the global group level to ensure the compliance awareness of its employees and build an “With Integrity” organization with integrity. • Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Anti-competitive Behavior • Code of Conduct in relation to the Prevention of Cartels • Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Anti-Corruption Policy Socioeconomic Compliance • Global Tax Management Policy Corporate Governance & Internal Controls In structuring the corporate governance framework, Mitsui & Co. places emphasis on “improved • Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance Economic Performance transparency and accountability” and “clarification of the division of roles between management and Internal Control Principles oversight and execution.” In the construction of internal control processes, various systems are implemented in accordance with the basic framework of the internal control indicated by the Business Accounting Council, an advisory body to the Financial Services Agency of Japan. Risks Management Business areas affected by high qualitative risks relating to the environment, society, governance, and • Specially Designated Business ManageEconomic Performance other aspects are classified as “specially designated businesses,” and business initiatives in these areas ment System are implemented under the specially designated business management system. Human Rights Assessment Local Communities Customer Health and Safety Information is a vital business asset. Mitsui recognizes the importance of appropriate information • Rules on Information Management management and implements measures to protect personal information and cyber-security • Rules on Information System Management measures. • Rules on IT Security • Information Security Policy • Personal Information Protection Guidelines • Rules on the Protection of Personal Information We regard business continuity in the event of disasters as an important priority. Under our business • Business Continuity Management Policy continuity management (BCM) system, we formulate and regularly review a business continuity plan • Rules on Emergency Business Continuity (BCP) to ensure that we will be able to maintain effective management structures. Management Promotion of Supply Chain Management Mitsui has built diverse supply chains throughout the world to provide a wide range of functions and • Supply Chain CSR Policy Anti-corruption services. In order to find solutions to various issues in supply chains, we place focus on complying with laws, respecting human rights, maintaining safe and sanitary working conditions, reducing Supplier Environmental Assessment environmental load, and ensuring consumer safety and confidence in relation to products and services. Together with our business partners, we endeavor to meet society’s expectations. SpecifiFreedom of Association and Collective Bargaining cally, we conduct supplier surveys based on our Supply Chain CSR Policy every year to monitor the status of our suppliers’ sustainability measures, and conduct on-site surveys with certain suppliers. Child Labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Human Rights Assessment Supplier Social Assessment 34 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Build an organization with integrity Sharing Values by Promoting the Concept of Integrity 5.5 Respecting the individuality and diversity of each employee, and maintaining and cultivating a corporate culture that is open-minded and accepting of others 10.2, 10.3 Cultivating a corporate culture that fosters the empowerment of every individual employee and promotes equal opportunity 16.5 Specifying the need to comply with anti-bribery legislation and striving to heighten awareness among our Motoki Yasue employees Deputy General Manager, Compliance Department, Legal Division Five Key Principles Key Questions of Integrity * Title as of the time of interview. The “Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines” are divided These conduct guidelines do not comprehensively cover into five parts, and the key principle for each part is set out below. every possible situation that you may face in your day-to-day work. As these are the core elements of the Mitsui & Co. Group’s The important thing is your commitment to approach to acting “With Integrity”, verify that you and those around you are conducting yourselves please keep the following five key principles in mind: with integrity at all times. Mitsui & Co. believes that, in business, trust is most important. In order to maintain and enhance trust, besides compliance with laws, regulations 01 We will comply with laws and regulations, and act to the highest ethical standards. We will Q1 respect human rights and never engage in and rules, it is also vital for employees to be aware of the need for integrity, in terms of one’s own conscience and dignity. discrimination of any kind. Is it right? To ensure that values relating to integrity and compliance are shared throughout the Mitsui & Co. group, we put together the Mitsui & Co. 02 We will respect the individuality and diversity of every employee, and foster a culture of Group Conduct Guidelines “With Integrity” in November 2018. open-mindedness. If you are ever unsure In order for the Mitsui & Co. group to continue to be a corporate group that is genuinely trusted by society, we are taking steps on a global We will engage in fair business practices, and about what action to take, 03 respond to the trust placed in us by society please ask yourself group basis to build an organization with integrity, in which individual employees will act with integrity. with good faith and sincerity. these questions: We will place value on the global environment, 04 and contribute to the realization of prosperity Q2 Q3 and a high quality of life for society. Is it honest? Is it ethical? We will speak up with courage when we have Mitsui & Co. Group 05 doubts or feel that something is wrong, for Conduct Guidelines the good of the company. 6 7 35 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Build an organization with integrity Encouraging employees to think about what integrity is in light of the principle of integrity, and then take The Compliance Department of Mitsui’s Legal Division is responsible appropriate action. “With Integrity” specifies three Integrity can be thought of as thinking for for liaising with the managers overseeing compliance in each unit, questions that can be useful when thinking about for putting in place the overall compliance framework and this type of issue: “Is it right?”, “Is it honest?” and “Is oneself about what is right, in light of one’s compliance programs, and for responding to compliance issues it ethical?” The important thing is to verify the own conscience and dignity, and then acting when they occur. One of our most important missions is to promote appropriateness of our words and actions in light the concept of integrity throughout the Mitsui & Co. group. of our sense of integrity, and to consider what the accordingly. Mitsui has been actively using the term “integrity” in its efforts to right thing to do is. enhance employees’ compliance awareness since April 2017. In the past, compliance-related awarenessHowever, some employees were unsure as to what “integrity” (a raising activities have tended to focus on asking employees to Speaking up is also an aspect of integrity word which has come into Japanese from English) actually meant. comply with laws, regulations and rules. By contrast, integrity has a “Speak Up” is another concept that we are working to promote in Integrity is inherently difficult to define, and difficult to find an exact more autonomous aspect to it; it is not something that the company parallel with integrity. The “Speak Up” initiative aims to foster the Japanese equivalent for; we realized that there was a need to explain forces employees to implement. For this reason, when promoting development of a corporate culture in which employees who feel that in an easy-to-understand way, Mitsui’s intention in adopting the the concept of integrity, we have been rolling out programs that are something is wrong will speak up about it, and make effective use of the concept of integrity, and how it differs from compliance. With this in deliberately designed to create opportunities for getting employees company’s internal whistleblowing system. There is a tendency for mind, we have put together “With Integrity,” working in collaboration to think by themselves, and to discuss issues together with their people to have reservations about internal whistleblowing systems, and with many others in the company. colleagues. One example of this approach is sending out messages to be embarrassed about using them. However, at Mitsui we see the “With Integrity” defines integrity, in the sense in which it is used from senior management. On the blog of the Chief Compliance internal whistleblowing system as constituting a very effective means by the Mitsui & Co. group, as thinking for oneself about what is right, Officer (CCO) on Mitsui’s intranet, besides blog posts that are directly for identifying problems at an early stage so that we can nip them in the in light of one’s own conscience and dignity, and then acting related to compliance operations, the CCO also posts about aspects bud; we actively encourage employees to report problems, rather than accordingly. Actual examples of integrity would include, besides the of daily life that have a bearing on integrity. Sent out to all pretending that they haven’t noticed them. Possibly as a result of the obvious example of compliance with laws and regulations, respect employees twice a month or so, these blog posts act as a catalyst for “Speak Up” initiative, there has been an increase in the number of for human rights and diversity, the elimination of discrimination, the getting employees to think about integrity. We have often seen reports submitted via the company’s internal whistleblowing system, cultivation of an open-minded corporate culture, and above all, employees discussing the content of these blog posts among and we are in the process of developing a more open internal acting honestly in accordance with the highest ethical standards. themselves, and employees who have read the blog sometimes environment in which employees feel comfortable about using the Whereas compliance, which involves complying with laws, contact the CCO directly with messages outlining what they think system. When employees speak up about problems that in the past they regulations and rules, has a heteronomous (i.e. imposed from integrity means. In the future, we would like to continue to roll out would have tended to ignore or adopt a laissez-faire attitude towards, outside) aspect to it, integrity could be considered as constituting a initiatives that, rather than positioning integrity as something that is this can be a first step towards solving those problems. more autonomous approach. When viewing things only from the forced on employees by the company, instead help employees to compliance perspective, there can be a rather “passive” stance of think more deeply about integrity by getting them to think about Employees’ integrity can enhance the level of trust that people focusing only on complying with relevant laws, regulations and the concept themselves and discuss it with others. Also, if while have in the company rules; this tends to lead to uncertainty when faced with situations reading “With Integrity” an employee thinks “I don’t agree with this If a company is not trusted by society, then that company will not be that are not clearly addressed by the rules, and there is a risk that part,” then we hope that they will share their views with other able to achieve sustainable growth. Building this trust depends on people may think that, because something is not explicitly employees. It is only through this kind of process that the concept of the trustworthiness of individual employees, in terms of compliance prohibited by rules, it is acceptable to do it. At Mitsui, our integrity as used at Mitsui can take on content that strikes a chord and integrity. We believe that, if every one of us always acts with recommendation is that, when dealing with this kind of situation, with everyone working for the company. integrity, and speaks up without hesitation when we feel that employees should think for themselves about what they should do something is wrong, then we can build an even better company. 36 CCO Interview Hirotatsu Fujiwara Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer new value in countries and regions throughout the world and achieve “Global reach for Local depth, Local Chief Compliance Officer (CCO); depth for Global reach.” Corporate Staff Unit (Human Resources & In Japan, we plan to move into the new Head Office in February 2020. We are examining various General Affairs Division, Legal Division, and measures so that we can use that as an opportunity to create new work styles at the Head Office. We call others) this Workplace Experience (Work-X). We are evolving the idea about positioning of the workplace environment and making it possible for employees to flexibly choose where they do their work depending on the operations and project they are involved in. Consideration is also being given to creating a communication area where employees from anywhere within the company can freely gather in order to generate many new ideas through chance encounters. We will create an extremely appealing office to ̶What do you consider important for developing and utilizing human resources? stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit of our diverse employees and start an intellectual “chemical reaction” to People are the most important asset for Mitsui & Co. We have a history of diverse individuals not only create businesses. continually taking on the challenge of creating new value but also creating various business under the corporate philosophy of “Focus on Human Resources,” “Open-Mindedness,” and “Challenge and Innovation.” ̶What is the Mitsui & Co. global group striving to become through its efforts toward integrity? The environment surrounding our business is going through a constant change. Diversity and It is our view that compliance is necessary to build and maintain trust, the foundation of our business. Inclusion, which makes it possible for our employees throughout the world who possess a wide range of “Without compliance, there will be no work and no company” is an understanding that is widely shared backgrounds with diverse values, to respect each other, stimulates each other to exert their capabilities to throughout the company. Even so, the world is growing more complex, and it is important for us to not the fullest, is extremely important for Mitsui to continue to create new value as a corporate group. only follow rules but also verify the appropriateness of our words and actions against our sense of integrity. We formulated the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines “With Integrity” in November 2018 in ̶One issue included in new Materiality is “Develop talent leading to value creation.” What efforts order to share our approach towards integrity on a global group basis and to demonstrate what Mitsui are being undertaken to create value through talent? considers integrity to be. Throughout the world, we are moving forward with efforts to promote the active participation of diverse The subtitle “With Integrity” reflects our strong commitment that the Mitsui & Co. global group will talent regardless of where they are hired. It would probably be difficult for the Mitsui & Co. global group, strive to do everything with integrity. I am sure that everyone may struggle at times during their day-towhich conducts business around the world, to generate sustainable growth if our global business were day work with judgments, but if people ask themselves whether their judgment is guided by integrity, I primarily conducted only by employees hired in Japan. Based on this concern, in 2018, we launched the think that the path they should follow will naturally become clear. Change Leader Program to bring talent from overseas offices to the Head Office for a certain length of I hope that people working in the Mitsui & Co. global group would identify with the key principles and time and to train them to become leaders who can actively and boldly push forward reforms necessary to spirit of “With Integrity” and embody that through their daily words and actions. Mitsui will continue to create business. During its long history, Mitsui’s values and corporate culture have come to be referred to respond faithfully and sincerely to the trust placed in us by even more extensively promoting “With as “Mitsui is People,” which we will spread globally and accelerate the training of talent who can create Integrity” and each of us working in the group putting its spirit into practice. 37 Environment Promoting the Environmental Management 39 Responding to Climate Change 45 Responding to Water Resource Problems 48 Resource Recycling Initiatives 49 Initiatives against Environmental Pollution 50 Environmental Performance Data 51 Reducing Impacts on Biodiversity, and Promoting the 56 Conservation and Recovery of Ecosystems 38 Environment Promoting the Environmental Management Environmental Policy Policy Environmental Management System System Guiding Principles Environmental Management Philosophy 1. Mitsui & Co. believes that one of its most important management themes involves providing a positive response Mitsui & Co. maintains environmental management systems based on ISO14001 to environmental issues on a global group basis, in order to contribute to the creation of a future where the dreams of the inhabitants of our irreplaceable Earth can be fulfilled. and various international guidelines as the basis for an active response to 2. Mitsui & Co. will make every possible effort towards realizing a “sustainable development” which is aimed at environmental and societal problems through the business activities of its global creating a harmony between the economy and the environment on a global group basis. group. We acquired ISO14001 certification in 1999. Since the year ended March In view of the above principles, and in accordance with the Action Guidelines shown below, Mitsui & Co. will 2017, we have been working to strengthen our compliance with ISO14001: 2015, design, periodically evaluate, and continually improve an adequate risk management system, including response including integration with business processes, initiatives in response to business to matters such as global warming, nature conservation with consideration given to biological diversity, and the risks and opportunities, and an increased emphasis on stakeholder perspectives. prevention of pollution, which will cover the wide range of activities that it undertakes on a global scale. At the 【Standards Covered】 same time, we will strive to ensure the development and dissemination of earth–friendly technologies and further ISO14001, ISO26000, the GRI Standards the Equator Principles, the World Bank Procurement Policies and Guidelines, and the IUCN Guidelines reinforce our responsibility with respect to the environment on a global group basis. Environmental Management System We have appointed an executive officer (Representative Director, Executive Vice President) who is Action Guidelines responsible for overall environmental management, while the General Manager of the Corporate 1. Compliance with relevant We will comply with various relevant environmental laws and regulations, as Sustainability Division supervises the operation of the Environmental Management system, including environmental laws and well as all agreements signed by the company for promoting business regulations activities. response to climate related risks including climate change. Under the oversight of the Board, other organizations, such as business units, each have their own environmental management structures 2. Efficient utilization of We will strive to reduce the burden on the environment within each of our established by the divisional/departmental general managers. resources and energy* workplaces and in our business activities through the efficient utilization of We set company-wide targets, and are continually improving our environmental and societal risk resources and energy, as well as the reduction, reuse, and recycling of waste and its proper disposal. management framework by means of periodic reviews, including the Sustainability Committee meetings. 3. Environmental care for We will give the utmost consideration to the environment to the extent Environmental Management System (As of April 2019) products and services technologically and economically feasible by exercising an appropriate President & CEO offered, as well as existing degree of influence in enlisting the understanding and support of involved and new businesses business partners, as well as evaluating the impact that we have on the Corporate Management Committee environment, not only in the prevention of pollution, but on such issues as global warming and the conservation of biological diversity as well. Sustainability Committee Sustainability Committee’s Chairperson（Representative Director, Executive Vice President） 4. Contribution to providing We will engage in business activities with the goal of providing rational and Environmental Management Administrative Manager (Officer in Charge of Corporate Staff Division Environmental & Societal Advisory industrial solutions to permanent industrial solutions, and contribute to the realization of (General Manager of the Corporate Sustainability Division) ［in charge of the Corporate Sustainability Division］) Committee environmental issues “sustainable development ” by exploiting our individual abilities and the Environmental Manager collective strengths of our organization in cooperation with our global Corporate Staff Division Business Units Offices in Japan Overseas Offices partners. General Managers (Department General General Managers of Each Chief Operating Officers of Head Office and Branches Chief Operating Officers of Regional Business Units, Managers) of Each Corporate Units Business Supporting Units Business Units in Japan and the Direct Jurisdiction of the Head Office * This includes improvements in efficiency and reduction of the use of such resources and energy. Sustainability Promotion Officers/Environmental Management Officers 39 Environment Promoting the Environmental Management Management of Environmental and Societal Risks System Environmental Management for New Business System Activity In conducting business, Mitsui has put in place company-wide system for ensuring, both at the stage of When we embark on new business investment projects, business divisions subject them to environmental, launching business as well as for projects that are already in operation, that the utmost consideration is social, and governance (ESG) impact assessments, using ESG due diligence checklists that consider given to the environment and society. As for the environmental and social risks, such as climate related environmental and societal risks based on international standards. Aspects covered by these assessments risks, we discuss our policies and countermeasures at the Sustainability Committee, and report them to include pollution prevention, climate change, ecosystems, water stress*, and human rights. the Corporate Management Committee and the Board of Directors. After receiving approvals, the policies Projects that are found to have significant environmental implications then undergo internal screening and countermeasures are implemented. under the Specially Designated Business Management System. If necessary, a meeting of the Responding to Environmental and Social Risks (as of April 2019) Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee will be convened, as well as a meeting of the Sustainability Committee if the project needs to be considered in relation to corporate policies on the environment. Incorporation of Societal Needs and Various Perspectives Recommendations about whether or not to proceed with projects and any improvements that may be Shareholders, investors, business partners, consumers, government agencies, needed are then submitted to the Board of Representative Directors, where the final decisions are made local communities, NGOs/NPOs/experts through a ringi deliberation process. * The state where the annual water availability per capita is less than 1,700 tons and where people feel inconvenience in their daily life. Environmental Policy and Environmental Goals P.113 Specially Designated Business Management System and Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee Environmental Management Environmental Management for Existing Business System Activity New Business Existing Business Mitsui ensures effective monitoring and management of environmental and societal risks for existing Specially Designated Business Management System business operations based on the international environmental management standard, ISO14001 at the (Business that has a material impact on the environment) ・Compliance with environmental regulations non-consolidated level. We also encourage subsidiaries engaged in activities with the potential to cause Use the ESG Due Diligence Checklist significant environmental impacts to establish their own environmental management systems based on ・Response to NGOs/NPOs ISO14001 or other international guidelines for environmental and social considerations. In addition, we ・Environmental accident prevention have established comprehensive systems to ensure prompt reporting of the effects of any environmental Considering the Importance ・Environmental education/training accidents or violations of laws, regulations, or ordinances. As part of our interactions with stakeholders, we Advice from external experts in Environmental & ・Collaboration in the global group also identify business risks and opportunities through dialogue with NPOs, NGOs, academic organizations, Societal Advisory Committee meetings and government agencies and consider appropriate responses. Ringi Process & Follow-up Management of Subsidiaries We select subsidiaries in Japan and overseas that need environmental priority management based on comprehensive assessments that take into account such factors as the type of industry, environmental and ecosystem impacts. We promote these companies to introduce environmental management systems based Contribute to fulfilling corporate social responsibilities and resolving environmental and societal issues through business activities on ISO14001, or on international guidelines, and we help them to build robust management systems. As of the end of March 2019, out of the target companies, 15 subsidiaries have acquired ISO14001. Address such issues as climate change, ecosystem conservation, water conservation, environmental pollution, human rights, social involvement, information disclosure, corporate reputation 40 Environment Promoting the Environmental Management Response to Environmental Accidents Other Applicable Environmental Laws and Regulations During the fiscal year ended March 2019, there was one environment-related incident at Mitsui and its In promoting business activities, we comply with various environmental laws and regulations. subsidiaries. We employ various measures to prevent recurrences of environmental accidents, including the use of Act on Special Measures Concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes/Act on Rational Use collections of case studies to raise employee awareness. Any accident is promptly reported to the relevant and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons/Water Pollution Prevention Act/Soil Contamination units, and comprehensive steps are taken to prevent recurrence, beginning with the identification of the actual Countermeasures Act/Act on the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and cause of the accident and an assessment to determine appropriate corrective and preventive measures. Packaging/Act on Promotion of Recycling and Related Activities for Treatment of Cyclical Food Resources/Air Pollution Control Act/Offensive Odor Control Law/Chemical Substances Control Law/ Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law/Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act/Fire Compliance with Environment-Related Laws and Regulations System Service Act/Industrial Safety and Health Act/REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) regulations Our efforts to meet our corporate social responsibilities and keep pace with the expansion of those responsibilities include the creation of compliance assurance mechanisms based on our environmental management system. We also use training and other methods to ensure that staff in Japan and overseas Acquisition of Environment-Related Certification System Activity understand and comply with various environmental laws and regulations. SDGs：7.3, 8.7, 12.2, 12.8, 13.3, 14.2, 14.7, 15.1, 15.2, 15.4 At the start of each fiscal year, Environmental Management Officers in each department identify Mitsui promotes sustainable procurement in partnership with suppliers throughout the world. We work environment-related laws and regulations that are relevant to the operations of their units. They also assess actively to achieve environment-related certification in Japan and overseas, recognizing the importance of compliance every half-year. In addition, an internal environmental audit or environmental self-check process is natural actual capital. We also develop procurement mechanisms that take into account the need to carried out every year to confirm that environmental management systems are being applied effectively. Mitsui address global warming and conserve biodiversity. Furthermore, at properties we own that have acquired itself, as well as any subsidiaries whose activities could have significant environmental impacts, acquires certifications (such as DBJ Green Building certification) through listed REITs operated by asset certification under ISO14001 or equivalent standards. We have established effective environmental law management companies, we are working to reduce our environmental impact by promoting energy compliance mechanisms. Furthermore, we utilize environmental law compliance checking tools to easily savings and more efficient energy use. confirm our legal compliance. Company-Owned Forests “Mitsui’s Forests” (Japan) Energy Saving Laws and Regulations Mitsui has obtained forest certification for all 74 locations of With the idea of compliance and environmental conservation in mind, we abide by energy saving laws Mitsui’s Forests (approximately 44,000 hectares) throughout and regulations (laws related to rationalizing energy use), and we are promoting energy conservation in Japan under two international standards: FSC® certification*1 office and energy usage improvement related to transportations, thereby developing environmentally (FSC®-C057355) and SGEC certification*2 (Certificate no. SGEC/31friendly business activities. 21-1101). Forest certification is based on objective third party SGEC/31-21-1101 assessments of whether forest management methods meet Waste Disposal Laws economic, environmental, and social requirements (i.e. principles Mitsui operates in compliance with the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Law (also referred to as and standards). Currently, Mitsui is the only private company with large-scale forest holdings in Japan “Waste Disposal Law” or “Waste Law”). In order to properly manage disposal of industrial waste generated covering over 10,000 hectares that has obtained certification under both of these systems. With respect to through logistics operations and general waste from business activities, we have formulated a workflow in both FSC® certification and SGEC certification, Mitsui has received Forest Management (FM) certification, connection with the handling of industrial waste and general waste from business activities and prepared while Mitsui Bussan Forest, a subsidiary, has received Chain of Custody (CoC) certification for the processing FAQ documents. Such tools and documents have been utilized by relevant divisions and departments. and distribution of cut lumber; Mitsui & Co. Group has thereby established a thoroughly inclusive chain of We also hold periodic seminars within the company to increase awareness and understanding of certifications that covers the entire supply chain. Notably, Mitsui is the largest supplier of domestic FSC®proper waste disposal practices, covering such matters as the selection of waste management certified wood in Japan. subcontractors and manifest compilation and management. 41 Environment Promoting the Environmental Management *1 FSC® certification is based on international standards established by the Forest Stewardship Council®, a non-profit committee-type organization that Mitsui’s Handling Volume of RSPO-Certified Palm Oil and Its Ratio to Total Handling Volume administers an international forest certification system. *2 This certification system was developed by the Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council, a general incorporated foundation, by adapting the sustainable forest FY2018 FY2019 management philosophy promoted globally as the “Montreal Process” to the situation in Japan. In 2016, it became possible to distribute SGEC certified timber as timber certified under another international forest certification, the Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PFEC), following Handling volume of certified palm oil 14,500t 21,500t reciprocal recognition between the two systems. Total handling volume of produced/used/ 520,000t 600,000t processed palm oil Ratio 2.8％ 3.6％ Forest Resources Business（Australia） Along with business partners, Mitsui is involved in plantation business in Australia with a scale of approximately 23,000 hectares. The goal is to ensure stable procurement of paper manufacturing resources. The business has acquired FSC®/CoC certification (Forest Resources Marketing Dept., Living & Salmon Farming Business (Chile) Environmental Business Div., Mitsui & Co.: FSC®-C104107, Mitsui Bussan Woodchip Oceania Pty. Ltd.: Mitsui is a shareholder and participant in the business FSC®-C107463), as well as PEFC/CoC certification. This allows us to promote the responsible operations of Salmones Multiexport S.A. (“Salmex”), a major management and handling of forest resources. Moreover, our subsidiary Mitsui Bussan Packaging Co., Ltd. salmon farming, processing, and sales company in Chile. This holds FSC®/CoC certification (FSC®-C009939). This allows us to link certified paper supply chains and company has obtained certification as a sustainable further promote responsible management of forest resources. aquaculture business under the Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) ® system*4, which focuses on the five key areas of environmental conservation, social responsibility, Feed Business (Japan) animal welfare, food safety, and traceability. Salmones Multiexport also achieved Aquaculture Stewardship Our affiliated company, Feed One Co., Ltd., manufactures and sells organic Council (ASC) certification*5 for two of its sites in 2017, and is now preparing to obtain certification for animal feed products produced using methods designed to minimize the additional locations. Of the total amount of fishery product sales of Salmex in the fiscal year ended March environmental load, in compliance with the Japan Agricultural Standards 2019, products that have acquired BAP certification accounted for 93%. (Notification 1607 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries). *4 This certification system is planned and administered by the Global Aquaculture Alliance (GAA), a US-based NGO dedicated to the establishment and spread of responsible aquaculture. The system certifies each component of the aquaculture value chain including hatchery, feed mill, farm, and processing plant. The program, which is represented by the BAP eco-label, is supported by numerous retailers and commercial food suppliers, especially in North America. Palm Oil Import Business (Malaysia) *5 The aim of the ASC certification system is to ensure that markets and consumers are supplied with responsibly produced aquaculture products, by certifying Mitsui and our investee, Wangsa Mujur Sdn. Bhd. have acquired certification from the aquaculture businesses that show consideration for local communities and do not impose a major load on the environment. Qualifying products are instantly recognizable thanks to the use of eco-labels. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), *3 a nonprofit organization that promotes the production and use of sustainable palm oil. The RSPO stipulates the legal, economic, environmental, and social conditions required for sustainable palm oil production in 8 Salmex’s Handling Volume of BAP-Certified Salmon and Its Ratio to Total Handling Volume principles and 43 criteria, and both Mitsui and Wangsa Mujur operate in accordance FY2019 2-0082-08-100-00 with its policy. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, RSPO-certified palm oil accounted Handling volume of BAP-certified salmon 84,283t for 3.6% of palm oil handled by Mitsui, and we aim to increase the ratio of sustainable Total handling volume of fish and seafood 90,626t certified palm oil including RSPO-certified, that we procure to 100% by 2030. produced/used/processed *3 RSPO certification aims to advance the production, procurement, and use of sustainable palm oil, and lessen the impact and load on the environment of Ratio 93％ producing countries and neighboring communities. 42 Environment Promoting the Environmental Management Food Importation and Sales (U.S.) Japan Logistics Fund, Inc. Our subsidiary, Mitsui Foods, Inc. (MFI), imports and sells canned tuna certified under the Certifications received Rank Property Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) system*6, the aim of which is to ensure the sustainable DBJ Green Building Certification 2016★★★★★ M-24 Shin-Koyasu Logistics Center supply of seafood over the long-term future. MFI has also obtained MSC Chain of Custody 2018★★★★ M-6 Funabashi Nishiura Logistics Center certification, thanks to its careful management at the distribution stage. 2016★★★★ M-11 Yachiyo Logistics Center *6 The aim of this system is to ensure the sustainable utilization of marine resources. Certification is limited to marine products that are harvested appropriately in terms of catch size, timing, methods, etc., and that are processed and distributed appropriately. The MSC 2018★★★★ M-12 Yokohama Fukuura Logistics Center label (Marine Ecolabel, MSC Ecolabel) indicates that products have been produced responsibly from the perspective of marine resources and the ocean 2018★★★★ M-13 Yachiyo Logistics Center II environment. 2018★★★★ M-19 Souka Logistics Center 2018★★★★ M-26 Sagamihara Logistics Center Shrimp Exporting Business (Vietnam) 2018★★★★ M-31 ShinKiba Logistics Center II As a shareholder, Mitsui participates in the management of Minh Phu Seafood Joint Stock Company, a 2018★★★★ M-32 Yokohama Machida Logistics Center Vietnamese company engaged in shrimp processing and exporting. The company has 2016★★★★ T-8 Tajimi Logistics Center obtained environment-related certification, under the ASC, BAP and Global Good 2018★★★ M-5 Urayasu Chidori Logistics Center Agricultural Practice (GAP) systems*7, to meet the needs of buyers and consumers seeking products that have been produced responsibly with care for the environment. 2018★★★ M-22 Musashimurayama Logistics Center *7 Certification under these aquaculture systems indicates that a company has met global standards for food safety and sustainable production management. The full production chain is verified from broodstock, farming, feed and processing. Currently there are 35 countries implementing this standard for 30 MIRAI Corporation species of finfish, crustaceans and mollusk worldwide. Certifications received Rank Property Green Buildings (Japan) DBJ Green Building Certification 2018★★★ Shinagawa Seaside Parktower Listed REIT Japan Logistics Fund, Inc. is operated by Mitsui & Co. LEED® Certification Silver Class MIUMIU Kobe subsidiary Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd. It has acquired DBJ Green Building certification*8 at twelve of its owned properties, including some with five-star certification, which is the highest certification class in Japan. MIRAI Corporation is a listed REIT operated by Mitsui Bussan & Idera Partners Co., Ltd., which is a Mitsui associated Environment-Related Training System Activity company. It has also acquired DBJ Green Building certification at one of its properties and LEED® certification*9 at another of its properties. As we work to accelerate environmental initiatives across the global group, it is vital that we raise the Owning these types of properties helps us to promote measures to environmental awareness of each of our employees at all levels. We conduct seminars and training reduce our impact on the environment, and contributes to reduced sessions to promote these messages internally. energy usage and CO2 emissions. *8 DBJ Green Building is a certification system for assessing real estate that takes the environment and Regular Seminars and Training Sessions society into consideration. In addition to assessing buildings’ environmental performance, it provides We work to raise awareness of environmental issues among officers and employees of Mitsui and its an overall assessment of how buildings meet the needs of a variety of stakeholders, including matters such as disaster prevention and consideration for the local community. It provides assessments and subsidiaries and affiliated companies through regular seminars, environmental law training sessions, and certifications for real estate that meet the needs of both society and the economy. ISO14001 training programs. We also regularly publish in-house environmental and social newsletters *9 LEED® has been developed and operated by the U.S. Green Building Council® (USGBC®) as a certification system for assessing the environmental performance of buildings and the use of premises. through the intranet. The LEED® certification system has multiple assessment categories for assessing the environmental performance of buildings and the use of premises from a variety of different perspectives. LEED®, and its related logo, is a trademark owned by the U.S. Green Building Council®and is used with permission. 43 Environment Promoting the Environmental Management Awareness activities (seminars, etc.) Environmental auditor training Mitsui Environment Month At time of Induction Course (Environment) for Temporary Staff ISO14001 ISO14001 Provisional Auditor Training As part of the environmental education activities for officers and employees of Mitsui and its affiliated induction Induction Course (Environment) for Contract ISO14001 Lead Auditor Training companies, a variety of programs are offered during Mitsui Environment Month, which is held each year. Employees/Second-ees working at Mitsui The following seminar took place during Mitsui Environment Month 2018. Continuing Environment Month (Seminars, lectures, etc.) Environmental Environmental Management Officers Induction Course education Environment Seminar Management Training Seminars on Environmental Laws and Regulations Environment-related Newsletter Lectures on industrial waste and field trips to waste processing facilities Mitsui Environment Month Program “We borrow the Earth from our descendants. ” Speaker: Mr. Soh Kuramoto, playwright. (attended by approximately 200 people) Training Seminars on Environmental Laws and Regulations We continually hold seminars regarding environmental laws and regulations For Mitsui Environment Month Program in the fiscal year ended March 2019, Mitsui invited Mr. Soh for officers and employees of Mitsui and its subsidiaries and affiliated Kuramoto as a speaker, who implements an environmental education program in Furano City, companies regarding environmental laws and regulations. In the fiscal year Hokkaido, and for many years has called for action on environmental problems as issues that directly ended March 2019, approximately 160 people participated from Mitsui & Co. affect everyone. Presentation, which ran beyond the allotted time, Mr. Kuramoto covered various group companies. We also conducted a separate training seminar on Japan’s perspectives, including the significance of forest logging, the history heading toward oil depletion, Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law, providing classroom training the impact of fossil fuel resource and food wastage on humanity, and the importance of air and focused on precautions in regard to complying with the Law, as well as water to people. There were comments from the audience including the following: “Fossil fuels are training that covered procedures for on-site checks at waste disposal finite resources. We really need to think about what we can do and take action amid the trend facilities and actual visits to such facilities. Employees attend lectures about toward mass-consumption of energy.” “When we think about our future work, we should never industrial waste and visit disposal forget to be thankful to the Earth.” “The speech was entitled facilities and plants ‘We borrow the Earth from our descendants.’ That’s a novel Lecture and Training Sessions Held in FY 2019 perspective. Usually we tend to think that something is Number of times important because we inherited it from our ancestors. I was Title Target audience Outline per year deeply impressed by the idea that we must leave the Earth in Environmental Laws and Held twice approx. Mainly officers and Basic knowledge on environmental laws and regulations, good condition for the future.” “I was surprised to hear about Regulations 160 participants employees of Mitsui and recent trends, key law amendments, etc. its affiliated companies the amount of fossil fuels remaining on the Earth. Food waste Lecture on Environmental Held twice approx. Officers and employLecture on the responsibilities of Generator (waste-disposhas become the focus of concern. In that context, I was very Waste and Tour of 90 participants ees of Mitsui and its ing parties) and precautions related to industrial waste. The interested in the story about the basic living needs of Processing Facility affiliated companies tour of the processing facility aims to promote understanding of the importance and efficacy of on-site verification. members at the Furanojuku (environmental education Temporary Staff Induction Held 8 times approx. Temporary employees The programs include explanations on the environmental program ran by Mr. Kuramoto) in the old days.” Training (Environment) 30 participants policy of Mitsui as a part of introductory training provided by the Human Resources and General Affairs Division to Induction Training Held 4 times approx. General and seconded inform newly hired employees about Mitsui’s management (Environment) for General/ 100 participants contract employees philosophy (MVV) and rules and regulations, the imporSeconded Contract Staff tance of compliance, and other matters. 44 Environment Responding to Climate Change Our Approach to Climate Change Risks and Opportunities Policy Building Risk Resilience and Capturing New Growth Opportunities System Activity SDGs：13.3 In December 2018, Mitsui & Co. declared its support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures as part of Under the Specially Designated Business Management System, business projects with significant environmental our response to the growing importance of business sector action on climate change for the sustainability of society, as implications are screened according to various criteria, including countermeasures against associated evidenced by the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement by the United Nations. environmental loads, and compliance with environmental laws and guidelines, as part of our efforts to minimize One of the priorities defined as part of Mitsui’s Materiality is the creation of an eco-friendly society. We recognize risks from the project formation stage. To aid our efforts to optimize projects from objective and specialized global environmental impacts, including climate change, as risks that could threaten the sustainable growth of society and perspectives, we have also established the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee, with members consist Mitsui. On the other hand, response to climate change will also bring new business opportunities in such areas as lowof experts and attorneys from outside of the company, to advise the Sustainability Committee. carbon energy, environment-friendly infrastructure and products, and innovative services based on digital technology. We We analyze potential impacts on the business projects that we promote and operate, with reference to regard both economic development and action on climate change as essential to sustainable social growth, and we will climate change scenarios developed by internationally recognized organizations, such as the International continue to make maximum use of Mitsui global group integrated strengths toward the achievement of the goal through Energy Agency (IEA). Because Mitsui has business operations in many countries and regions worldwide, the our business activities in cooperation with various stakeholders. profitability and sustainability of our activities can be significantly impacted by climate change-related policies in As part of this commitment, In July 2018, Mitsui announced that it would no longer accumulate new thermal coal those countries and regions. Using the global networks that we have built through our business activities over assets out of coal business that discharges a large amount of greenhouse gas. We also set the target of increasing the many years, we monitor, in a timely manner, policies in various countries and regions, and trends relating to the portion of our renewable energy based power generation capacity to 30% by 2030. Furthermore, we identify risks and stakeholders who influence those policies. Such information is reflected in our decision-making processes. opportunities in the business environments of each of our business units and formulate sustainable growth strategies. As a company engaged in diverse business activities, Mitsui continually reviews its portfolios to minimize From the perspective of each of our following Materiality, “secure sustainable supply of essential products,”“enhance climate change risks. We also flexibly take up new business challenges made possible by our wide-ranging quality of life,” and “create an eco-friendly society,” Mitsui will continue to work toward the achievement of both economic business development activities, based on long-term perspectives covering at least ten years. development and the creation of a low-carbon society by improving the efficiency of existing business operations, and promoting initiatives based on innovative technologies and business models. Major Climate Change Risks and Their Implications for Our Activities We also actively participate in climate change sectional meetings hosted by the government ministries and agencies We are preparing for anticipated climate-related risks that could affect our business activities, as listed below, by concerned, as well as related study groups and working groups to facilitate the recognition of issues on a global level and restructuring our portfolios in each area to enhance climate change resilience, by monitoring policies, laws, and deepen discussions with member companies. We reflect what we have learned through these activities in our business regulations in each country and region, and by developing new goods and services that are suitable for a lowinitiatives. carbon society. Transition risks Policy and legal risks Reduction of demand for fossil fuels and impairment of the value of our existing interests due Accelerating our Response to Climate Change System to the shift to low-carbon energy Impact on earnings and our assets due to changes in the energy and power source mix affected by shifts in national and regional policies and the introduction of new laws and regulations, etc. Mitsui established the Sustainability Committee as a subsidiary organization of the Corporate Management Technology risks Impact on supply and demand in markets for existing commodities and services due to the Committee to gather information about the sustainability of our business activities, carry out monitoring, and provide introduction of new technologies geared toward climate change advice to the Corporate Management Committee. In relation to climate change, the Sustainability Committee works Market risks Business financing risks due to the adoption of de-carbonization policies by financial instituwith business units to identify risks and opportunities and monitor frontline responses. The committee is also working tions and insurance companies to ensure that it can appropriately respond to requests from external stakeholders for information disclosure. The Physical risks Interruption of the operations of project companies in Australia and the United States, etc., content of deliberations by the Sustainability Committee is regularly reported to the Corporate Management due to cyclones and hurricanes Committee and the Board of Directors, and is reflected in the discussions of Mitsui’s management policies. P.51 Environmental Performance Data P.7 Sustainability Framework 45 Environment Responding to Climate Change Environment-Related Business Policy Type Project name Country Generation capacity/scale Norway Wind Canada 9MW Our environmental policy calls for action on global warming and other aspects of climate change issues. SOP Wind Canada 40MW Our business activities are directed toward both economic development and response to climate change West Cape Wind Canada 99MW issues. Caribou Wind Canada 99MW Harrow Wind Canada 40MW PAR Wind Canada 49MW Renewable Energy Projects Activity Plateau Wind Canada 27MW SDGs：7.2 ELSC Wind Canada 99MW We are developing our renewable energy business and expanding our capacity in this area as part of our Erieau Wind Canada 99MW electric power generation business. As of March 31, 2019, renewable energy, including hydroelectric Cape Scott Wind Canada 99MW power, accounted for approximately 15% of Mitsui’s total power generating capacity of 10.4GW, and we Eoliatec del Istmo Mexico 164MW are aiming to increase the share held by renewable energy to 30% by 2030. Eoliatec del Pacifico Mexico 160MW Zajaczkowo Windfarm Poland 48MW Los Hercules Argentina 97MW Biomass power generation Green Power Ichihara Japan 50MW Type Project name Country Generation capacity/scale Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Co., Japan 6MW Solar power generation Haneda Solar Power Co., Ltd. Japan 2MW Ltd. Tottori Yonago Solar Park Japan 43MW Hokkaido Biomass Energy Co., Ltd. Japan 2MW Izumiotsu Solar Park Japan 20MW Run-of-river hydroelectric power Energia Sustentavel do Brasil Brazil 3,750MW Tomatoh Abira Solar Park Japan 111MW generation Spanish Hydro Spain 84MW Kumamoto Arao Solar Park Japan 22MW Hydropower generation Nam Ngum 2 Laos 615MW Omuta Miike Port Solar Park Japan 20MW Xayaburi Laos 1,285MW Hamamatsu Solar Park Japan 43MW Geothermal power generation Iwate Geothermal Power Co., Ltd. Japan 7MW Tahara Solar-Wind Joint Project Japan 50MW Nishi-Sendai (Rich Solar) Japan 19MW Brockville Solar Canada 10MW Beckwith Solar Canada 10MW Kua Solar China 13MW Modal Shift Activity METRO Jinan China 1MW SDGs：3.9, 11.6, 13.3 Metro Cixi China 1MW In addition to the railway leasing business that we have been engaging in over many years, we have also Bohui-2 China 12MW been actively launching and operating various railway projects, thereby developing and improving social Bangkhenchai Thailand 8MW infrastructure while promoting modal shifts to contribute to green logistics. Of the rail networks in whose Chiangrai Thailand 8MW operation Mitsui was participating as of March 31, 2019, the freight railroad network had a total route Nakorn Thailand 6MW length of 10,700 kilometers, and the passenger network had a total route length of 1,922 kilometers. Solar thermal power generation Guzman Energia Spain 50MW Juneda Solar Spain 1MW Wind power generation NS Wind Power Hibiki Japan 15MW Business investment (Company name) Main business Country Quantitative effects/project size Tahara Solar-Wind Joint Project Japan 6MW MRC (Mitsui Rail Capital, LLC) Freight wagon leasing business U.S. Four global bases Wind Farm Hamada Japan 48MW MRC-LA (Mitsui Rail Capital Participacões) Freight wagon leasing business Brazil (US, Brazil, Europe, Russia) Canunda Australia 46MW Freight wagons: approx. 15,000 Willogoleche Australia 97MW MRCE (Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V.) Locomotive leasing business Europe Locomotives: approx. 340 MRC1520 (MRC1520 LLC) Freight wagon leasing business Russia 46 Environment Responding to Climate Change Business investment (Company name) Main business Country Quantitative effects/project size Distributed power We are expanding our distributed solar power development activities and promoting next-generation generation energy management services using storage batteries, especially in the United States. VLI S.A. Freight transportation business Brazil Operating a railway network of approx. Electric power system Through our investment participation in PXiSE Energy Solutions which provides software used to control 10,700 km, and port terminals control solutions storage batteries and electric power systems, we are maximizing power supply ratio, including those based on SuperVia (Supervia Concessionária de Passenger railway transportation Brazil Transportation record: Approx. 550,000 solar and wind energy and other renewable energy, thereby ensuring the stable and efficient supply of energy. Transporte Ferroviário S.A) business Rio de Janeiro suburban passengers per day (December 2018) Smart cities We are implementing an energy-efficient smart city project in Malaysia. railway) Shinbashi Tamura-cho Our subsidiary Mitsui & Co. Real Estate is participating in the Shinbashi Tamura-cho district redevelopment Carioca (Concessionária do VLT Carioca Passenger railway transportation business Brazil Transportation record: Approx. 80,000 district redevelopment project. Innovative technologies planned for introduction include the installation of solar panels, rooftop S.A) (Rio de Janeiro Light Rail Train) passengers per day (December 2018) greening, and the use of paving materials designed to reduce heat absorption. Via Quatro (Concessionária da Linha 4 Passenger railway transportation Brazil Transportation record: Approx. 710,000 Cloud-based energy Our subsidiary Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co. has been providing cloud-based energy management do Metrô de São Paulo S.A.) business (São Paulo metro line no. 4) passengers per day (December 2018) conservation services systems, including automated remote control of air conditioning systems through utilization of IT, mainly to commercial facilities (introduced at 610 locations in Japan). Abellio Transport Group Ltd. Passenger railway transportation U.K. Transportation record: Approx. 350,000 business（East Anglia） passengers per day (December 2018) Air conditioning remote Through Air as a Service (AaaS), which we established jointly with Daikin Air Techno, we provide remote monitoring and control management of air conditioning, realizing an approximately 20% reduction in electric power consumption Passenger railway transportation Transportation record: Approx. 200,000 services (the reduction varies depending on the type of building). business（West Midlands） passengers per day (December 2018) Industrial data Through the U.S. company OSIsoft, which develops and sells IoT data management software to industrial Car Club Private Ltd. Car sharing business Singapore Fleet of cars: Approx. 230 management users, we are supporting the improvement of energy efficiency by visualizing facility operating data in a wide range of industries, including electric power and oil & gas. Introduction of BEMS In Bussan Building (a rental office building in Nishi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo) owned by our subsidiary Mitsui & Co. Real Estate we have improved energy conservation performance by installing insulation in exterior walls by using double-glazOther Business Initiatives for Responding to Climate Change Issues Activity ing and introducing building energy management system (BEMS) technology to realize a system for controlling the electric power used for air conditioning, lighting, and other purposes and visualizing the energy consumption. SDGs：7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.a, 9.4, 11.6, 11.7, 15.2 Local energy production In November 2017, we concluded an agreement with Arao City and Global Engineering Co. (GL) concerning urban In response to climate change issues, we are also actively engaging in various other business initiatives for local consumption development, with particular emphasis on the effective utilization of district energy systems. In December 2017, that could lead to improvement in energy consumption efficiency, such as the mini-grid business for we established Ariake Energy Co. as a 50-50 joint venture with GL. In May 2018, Ariake Energy completed its registration as a retail electric power supplier and began to retail electric power to public facilities and local stably supplying electric power using renewable energy, and the reduction of CO2 emissions. businesses in Arao City from September 2018. Automotive parts Through our equity participation in the Spanish company Gestamp Automoción, we are supplying, on a global Business Description (multi-material products) scale, automotive parts that can contribute to reducing fuel consumption through vehicle weight reduction. with enhanced environSolar power generation Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., a consolidated subsidiary, offers cloud-based remote monitoring services to Through our equity participation in Mitsui Prime Advanced Composites Europe B.V., we are supplying European mental performance monitoring service check the operation status of solar power generation facilities and detect any irregular behavior or malfunction. customers with PP compounds for use in bumpers and other parts, thereby contributing to vehicle weight reduction. Key parts for wind-power Through our investment and participation in the Spanish company GRI Renewable Industries, the biggest Supply of parts for We are developing an integrated business for EVs, encompassing all stages from the handling and processequipment wind-power flange manufacturer in the world, we are supplying major wind-power generation equipment electric vehicles (EVs) ing of electrical steel sheet for use in motors, to the manufacture and sales of motor cores and motors. manufacturers with the steel towers used to support wind turbines, and large-scale flanges which are key Electric power services Through our equity participation in The Mobility House, we are developing an innovative business model in which EV components of those towers. using electric vehicles (EVs) batteries are used to stabilize the power transmission grid, providing an additional source of income for EV owners. Flare gas reduction Mitsui is implementing a project to reduce flare gas emissions in the LNG business in which it participates. Through this Secondary battery We have built a stable production and supply platform for secondary battery materials, especially for project, we have modified LNG production equipment to reduce the amount of flare gas produced during LNG production. materials lithium-ion batteries. Demonstration project Mitsui participated in the Callide Oxyfuel Project, a public-private initiative by Japan and Australia with the objective to Battery systems Equity participation in French company Forsee Power, which manufactures and sells battery packs for oxyfuel and CCS realize zero-emission electricity generation at coal-fired power stations. The project uses carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies technology called oxyfuel technology for recovering CO2 from coal-fired power stations and storing it underground. This Development and Through our equity participation in Portuguese electric bus manufacturer CaetanoBus, we are promoting demonstration project was completed successfully, and we are now exploring the potential for commercial utilization. production of electric and the development and production of electrical and fuel cell-powered buses that have a reduced environfuel cell-powered buses mental load. Distributed power Through our equity participation in OMC Power, a leading company in the mini-grid business, we are generation contributing to the stable supply of electric power in un-electrified regions in India, primarily using renewTanks for natural gasand fuel We are engaged in the importation and sales of vehicle tanks for natural gas and fuel cell-powered vehicles, able energy, thereby reducing CO2 emissions. cell-powered automobiles tanks for compressed hydrogen transport vehicles, and accumulators for compressed hydrogen stations. Through our equity participation in the solar home system business of M-KOPA Solar, we have reduced the Hydrogen supply chain We are promoting an international hydrogen supply chain on a trial basis in partnership with Chiyoda use of kerosene, which is a fossil fuel, by supplying electric power to un-electrified regions in Africa, contribCorporation, Mitsubishi Corporation, and NYK Line. In 2020, hydrogen sourced in Brunei will be shipped to uting to the mitigation of the environmental load. Japan in liquid form under normal temperature and pressure conditions, which will then be returned to gaseous form at a coastal location in Kawasaki City, from where a maximum of 210 tons per year (sufficient Through our equity participation in Ecogen Brasil Soluções Energéticas, a specialist provider of energy services in Brazil, to fill 40,000 fuel cell vehicles) will be supplied to the users. we are providing distributed power sources and energy management services to commercial and industrial power users. 47 Environment Responding to Climate Change Responding to Water Resource Problems Business Description Marine transportation We are contributing to energy conservation and the reduction of GHG emissions and ballast voyages through efficient vessel matching platform deployment made possible by maruFreight platform that optimally matches tramp vessels with bulk cargoes worldwide. Reflecting the growing interest from a global perspective in the water-related problems, Mitsui & Co. is Engineering services We are investing and participating in AZAPA with the aim of exploring initiatives leading to the provision of the functions engaging in a water project which promotes the conservation and the sustainable use of water resources. needed by Japanese manufacturing industries in new fields of technology, such as EVs and autonomous driving. In addition, we conduct investigations with experts for new business investment projects that are likely to Fuel efficiency In addition to the sale, ownership, and operation of highly fuel-efficient eco-ships, we are also supporting have a significant impact on the environment. For risk assessments in water-stressed areas, in particular, improvement the development and introduction of fuel-efficient aircraft and engines. we use the portal site Aqueduct from the World Resource Institute (WRI) to monitor and analyze water Development of microThrough our equity participation in LanzaTech, which is developing technology to produce fuels and chemicals through the bial gas fermentation microbial fermentation of CO, CO2, and other gases, we are building global business that will contribute to the reduction of risks, not only for new business but also for our existing business, with the aim of reducing water stress. technology GHG emissions and the creation of a circular economy. From May 2018, a fuel ethanol plant utilizing technology of LanzaTech commenced commercial operations in Hebei Province, China, using waste gas from steel works as its raw material. Green chemicals We are developing green chemicals business in the field of oleochemicals, using natural fats and oils as raw materials. Water Supply Business in Thailand̶Ensuring a Reliable Supply of Solar marine salt Through Shark Bay Salt Pty., we own and operate two salt fields at Shark Bay and Onslow in Australia. Over a Safe Water to Over One Million People Activity production period of 2-3 years, they produce solar marine salt from water taken from the nearby ocean, using the SDGs：6.1 natural power of the sun and wind, with almost zero emission of CO2. Carbon credits Through our equity participation in the Jirau hydropower project in northern Brazil, we have acquired Mitsui is participating in a water supply business to serve emission rights for 6 million tons of CO2 per year. the northern and western suburbs of Bangkok through the We have completed registration of a J-Credit project involving the installation of a biomass cogeneration system by Konan Utility company TTW PCL (“TTW”), in which Mitsui invested jointly Co. (Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture). Over an eight-year period starting in 2020, we will acquire J-Credits for 36,000 tons of CO2 per year. We will also create and sell J-Credits procured through the installation of energy-efficient equipment and other activities. with the CH Karnchang Group, a major Thai construction We are working with the JCM bilateral credit mechanism to implement a Cambodian REDD+ project (a firm. Using water taken from the Tha Chin River and the mechanism to provide economic incentives, including carbon credits, for a reduction in GHG emissions Chao Phraya River, TTW’s water purification plants have total achieved through initiatives to prevent forest depletion and deterioration in developing countries). capacity for the production of approximately one million Invests in New Forests Pty. which maximizes the value of its sustainable forestry asset through a combination of timber harvest and carbon-offset sales, which as a result contributes to the prevention of global warming. cubic meters of clean water per day, and reliably supply safe TTW’s water purification plant Solar power funds Our subsidiary Mitsui & Co. Alternative Investments is contributing to the nationwide spread of solar power water to over one million people. through providing investment funds focusing on solar power to Japanese investors. Mitsui’s Forests Accumulate and Absorb 560,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide Annually Contribution to Safeguarding the Water Supply and Preventing Floods through Mitsui’s Forests SDGs：15.1 It is estimated that Mitsui’s Forests currently accumulate and absorb Approximately 130 km2 (13,000 hectares) of Mitsui’s approximately 560,000 tons* of carbon dioxide per year. We contribute Forests (74 locations in Japan, approx. 44,000 hectares in to the mitigation of climate change risk through sustainable forest total) are officially designated as Water Conservation and management. Water Safety Forests, important for safeguarding the *This estimation is based on “IPCC Guideline for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories” Tier 1. water supply and preventing floods and landslides. Leaf soil reduces the occurrence of floods by storing rainwater, and also plays a role in saving water resources, purifying water, and regulating water volume. Our Stories: Create an eco-friendly society Tashiro forests designated as water conservation and water safety forests P.27 Aiming to Establish a Low-Carbon Society, and Using New Technology to Blaze a Trail to the Future SDGs: 3.9, 7.1, 7.2, 7.b, 9.4, 11.6, 13.2 48 Environment Resource Recycling Initiatives Efficient utilization of resources and energy is a key part of Mitsui & Co.’s environmental policy. Under our Recycle Recovery and sales of non-ferrous scrap (alumiJapan Non-ferrous scrap metals handled: comprehensive energy and environmental strategy, we engage in resource recycling (ground resources). num, copper, lead, rare metals, etc.) and waste 250,000 t/year We are also working to provide industrial solutions to environmental problems through the effective circuit boards and plastics from the demolition of buildings, and disassembled automobiles and utilization of waste products and by-products. electrical goods, etc., by our subsidiary Mitsui Bussan Metals Recycling of metals and electronic equipment N. America, Scrap metal, etc.: 8.7 mil. t/year Mitsui & Co.’s Business Initiatives Relating to Resource Recycling Activity and processing of general waste from New York Europe, Australia, City by our investee Sims Metal Management, New Zealand, SDGs：12.2, 12.5 which is one of the world’s leading recyclers etc. Activities Country Scale Reduce/sharing Promotion of the sharing economy through the Japan Over 70 mil. downloads in Japan economy smartphone flea-market app business of our (100 mil. in Japan and the U.S. combined) investee, Mercari Gross transactions: ¥500 billion (Apr. 2018-Mar. 2019) Formation of Cyclical Systems for the Effective Utilization of Reuse Effective utilization of waste by our subsidiary Japan Waste reduction: 920.4 t/year Food Industry By-products System Mitsui Norin through the utilization of tea leaf (FY2019) residues as a raw material for fertilizers Mitsui’s Food Business Unit has developed systems to support the effective utilization of by-products Reuse Production of juice from fruit pulp attached to Japan Waste reduction: 13 t/year created through the production of processed agricultural products and fisheries products through the calyces (sepals) from cut strawberries by our (FY2019) subsidiary Bussan Food Materials establishment of value chains for agricultural products and animal protein. Examples include the effective Reuse/recycle Effective utilization of waste by our subsidiary Japan Waste reduction: 71,000t/year utilization of soy meal, wheat bran, and fish meal to produce livestock and fish feeds, the extraction of Prifoods, through the commercial use of poultry (FY2019) lecithin from soy meal for use in health foods, and the refining of fruit material attached to calyces (sepals) manure as a fertilizer, or (after carbonization) as a cut from strawberries to produce juice. snow melting agent Reuse/recycle Promotion of initiatives relating to battery Europe Soy and rapeseed meal lifecycles, including the reuse and recycling of Agricultural product Non-standard items, after oil extraction, batteries as stationary batteries for vehicles, value chain bran from flour milling fruit calyces, etc. Food waste through equity participation in the French company Forsee Power, which manufactures and Production area Raw material processing Product processing Distribution, retailing sells battery systems for electrical mobility equipment Juice ingredients, Fertilizers, fuels, etc. health foods, etc. Recycle Recovery and sales of scrap iron, including iron Japan Metal products handled: 7 mil. t/year recovered from demolished structures and the processing of iron and steel products, and Value addition process Feed raw materials recycling of non-metallic materials by our affiliated company, MM & KENZAI Use of dust (mainly automobile crusher dust) by Japan Processing capacity: 33,000 t/year Feed production Fish farming, dairy farming Product processing Distribution, retailing our affiliated company, Kyoei Recycling Co. as Animal protein Poultry manure, etc. Inedible parts Food waste feedstock for a gasification furnace, to produce (for fertilizers, power generation) value chain (feathers, fur, etc.) gas for use as fuel at the nearby Kyoei Steel Yamaguchi Division facility, and co-generated hot slag for sale to refiners Copyright © MITSUI & CO., LTD. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 1 49 Environment Initiatives against Environmental Pollution Mitsui & Co. bases its environmental policy on compliance with environment-related laws and regulations. Initiatives to Reduce and Prevent Pollution̶Actions Relating to Radioactive Substances In particular, we engage in initiatives that lead to the reduction of water and soil contamination and the A wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsui in the United States purchases and sells uranium concentrate. reduction of the quantity of chemical substances released into the atmosphere, with the aim of reducing However, the scale of business is extremely limited in terms of value and quantities handled when seen in or preventing pollution. the context of Mitsui’s overall business operations, and furthermore, the materials are not physically relocated and do not leave the storage facility. The storage contractor to which the materials are entrusted has been licensed by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to handle radioactive materials and Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Activity ensures that the employees in its storage facility maintain strict compliance with NRC standards SDGs：3.9, 6.3, 12.4, 14.1 concerning the management of radioactive materials and the risk of exposure. The storage contractor also Aim Initiatives undergoes regular inspections by the NRC. On this basis, we believe that the risk that uranium concentrate owned by Mitsui’s subsidiary will damage the local environment or cause exposure is quite limited. All of Prevention of atmospheric As a distributor, Mitsui & Co. Plastics, one of our consolidated subsidiaries, is building and expanding pollution through the detoxifia nationwide network of sales and logistics locations and infrastructure for AdBlue®, which converts the uranium concentrate handled is intended solely for peaceful, civilian purposes such as power cation of exhaust gas the nitrogen oxides contained in exhaust gases from trucks and buses into harmless water and generation, and is compliant with all NRC regulation. It should be noted that Mitsui and its subsidiary nitrogen. rigorously ensure compliance with NRC management standards (including those for nuclear waste) in Water treatment Proper treatment of water used at mining operations has been effectively carried out. handling the materials, but no nuclear waste is handled whatsoever. Reduction of atmospheric We are updating our fleet, including increased orders for vessels with substantially lower SOx and pollution from transportation NOx emissions. vessels Reduction of soil pollution We are stabilizing soil quality and reducing soil pollution by using digital technology to ensure the through the optimization of appropriate application of fertilizers. Examples include the use of satellite images to analyze vegetafertilizer usage quantities tion and monitor farmland topography, the use of yield trends and soil analysis results in digital mapping and fertility analysis, automatic fertilizer application from tractors, and timely system-based monitoring of fertilizer applications. Participation in Ocean Pollution Prevention Initiatives, Clean Ocean Material Alliance (CLOMA) CLOMA was established in January 2019 to find solutions to the emerging global challenge of marine plastic debris through the sustainable use of plastic products, the development and introduction of alternative materials, and the acceleration of innovation. Mitsui is one of the 26 secretary companies. As of August 9, 2019, 250 companies and organizations have joined CLOMA, including Mitsui’s consolidated subsidiaries namely Mitsui & Co. Plastics Ltd., Mitsui Bussan Chemicals Co., Ltd., and Mitsui Bussan Packaging Co., Ltd. Participation in a Circular Economy for Flexible Packaging（Ceflex） Ceflex is the collaborative initiative of a European consortium to develop and apply robust design guidelines for implementing a circular economy for flexible packaging and measures for collecting, sorting and recycling. Mitsui is one of more than 120 companies participating in the consortium, where the companies represent the entire value chain of flexible packaging. 50 Environment Environmental Performance Data The data marked with “★” (FY2019) are assured by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd., an external assurance provider based on International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISAE3410. P.124 Independent Practitioner ’s Assurance Report Energy Consumption Activity SDGs：7.3 Mitsui & Co. has set a goal of “reducing energy consumption intensity by 1% or higher on average per year” Energy Consumption for Mitsui and its subsidiaries in Japan. We aim to achieve our goals through a variety of measures, including the group-wide effort to 40,000 improve energy efficiency. 30,000 From the fiscal year ending March 2019, the scope of coverage has been expanded to a joint control Added the Un-incorporated Joint business (Un-incorporated Joint Ventures). We will continue to monitor energy consumption and explore 20,000 Vintures since FY2019 25,241 new initiatives to reduce energy consumption on a global group basis. 10,000 10,495 10,872 11,365 11,746 0 (TJ) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Mitsui and Subsidiaries Un-inco JV External Category Scope of coverage Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Energy Consumption Non-consolidated Head Office and all offices in Japan 220,370 207,259 205,182 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries and Un-incorporated JVs 10,651,544 11,157,784 36,781,584 ★ Total 10,871,914 11,365,043 36,986,766 ★ GJ (Breakdown) Fuels 5,061,035 5,617,840 27,003,028 Electricity 4,949,825 4,923,641 8,722,166 Steam 860,942 823,561 1,261,572 Intensity Non-consolidated Head Office and all offices in Japan (per square meter) MWh/m2 0.123 0.121 0.120 ★ 51 Environment Environmental Performance Data Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Activity SDGs：7.3 Mitsui is carrying out initiatives for the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from energy sources Green House Gas (GHG) Emissions Scope 1+2 on a global group basis. From the fiscal year ended March 2006, Mitsui has continually surveyed its 4,000 domestic GHG emissions in order to understand the amount of its emissions year by year. In addition, we have begun surveying the GHG emissions of its overseas subsidiaries since the fiscal year ended March 3,000 2009 and from the fiscal year ended March 2018 onward, the scope of coverage has been expanded to a Added the Un-incorporated Joint 3,321 3,230 joint control business (Un-incorporated Joint Ventures). We will continue to monitor the GHG emission 2,000 Ventures since FY2018 amount and explore new initiatives to reduce GHG on a global group basis. 1,000 0 622 642 664 693 (thousand ton-CO2e) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Mitsui and Subsidiaries Un-inco JV External Category Scope of coverage Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Scope 1 Non-consolidated Head Office and all offices in Japan 1,025 1,083 1,036 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries and Un-incorporated JVs 313,370 3,447,872 3,332,140 ★ Total 314,395 3,448,955 3,333,176 ★ Scope 2 Non-consolidated Head Office and all offices in Japan 10,238 9,542 8,915 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries and Un-incorporated JVs 317,571 526,483 581,196 ★ Total 327,809 536,025 590,111 ★ Scope 1+2 Total 642,204 3,984,980 3,923,287 ★ Scope 3 Transportation Domestic consignment transportation with Mitsui as the shipper 29,387 27,399 31,295 ★ Commuting Head Office ton-CO2e 980 949 928 Business trips Head Office 9,654 10,049 9,699 Total 40,020 38,397 41,922 Scope 1 By GHG type CO2 Carbon dioxide － 1,652,011 2,305,572 CH4 Methane － 1,796,280 1,024,738 N2O Carbon monoxide － 664 2,723 HFCs Hydrofluorocarbon － 0 0 PFCs Perfluorocarbon － 0 0 SF6 Sulfur hexafluoride － 0 143 NF3 Nitrogen trifluoride － 0 0 [ Calculation standard ] Act on Rationalizing Energy Use, GHG Protocol “Emission-Factors-from-Cross-Sector-Tools (March2017),” International Energy Agency (IEA) Emissions Factors 2018, IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National greenhouse Gas Inventories, Law Regarding the Rationalization of Energy Use 52 Environment Environmental Performance Data Water Consumption Activity SDGs：6.4 Mitsui started surveying water intake and drainage data by water source from the fiscal year ended March 2019. We will continue to monitor water risk and explore new initiatives to reduce water consumption on a global group basis. At the Head Office, we use 100% recycled drainage water for toilet flushing in order to promote reduction in water consumption. External Category Scope of coverage Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Water Intake Non-consolidated Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings 66 65 64 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries and Un-incorporated JVs － － 330,867 Total 66 65 330,931 (Breakdown) Industrial water, water utility － － 10,923 thousand m3 Pumped groundwater － － 18,147 Rivers, lakes － － 24,577 Sea － － 273,085 Rainwater － － 3,661 Others － － 538 Intensity Non-consolidated Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings m /employee 3 16.11 16.36 16.10 ★ Drainage Water Non-consolidated Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings 66 65 64 Consolidated Subsidiaries and Un-incorporated JVs － － 57,232 Total 66 65 57,296 (Breakdown) External disposal facilities (sewers) thousand m3 － － 2,830 Groundwater － － 760 Rivers, lakes － － 6,651 Sea － － 18,081 Others － － 28,974 * Drainage water is assumed to be equal to intake water quantity in case there is no drainage data. 53 Environment Environmental Performance Data Waste and Paper Consumption Activity SDGs：12.5 Mitsui has set a goal of “recycling rate of 85% or higher” for Head Office and corporate buildings in Osaka and Nagoya and promote reducing waste, reuse, recycling and appropriate dispose. We are working to reduce paper consumption for Head Office and all offices in Japan by introducing various IT tools and promoting paperless meetings. External Category Scope of coverage Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Waste Waste amount Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings ton 1,279 1,259 1,220 ★ Recycling rate ％ 84.2 83.4 81.9 ★ Intensity (per employee) ton/employee 0.312 0.316 0.309 ★ Hazardous waste Specially-controlled industrial waste ton 1.2 1.3 1.1 Paper Consumption thousand sheets Paper consumption Head Office and all offices in Japan 48,529 45,894 38,614 ★ (A4-size sheet equivalent) Intensity (thousand sheets per employee) thousand sheets/employee 11.53 11.20 9.51 ★ Environmentally-Friendly Logistics Activity In collaboration with our logistics partners, we implement energy saving measures including promotion of economical driving practices and other fuel-saving techniques, improvement in transportation efficiency by using larger transport vehicles, introducing cargo consolidation arrangements, reviewing transport routes and modal shifts using rail and ship transport. External Category Scope of coverage Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Assurance Environmentally-Friendly Logistics Freight volumes in Japan with Mitsui as the shipper Consigned logistics in Japan with Mitsui as the shipper 767 705 769 ★ (Breakdown) Million ton-kilo-meter Ship 684 624 677 ★ Truck 83 81 92 ★ Air/Rail 0 0 0 ★ Intensity (fuels per thousand ton-kilo-meters) kl/thousand ton-kilo-meters 0.014 0.014 0.015 ★ 54 Environment Environmental Performance Data Initiatives toward Environmentally-Friendly Logistics Improvement of Land Transport Efficiency We will use more energy efficient transportation method. • Using consolidated cargo • Using larger transport vehicles to increase loading rate • Reviewing transport routes and methods Improvement of Sea Transport Efficiency We will continue to provide the following guidance for vessels chartered and/or operated by our affiliated companies. • Increasing ship loading rate • Economic cruise speed operation Environmental Conservation/Economic Effects Activity Mitsui’s environmental conservation and economic effects in the areas of paper consumption and energy consumption during the fiscal year ended March 2019 are shown below. Category Scope of coverage Environmental conservation effects Economic effects Environmental Conservation/Economic Effects Paper consumption Head Office and all offices in Japan 7,280 K Sheets 4,219 K JPY Electricity consumption Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings 115MWh -13,459 K JPY Assessment of Environmental Liabilities Activity Currently, corporate management is strongly required to proactively deal with environmental issues. In addition to complying with legal requirements, we are working to monitor environmental risks of tangible fixed assets through self driven surveys such as land and buildings of Mitsui subsidiaries in Japan, especially asbestos, PCB and soil pollution, and make prompt decisions on management policies Environment-Related Fines or Penalties Activity Mitsui did not incur any environment-related fines or penalties in the fiscal year ended March 2019. 55 Environment Reducing Impacts on Biodiversity, and Promoting the Conservation and Recovery of Ecosystems In Mitsui & Co.’s forest resources business, we have acquired FSC® certification to promote responsible Biodiversity Conservation Activities in Cooperation with NGOs Activity forest resource management, and give consideration to biodiversity. Mitsui also promotes our food SDGs:13.3, 13.6, 15.1, 15.2, 15.4, 15.5 resources business using farming methods that encourage biodiversity. In our hydropower business, we Conserving the Prey Lang Forest in Cambodia (REDD+*) have implemented an environmental program that aims to promote operations in a way that gives Prey Lang, located in the northeast of Cambodia along the west bank of the Mekong River, is the largest maximum consideration to the environment. This includes the conservation of plants and animals, tropical lowland evergreen forest in Indochina. It is inhabited by many wild animals, including endangered including fish species and mammals. In addition, we have obtained FSC® and SGEC certifications for all of species, and is also an important source of water for Cambodia. However, illegal logging, along with our company-owned forests, “Mitsui’s Forests,” which we own in 74 locations throughout Japan (approx. reclamation of land for farming by local communities, has resulted in progressive deforestation, loss of wildlife 44,000 hectares). Approximately 10% of the forest areas under our management have been designated as habitats, and an increase in greenhouse gas emissions that would normally be concentrated in the forests. “biodiversity conservation forests,” and we maintain and manage these forests accordingly. In partnership with Conservation International, an international NGO, Mitsui has been using the REDD+ mechanism established under the Paris Agreement in cooperation with the Cambodian Ministry of Environment to reinforce forest Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Activity patrols to prevent illegal logging in the Prey Lang Forest. Moreover, SDGs：8.7, 15.1, 15.2, 15.4 Mitsui has been engaging in dialogue with local communities to provide alternative sources of livelihood that do not rely on Business Description logging, with the aim of contributing to forest and biodiversity Hydroelectric The Madeira River is a tributary of the Amazon River and forms part of the Amazon Basin, a region that is known for its rich conservation. Power Plant biodiversity but which is also under serious threat from forest depletion. Located on the Madeira River in northern Brazil, the Business Jirau Hydroelectric Power Plant has been closely watched by many parties, including local communities and NGOs because of * REDD+ (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation, and the role of Tropical lowland evergreen forest in Prey Lang conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in ©Jeremy Holden its location, and every possible step is being taken to ensure that the plant is operated in an environmentally responsible way. developing countries): A scheme which provides economic incentives such as carbon credits As part of an approximately ¥60 billion environmental program, we conducted preliminary surveys to identify every possible through the mitigation of deforestation and degradation of forests in developing countries. impact that could affect the local environment and local communities. We then built hospitals, schools, and new housing to improve the local living environment. Other initiatives include measures to protect flora and fauna, such as fish and mammals. Forest Along with business partners, Mitsui is carrying out a plantation business in Australia (as of March 31, 2019, the Resources project area was approximately 23,000 hectares), with the aim of ensuring the stable provision of wood chips, the Supporting Research Aimed at Restoration of Ecological Systems Activity Business raw material for paper. The business has acquired FSC® (FSC®-C104107/FSC®-C107463) as well as PEFC certification, SDGs：15.1, 15.2, 15.4 and manages forest resources responsibly. It also carries out measures in consideration of biodiversity protection. In the forest of Shiretoko, the Graduate School of Environment and Information Sciences of Yokohama Production and Toho Bussan, a consolidated subsidiary, supports the production and sales of rice using farming methods that sale of rice encourage biodiversity, such as the minimum use of agrichemicals and chemical fertilizers. National University conducts research in order to forecast changes to forest dynamics over the next 200 years, using a method called the “process base model.” The model is designed based on findings acquired by the quantification of plant biodiversity and soil biodiversity, and various functionalities, Biodiversity Conservation Activities at Mitsui’s Forests Activity such as decomposition of organic matter and retention of SDGs：15.1, 15.2, 15.4, 15.5 nutrients in the soil. Building on this research, the group aims to Mitsui owns forests in 74 locations in Japan, from Hokkaido in the north to Kyushu in the south. Mitsui’s propose a comprehensive recovery method. Forests cover a total area of approximately 44,000 hectares, which is equivalent to about 70% of the area of Mitsui was impressed by the fact that this study focuses on Tokyo’s 23 wards, or 0.1% of Japan’s territory. Mitsui’s Forests are divided into “Forests for Regeneration and the multi-functionality of ecosystems, a type of research that has Harvest” (approximately 40% of the total) and “Natural Forests and Naturally Regenerated Forests” not been conducted so far, and have decided to support the Shiretoko Forest Research conducted in the area managed by the (approximately 60%). Furthermore, especially important areas from the viewpoint of biodiversity are research as one of the grant projects under the Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Shiretoko 100 Square-Meter Movement Trust and designated as “Biodiversity Conservation Forests” (approximately 10% of all Mitsui’s Forests) and are Environmental Fund. surrounding research areas managed with care given to conserving the living environments of rare species. 56 Social Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, 58 Materials, Food and Products Supplying Food and Products with 60 Ensured Safety and Security Enhancement of Quality of Life 61 and Social Infrastructure Responding to Health Needs and the Needs of 63 an Aging Society Responding to Increasingly Diverse Consumer Demand 65 Social Contribution Activities 66 Respect for Human Rights 75 Human Resources to Translate into Assets 76 Recruitment of Human Resources 77 Human Resources Development 78 Appropriate Appointment and Allocation of Personnel 81 Promoting Diversity & Inclusion 83 Creating an Environment in Which Every Individual 86 Can Achieve Their Full Potential Health Management, Occupational Health and 91 Safety Initiatives Creating New Value 98 Data of Personnel Affairs 100 57 Social Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, Materials, Food and Products Mitsui & Co. has built optimal supply chains, spanning all stages from upstream to downstream, including Supplying Diverse Food Ingredients in Southeast Asia Activity procurement, production and logistics etc., and contributes to the sustainable supply of metals, chemicals, SDGs：2.1 energy, food and other resources, raw materials, and manufactured products. Southeast Asia has a large population and a high dependency on imported food ingredients, and Mitsui As part of its efforts, Mitsui engages in investment and trading business in such areas as oil and natural sees the region as an important market. In Indonesia, where economic growth is expanding the middlegas/LNG, to secure and supply the energy resources essential for social development. In particular, we income class bracket, growing demand is expected for high-value-added food. In order to meet these participate in natural gas/LNG development projects in various parts of the world to ensure stable needs, Mitsui has strengthened its business in the field of food processing by investing and participating supplies of gas-derived energy, which has a relatively low environmental load compared to other fossil in FKS Food & Agri Pte Ltd. (”FKSFA”). FKSFA has developed a wide range of businesses, mostly in Indonesia, fuels. Our extensive involvement covers the entire value chain, from production to marketing. In addition, including grain imports and sales, food processing business, such as sugar refining, flour-milling and starch looking ahead toward the realization of the low-carbon society, we are engaging in the field of nextmanufacturing, and port facility operations. generation energy, for example, the commercialization of renewable energy technologies such as bioWe aim to provide a stable supply of diverse food products fuels, and the creation of business models for hydrogen transportation and storage. with carefully-chosen raw materials and ingredients to Indonesia Mitsui actively participates in the development of iron and steel raw materials and non-ferrous metals and other Southeast Asian market by linking the business resources. We endeavor to ensure stable supplies of mineral and metal resources such as iron ore and developed by FKSFA with business in Mitsui’s grain producing copper, for Japan and for other markets around the world. We are also building a metal scrap supply areas and our wide network, and by building an optimal supply network in preparation for the global recycling society of the future. With iron and steel products, we are chain from producing areas through to consuming areas. building supply structures for infrastructure projects to meet buoyant demand in rapidly growing emerging economies. At the same time, we procure and supply iron steel products, including highFKSFA’s grain import facility environmental-performance parts, for a wide range of industrial sectors such as the motor vehicle industry and the energy sector. In the automotive sector, we not only export vehicles, but also conduct local logistics business in Initiatives to Improve Access to Nutrition through Our Sugar Business Activity various regions, and have built a stable global chain extending from production to finance. As regards our SDGs：2.1, 2.2, 2.4 rail transport business, in addition to the export of freight cars and related equipment, we also engage in The global sugar market is expected to maintain steady annual growth averaging 2%. Asia continues to leasing business and other services to meet a variety of needs across the railroad value chain. grow economically, and it is the world’s largest sugar market accounting for 40% of global demand. In our chemical business, Mitsui is also deepening its engagement in the agricultural sector, including Accordingly, there is growing demand for safe, reliable, and high-quality sugar. Responding to this the manufacture of the nutritional element methionine, as well as the development of phosphate rock demand, Mitsui made the decision to upgrade the facilities of Kaset Phol Sugar Limited, a sugar fertilizer resources, and global trading of fertilizer raw materials, such as sulfur and sulfates. We are also manufacturing company that we operate jointly with Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. in Thailand, which is a major developing our chemicals business through wide-ranging transactions and investments that contribute to sugar supply region, and is also in close proximity to a region various industries, including new initiatives focused on carbon fiber and “green” chemicals. with high demand. The aim is to increase the company’s In our food business, we pursue our goal of enhancing nutritional access through the stable supply of production capacity and achieve quality improvements, and the food. Against the backdrop of world population growth widening the gap between food supply and full-scale work for the upgrade began in June 2018. demand, and expanding regional imbalances in supply capacity, we strive to ensure the stable and Sugar is particularly important for growing children as it is efficient supply of safe, reliable food resources with our food-related business. In addition, we promote the resolved into glucose in the body to become a source of energy establishment of an optimal supply chain, and engage in projects that contribute to enhancing for the body and brain. By supplying high quality sugar to adaptability to climate change, abnormal weather, and other disasters. markets such as Asia in particular, we will contribute to better access to nutrition among people living in the region. A sugarcane field near the Kaset Phol Sugar Factory in Udon Thani Province (Thailand) 58 Social Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, Materials, Food and Products Realizing the Sustainable Supply of Pacific Bluefin Tuna Policy on Mine Closure and Treatment of Tailings and through Wholly-Farmed Aquaculture Activity Mine Closure Initiatives Policy Activity SDGs：2.1, 12.2, 12.8, 14.7, 15.5 SDGs：15.1 The consumption of tuna has increased in recent years, not just in Japan but also overseas. At the same Under our policy, we take proper procedures for mine closure and tailings treatment in line with operating time, fishing regulations are becoming stricter globally to protect this natural resource. In order to use and closure plans to minimize impacts on the environment and society, while promoting development for marine resources sustainably and be able to continue supplying Pacific bluefin tuna in the future, it will be the surrounding local communities. Mine closure plans are formulated and implemented while assessing essential to avoid depending on wild young fish, and to realize spawning and the production of young environmental impacts at the initial stages of feasibility studies and also during the operational period. fish from farmed brood stocks. Against this background, Mitsu’s associated company Feed One Co., Ltd. In our mining activities, we formulate business plans which include planning for future mine closures succeeded in releasing fish that were farmed entirely from farmed brood stocks into ocean enclosures in reviewed by the authorities and by relevant experts, to develop surrounding communities and to alleviate 2014. After working in partnership with Kyokuyo Co., Ltd. to establish a value chain from the production of any burden on the environment. aquaculture stock through to farming and sales, in November 2017 Feed One began shipping whollyFor example, Robe River Iron Associates, in which Mitsui has invested, has developed closure plans for farmed Pacific bluefin tuna under the “Hon Maguro no Kiwami TUNAGU” brand. Feed One has also iron ore mine in Australia including rehabilitation initiatives, not only to comply with local regulations but succeeded in creating a raw mixed feed for use during also aiming to minimize societal and environmental impact on the surrounding communities. the fry stage of development prior to releasing into the fish enclosure, which was previously considered to be a difficult challenge in the farming of Pacific bluefin tuna. Our Stories: Secure sustainable supply of essential products In 2018, it launched general sales of its mixed feed. Looking to the future, we will continue working hard to ‌ P.19 Enhancing Agricultural Productivity in Africa through the Provision of Farming Guidance and Materials reduce the environmental impact on fish farming SDGs: 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 2.a environments by developing special fishery feeds and by making our business more efficient. We aim to provide steady supply of safe, reliable, and high-quality Pacific bluefin tuna. Entirely aquacultured Pacific bluefin tuna 59 Social Supplying Food and Products with Ensured Safety and Security Ensuring Safety and Consumer Confidence Mitsui is well aware that consumer safety, confidence and security are of major importance in conducting The Consumer Product Handling Policy its business. With such concerns in mind, we have established the Consumer Product Handling Policy and Placing More Emphasis on the Consumer and Ensuring Product Safety Consumer Product Handling Regulations, and each relevant business unit has also established detailed Whether engaging in manufacturing, importing, or domestic marketing of consumer products, Mitsui reaches rules to ensure the appropriate handling of consumer products. beyond its goal of providing products that offer cost savings or superior performance, and thereby additionally emphasizes a consumer-oriented approach by which the utmost priority is placed on handling safe products that Moreover, in the foods area, Mitsui works to secure food products for supply to Japan, which has the consumers can use with total confidence. This policy is aligned with our management philosophy comprising our lowest food self-sufficiency rate among the industrialized countries. The Food Business Unit and the Food Mission, Vision and Values (MVV). & Retail Management Business Unit place maximum priority on food safety and security, and, accordingly, have established internal rules and internal committees for food sanitation and developed a food-safety Developing and Operating a Risk Management System database, which includes overseas production processes. To ensure that the Consumer Product Handling Policy functions in practice, we have developed a sound risk To manage risks associated with food safety and security, we have been implementing food safety management system and are working to maintain and improve systems used in collecting, disseminating, and seminars about once a month since October 2002 for Mitsui employees, as well as for our affiliated disclosing information on accidents involving products, and arranging for product recalls in the event of productcompanies, in order to reinforce compliance with relevant laws and regulations and ensure appropriate related accidents. labeling. The number of such seminars adds up to 189 as of March 2019. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP)* became compulsory under the amended Food Sanitation Act. Accordingly, Mitsui has hosted seminars in which 345 employees, including employees from our affiliated companies, have participated. The seminars have Initiatives in Promoting Responsible Marketing of Pharmaceutical Products Activity covered a variety of themes including “Examining the causes of food product claims using examples of SDGs：3.8 food product recalls,” which gave participants the chance to consider whether it would have been possible Mitsui has invested in TriNetX, Inc., which develops healthcare to predict in advance that a food product claim would arise, the approach and actions that should have data services business with a focus on pharmaceutical been adopted when the claims did arise, and what the legal responsibilities were, as well as “Learning from companies. TriNetX has built a database of electronic records real examples of increasingly strict food labeling inspections by the authorities,” which used actual collected from hospitals across its network of 17 countries, examples of food labeling incidents as teaching materials, as a way of looking at labeling violations under particularly the United States. It provides pharmaceutical the Food Labeling Act. companies and other companies with services that support Furthermore, Mitsui is a member of the Japan Processed Foods Wholesalers Association (a general clinical trial efficiency and marketing. Mitsui uses TriNetX’s incorporated association), and in the field of distribution we contribute to the safe and secure supply of platform to provide pharmaceutical companies and medical processed food products. organizations with various types of data that contribute to Mitsui puts consumer safety and security first for all items it handles, not just consumer products and better and more appropriate utilization of pharmaceutical food. products. Mitsui also gives priority to marketing with the aim of supplying drugs that physicians and pharmacists can choose and supply to consumers with confidence. * HACCP is a hygiene management method that seeks to control particularly important processes and ensure the safety of products. The goal is for the food product manufacturer itself to identify hazards, such as contamination with food poisoning bacteria or foreign bodies, and to eliminate or reduce these hazards in all processes, from receipt of raw materials to shipment of the product. The This method was released by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, which is a joint body of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). HACCP’s use has been recommended in numerous countries and regions, and it has come to be widely recognized internationally. 60 Social Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure Mitsui & Co. continues to contribute to the enhancement of people’s quality of life through its business Helping to Improve People’s Lives by Supplying Electricity to Non-electrified Regions Activity activities in such areas as electric power, water treatment, water supply and sewerage systems, logistics, SDGs：7.1, 7.2, 9.1, 9.4 railroads, and communications, by developing infrastructure that is essential for the growth and Mitsui works to improve the lives of people living in non-electrified areas through the construction of advancement of countries around the world and of local communities. power grids and the development of home power generation environments. In the area of electric power and renewable energy, while we engage in power generation and gas In India, we are promoting the electrification of rural villages through our investment and participation distribution, we recognize the importance of reducing of greenhouse gas emissions as a material issue in OMC Power Private Ltd. (“OMC Power”), which is a leading operator of mini-grids, supplying stable and we are reinforcing our environmental business, such as solar photovoltaic and solar thermal power electricity using largely renewable energy. Traditionally, in India’s non-electrified regions, fossil fuels such as projects, wind power projects, and biomass related plant projects, with a focus on local production for diesel or kerosene have been consumed as the source of energy. By contrast, OMC Power supplies local consumption. electricity that is more stable and has a lower environmental impact, at low prices, by combining solar There is a growing need for improvements in convenience and safety, against the backdrop of power generation with batteries and other methods. This not only contributes to the development of local growing population, rising living standards, and changing lifestyles. Mitsui is responding to that need by economies, but also helps to reduce CO2 emissions. In the medium term, OMC Power plans to operate developing and operating sewage and water supply systems and wastewater treatment facilities, and by 1,000 small solar power generation plants (with total power generation capacity of around 50 MW), and engaging in urban development projects, such as the development of logistics and industrial facilities, supply electricity to more than one million people living in regions without electricity, thereby especially seaport and airport projects, as well as smart city development projects, to respond to changing contributing to India’s growth. societal needs. We also help to supply electricity to sub-Saharan Africa through our investment and participation in With regard to the shipping business in the mobility domain, Mitsui is focusing on vessel ownership M-KOPA Holdings Ltd. (“M-KOPA”). M-KOPA runs a business called the Solar Home System (“SHS”), through and operation and the LNG carrier business, so as to adapt to tighter environmental regulations and the which solar panels are installed on the roofs of houses or small stores, and solar power generation is used growth of and change in maritime cargo traffic. As regards railroads, which form a major artery for land to provide power for lighting, mobile phone chargers, and home appliances (radios and televisions). Up transportation, we export freight cars and related facilities and undertake rail transportation infrastructure until recently, more than 600 million people living in sub-Saharan Africa have been using kerosene, which projects using Japanese institutional finance. Other business activities in this area include rail leasing, is a fossil fuel, for lighting and cooking, because of the delayed development of the power transmission general freight business, and passenger transportation. In the area of infrastructure-building, our business grid. However, thanks to the SHS, there has been a reduction in kerosene use, helping to reduce the includes digitalized engineering processes, which not only improve the accuracy, productivity, and safety environmental load. In Africa, a large increase in demand for electricity is expected as a result of the of construction work, including operational assistance for general construction machinery, but also allow improved living standards and lifestyle changes that will result from future rapid economic growth. By even relatively inexperienced construction machinery operators to carry out precise construction. accelerating efforts to strengthen and expand the services M-KOPA provides, we will support more Mitsui also promotes the utilization of ICT in such areas as high-speed communications, electronic convenient and comfortable lives for people living in Africa. settlements and other communications and service platform businesses, especially in emerging countries, aiming for the enhancement of quality of life and social infrastructure. At the same time, in our effort to build new social systems, we strive to create new business, including medical and healthcare services, agriculture, and energy management. Furthermore, in terms of both the application of our business strategy and our contribution to society, besides making efforts to contribute to local communities and revitalize regional economies, we also promote community investments with the aims of encouraging investment and regional development, and creating employment at the regional level. Small solar power generator installed in non-electrified areas in India M-KOPA’s SHS kit 61 Social Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure Helping to Create Workplaces Where People Can Continue to Improving Access to Water for Children in India, Work over the Long Term Activity and Contributing to the Elimination of Open Defecation Activity SDGs：8.8, 17.16 SDGs：6.1, 6.2 ATOUN Inc. (“ATOUN”) is a Mitsui associated company who is working to develop and popularize wearable Mitsui has invested in and participated in TOTO India Industries Private Ltd. (“TOTO India”), which is a joint robotic devices (“powered wear”) under its corporate philosophy of realizing a society in which the “power venture with TOTO Ltd.; TOTO India manufactures sanitary ware at its Gujarat factory. As part of its efforts to barrier” of muscular strength and stamina (due to aging or gender) can be overcome, and making it contribute to local communities, in which the Gujarat factory is playing a key role, TOTO India is involved in possible for anyone to continue working without being constrained by physical capacity. support work for a project entitled “Water Sustainability Project Supporting Indian NGO Deepak for Four In February 2019, twenty units of powered wear ATOUN MODEL Y manufactured by ATOUN were Years from 2016.” TOTO India has made use of the Water Environment Fund provided by the TOTO introduced by JAL Ground Service Co., Ltd. (“JGS”) in its airport ground handling tasks with the aim of Headquarters. This project has helped to improve water usage, mainly through the new installation and promoting work reforms through collaboration between the two companies. The ATOUN MODEL Y is a refurbishment of irrigation reservoirs, and through planting. Also, under this project, drinking water tanks lower back-supporting wearable robotic device. It is used mostly in the sorting areas that handle and children’s toilets have been installed at healthcare facilities built in the Indian state of Gujarat to customers’ luggage in tasks such as loading onto containers from belt conveyors, and handling luggage at protect children from hunger and malnutrition. As a result, TOTO India has contributed to improving freight warehouses known as “sheds.” The devices have received highly positive feedback from the staff children’s access to water and to eliminating open defecation. using them. By collaborating on the development of the next-generation model, which includes features such as the “arm support function.” ATOUN and JGS aim to further reduce the workload and realize the creation of workplaces where every employee can be confident of being able to continue to work over the long term. Vice President Awashima (seconded from Mitsui & Co.) cutting the tape at the opening ceremony held at a healthcare facility. On the right is the children’s toilet installed at the facility. The “ATOUN MODEL Y” introduced for airport ground handling tasks 62 Social Responding to Health Needs and the Needs of an Aging Society Mitsui & Co. has responded to the global trend towards the aging of the population by developing senior through health management. Other features include health insurance premium discounts based on housing business and providing basic healthcare and other services geared toward a changing disease health management data. By working with our partners and accelerating the expansion of services, we structure. The keys to solving today’s healthcare problems are places, people, goods, services, and aim to roll out global programs that will enable more people to enjoy better health and improved information. By organically combining these elements, Mitsui is working to improve healthcare access, lifestyles. quality and efficiency and create a “healthcare eco-system.” We also provide solutions encompassing the entire value chain from pharmaceutical development and manufacturing through to sales. We help the pharmaceutical industry, in emerging healthcare Reducing Fat While Optimizing Taste through Aromatics Activity markets including developing countries, to develop and manufacture drugs needed by society, and we SDGs：3.d play an active role in licensing activities as well. Awareness of the importance of healthy life expectancy is reflected in a growing emphasis on the role of Moreover, in Asia, where healthcare demand is expected to expand rapidly due to population growth, diet as a starting point for disease prevention. A low-fat diet is seen as the most effective way to reduce economic expansion, and demographic aging, we are strengthening our business base centered on calorie intake, while a shift from animal to vegetable fats is recommended for those wishing to reduce hospitals, which we see as core elements in the healthcare eco-system. Other priority areas include their bad cholesterol levels. However, a major drawback with these diets is their blandness. Consumers building up of hospital ancillary service business, an area with strong growth potential, and development want delicious foods that will reduce their intake of animal fat. Soda Aromatic Co., Ltd. (“Soda Aromatic”), a of new business, such as prevention, disease management, remote healthcare and personalized medicine Mitsui associated company, is working to meet this need by developing flavorings. through digital transformation and introduction of innovative technologies. By contributing to the The “fat flavor” additive developed by Soda Aromatic, which is a flavor made of a kind of lactone, one advancement of healthcare from the perspectives of accessibility, quality and efficiency, we will help to of the aroma essences, as a principal ingredient, enhances the natural richness, depth, and oiliness of build a society in which people can enjoy healthy, fulfilling lives. low-fat foods and beverages, such as foods containing reduced butter, and sauces. When foods are produced using vegetable rather than animal fats, the addition of this product allows the fat content to be reduced by about 30% without compromising the taste. From the “virtual water” perspective, this product Providing Solutions to the Rise in Healthcare Costs Resulting also has high environmental value because of its contribution to reductions in the use of livestock-derived from Population Growth and Demographic Aging Activity fat. SDGs：3.8, 3.d Soda Aromatic will continue to contribute to the development of a healthier and more sustainable In recent years, there has been increasing interest in new solutions to the global problem of soaring society by providing flavorings that enhance the taste of food. healthcare costs due to population growth and demographic aging. Those solutions focus on the promotion of health and the reduction in disease risks through preventive medicine. Through its investment and participation in GOQii Inc., Mitsui is introducing presymptomatic and preventive healthcare platforms based on the use of wearable 動物油脂 植物油脂 devices and smartphone apps in India. GOQii’s 削除 添加 platform offers various solutions, including online health data management tools, real-time personal health coaching services, e-commerce stores, regular medical checkup management tools, and the unique “GOQii Cash” program, which provides cash discounts The GOQii platform 63 Social Responding to Health Needs and the Needs of an Aging Society Improving Nutrition for the Elderly Activity facilities to provide residents with access to medical examinations and treatment. It has also been working on SDGs：2.2, 3.d providing mobile floating hospitals (vessels) to offer services in isolated upstream communities along the In the healthcare and elderly care industries, there is a growing interest in the potential of nutrition therapy to Amazon River. Other initiatives include healthcare education and seminars for local residents, and enhancing alleviate economic burdens, including the reduction of hospitalization times, and improve the quality of life anti-malaria measures, among others. As part of its contribution to vector control efforts, the company has (QOL) for inpatients and their families. Nutrition therapy is a method for enhancing natural healing powers donated eradication materials and research equipment and brought scientists, exterminators, and other experts through the consumption of appropriate amounts of dietary elements that are lacking, with the aim of to the region. It has also distributed 10,000 mosquito nets impregnated with long-lasing insecticide (MILDs) and preventing diseases or slowing their advance, and alleviating symptoms. However, while nutrition therapy is conducted eradication campaigns, including vector propagation monitoring and mist spraying of insecticides. especially beneficial for the elderly, their ability to maintain an appropriate diet is compromised by other issues, As a result of these comprehensive efforts, the number of malaria cases in the region was reduced by 90% such as the decline of swallowing functions, which can lead to aspiration pneumonia and other conditions. between 2010 and 2017. This has earned considerable international recognition, and in 2015 the State of NUTRI Co., Ltd., a Mitsui associated company, has Rondônia received the “Malaria Champions of the Americas Award” from the World Health Organization (WHO). specialized in nutrition therapy since its establishment In 2017, a nurses’ accommodation built with a donation from Mitsui was opened in the Central Region of half-a-century ago. It has focused in particular on Ghana. This initiative has further strengthened efforts to respond to serious global health priorities, including nutritional supplements and solutions for dysphagia measures to combat outbreaks of malaria and measles in the region, and the provision of emergency nightsufferers. As a leading manufacturer of nutritional and time maternity care. swallowing support products for the elderly, NUTRI is helping to solve an important social issue through the development and supply of processed foods and Consideration for the Handicapped and Elderly beverages for use in nutrition therapy and elderly care. Nutritional support and dysphagia support products developed by NUTRI through Building Designs and the Senior Housing Business Activity SDGs：11.3, 11.7 Through the senior housing business of its U.S. subsidiary, MBK Senior Improving Healthcare Access and Reducing Healthcare Supply-Demand Gaps Activity Living LLC, Mitsui is helping to improve the lifestyle infrastructure for SDGs：3.8, 3.b an aged society by creating facilities that can be used with confidence We have developed manufacturing and sales business for high-quality pharmaceuticals needed by society, by elderly and handicapped people. Also, in Japan, another subsidiary, particularly in Russia via JSC R-Pharm, which is the country’s largest pharmaceuticals company, and in China Mitsui & Co. Real Estate Ltd., is responding to the needs of aged and through Shenzhen Main Luck Pharmaceuticals Inc. We are seeking to improve access to medical treatment and handicapped people in its development activities for the Shinbashifill in the gaps between supply and demand in the medical field in developing countries. In addition, we are Tamura-cho District Redevelopment project by adding special working to improve access to medical treatment in developing countries by ensuring fair price-setting in functions from the planning stage. And similarly, in its Ohtemachi accordance with each country’s pharmaceuticals price-setting system. OH-1 Project, Mitsui is taking various needs of variety of people into consideration in their planning and construction, including the MBK Senior Living’s serviced apartments targeting seniors provision of multi-purpose toilets and elevators with additional Responding to Global Health Problems functions that meet the needs of aged and handicapped users. ̶ Fighting Infectious Diseases (Malaria, Measles, etc.) Activity SDGs：3.3 The operation company for the Jirau hydropower generation in Brazil has entered into a public-private Our Stories: Enhance quality of life partnership agreement with the State of Rondônia and the City of Porto Velho. Under this agreement, the P.23 Contribution to Addressing a Variety of Different Medical company has been implementing a social contribution and environmental action program since 2009, with the Problems through the Building of a Healthcare Ecosystem aim of improving the health and sanitary environment for local residents. Particular emphasis is being placed on SDGs: 3.4, 3.8 measures to combat malaria. The company has been working on building hospitals and basic healthcare 64 Social Responding to Increasingly Diverse Consumer Demand Mitsui & Co. believes that the continuing provision of value and functions that match consumer related services and other aspects of its business, Mitsui is actively responding to changing consumer needs. expectations will remain an important role for Mitsui as we work to respond to new consumer demand. For example, world population growth and economic growth are likely to have a major impact on food demand patterns, resulting in increased demand for animal protein in emerging market economies. Service for Forecasting Future Market Trends through the Analysis of Vast Quantities of In response to this need, Mitsui has launched a business for stably supplying chicken meat to the West Consumer Input African market. SDGs：12.3 At the same time, we are also moving forward with initiatives targeting new needs and markets Based on its perception that vast amounts of consumer input can be effectively utilized in marketing to emerging from the diversification of consumer lifestyles in recent years. In the area of information services, monitor diversifying consumer needs, Mitsui’s subsidiary, Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd. (“MKI”) has there has been a global rise in the influence of individuals through social network services and other started to work with Black Swan Data Limited (“Black Swan”), a provider of big data analysis services. channels, and thought patterns are also becoming more individualized in various ways. Mitsui helps Black Swan has developed its own infrastructure to enable flexible, integrated analyses of external companies to detect needs quickly by providing solutions based on the latest data analysis tools. data, such as SNS messages, weather information and news, as well as internal data held by companies, By monitoring consumer needs and developing and supplying diverse services and products that such as sales and inventory levels, and membership information. It uses this infrastructure to provide big embody those needs, we will continue to contribute to the creation of a society in which people can data analysis services. Meanwhile, MKI has actively engaged in research and development activities since enjoy fulfilling lives. 2014, which includes the development and provision of its own analysis and forecasting tools for the distribution and retail industries. By combining Black Swan’s solutions with MKI’s accumulated analysis know-how, we will be able to roll out new data analysis services in the Japanese market. Creating a Safe, Reliable Prepared Food Business that Matches the Food Needs of Consumers Through the provision of highly accurate data analysis services, such as predictions as to which types SDGs：2.1 of consumers will be attracted to which products, as well as the positioning and future growth of these In the United States, population growth is driving the expansion of food markets, while food needs are trends, we will help our customers to anticipate future trends in their markets, leading to the effective changing in step with the increasing diversification of lifestyles and other social trends, emphasizing the provision of the services and products needed by society. need for foods that are safe, reliable, and delicious, and can be enjoyed without troublesome preparation. This is reflected in the rapid expansion of the market for prepared foods that can be eaten at home. The market growth rate is currently around 8% per annum. Mitsui has invested and participated in Hans Kissle Company, LLC (“Hans Kissle”), which since its establishment in 1984 has developed, manufactured, and sold a wide variety of delicatessen entrees, main dishes, desserts, and other items. These products are sold mainly in major food supermarkets along the Northeastern Seaboard of the United States. The company’s long track record as a developer and manufacturer of safe, reliable, delicious foods is based on its high-quality control standards, and Hans Kissle is achieving steady business growth in the expanding U.S. market for prepared foods. By further improving the safety, taste, and healthiness of Hans Kissle’s prepared foods, as well as Hans Kissle supplies safe, reliable, and delicious delicatessen entrees Outline of Big Data Analysis Services 65 Social Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Concepts Policy Through these initiatives, we are promoting our social contribution activities, with a particular focus on the SDGs 4, 8, and 15. Today’s increasing trend towards globalization, advances in IT, and other developments in society have Specifically, we are promoting community investments that will lead to the improvement of people’s brought considerable diversity and change to the world we live in. As we pursue greater convenience and quality of life, regional development, and job creation, fostering human resources who have multi-cultural enrichment in our lives, we also face a broad range of issues including environmental problems such as and global perspectives so as to effectively utilize Mitsui’s strengths and expertise, and carrying out climate change, as well as poverty and educational inequality. initiatives related to global environment preservation. Furthermore, we are engaging in dialogue with Mitsui & Co. works to contribute to the development of local communities and the finding of solutions various stakeholders, including local communities and NPOs/NGOs, and collaborating with them toward to issues faced by local communities and international society, from the perspectives of both relevance to finding solutions to societal issues, hoping that our continuous initiatives will be shared with society, our business strategies and social contribution. Mitsui’s Social Contributions Policy specifies three areas of create follow-on effects, and lead to solutions to larger-scale societal issues. focus: international exchange; education; and environment. Specifically, (1) in the field of international In addition, we are planning and promoting volunteer programs in order to build interest in and exchange, we promote social contribution activities in many countries and regions; (2) in the area of sensitivity towards societal issues among our officers and employees. education, we place emphasis on the fostering of human resources who have an international outlook and who can contribute to finding solutions to societal issues, while providing support for education as part of measures to eliminate poverty, and (3) in the field of environment, we tackle global issues, such as Social Contributions Policy climate change and nature conservation. Guiding Principles We will build a congenial relationship with our stakeholders by striving to create harmony with the global community and local communities in accordance with the Mitsui & Co. Management Philosophy (Mission, Vision and Values), and we will actively contribute to the creation of a future where the dreams of the inhabitants of our irreplaceable Earth can be fulfilled. Action Guidelines 1. In order to respond in an appropriate manner to the needs of the global environment, and of international and regional society, Mitsui actively promotes social contributions. 2. Mitsui will establish the three important areas of “International exchange,” “Education” and “Environment” for its social contributions, and will implement social contribution activities befitting of Mitsui & Co. 3. In addition to the making of economic contributions, such as donations etc., Mitsui also aims to carry out proactive social contributions that involve the participation of its executives and employees. 4. Mitsui promotes social contributions with an emphasis on transparency and accountability in respect of its stakeholders. It also aims for the continued improvement of activities through communication and cooperation with its stakeholders. 66 Social Social Contribution Activities Employee Participation System Activity Other Activities SDGs：2.1, 3.d, 4.2, 4.5, 4.6, 8.6, 10.2, 11.4, 11.a Table For Two (TFT)/Creation of foreign-language picture books/Home stay program for Chinese students/ Mitsui Global Volunteer Program (MGVP) and Volunteer Activity Leave Kanda Festival/Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund’s Yatsuda Project We began implementing the Mitsui Global Volunteer Program (MGVP) in October 2009. The aim of the program is to encourage all employees to participate with a sense of unity in various social contribution activities that lead to the solution of societal issues. Under the MGVP, we provide matching donations every year, based on the number of participants in voluntary activities, to NPOs and NGOs dedicated to the solution of a societal issue. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, the total number of participants came to 4,218. In the fiscal year ended 2018, using the funds donated to Plan International Japan by Mitsui in the fiscal year ended March 2016, a nurses’ accommodation was opened in Ghana’s Central Region. The support provided by us has helped to enhance public health and medical services in Ghana. Moreover, in the fiscal year ended March 2019, based on the donation Mitsui made in the fiscal year ended March 2017, support activities for providing equipment and teaching materials to a preschool educational institution in Huila Department, Colombia, have been implemented. Creation of foreign-language picture books Kanda Festival Since the establishment of the matching donation program, Mitsui has donated approximately ¥33 million to nine organizations. We have also established a volunteer activity leave system to encourage employee participation in social contribution activities. Social Contributions (Fiscal Year Ended March 2019) Activity The total social contribution expenses for the fiscal year ended March 2019 were ¥1.55 billion. （Charitable Donations 4%, Community Investment 35%, Commercial Initiatives 61%） * Figures include cash donations and monetary conversion equivalent to in-kind payments. However, activities such as personal donations by employees and volunteer activities have not been included. Political Contributions (Fiscal Year Ended March 2018) Activity The total political contribution for the fiscal year ended March 2018 was ¥28 million. * This figure was reported in the Japanese government gazette issued on November 30, 2018. The nurses’ accommodation in Ghana Support for providing equipment and teaching materials to preschool educational institutions in Colombia Photography by Plan International 67 Social Social Contribution Activities Global Social Contribution Activities (International Exchange, Education and Environment) Activity St. Petersburg University P.69 The Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Foreign Ministry TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program P.69 Support for the Improvement Creation of foreign-language picture books P.67 MGVP/The nurses’ hostel in Ghana of the Educational Environment Kanda Festival P.67 in Myanmar P.67 P.70 Support for the Brazilian Community in Japan P.69 Scholarship Program for Indonesia TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. MGVP/Support for providing equipment Leadership Program P.69 and teaching materials to the preschool Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund/ P.70 educational institution in Colombia Project aimed at establishing Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy P.70 economic independence for P.67 indigenous people via beekeeping Support for Japan Little League Baseball Association P.70 P.74 Mitsui’s Forests P.41, 56, 71 Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund/ Yatsuda Regeneration Project P.74 Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund/ Supporting Research Aimed at Restoration of Ecological Systems P.56 48 organizations 4,218 persons 6 countries/regions 48 universities 710 persons Mitsui-Endowed Lecture Programs and Partnership with NPOs and NGOs Employee Volunteers Support for the University Scholarship and Training in Japan 68 Social Social Contribution Activities International Exchange System Activity Japanese society, history, culture, industry, and SDGs: 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.6, 4.7, 8.3, 8.5, 8.6, 8.8, 17.17 technology, as well as recovery activities after the 2011 Support for the Brazilian Community in Japan earthquake. Moreover, every year eight university As a company with extensive business operations in Brazil, Mitsui provides various types of support to foster reciprocal students selected from Australia participate in a threeunderstanding between Japan and Brazil and find solutions to issues affecting the Brazilian community in Japan. week study tour of Japan through the Mitsui Educational Foundation, which was established in Australia in 1971. Scholarship Program for Brazilian Schoolchildren in Japan We also provided study tours in Japan for 18 students Since 2009, we have provided scholarships in order to (1) provide educational opportunities to children who have from Yangon University of Foreign Language, Mandalay been facing difficulty in continuing their studies for economic reasons, and (2) support adaptation to Japanese society University of Foreign Language, and high schools in through enhancement of Japanese language education. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, a total of 447 students Myanmar. Russian students experience a budo (martial arts) class at Tokai University received scholarships to attend 26 schools. The number of scholarship recipients since the establishment of the program totaled 3,470. TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program Mitsui has been participating in the TOMODACHI Initiative, a public-private partnership program led by the U.S. Extracurricular Classes government and U.S-Japan Council to foster the development of young people who will contribute to the Since 2014, we have supported extracurricular classes for children attending Brazilian schools in Japan, in cooperation strengthening of Japan-U.S. relations in the future, since the foundation of the initiative. with the Consulate-General of Brazil in Tokyo. The aim is to foster and support schoolchildren’s understanding in terms In 2013, we launched the TOMODACHI Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, 20 of the significance of working in society. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, our employees gave six classes and selected young leaders working in the industrial, financial, and government sectors in Japan and the United States were welcomed approximately 180 children. given the opportunity to visit each other’s countries. With the program themes of leadership, innovation, and the entrepreneurial spirit, participants broadened their perspectives as next-generation global leaders through dialogue Other Support Activities with top executives from the government sector and industry, and with young leaders, as well as site visits. The • We held social gatherings to discuss how to ensure a program also helps them to strengthen their activities and initiatives in the development field for supporting better future for Brazilian children (Kaeru Project), and production activities, entrepreneurship, creativity, and innovations, and to build diverse human networks. Furthermore, nine individual meetings and workshops in five cities with the aim of developing leaders who can drive the reconstruction process, we encouraged potential leaders in the with Dr. Kyoko Nakagawa, who was invited from Brazil. three prefectures affected by the Great East Japan • We provided support for NPOs and other organizations Earthquake of 2011 to participate in Japanese delegations, working toward the realization of a multi-cultural and also created opportunities for networking with society for Brazilian people living in Japan (14 American delegations visiting the earthquake-affected organizations in the fiscal year ended March 2019). Kaeru Project Workshop (Toyohashi) areas. Through these activities, we aim to foster exchange in relation to disaster reconstruction activities, promote Contributing to Global Human Resource Development through Mitsui-endowed Lecture Programs local cultures, and tackle various issues, such as the at Overseas Universities and Training in Japan promotion of inbound tourism and revitalization of We are working to foster reciprocal understanding with young leaders of the future and to contribute to human industry, and supporting the recovery of earthquakeresource development on a global scale in countries and regions where our company is engaged in business affected communities. A cumulative total of 119 young activities. leaders have participated in the Japanese and American Mitsui has endowed lecture programs in the United States, China, Myanmar, Vietnam, and Poland. In Russia, since delegations in the past six years. Members of the Japanese and American delegations and other representatives for the fiscal year ended March 2019 2015, Mitsui has been conducting a Japan studies program for students of St. Petersburg University and the Photography by Kerry Raftis—Keyshots.com K.K. Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, five students Other Activities participated in the program, visiting Tohoku, Hiroshima and other locations, and attended a training course about Solidarity of International Judo Education/Japan SAMBO Federation 69 Social Social Contribution Activities Education System Activity Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy SDGs：4.3, 4.5, 4.7, 4.b, 11.c Mitsui launched the “SASUGAKU” course (education for sustainable development), which helps children, who Supporting Overseas Students through the Mitsui Bussan Trade Promotion Foundation will play a very important role in creating a sustainable future, to develop their capabilities of learning, In 1989, as an international exchange support program, the Mitsui Bussan Trade Promotion Foundation thinking, and communicating. We designed Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy in 2014, which is a 5-day capacitystarted providing scholarships for overseas students, and providing lodging facilities for them free of building program for about 30 elementary school children in upper grades, and uses our global business charge, mainly to support international students from Asia. The total number of overseas students that we activities as teaching materials. have supported since then is 373. The theme for 2018 was “What will a healthy life be in the future?” Participants thought about issues and solutions relating to health in imaginary future cities with various characteristics, such as a “desert city” and a Mitsui Bussan Scholarship Program for Indonesia “space city.” During the learning time, experts from the Mitsui & Co. Global Strategic Studies Institute gave a Mitsui has built a close relationship with Indonesia through its business. In 1992, we established the Mitsui-Bussan lecture on future medical technologies and systems. In addition, Mitsui employees who are in charge of the Scholarship Program for Indonesia with the aim of providing talented Indonesian students with an opportunity to respective projects gave presentations on the “NOBORI” medical data service project and the “Etak” receive advanced education in Japan, so as to nurture human resources who can contribute to the development antibacterial agent project. Through these activities, children learned the importance of meeting the of Indonesia and to the further strengthening of relations between the two countries. In partnership with local challenge of addressing societal issues. We also conducted a fieldwork class for studying the relationship organizations, we select two Indonesian high school between forests and health in Mitsui’s Forest in Chiba Prefecture. On the final day, each group presented the students each year to receive scholarships for a period results of their activities during the five-day program. of six years until the completion of a four-year As a result of presentations at academic university program, which means that we support a conferences and other venues, these sustainability total of 12 students continuously every year. A education initiatives by Mitsui have attracted cumulative total of 44 students have been accepted considerable attention, and have been lauded as being under the program to date, and about half of them are progressive examples of education for sustainable working at Japanese companies, serving as an development (ESD). In the fiscal year ended March 2019, important bridge between Japan and Indonesia. Graduation ceremony of the Mitsui Bussan Scholarship Program for Indonesia a Mitsui program won the Judging Panel’s Incentive Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Support for the Improvement of the Educational Environment in Myanmar Awards of Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Children enhance their capacity to solve societal issues through group discussions We provide seamless support for the improvement of the educational Science and Technology for the third consecutive year. environment in Myanmar at all levels from elementary to higher education, in partnership with various organizations. Support for the Japan Little League Baseball Association ・Support for elementary education through participation in elementary school Since 1970, we have been supporting the Japan Little League Baseball Association, which aims to instill construction by the Myanmar Terakoya Support Team good citizenship in boys and girls, contributing to ・Support for the Japan-Myanmar Association’s short-term training for high their healthy physical and mental development as school students in Myanmar world citizens through team play in baseball. In a ・Agriculture seminar at Yezin Agricultural University total of 862 teams in 231 under-12 regional leagues ・Scholarship support for Myanmar students at the Tokyo University of throughout Japan, boys and girls between the ages Agriculture of 4 and 12 practice on weekdays and weekends. Every year, the National Little League Baseball We also run scholarship programs to assist university students in Championship is held, and the winning team Terakoya school (traditional private Mozambique, as well as scholarship programs through the Mitsui U.S.A. competes in the Little League World Series school) established by the Myanmar Foundation. Terakoya Support Team championship. The All Japan Little League Baseball Championship Tournament (Hokkaido) 70 Social Social Contribution Activities Environment Cultivating Different Types of Forests: Forest Management Zoning Mitsui’s Forests are divided into “Forests for Regeneration and Harvest” (approximately 40%) and “Natural Forests and Naturally Regenerated Forests” (approximately 60%). Forests for Regeneration and Harvest are Mitsui’s Forests’ Manifold Initiatives Policy System Activity forests that have been planted and cultivated by human hands, and follow a repeated cycle of planting, SDGs：7.2, 15.1, 15.2, 15.4 cultivating, harvesting, and utilization for the production and supply of lumber resources. Natural Forests Mitsui & Co. owns forests in 74 locations in Japan, from Hokkaido in the north to Kyushu in the south. are forests that have been cultivated through natural action, while Naturally Regenerated Forests are Mitsui’s Forests cover a total area of approximately 44,000 hectares, which is equivalent to about 70% of forests that have grown back mainly through natural action the area of Tokyo’s 23 wards, or 0.1% of land of Japan. We have worked under our Forest Management following deforestation due to a natural disaster or treePolicy to protect and nurture these forests and make productive use of the benefits that they provide. harvesting for instance. Areas within these forests that are particularly important from the viewpoint of biodiversity are designated as “Biodiversity Conservation Forests” Forest Management Policy (approximately 10% of all Mitsui’s Forests), in which more rigid management is conducted in order to conserve biodiversity. 1. Guiding Principle In line with its Management Philosophy, Mitsui will actively contribute to protecting our Mitsui manages Mitsui’s Forests in accordance with the irreplaceable Earth and fulfilling the dreams of its inhabitants, and we are committed to forest management zoning categories as shown below. Tashiro forest whose value in biodiversity has been carefully nurturing our forests to pass them on to the next generation. Appropriate management is applied to each forest category. highly evaluated 2. Management Policy Mitsui gives its forests the status of “assets with a high degree of public use that benefits Management Zoning Categories of Mitsui’s Forests (As of December 31, 2018) the whole of society.” As well as providing the reusable natural resource of lumber, forests Category Definition Area (ha) can fulfill a range of socially beneficial functions if properly managed and enhanced on a Forests for Harvest-oriented Sustainable Forests for the production and supply of lumber resources through 6,876 consistent basis; for instance, they can purify the atmosphere by absorbing carbon dioxide Regeneration Cycle Forests the repeated cycle of harvesting, planting, and cultivating. and Harvest Natural Restoration Forests Forests to be restored as Naturally Regenerated Forests consisting to produce oxygen, and they can act as a reservoir that stores and purifies rainwater. On 10,587 of coniferous and broad-leaved trees. the other hand, if forests are neglected and not adequately maintained, they may increase Forests for Biodiversity Special ConservaForests judged to have irreplaceable biodiversity value at the 324 the likelihood of natural disasters and develop into a source of other social problems. Aware Regeneration Conservation tion Forests regional and national level and requiring stringent protection. and Harvest, Forests Environmental Forests confirmed to support a large number of rare creatures of the social value that its forests possess, Mitsui regards their long-term ownership and 875 Natural Forests Conservation Forests whose habitat requires protection. maintenance as an important social responsibility. So as to maximize the socially beneficial and Naturally Water and Soil Forests with plentiful water stocks that form a water resource, Regenerated 3,147 functions of our forests, we work to enhance these functions based on the FSC®’s Forest Conservation reduce the risk of natural disasters, or have other major socially Forests Forests beneficial functions that contribute to the safeguarding of the Management Principles and Criteria, and also SGEC’s Forest Management Certification water supply and the preservation of ecosystems. Principles and Indicators. Cultural ConservaForests requiring protection due to the particularly high value of 117 3. Activity Policy In its concrete activities in the context of its forest holdings, Mitsui will act conscientiously tion Forests their “cultural services”—functions that nurture traditions and culture and form part of the “ecosystem services” that are depenon the basis of the management policy outlined above, giving full consideration to their dent on biodiversity. social significance and maintaining a strong awareness of their environmental impact. Naturally Productive Naturally Regenerated Forests to be cultivated for tree species useful as a source of lumber. 1,822 Regenerated Forests Accordingly, we will redouble our efforts in the following areas: Forests General Naturally Regenerated Forests not composed of productive species but to be cultivated 19,386 • Offering Forest Environmental Programs to stakeholders Forests for increased social value. • Research work and concrete action to preserve biodiversity Other Naturally Regenerated Forests Naturally Regenerated Forests other than in the above categories. 1,271 • Achieving sustainability in the production of wood materials as a reusable natural resource Total 44,405 and promoting their utilization as wood biomass 71 Social Social Contribution Activities Forest Certification (FSC® and SGEC) the fiscal year ended March 2019, we have conducted questionnaire surveys and interviews with six Ainu Mitsui has acquired forest certification for all of Mitsui’s Forests throughout Japan under two international organizations in Hokkaido on the preservation of Ainu culture and other topics, and exchanged opinions standards: the FSC® (FSC®-C057355), and the SGEC (Certification No. SGEC/31-21-1101). and cooperated with an NPO that engaged in the investigation and preservation of the endangered Forest certification is given based on assessments by an independent institution regarding whether freshwater fish, Japanese huchen, found in Hokkaido. Through such initiatives and activities, we fixed criteria are met concerning forest management methods. The spread of such certification prevents continuously work toward building good communication with local communities. unregulated deforestation, preserves healthy forests, and helps protect the global environment. In order to contribute to local Mitsui is currently the only private sector company with large-scale forest holdings in excess of 10,000 communities, we have also started to promote hectares in Japan that has obtained both of these certifications. This status allows us to respond to the use of wood biomass as an alternative to demand for a various type of certified timber. While FSC® certification is a type of certification established fossil fuels. For example, we continue to by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®), an international NGO with a membership system, the SGEC steadily supply timber fuel to a biomass power certification system is unique to Japan and was established by the general incorporated association generation plant in Tomakomai, Hokkaido, in Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council. However, in 2016 following approval of reciprocal certification with which we have invested (commercial PEFC, which is another international certification system, SGEC became an international forest certification operations started in April 2017), and supply system. Both FSC® and SGEC certification provide basic principles, standards, and indicators for conducting timber fuel reliably also to another biomass appropriate forest management from environmental, social, and economic perspectives. The certifications generation project, in which Mitsui made an require forest managers to not only conduct forest management on an economically sustainable basis, equity participation, at Shimokawa-cho, but also to give proper consideration to the environment and to develop good relationships with local Hokkaido (operation commenced in May Forestry program (tree thinning experience) at company owned Kameyama communities near forests. 2019). forests Social Value of Forests Appropriate forest management is only a part of our commitment. We are also actively engaged in initiatives to utilize forest resources on various levels. As part of our contributions to society and to local communities, we use our forests for environmental education activities. Resources from our forests are also used to support cultural activities and traditional events in surrounding areas, as well as reconstruction in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. Mitsui supports the campaign to promote the use of Japanese-grown timber as a way of revitalizing the Japanese forestry industry and providing additional impetus for regional development. For example, we make use of timber from our Mitsui’s Forests in our office space, and as a stable supply source of wood biomass fuels for local biomass power generation business. Timber from Mitsui’s Forests is supplied to and utilized in various landmark objects and venues, such as FSC®-certified cypress used for a part of the materials in the main table at the summit meetings of the G7 Ise-Shima Summit in May 2016, and SGEC-certified cedar for use in some parts of the roof and eaves of the New National Stadium building to be completed in November 2019 (as of June 1, 2019). It is also planned for use in various parts of the Mitsui’s new Head Office building to be completed in 2020. In the area of environmental education, Mitsui’s Forests are used for field studies that teach people about the role of forests, for forestry experience programs, and for various other activities within and beyond the Mitsui organization. In the area of helping to protect culture, we have entered into an agreement with the Biratori Ainu Association concerning the protection and fostering of Ainu culture. In 72 Social Social Contribution Activities Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund System Activity Selection of Grant Recipients The social and economic situation relating to the global environment is changing significantly, including In July 2005, Mitsui & Co. launched the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund as a grant program that aims to the signing of the Paris Agreement as a response to climate change, the adoption of the SDGs by the contribute to the sustainable development of society and address global environmental problems by United Nations, and the growing interest in ESG investment. In response to these changes in society, the supporting various activities and research projects pursued by NPOs, universities, and other entities. Since Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund has adopted a stricter screening process than before to select activities the fiscal year ended March 2012, when the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011 occurred, Mitsui has also and research that will lead to realization of solutions to long-term issues and the creation of a sustainable been engaged in recovery efforts aimed at achieving the sustainable development of society through society, and aims to “create a society for the future.” initiatives to mitigate and resolve environmental problems caused by the earthquake and the ensuing To achieve this goal, we revised the allocation process for the fiscal year ended March 2019, and tsunami. In addition to its financial support for the activities and research conducted by NPOs, universities, published key points on which the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund places particular focus such as etc., the fund is also encouraging Mitsui’s officers, employees, and their families to participate in the relevance to SDGs and whether the project is formulated on a “backcasting” approach from the future activities conducted by the groups or organizations that received our grants, as volunteers. As of the fiscal vision. We held application briefings, individual consultation meetings and presentation screening year ended March 2019, we had awarded grants totaling ¥5.84 billion to 571 projects. sessions to deepen the understanding of the applicants regarding the revised allocation process. The ongoing projects that have been selected as our grant recipients are contributing to the As a result, in the grants selection for the fiscal year ended March 2019, we received a large number of realization of SDGs 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 17. applications from NPOs, universities, and other entities who agreed with our approach. Through our strict, Launched July 1, 2005 multilevel screening process involving external experts, we selected 11 projects to receive activity grants Grant program Activity Grants are designed for practical activities that contribute to the sustainable development of society and and 6 projects to receive research grants. address global environmental problems, and Research Grants are designed for research providing concrete proposals for the aforementioned targets. Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund Focus fields A. Global Environment: Activities or research that provide warnings, and necessary actions derived from monitoring changes in nature and the environment. B. Resource Circulation: Activities or research that lead to effective management and utilization of resources. Key Points Social Issue Solving Goals C. Ecosystems and the Symbiotic Society: Activities or research related to the conservation and utilization of • The project should aim to find solutions to issues in the four target Vision ecosystems services, and adjustment of co-existence between ecosystems and humans. SDGs D. Relationship between People and Society: Activities or research related to the restructuring of relationships areas. The relevance to SDGs is particularly important. 【Target Areas】 between people and society, based on environmental issues. Eligible groups or NPOs, NGOs, general incorporated associations and foundations, public interest incorporated associations • The project should be formulated on a “backcasting” approach, i.e., A. organizations initiated by thinking about what needs to be done, based on the future Global and foundations, special civil foundations, universities, and national institutes of technology vision. Environment Grants schedule Once a year for both the Activity Grants and Research Grants (In the fiscal year ended March 2019, the application C. period was from August to October, the 1st-3rd presentation screenings took place from November to April, and • The project should have a clear roadmap toward implementation in B. Ecosystems Backcasting final selection of grants projects was carried out between March and April.) society. Resource and the Circulation Symbiotic Society • The project should have a significant, positive impact, such as contribution to finding a solution to a societal issue or the realization of D. Relationship a sustainable society. between People and Society Implementation in society Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund Research/Activity 73 Social Social Contribution Activities Project Aimed at Establishing Economic Independence for Indigenous Disaster Relief Assistance System Activity People via Beekeeping (Activity Grant) SDGs: 10.2, 12.a, 13.b, 15.2 SDGs: 1.5, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 8.9, 11.5, 11.a, 11.b, 13.1, 17.16, 17.17 Logging and other factors have caused serious depletion of the Amazon rainforest, in which there is a region where Disaster Relief Activities approximately 20,000 indigenous Xingu people live in a self-sufficient manner. Their first encounter with outsiders When disasters occur in Japan and overseas, Mitsui provides various forms of support to minimize the occurred only about 70 years ago; however, under the impact of development, a money-based system is expected to damage and contribute to the earliest possible recovery in the affected areas. Our support includes take root among them within a few years. There have been cases donations from Mitsui and voluntary donations from our employees, as well as volunteering activities by where other ethnic groups in the Amazon rainforest tolerated our employees. illegal logging in exchange for money, and an urgent need exists to find ways for people to be able to earn an income without Mitsui’s Disaster Recovery Support Activities in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2019 indirectly damaging the forest. Rainforest Foundation Japan, a Northern Osaka earthquake/2018 Western Japan heavy rain disaster/Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake/ non-profit organization, recognized the potential of apiculture Sulawesi Indonesia earthquake/Cyclone Idai in Mozambique for this purpose and is working to improve the beekeeping skills of local people and establish a distribution system. Fostering Future Leaders to Drive Reconstruction in the Tohoku Region The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund is supporting this In coordination with the Reconstruction and Revitalization Period designated by the government in its Harvesting honey under the guidance of apiculture expert initiative by providing grants to Rainforest Foundation Japan. Wemerson Ballester (Brazil) reconstruction plan for areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011, Mitsui is promoting measures to foster the next generation of people who will drive the reconstruction process, in collaboration with government agencies and NPOs. In 2014, we launched the “Textbook for Our Future for Yatsuda Regeneration Project (Employee Participation Program) SDGs: 11.a, 15.4 Our Children” Visiting Lecture Project, which features a program about disaster reconstruction produced In Japan, yatsuda are rice paddies developed in valley wetlands surrounded by satoyama, which are natural woodlands by Mitsui’s World Hi-Vision Channel. Cast members visit schools in disaster areas as teachers for a day, and tended by village communities. Together with neighboring forests, streams, and other features, these areas form rich hold classes that encourage children to think about regional revitalization and community contribution ecosystems that provide ideal habitats for diverse flora and fauna. These global treasures need to be restored and conserved. through their choice of future careers and occupations. The classes have been held at a total of 28 schools, Mitsui, in cooperation with the Asaza Fund, a Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund grant recipient, has continually grown mostly in Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima Prefectures. Approximately 3,800 children have participated. pesticide-free rice using only organic fertilizers on yatsuda paddies that had gradually become abandoned due to the We have also been supporting a conversational English teaching project for junior and senior high increase in the average age of farmers, among other factors. Mitsui and the Asaza Fund have taken a hands-on approach school students at a “Collaborative School,” an extracurricular school run by the certified non-profit to the restoration and management of the fields, including clearance, planting, weeding, and harvesting. Over 1,600 organization Katariba since 2014 in the town employees have been working as volunteers on the yatsuda regeneration project since its inception in 2007. of Onagawa, in Miyagi Prefecture. In order to The project produces Koshihikari rice and Gohyakumangoku sake-brewing rice. After harvesting, the sake-brewing expand students’ interest in and knowledge rice is used to produce sake in Ibaraki Prefecture. Mitsui distributes the sake to its customers under the Yatsuda label. of the world’s different cultures and value systems through English, we support online Turning uncultivated wasteland into productive paddy fields video lessons in spoken English, short-term study travel within Japan, and the Career Study Program supported by our employees acting as voluntary instructors. To date, 104 junior and senior high school students have participated. The “Textbook for Our Future for Our Children” Visiting Lecture Project Before（2007） After（2018） P.56 Supporting Research Aimed at Restoration of Ecological Systems 74 Social Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Initiatives Policy Compact was found through the survey, we will take necessary measures such as providing additional training seminars. Conducting business globally in many countries and regions of the world, Mitsui & Co. considers the In addition, we continue to hold e-learning courses and other training activities to remind employees protection of human rights in accordance with international standards constitute the foundation of its of the importance of addressing and managing risks related to human rights and labor problems in the sustainability management. Mitsui’s Basic CSR Policy states: “make prudent efforts to understand the supply chain. culture, traditions, and customs of countries and regions around the world” and “recognize the significance With regard to our main suppliers, we conduct supplier surveys and on-site visits based on prepared and importance of the human rights contained in international standards.” checklist to understand the situation and to work on improvements if needed. In the year ending March The “Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd.” prescribe and require 2019, we conducted supplier surveys to 74 suppliers, and were able to confirm all the suppliers who Mitsui employees and officers to observe: full consciousness of their role as members of international responded to the surveys complied with Supply Chain CSR Policy which covers human rights and labor society; understanding of and respect for the cultures, customs, and history of individual nations; practices. As for the on-site survey, we visited Salmex in Chile, a salmon farming, processing and sales protection of human rights; and eschewing any form of discrimination based on race, creed, gender, social facility operated by one of our seafood suppliers, and in which Mitsui is also an investee, and a feed status, religion, nationality, age, or physical or mental ability. Moreover, Mitsui employees and officers are company. The survey focused mainly on environmental management, human rights and labor practices, required to pledge to comply with the aforementioned Guidelines every year. Regarding measures to legal compliance, and quality control and traceability. No violations to our Supply Chain CSR Policy were prevent any kind of discrimination and sexual harassment, we are raising employee and officer awareness found. by providing various compliance programs. P.117 Supplier On-Site surveys We also support international standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO (International Labour Organization) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Moreover, through our participation in working groups of Global Compact Network Japan, such as the Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) Working Group, we are able to keep up with international trends P.105 Integrity and Compliance related to human rights, and can make use of the information we obtain from other companies to enhance our sustainability promotion activities. We continue to deepen our awareness of human rights and labor issues by measures such as inviting Promotion of Management for Human Rights System Activity outside experts to hold seminars. Management System for Human Rights and Labor Conditions Mitsui conducts an internal survey in alternate years concerning compliance with the UN Global Compact, Respecting Indigenous Peoples System Activity to raise the awareness of management and employees regarding human rights and labor issues at its business units, corporate staff divisions, and domestic and overseas organizations (branch offices and When conducting operations, Mitsui strives to comply with all laws of the applicable country or region, consolidated subsidiaries). and to respect the human rights and cultures of each country or region’s indigenous peoples in accordance with international standards such as the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Queries in internal survey Indigenous Peoples and the Convention concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent 1. Do you fully understand the UN Global Compact? Countries (ILO Convention: C169). 2. Have there been any violations of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact? If so, report the details For example, the operations of our forest resource business in Australia are guided by respect for the of the violation and the measures taken to handle the situation. traditional rights of the Aboriginal peoples. We have ensured accountability by obtaining FSC® certification (FSC®-C104107), which requires regular audits by third-party certification bodies. This certification is based In the event a unit, a division, or an organization that materially lacks an understanding of the UN Global on 10 major principles, including respect for the traditional rights of indigenous peoples. There are 75 Social Respect for Human Rights Human Resources to Translate into Assets stringent audits covering such aspects as whether or not Mitsui’s management of business operations gives consideration to traditional Aboriginal rights, and whether or not measures are taken to prevent damage to significant cultural sites, etc. In our iron ore mining operation in Brazil, we maintain close Human Resources Approach Policy communication with the indigenous people living in the Amazon to foster mutual respect. In Japan, Mitsui has entered into agreements with the Biratori Ainu Association and with the town of Throughout its long history, Mitsui & Co. has placed great importance on certain values and philosophies, Biratori in Hokkaido, where a part of Mitsui’s Forests is located, to cooperate in activities to protect, and such as a “Focus on Human Resources,” “Open-mindedness,” and “Challenge and Innovation.” In line with pass on, Ainu traditional culture through the conservation of forests. these values, we have always placed importance on people and worked to train and develop diverse human resources who can contribute to society. Our corporate mission is to “strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the aspirations of people can be fulfilled.” To achieve this mission, we will increase our efforts to instill our values and Guidelines for Appointing a Security Firm System organizational culture, which have led people to say that “Mitsui is people,” through human resource development activities for the approximately 44,000 employees who work for the Mitsui & Co. global group. The UN Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials was adopted in December 1979 so that the UN The business environment is changing rapidly, and the future is difficult to predict. In order for the Mitsui & Co. can promote and ensure that law enforcement authorities such as the police and the military in member global group to continue to create new value in this environment, we are sharpening the abilities of individual countries take on appropriate roles as well as respecting and protecting human dignity. The Principles on personnel and exerting the high-level capabilities and expertise of Mitsui and its group companies, thereby the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials was also adopted in August/September 1990 increasing the comprehensive strengths of the Mitsui & Co. global group. We believe that creating environments as the standard for the use of force and firearms by law enforcement officials. in which the diverse people who work for the group can work energetically is key to realizing that goal. In advancing business activities around the world, Mitsui hires security companies to ensure the safety of its employees. Aware of the potential risk of human rights violations, Mitsui complies with local laws and regulations in the countries and regions where it engages in business activities and selects security Key Elements of Human Resources Management System Policy companies based on the aforementioned international guidelines. Mitsui regards human resources management system as a tool that helps every individual employee to work energetically and leads to the realization of our corporate mission and vision. The basic philosophy stated above is reflected in the following priorities. The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 Activity 1. Recruitment of Human Resources 4. Promotion of Diversity and Inclusion SDGs：8.7, 8.8, 16.1, 16.2 We will recruit people highly motivated to take on We will foster a corporate culture in which In 2015, the United Kingdom enacted the Modern Slavery Act, which is designed to eliminate slave labor. new challenges as well-balanced individuals. employees with diverse backgrounds accept 2. Human Resource Development differences and respect one another. The act requires profit-making enterprises that conduct business within the U.K., and which have an We will develop people who share the values of 5. Developing an Environment that Realizes annual turnover above a certain threshold, to publish an annual statement confirming that measures are Mitsui & Co. and have leadership skills that enable Employee Potential taken to eradicate slavery or human trafficking in their business activities and their supply chains. them to take the initiative in realizing our manWe will implement measures to develop an environment agement philosophy. in which individuals can perform their tasks energetically In compliance with requirements under Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act, Mitsui and its affiliated at their full potential through diverse work styles. 3. Appropriate Appointment and Deployment of companies issue annual statements affirming that they will prevent forced labor and other forms of Personnel 6. Consideration for Employee Wellness, Working modern slavery and human trafficking. We will appoint and promote optimal people Environments, and Health and Safety from the Mitsui & Co. global group’s global human We will create healthy and safe working environments in resource pool. which employees can continue to work with confidence. The UK Modern Slavery Act Mitsui & Co. global group companies will share the above approaches through the Mitsui Global Business Management Guidelines and by other means. We will formulate human resources management system, and recruit, train and appoint personnel on the basis of said guidelines, according to the particular circumstances of individual companies. 76 Social Recruitment of Human Resources Our Approach Policy Career Education Programs Activity SDGs：8.5, 8.6, 8.b Mitsui & Co. is committed to fair recruitment practices. We select individuals on the basis of their abilities Mitsui offers various career education programs designed to foster career awareness in students and and personal qualities. For example, we offer people to apply for positions without regard to nationality, provide work experience opportunities. A particular priority in this category is internship. We accepted 110 gender, age, or other attributes, such as the universities from which they graduated. Our selection interns in the fiscal year ended March 2017, 311 in 2018, and 190 in 2019. In the fiscal year ended March processes, including entry sheets and interviews, include no questions that are irrelevant to applicants’ 2019, we launched a three-day residential program and a one-day session, through which participants abilities or suitability, such as religion or registered place of domicile. Furthermore, staff who conduct were able to engage in various activities with employees, including collaboratively creating proposals on interviews receive training to ensure fair employment screening processes for applicants. We accept new projects. applications both from new graduates and mid-career applicants, regardless of their previous work Throughout the year, we hold “Challenge and Innovation Experience” seminars, in which participants experience. can get a taste of Mitsui’s actual business operations through case studies. There are several versions of these seminars covering different aspects of our work, including business investment, trading, and overseas infrastructure projects. We held 27 seminars in various parts of Japan in the fiscal year ended Specific Policies on Employment Screening and Job Advertisements Activity March 2018, and 49 in the fiscal year ended March 2019. SDGs：8.5, 8.6, 8.b Since the fiscal year ended March 2018, Mitsui has run a two-day recruitment camp to ensure that selections are based on a proper understanding of the company and its business operations. Seven people were selected under this system in the fiscal year ended March 2018, and in the fiscal year ended March 2019 the number was increased to 17. The system gives applicants opportunities to gain an in-depth understanding of the nature of Mitsui’s business, and enables them to gain a clear understanding of the company through communication with employees. It also allows us to make decisions based on a better recognition of each individual’s abilities and personal qualities, so that we can assign them to appropriate positions after they join the company. In addition, we have been providing a wide range of application opportunities as part of our efforts to recruit diverse individuals capable of working successfully in a global arena. We hold corporate information sessions and selection screening programs in the United Kingdom, the United States and France, as well as web seminars so that people throughout the world can learn about our business and company system. We also actively recruit mid-career workers and recruit 30-40 people in this category each year, which is equivalent to about 20% of total appointments. Various methods, such as round-table meetings with employees, are used to give applicants opportunities to learn more about our business operations. Moreover, we actively disseminate group recruitment information with the aim of attracting talented people to work for the Mitsui & Co. group by holding joint corporate information sessions with group companies, and through other means. P.100 Number of Hires by Gender (Non-consolidated)★ 77 Social Human Resources Development Our Approach to Human Resources Development Policy Global Training Programs The Mitsui & Co. global group has numerous global training programs that are designed to enable The main source of competitiveness for the Mitsui & Co. global group is its human resources. The Mitsui & employees to manage business on a global basis. These programs include the Mitsui & Co. Overseas Co. global group respects diverse individuality and aims to foster human resources that will create new Developmental Dispatch Program for Young Employees, which includes the Foreign Language & Business value and take on a central role in global group management. Culture Trainee course (FLBCT) for developing language/regional specialists and Business School Dispatch, Throughout its long tradition, Mitsui & Co. has always focused on human resources. Our approach to as well as Overseas Trainee Dispatch (OTD) designed for enhancing expertise. We also provide the MIT human resources development is represented in the company’s saying, “The individual builds the business, Sloan Fellows Program for mid-level employees, and the Administrative Staff Developmental Dispatch and the business cultivates the individual.” As the words signify, the company’s priority mission is to Program for administrative staff. develop “strong individuals” who can create new value through business activities based on their expertise In addition, with the aim of fostering leaders who will take on a central role in next-generation global and broad knowledge. Indeed, it would be no exaggeration to say that this is the company’s ultimate business management, we have developed the Harvard Business School Global Management Academy raison d’etre. For this reason, we regard on-the-job training (OJT) as the cornerstone of human resources (GMA) in partnership with Harvard Business School. GMA is held with a focus on diversity, and the scope of development. We also implement comprehensive off-the-job-training programs in various forms to the participants in this program includes not only Mitsui & Co. global group employees but also support and supplement human resources development through OJT. employees of our overseas business partners. For management-level employees, we have been implementing Executive Education (EE), which is a short-term MBA program conducted at first-class business schools in Europe and the U.S. Human Resources Development Programs System Number of Participants in the Global Training Programs (in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2019) 163 Trainees in 35 Countries Grade-Based Training and Business Skills Training To achieve the goal of fostering human resources capable of creating new value and taking on a central CIS North role in global group management, we have designated necessary qualifications and roles by job grade, Europe 8 America 10 33 from new employees to management-level employees, and have been implementing a wide variety of human resources development programs, including Grade-based training programs, optional programs, Far East North Europe Middle East America and programs for selected individuals. While strengthening these grade-based training programs, we have 14 19 2 16 also provided business skills training programs as well as professional training programs, with the aim of Asia Asia enhancing our employees’ knowledge and capabilities in various fields. An introduction to each training Middle East 20 3 program can be found on the company’s intranet, along with an explanation and overview of our human Africa 6 2 resources training policies, and we encourage our self-motivated employees to participate in these Oceania CSA programs. Africa 6 25 1 Human Resources Development Program (abridged edition) Mitsui & Co. Overseas Dispatch Program for Young Employees (Overseas Trainees, Overseas Dispatch, Business School Dispatch) 114 participants in 32 countries (as of March 31, 2019) Executive Education and GMA (Short-term Business School Dispatch for Mid-level/Management-level employees) 43 participants in 4 countries (in FY2019) Administrative Staff Overseas Dispatch 6 participants in 6 countries (as of March 31, 2019) One Trainee’s Story 78 Social Human Resources Development Human Resources Training Programs and the Number of Participants/ Induction Training Program, as well as optional training programs, such as the Bussan Academy programs. Dispatched Employees System Activity In 2002, we started offering employees of our overseas subsidiaries well-developed programs of both SDGs：4.3, 4.4 short-term and mediumto long-term training at Mitsui Head Office. Short-term programs include JTP （Unit：persons） (Japan Trainee Program), GMP (Global Managers Program), and GLP (Global Leaders Program), which are Number of offered as milestone training in three stages: the first few years after joining the company; prior to Category Training Programs Outline participants FY2019 appointment as a general manager; and after appointment as a general manager. Furthermore, we Grade-based Management Training Program, New Line The aim of these programs is to foster human launched the Change Leader Program (CLP) to identify talented staff on a global basis and develop them Training Manager Program, Leadership Program, resources capable of global group management. into leaders who will actively take on challenges and lead the realization of innovations. Mediumto longPrograms Administrative Staff Training, Female Business Participants acquire knowledge that includes our 1,152 term programs are held for a period of one to three years, and include LBP (Japan Language and Business Staff Program, New Hire Induction Training, management philosophy, business skills, and Mid-career Hire Induction Training business mindset. Program), which provides Japanese language lessons and practical business training, and BIP (Business Bussan Academy Marketing, Management Strategy, Finance, Professional training programs with the aim of Integration Program), which provides practical business training. Program Logical Thinking, Mindset, Communication, increasing participants’ specialist knowledge in 3,773 Philosophy, History, Liberal Arts various fields. Short-Term Long-Term Training Programs for Global Group Training Programs Objective-based Career Design Program, Retirement Life Plan Training programs for senior employees, which are 1-3 years Programs for Program designed to support them in autonomously for Global Group GM 373 Senior devising the direction of their career and to adapt 5-10 days Candidates Japan Language and Business Employees to the change of environment and their roles. Program Grade or ObjecProject Manager Development Program, Programs aimed at acquiring specific skills and GLP LBP Manager ・Japanese Language Course :１year tive-based Inter-industry Exchange Training Programs, mindsets, expanding horizons through interactions Candidates 840 ・OJT : 1-2 years Training MOC (Mitsui Open College), Head Office GM with other industries, and building personal Programs 1-on-1 Training connections GMP Global Training Foreign Language & Business Culture Trainee Program participants are sent overseas and are surrounded 2nd-5th Business Integration Program Programs Course, Business School Dispatch, Overseas by talented people from around the world, with the aim of Year BIP ・OJT : 1-3 years Trainee Dispatch, GMA, EE, Administrative developing the mindset and skills needed to become 163 JTP Staff Overseas Dispatch next-generation leaders in global group management. P.100 Hours/Days of Training for Competency Development and Expenditure on Training (Non-consolidated) P.81 Training and Promotion of Regionally Hired Staff Development of Human Resources Capable of Global Group Management System Activity Appraisal System SDGs：4.3, 4.4 We also focus on the development of human resources Mitsui and its group companies encourage employees to take on new challenges, help them enhance capable of taking responsibility for global group their individual capabilities, and inspire them to work with a high level of motivation and enthusiasm, management, which is a key pillar of Mitsui’s consolidated through personnel appraisals. The objectives of conducting the appraisal process are not limited to management. enhancing employee understanding of Mitsui’s management philosophy, or to providing input for setting In order to provide support for human resources compensation or assigning new positions, but also include promoting talent development through the development at each group company in Japan, and to build appraisal process. Appraisal meetings are held periodically between employees and their managers, and human networks, we provide grade-based training through employees receive comprehensive feedback on their performance and specific contributions. These such courses as our General Manager Training Program, meetings create an effective framework for human resources/personal ability development. Department Manager Training Program, and New Hire Regionally hired staff engaged in active discussion during GMP training The appraisal system for staff hired in Japan consists of three types of appraisal criteria: “Individual 79 Social Human Resources Development Competency Appraisal,” “Contribution Appraisal,” and “Organization Performance Evaluation.” For the Mitsui Management Review（MMR） “Individual Competency Appraisal,” an appraiser performs comparative assessment of the competency of In the fiscal year ended March 2006, we introduced the Mitsui Management Review (MMR) for line an employee in relation to other employees in the same appraisal group; this appraisal is used for and managers responsible for handling global consolidated management in Japan and overseas, as well as at reflected in decisions regarding employee promotion, job assignments, salary, and so on, in accordance affiliated companies, as an opportunity for them to gain insights by reflecting on their own management with the cumulative points in the employee’s individual competency appraisals over the most recent three and leadership capabilities. Currently, the MMR is carried out once every two years. In the fiscal year ended years. Having cumulative points from appraisals for three years, rather than a single-year appraisal result, March 2019, the program was held for 1,176 managers. Members of the organization working under each avoids a one-time effect and enables appropriate appraisals as to how an employee has been developing manager rate him or her based on a scoring sheet composed of evaluations of the behavior elements during the three-year period, and for considering promotions. For the “Contribution Appraisal,” setting out required of Mitsui management staff. This provides an opportunity for the manager to reflect on his or her appropriate targets is the premise for a fair appraisal. Superiors and subordinates must engage in in-depth own performance based on the results, and to implement management style improvements. In addition, discussions in order to share a common understanding of the established targets, so that the targets will workplace meetings are held to give direct feedback to members of the organizations about the insights be challenging and acceptable to both parties. For the “Contribution Appraisal,” an appraiser assesses the gained through the MMR. Sharing their understanding with the manager and his or her subordinates value added to, and the degree of contribution made to the company by an employee, as well as the allows them to clarify the new challenges they need to tackle in the workplace. Having managers degree to which the employee has taken on challenges to achieve a target. The purpose of the demonstrate an attitude of facing up to reality has stimulated other members of the organization into “Organizational Performance Evaluation” is to examine the degree of attainment and the progress made by action and encouraged an attitude of cooperation among others. These efforts have also helped to foster individual business units on their respective business plans. The results of the Contribution Appraisal and commitment towards the company’s corporate vision, and a sense of ownership. As such, the MMR is the Organizational Performance Evaluation are reflected in the bonus. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, leading toward the creation of more open and communicative workplaces where discussions contributing we revised our benefits and promotion/demotion system to better reflect results and appraisals, with the to the improvement of management are actively carried out. aim of achieving the further strengthening of individuals. We have changed the system to allow both promotion and demotion in order to facilitate the early promotion of employees who produce outstanding results and demonstrate strong capabilities, and to give them roles with greater responsibility, Employee Dormitories System Activity while also carrying out finely-tuned assessments with the aim of fostering a healthy sense of urgency. Furthermore, we have introduced the President’s bonus to reward employees who make a noteworthy Mitsui provides employee dormitories, primarily for new graduates hired by the company who wish to live contribution to or who produce outstanding results toward strengthening Mitsui’s earnings base, or who in this type of accommodation. The dormitories offer an environment for the basic education useful to take on difficult challenges aspiring to new heights. new employees of Mitsui and for building wide-ranging personal networks with people who joined the company in different years and work in different units. At present almost 400 employees, mostly young employees who have been with Mitsui for up to three years, reside in six dormitories located in the suburbs of Tokyo. Inter-dormitory sports competitions and Interactive Communications between Supervisors and Subordinates System Activity other events help to deepen communication among employees along vertical, horizontal, and diagonal axes. 1-on-1 Because dormitory residents include regionally hired staff who stay in Japan for long periods to In order to realize more highly motivated workplaces through support for cultivating a strong relationship participate in training programs at the Tokyo Head Office, the dormitories are also widely used for global of trust among employees and for improving their performance, we have launched the 1-on-1 Program networking among employees. for departmental GMs in the Head Office. Through this program, a supervisor and his or her subordinate take time to communicate, aiming to increase communication time and enhance the quality of communication. As a measure for supporting staff to grow into strong individuals, about 90% of the participants gave positive feedback (the number of participants was 250 in the fiscal year ended March 2019). 80 Social Appropriate Appointment and Allocation of Personnel Policy on Placing the Right People in the Right Positions Policy comprehensive strengths and the networks of the Mitsui & Co. global group, and to develop human resources with broad perspectives. People are the most important assets for the Mitsui & Co. global group. We aim to create a cycle in which Young employees with up to four or five years of experience are transferred to domestic branches and our human resources can grow through opportunities for diverse experiences, while deepening their offices under our Career Development Program designed to accelerate growth through contacts with human networks, thereby creating opportunities for even better experiences. customers at the business frontlines. Deployment of Employees System Systems to Help Employees Take up Challenges System Activity SDGs：4.3, 4.4, 8.3 Every year, employees are given the opportunity to have dialogue with their superiors on the basis of the Human Resources Bulletin Board System prescribed career development survey sheet. Based on the individual employee’s characteristics, expertise This system allows employees to move from their presently assigned business sector to different business and experience, we formulate a plan for the development and utilization of our human resources and areas of their choice. If an employee wants to use his or her capabilities, skills and specialist knowledge in a implement appropriate and optimized personnel assignments, in order to maximize the potential of our business area other than the one to which he or she is currently assigned, and if it is judged that the diverse, talented professionals and organizational strengths. transfer would be beneficial for both the employee concerned and the company, and would enhance the competitiveness of our human resources and organization, then a transfer will be implemented. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, 18 employees were transferred under this system, which gave a cumulative Swift and Flexible Reallocation of Human Resources System total of approximately 400 employees transferred since the commencement of this system in the fiscal year ended March 2000. Re-allocation of Human Resources Human resources are vital but finite management resources. Taking into account the external environment and the balance between our portfolios and profits, we agilely transfer and position our human resources Development and Promotion of Regionally Hired Staff System Activity to growth areas that we have defined as targets under our management policies. We are continually SDGs：10.2, 10.7 implementing human resource re-allocation measures such as the ones listed below to accelerate our Change Leader Program business offensives, which has resulted in the promotion of business by diverse, talented professionals. The Change Leader Program (CLP) was implemented as an initiative to identify, nurture and develop diverse In the fiscal year ended March 2017, we re-allocated approximately 30 people from resource areas into talent on a global basis and to train them to become leaders who can actively and boldly push forward non-resource growth areas, such as “healthcare” and “nutrition & agriculture,” in order to build a structure reforms necessary to create business. A total of 30 participants from around the world joined this program capable of generating stable profits without being impacted by resource prices. in the fiscal year ended March 2019. Participants received Since the fiscal year ended March 2018, we have transferred approximately 100 people from direct advice from top management in the Head Office, administrative units to business units and affiliated companies, with the aim of streamlining administrative and underwent intensive business discussions with their units and strengthening business frontline units. sponsor divisions. Mentors were assigned for each participant to further facilitate their growth, while they Personnel Exchanges set up their own stretch assignments to accomplish. As a At intervals of approximately two years, we exchange personnel among different units. Approximately 300 measure to foster and retain talented human resources, people have taken part in exchanges since the program was introduced in the fiscal year ended March and to strengthen innovation and initiatives for business 2010. The aim is to share and disseminate knowledge and specialist skills held by organizations and creation, we plan to continue this program going employees beyond organizational boundaries, and in so doing enable employees to fully employ the forward. CLP participants 81 Social Appropriate Appointment and Allocation of Personnel Training and Transfer to Japan March 2018). We will continue to strengthen our efforts to achieve optimal personnel allocation, including Regionally hired staff selected for training as nextPersonnel Sent to Japan (As of March 31 each year) Headquarters-hired staff, as part of the continuing globalization of human resources in the Mitsui & Co. generation leaders are sent to Japan in various ways. global group. The number of general manager positions held by regionally hired staff is expected to 50 They are given opportunities to study the Japanese exceed 100 by the fiscal year ending March 2020. language and Japanese business practices and 40 40 experience Japanese work styles, while learning 13 Transfers between Overseas Countries about other aspects of Japan, such as its culture and 30 30 30 Appointing personnel with a thorough Number of Regionally Hired Staff Transferred between 13 7 history. Their training is targeted toward their 13 21 knowledge of each country and region is Overseas Countries (As of March 31 each year) 20 development as management personnel who will 13 10 1 16 essential to developing business with deep local 9 2 one day play key roles in Mitsui & Co. global group 10 14 5 roots, in order to capture every business 25 management. In addition to opportunities to 8 10 10* 9 opportunity while adapting flexibly to ever22 24 5 24 2 0 network with people within and beyond Mitsui & Co. changing business environments. We are driving 20 2 19 4 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 2 global group, the program is also designed to enable further diversification forward to ensure that the 14 2 5 13 15 13 participants to build lifelong relationships by inspiring right people can work in the right place on a 1 14 Japan Language and Business Program (LBP) 4 and being inspired by other talented people who are Business Integration Program (BIP) global basis, regardless of nationality or location 10 10 1 gathered in Japan for the same purpose. The Program Transferees of recruitment. We are increasingly providing 6 5 to dispatch regionally hired staff to Japan started in employees with opportunities not only for 5 * Including one regionally hired staff transferee accepted by an affiliated 4 4 early 2000. Since then, a total of 159 people had company training in Japan, but also for transferring to 0 3 3 participated in various training programs in Japan as other overseas offices, in addition to offices in FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 of March 2014. The Mitsui & Co. global group will continue to implement these programs going forward. other countries in the same region. Recent examples include the transfer of staff from India Americas Promotions to Executive Positions and South Korea to Dubai in the Middle East. We EMEA An increasing number of talented regionally Number of GM Positions Held by Regionally Hired Staff will continue to support the globalization of Asia Paciﬁc hired staff are being promoted to managerial (As of March 31 each year) human resources in the Mitsui & Co. global Other positions, in line with our commitment to group, while verifying the effectiveness and 75 training regionally hired staff in each region and 73 advantages of this policy. 26 strengthening our pool of human resources and 60 64 25 locally-originated business. In the past, most 52 people appointed to managerial positions as 45 46 18 46 18 20 25 general managers (GMs) in overseas offices were 22 30 sent out from Japan. As a result of coaching and 20 18 20 training regionally hired staff, as well as 15 9 6 providing opportunities for assignment to Japan 4 4 4 8 11 13 0 6 and for global training and other initiatives, the 4 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 percentage of GM positions held by regionally hired staff has reached 31% in the Americas, Americas 24% in EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and EMEA Africa), and 8% in the Asia Pacific region (as of Asia Paciﬁc Other 82 Social Promoting Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Concept Policy Diversity Management Promotion Framework System Faced with the many changes taking place in today’s increasingly volatile global business environment, it Officer in charge Hirotatsu Fujiwara, Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer is important that we secure a wide range of human resources with diverse values so that we can respond Deliberation body Diversity Promotion Committee to the various changes and transform risks into business opportunities. Based on this concept, the Mitsui & (advisory committee to the Corporate Established in April 2006. Regularly carries out deliberations and makes decisions in relation Management Committee) to policies and measures for the promotion of diversity management at Mitsui. Co. group is promoting the career development of human resources who come from a wide variety of Secretariat Diversity Management Department, Human Resources & General Affairs Division. backgrounds in terms of nationality, gender, values, and other attributes. In October 2005 the Diversity Management Promotion Department (since renamed the We implement “diversity management,” under which each and every member of our diverse human Diversity Management Department) was set up in the Human Resources & General Affairs resources recognizes and respects each other, stimulates each other to exert their capabilities to the Division. It has been leading efforts to promote diversity management. fullest, brings new value to our business, and creates innovation. This allows us to enhance the competitiveness of the Mitsui & Co. global group. Board of Directors While developing systems and measures for supporting the growth of diverse human resources, we have also been focusing on cultivating a corporate climate and culture that fosters “diversity & inclusion,” Corporate Diversity Promotion Committee in which where diversity is accepted and respected. Management Committee Chairman: Managing Ofﬁcer and Representative Director The Diversity Management that Mitsui Is Aiming For Members: General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Div. General Manager of Corporate Planning & Strategy Div. Members designated by the chairperson other than above Secretariat: Diversity Management Dept. Legal Div. Human Overseas Chief Human Corporate Resources & Resources Ofﬁcers Planning & Investor General Affairs Strategy Div. Relations Div. Div. HR Coordinator at each division Cultivation of a Corporate Climate and Culture of “Diversity & Inclusion”: Seminar on Innovation Driven by Diversity & Inclusion In order to further facilitate understanding of and raising awareness of diversity & inclusion,” we hold a diversity and inclusion promotion seminar annually. For the event held in the fiscal year ended March 2019, we invited as a speaker Ms. Vicky Binns, Vice President Marketing Minerals of BHP Group Limited, which is the world largest integrated resource company and an important partner for us. The theme was “How we can connect diversity and inclusion to business creation,” and lively panel discussions took place after the lecture. 83 Social Promoting Diversity & Inclusion Career Development Initiatives for Women Policy Initiatives to Support Continuous Career Development System Activity SDGs：5.4, 5.5, 5.c As one of our key initiatives to promote the careers of diverse human resources at Mitsui, we have been Training for Female Business Staff (Career-Vision Training) promoting human resources development, environment improvements, and mindset changes to support This training is provided for young female business staff. The most important aim of the training is to help female staff members (both business staff and administrative staff ) in building and continuing their participants prepare for their future long-term career paths. The training helps employees to develop careers. concrete ideas about the growing range of choices that they will face, along with life events and other factors, through dialogue with senior colleagues and discussions with staff members working in the same environment. Action Plans Related to Career Development Initiatives for Women Policy Female Mentor System Mitsui has formulated “Voluntary Action Plan on Promotion of Women to Managerial and Board Positions” The female mentor system has been introduced to provide opportunities for female employees to learn and “Action Plan Related to the Promotion of Women’s Empowerment” to promote women’s about the significance of working for Mitsui and discover new ideas about career development through empowerment, and is implementing related initiatives. communication with more experienced female coworkers. The system provides a way to seek advice Our goal of “more than tripling the number of female staffs at managerial positions as of June 2014 about matters ranging from minor problems in day-to-day activities through to career planning. A wide (which was 67) by around 2020,” which was noted in both of the aforementioned plans, was achieved in range of female employees are selected as mentors from among those who have worked overseas, July 2018 two years ahead of the original plan. experienced various life events, or are active in the frontline at the business divisions or as secondees. Employees can choose their mentor depending on the type of advice they need. Mitsui has also Voluntary Action Plan on Promotion of Women to Managerial and Board Positions established mentor systems for non-Japanese employees and young employees. Our voluntary action plan was posted on the Keidanren website in December 2014. As of July 1, 2019, Mitsui has 3 female officers (2 Directors and 1 Audit & Supervisory Board Member) and Diversity Cafe the ratio of female officers to the total number of officers is 15.8%. Along with changes in the social milieu, such as a greater diversity in people’s sense of values, the rising number of dual income households where husbands and wives both hold jobs, and the aging of the Keidanren (Japanese only) population, there has been an increase in the number of employees seeking new kinds of career paths and wanting to maintain a balance between their work and private lives. We host Diversity Cafe to allow Action Plan Related to the Promotion of Women’s Empowerment (from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2021) employees of all ages and roles to come together and The plan describes our targets for the period up to the end of the fiscal year ending March 2020 under the have the opportunity to learn from each other’s Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. experiences, and to discuss and share information on matters of common interest. Last year, we organized the Action Plan Related to the Promotion of Women’s Empowerment (from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2021) (PDF 516KB) first Diversity Cafe for male employees since we started 低解像度 this initiative in 2009. In an amicable atmosphere, the P.101 Performance Data Related to Diversity participants had discussions on such themes as “advice for male employees who consider taking child care P.122 Evaluation by Society leave of male employees” and “work-life management for dual income households.” The 24th session of the Diversity Cafe in progress 84 Social Promoting Diversity & Inclusion Support for Employees Who Are Citizens of Countries Other Than Japan System Hiring of People with Disabilities System Mitsui & Co. group has excellent human resources belonging to a variety of nationalities and resident in In order to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, and as part of its efforts to promote diversity and different countries and regions around the world, and encourages them to play an active role in inclusion, Mitsui is working to expand the quantity and quality of employment opportunities for people developing business that is closely connected with individual region. In order to boost global group with various types of disabilities. In this area, we work closely with Mitsui & Co. Business Partners Ltd., management, Mitsui brings employees from its group companies to Japan on job transfers and training, which was established in 1981 as a trailblazing special-purpose subsidiary. and supports human resources development and the establishment of human networks within the group. For over 20 years, Mitsui has exceeded the statutory rate for the employment of people with Moreover, Mitsui has built a support framework for non-Japanese employees who are hired by the Tokyo disabilities, and as of June 2019 our rate stood at 2.77%. We remain committed to the sustainable Head Office, such as a mentor system aiming to provide comprehensive support for the career expansion of employment opportunities. We have set a target of 3.0% for 2023, when the statutory rate is development and independence, and provision of support for administrative procedures, such as expected to be revised, and we will continue to implement various initiatives with the aim of achieving updating or changing visa status. this target. From the perspective of qualitative improvement, we do not limit the types of work that people do according to whether or not they have disabilities. Instead, we strive to create working environments in Promoting Understanding of LGBT(*) System which people can work with passion and motivation and learn to recognize each other’s contributions by handling tasks that match their individual abilities, and in which they can take up new challenges and While views about LGBT issues vary from country to country, Mitsui believes that gaining a proper achieve continuous growth while creating wide-ranging value. In fact, people with disabilities are understanding of LGBT and issues surrounding LGBT is an important part of building relationships of trust employed in an extremely broad range of work, especially in the areas of human resource management with the people we meet in our work. Accordingly, we have implemented measures such as providing an and general administration, such as operations relating to HR matters, wages, welfare, business travel internal consultation service, holding internal seminars in Japan, and posting the LGBT Guidebook on the arrangements, printing, mail processing, expense reimbursement, data processing, and office layout company intranet. In addition, we cover the topic of LGBT as part of Overseas Pre-posting Training for management. We will continue to develop and expand the fields of work, in order to provide employees being posted overseas, supporting employees’ understanding before their posting. In terms of opportunities for people with various facilities, multi-purpose restrooms have been installed in the Tokyo Head Office. disabilities to contribute and grow. Trends in the percentage of people with disabilities * LGBT is an abbreviation of L = Lesbian, G = Gay, B = Bisexual, T = Transsexual. In this report, “LGBT” is also used to refer to all sexual minorities, addition to LGBT. We also help to facilitate employment in Mitsui’s work force (as of June 1) for people with disabilities in our affiliated 2.80% 2.74% 2.77% companies by holding an annual seminar 2.70% 2.60 and information-sharing meeting each % 2.50% 2.51% 2.51% year. The 2018 meeting took the form of a 2.40% 2.42% 2.53% 2.46% panel discussion, which was attended by 2.30% 2.24% 2.24% 29 people from 20 companies. 2.20% 2.26% 2.20% We will continue to promote 2.10% 2.00% employment for people with disabilities 2.00% 1.90% from both the qualitative and quantitative 1.80% 1.80% perspectives across the entire Mitsui & Co. 1.70% group, as part of our commitment to 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 removing barriers to social participation. Employment ratio of people with disabilities Legally stipulated ratio 85 Social Promoting Diversity & Inclusion Creating an Environment in Which Every Individual Can Achieve Their Full Potential Supporting the Active Participation of Senior Personnel System We have established a unit within the Human Resources and General Affairs Division that is fully dedicated Mitsui & Co. aims to strengthen its overall competitiveness as a company by creating environments in to supporting our senior (older) personnel. We provide various training opportunities, such as Career which individual employees can enhance their efficiency and productivity and use their abilities to the full. Design Training, as well as holding individual interviews to support senior personnel aged over 50 to help We are implementing a variety of initiatives to create environments that allow every employee to work them actively engage in business, etc. and to independently design their own career development path. energetically and enthusiastically and achieve personal growth in step with the company’s growth. Mitsui has introduced a “re-employment system” that provides employees who wish to continue working after reaching the mandatory retirement age of 60 with the opportunity to continue working up to the maximum age of 65. We strive to build an environment that enables active participation by senior Work Style Innovation Policy personnel by continuing to make use of their work experience, knowledge, and skills even after they reach the mandatory retirement age. Since 2015, Mitsui has been promoting “work style innovation” to review existing ways of working and Furthermore, we provide support to employees for their new careers outside the company, in line with realize flexible and priority-focused work styles that are unconstrained by spatial or temporal restrictions. their choice of career paths. Work Style Innovation Action Plans Initiatives to Support the Careers of Senior Employees so as to Play Active Roles within and outside the Company Specific KPIs and action plans for work style innovation have been formulated from three perspectives: (1) Provision of • Interviews for senior personnel the elimination of excessive working hours, (2) encouraging employees to take annual leave, and (3) information Individual interviews for employees aged 50 and above who wish to have an interview. Information and advice are provided on various individual themes, such as the employee’s future career, the company’s retirement promotion of flexible work styles. These have also been posted on the Japan Business Federation benefits and pension system, the retiree support system, the re-employment system, current conditions in the (Keidanren) website. rehiring market for senior employees, and planning and preparation for life after retirement. (Approximately 200 interviews are held per year.) • Re-employment system seminars (1) Elimination of excessive We will reduce the number of employees working more than 620 hours of The seminars are held to explain the system to employees seven months before mandatory retirement age. (Held four times per year for a total of approximately 140 employees.) working hours (KPI) overtime per year (statutory calculation) to zero by the fiscal year ending March • Interview to confirm intentions regarding re-employment 2021 by improving productivity and efficiency through individual employees’ Interviews are given to employees who did not attend the re-employment system seminars or any other employwork style innovation in a priority-focused manner. This KPI was achieved three ees who wish to have an interview. years earlier than planned in the fiscal year ending March 2018 (72.3%) Training • Career design training Two-day training held twice in total for business staff aged 48 to 51 and 54 to 58. It provides an opportunity for (2) Encouraging employees to We will increase the percentage of annual leave taken (including leave taken in participants to understand public systems and internal systems, review their values, strengths and weaknesses, take annual leave half-day and hourly units) to 70% by the fiscal year ending March 2021 by and think about choices of working styles. (Held 11 times in FY March 2019, with 273 participants.) improving productivity and efficiency through individual employees’ work style • Career Design Follow-up Training An evening course for employees who have already received career design training and would like follow-up innovation in a priority-focused manner. The percentage of annual leave taken training. (Held 3 times in FY March 2019, with 65 participants.) had increased to 72.3% as of the fiscal year ending March 2018, achieving the • Life plan training KPI ahead of the original plan. One-day training program for administrative staff aged 50 and above. (Held 2 times in FY March 2019, for 38 participants.) (3) Promotion of flexible work We will increase the percentage of employees giving positive answers to quesSupport for active • Discussions are held by the Re-employment Committee, which is composed of executive officers and division styles (KPI) tions on work styles in in-houses surveys, such as whether the workplace participation GMs, about the specific activities of each senior employee. Support is given for a diverse range of opportunities environment is suitable for the maximization of productivity, and whether there within the both in Japan, and at overseas offices and affiliated companies. are no obstacles to work in the workplace, to 60-70% of all employees by the company • We have developed the Overseas Fringe Benefits System to support overseas activities. • As of March 31, 2019, there were 129 re-employment contract employees (including 8 employees working fiscal year ending March 2024. Note: This KPI was revised to the current figure overseas). In the fiscal year ended March 2019, 46% of employees aged 60 accepted a re-employment offer. in the fiscal year ended March 2019 and will be followed up in future Mitsui Support for • The retiree support system is for employees aged 50 or above who wish to look for re-employment outside the Engagement Surveys. activities outside company. We provide support for job-seeking employees through companies specialized in that area, and we post the company re-employment information via the intranet. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, 41 employees aged 50 or above found their next career outside the company utilizing the support directly or indirectly provided by the company. 86 Social Creating an Environment in Which Every Individual Can Achieve Their Full Potential Paid Leave Days Taken and Usage Ratio (Non-consolidated)★ Work Style Innovation Measures As measures for realizing work style innovation, we introduced systems for enabling the taking of annual (％) (days) 80 16 paid leave in hourly units (since April 2016), mobile work (since June 2016), and selecting staggered working 74.9% 72.3% 70 66.6% 14 hours for individuals (since June 2017). In April 2019, we launched Mitsui & Co. teleworking (working from 14.4 61.4% 13.9 60 58.3% 12.8 12 home) on a company-wide basis and implemented major changes to the dress guidelines, in expectation of 11.8 50 11.2 10 further improvements in productivity and output quality, as well as stimulation of free flow of ideas. 40 8 30 6 Measures Date introduced Description Benefits, aims, etc. 20 4 Being able to April 2016 Employees can take up to the equivalent This measure supports a more prioritized approach to take paid annual of five days (which is a regulatory cap) of work style innovation by giving employees reliable 10 2 leave in hourly their annual paid leave in hourly units. access to the leave when they need it, so that they can 0 0 units (The same applies to full annual leave for concentrate on their work at other times. Since the FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 nursing care and family care [10 days introduction of this measure in 2016, it has been utilized each per year]). by almost 80% of employees. Average paid leave taken per year Average paid leave usage ratio per year Mobile work June 2016 This system allows employees to work By eliminating unproductive time, such as travel time, this scheme outside of the office (including at home), scheme allows employees to work more efficiently and Employees at Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan (excluding contract employees) using computers borrowed from the productively. Almost 70% of those using the scheme company, outside of regular working experienced improvements in their efficiency and productivhours or in free time before and after ity (based on the results obtained in the 3rd “Employee Survey customer visits. on Work Styles” conducted in October 2017). Reference: Results from Mitsui & Co.’s “Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles,” and “Mitsui Engagement Survey” Staggered June 2017 This system allows individual workers to The aim of this system is to maximize organizational perfor（Coverage: Mitsui & Co. employees working in Japan） working hours stagger the start of their working day mance and maintain a healthy sense of focus, by encouraging 1st (FY2016) 2nd (FY2017) 3rd (FY2018) Engagement Survey for individuals within 90 minutes before or after the individual employees to think seriously about the allocation of (FY2019) normal start time, provided that the working hours within each day to maximize benefits for the Realization of priority-based work styles 54.5% 39.7% 47.8% 52% required number of working hours is individual and the organization. Results from a survey maintained. conducted after its introduction showed that 95% of responEmployee satisfaction *1 72.6% 76.0% 77.6% 77%*2 dents thought that the system would contribute to the *1 Averages for “work motivation,” “sense of growth,” and “satisfaction with having chosen to work at the company” company’s competitiveness (based on the result of a survey *2 Based on the calculation method used up to FY2018. on staggered working hours conducted in February 2018). Mitsui & Co. July-September This measure expanded the scope of the The purpose of the trial was to verify that this system Work style reform action plan (Keidanren) teleworking 2017 (trial involving mobile work system described above would help to enhance the company’s competitiveness, (trial) 600 employees), (by adding the option of working at which is the aim of work style innovation, by improving June-September home or at a satellite office during the work efficiency and productivity of individuals and 2018 (trial involving working hours). organizations through increased flexibility concerning 1,900 employees) the location of work. Mitsui & Co. April 2019 This measure expanded the scope of the While maintaining the basic emphasis on face-to-face teleworking (for all employees) trial carried out in FY2018 and FY2019 to communication in the office, this system is designed to include all employees (in addition to improve productivity and efficiency through a focus on working at home during normal working results achieved in task-oriented times and spaces. hours, the system also provides for working at home in the event of disasters). Modification of April 2019 This measure allows individual business When the system was introduced on a trial basis in dress guidelines units to establish their own dress March 2018, 65% of organizations experienced guidelines to reflect industry-related improvements in productivity. The system respects the needs and business practices, which self-discipline of employees as professionals, improves vary according to the organization. work productivity and efficiency, and encourages the free flows of ideas. 87 Social Creating an Environment in Which Every Individual Can Achieve Their Full Potential “Company Dress Guideline” Overall results from the Mitsui Engagement Survey 2018 on a global basis* s from April 2019 en Global response rate: 89% es “Mitsui & Co. teleworking” “I am respected as an individual” “I am motivated toward my work” “I can learn and grow” New measures titi v from April 2019 starting from 2015 was selected by 80 % of employees was selected by 74 % of employees was selected by 76 % of employees om pe 2018 Mitsui Engagement Survey * Mitsui & Co. employees in Japan and overseas branches and offices (including regionally hired staff ) rat 2017 Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles ec po “Individual-based staggered working hours” or from June 2017 Work-Life Management Policy vin While maintaining the prescribed daily working hours, employees gc can individually choose their working hours on daily basis from 13 options by urging each individual employee to seriously consider Mitsui supports “work-life management” so that every employee is able to fully meet life responsibilities, the working hours that maximize not only their own performance, Im but also that of the organization. while pursuing career development by displaying their potential in the workplace to the full. As part of pro 2016 Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles these efforts, we have introduced various systems above the required statutory standards to support our employees in both work and childcare/family care. These systems are made available not just for female “Mobile work scheme”from June 2016 employees but also for male employees, encouraging male employees to take part in childcare and family Employees are permitted to take their company computers with them after regular working hours or for customer visits in order to work outside the care. company (including at their homes). By eliminating unproductive time, such as unnecessary travel time, employees can work with high levels of efﬁciency and productivity. “Annual paid leave on an hourly basis”from April 2016 Initiatives to Support Childcare and Family Care System Activity Employees can choose to take hourly-based paid leave up to the accumulated number of such hours equivalent to 5 days per ﬁscal year as part of their annual paid leave. SDGs：5.4 2015 Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles Pre-leave and Pre-return Consultations (Childcare/Family Care) “Employee opinion survey on work styles”from October 2015 For the employees planning to take childcare, pre-leave consultations have been offered for those who desire, and to all employees planning to take childcare, and pre-return consultations have been held for all employees planning to return to work after a period of leave. In order to provide further support for the Mitsui Engagement Survey Activity planning for the leave period and preparation for realizing an optimum work-life management balance at SDGs：5.4, 8.8 an earlier stage, we have introduced a pre-leave orientation program from the fiscal year ending March Mitsui began to gather accurate data about the attitudes of employees in the Tokyo Head Office and 2020. The employee who will be taking childcare leave, their supervisor, and a staff member in charge of branches and offices in Japan with the implementation of a survey on work styles in October 2015. In human resources in the unit to which the employee belongs, participate in the orientation. The employee November 2018, Mitsui launched the Mitsui Engagement Survey as a new mechanism for gathering receives advice to gain deep understanding of the various work-life support systems, as well as advice on comprehensive data about individual employees’ awareness of work styles and the types of workplace self-motivated career-building in the future, while the supervisor and human resources manager learn the environments that motivate employees. In order to formulate and implement policies that reflect actual importance of continuing to carry out thorough communication, having high expectations of the conditions on a global basis, we have expanded the scope of the survey to include employees working or employee, giving them opportunities, and supporting their growth. Through the introduction of this recruited overseas and have provided results from the survey as feedback to each region. We plan to system and other activities, we are working to create an environment that provides support for future conduct the Mitsui Engagement Survey around every two years. career-building and work-life management. For employees who will be taking family care leave, we continue to provide pre-leave and pre-return consultations, if the employee wishes, and for employees who have concerns regarding work-life balance, in particular, we provide opportunities for individual meetings at an earlier stage, in cooperation with the human resources manager in the corresponding unit. 88 Social Creating an Environment in Which Every Individual Can Achieve Their Full Potential Utilization of Work Style Innovations Systems (Childcare/Family Care) Work-Life Management Support Systems System The staggered working hours system for childcare and family care was previously only available to employees involved directly in childcare or family care. In the fiscal year ended March 2018, as part of our As of April 2019 Work Style Innovation initiatives, we included this system in the individual-based staggered working hours Name of System scheme, which is applicable to all employees (although limited to staff working in Japan, and excluding Pregnancy Leave secondees). At the same time, we made it possible to use this scheme and the childcare and family care Late arrival at work or early departure from work Pregnancy working hours system (shortened working hours system) in a combined manner. Furthermore, we also Exemption from overtime work started to offer a variety of choices for flexible work styles, including annual paid leave on an hourly basis, Re-assignment to other job duties that are less strenuous and the opportunity to obtain nursing care leave and family care leave in hourly units. By introducing Maternity Leave Childbirth Childbirth Attendance Leave these various systems, we are developing an environment in which even employees with time restrictions Childcare Leave can display maximum performance in a more efficient way. Nursing Care for Child Leave (a full-day basis, a half-day basis, an hourly basis) Childcare Measures Supporting Work alongside Childcare Short-time working for childcare Exemption from overtime work We have been offering support to help employees return to work smoothly, including contracting with Restrictions on overtime work external childcare facilities near to our offices in order to secure places for our employees and provision of Exemption from late night work subsidies to cover part of the costs for babysitters. Additionally, in the fiscal year ended March 2018, we Family Care Leave have started to subsidize part of the costs of childcare, and extended childcare and a housekeeping Nursing Care for Family Leave (a full-day basis, a half-day basis, an hourly basis)(*) service costs for employees who return to work early from childcare leave, and part of the costs of a Family Care Short-time working for family care housekeeping service. While respecting the best work-life management for each individual employee, we Exemption from overtime work are developing various support measures. Restrictions on overtime work Exemption from late night work Career Support Re-employment system for ex-employees who had to resign due to the transfer of their spouse Measures Supporting Work alongside Family Care To help employees prepare for a sudden need to give family care, we have published the “Handbook for Long-term leave for self-development Volunteer Activity Leave Assisting Work alongside Family Care” on the intranet, and are also holding explanatory sessions on family Jury Duty Leave Others care systems and family care seminars during lunch breaks, providing relevant information to support Special Support Leave ( a full-day basis, a half-day basis, an hourly basis) (From April 2017) employees. Mobile work Individual-based staggered working hours (From June 2017) Furthermore, to develop the working environment for supporting work alongside family care, we hold * After taking the famiy care leave, employees shall be able to apply for the use of his/her long-term medical leave. seminars for managers in charge of human resources. In addition, we have concluded a contract with an external NPO and provide our employees with opportunities to have individual consultations with external family care experts once a month at a conference room, providing a venue for alleviating employees’ concerns and uneasiness on an individual basis. We also provide opportunities to have consultations with external experts via email or telephone. For employees who do not meet the criteria for obtaining family care leave despite having a family member who has a disability and needs a certain level of assistance, we have established a special support leave system. P.102 Employees Taking Childcare or Family Care Support (Non-consolidated)★ 89 Social Creating an Environment in Which Every Individual Can Achieve Their Full Potential Recognition from Society for Our Work-Life Management Activity Joint Efforts with Labor Unions Policy SDGs：5.4 As a result of implementing a series of measures to promote work-life management, Mitsui has been Basic Policy recognized three times (in 2008, 2011, and 2015) by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a We respect the right to collective bargaining and freedom of association. Mitsui & Co. and the Mitsui Labor company that is actively providing childcare support to help our employees care for children, and has Union, which was established in 1962, hold a shared understanding of the societal mission of Mitsui. Both acquired the next generation certification logo (Kurumin). We will continue to formulate and promote parties respect each other’s positions, and work toward the sound development of the company and action plans (6th period – from April 2019 to March 2021) under the Act on Advancement of Measures to society and toward the improvement of the social, economic, and cultural status of union members. Support Raising Next-Generation Children. Accordingly in May 2015, a union shop agreement was concluded. As of March 31, 2019, the number of union members stood at 4,553 (representing an 85.0% participation ratio). Kurumin Logo The “Kurumin” logo may be placed on the products of a business that has been officially Discussions with the Labor Union recognized by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as actively providing childcare We share various issues with the Labor Union and actively engage in discussions, with the aim of creating an support. The logo shows an infant safe and sound, wrapped in a protective blanket, which environment in which every employee can continue working with energy and motivation, and in which both represents the concern and care of the workplace and society. employees and the company achieve continual growth. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, Mitsui engaged in multi-layered discussions with the union on various levels and on a wide range of topics, including human resource Mitsui & Co. Action Plans under the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children (Japanese only) management systems, salaries and bonuses, work style innovation, training, and occupational health and safety. We introduce those systems and measures on the basis of labor-management agreement. In determining salaries and bonuses, we comply with the laws and regulations of each country/region where we engage in business, secure a Contracted Childcare Facilities System living wage that exceeds the minimum wage, and promote creation of a good working environment for every employee. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, in particular, in response to a proposal by the Labor Union, expanded working team-level negotiations were conducted, and human resource management systems were partially revised to allow capable young employees to be promoted earlier or appointed to managerial positions. In addition, collective bargaining sessions were held regarding the agreement on overtime and holiday work (the so-called “36 Agreement”) that needs to be addressed in relation to the revisions to be made to the Labor Standards Act from April 2019, and the targeted overtime hour limit that is compliant with the revised act and maximum Poppins Nursery School Marunouchi Kids Square, Marunouchi Eiraku Building overtime hour limit based on the special clause for extension were revised. We have also stepped up our efforts towards thorough working hour management to ensure consistent implementation of target limits on overtime hours, as set by labor and management, by sharing data about employee working hours with union officials. Re-employment System for Employees Who Had to Resign Due to the Transfer of Their Spouse System FY2017 September: Collective bargaining (introduction of the Union’s newly appointed executives) January: Collective bargaining (revisions to human resource management systems) February: Expanded working team-level negotiations (revisions to compensation systems) A re-employment system was introduced in 2007 that enables employees who had to resign from Mitsui due to the transfer of their spouse to become re-employed. In order for such an employee to work for FY2018 June: Expanded working team-level negotiations (union proposals for training systems) September: Collective bargaining (introduction of the Union’s newly appointed executives) Mitsui in the future, the Human Resources & General Affairs Div. provides consultation for the employee April/November: Working team-level negotiations (discussions about the working environment in the new Head Office building) before their resignation, so that the employee may consider relevant matters such as how they might FY2019 April: Collective bargaining (salary negotiation for the fiscal year ended March 2019) spend their time after their resignation. June: Expanded working team-level negotiations (revisions to human resource management systems) December: Collective bargaining (revision on the agreement on overtime and holiday work) P.102 Re-employment System for Employees Who Had to Resign Due to the Transfer of Their Spouse (Non-consolidated) February: Expanded working team-level negotiations (the bonus formula for the fiscal year ending March 2020, and partial revisions to human resource management systems) 90 Social Creating an Environment in Which Every Individual Can Achieve Their Full Potential Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Dialogue between Management Executives and the Labor Union We are working to maintain healthy relationships and to deal with various issues through labormanagement cooperation. For example, we actively create opportunities within each unit for dialogue Our Approach towards Health Management/Occupational Health and Safety Policy with management executives and discussions with COO and General Manager of each unit regarding business overviews and policies, the administration of human resource management systems, and human The Mitsui & Co. global group aims to develop safe, healthy working environments in which every resource development (in total 16 such meetings were held in the fiscal year ended March 2019). individual employee can work with peace of mind. We see this as essential to enabling each employee to work at his or her full potential, and to continuing to strengthen the competitiveness of the entire Mitsui & May 2018 COOs of Energy Business Unit I and Unit II Co. global group. In addition to measures in accordance with the laws and regulations in each country June 2018 COO of Food & Retail Management Business Unit, COO of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit, COOs of Mobility where we engage in business, we have established structures to ensure that we properly respond to Business Unit I and Unit II, COO of IT & Communication Business Unit, COO of Mineral & Metal Resources Business emergencies, such as accidents and disasters. We also implement various health management and Unit, COO of Food Business Unit, COO of Infrastructure Projects Business Unit, GM of CFO Planning & Administrapromotion measures. tive Division, COO of Consumer Business Unit, COO of Corporate Development Business Unit July 2018 President, COO of Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit, COO of Healthcare & Service Business Unit Health Declaration Policy Promoting Internal Communication Activity Recognizing that the good health of employees is one of Mitsui & Co.’s greatest assets, we formulated the Health Declaration on September 2017 as below. With the aim of making Mitsui an even more vibrant, dynamic, and vigorous company, we actively create opportunities for dialogue among employees and between the management and employees. For some Health Declaration time, we have been holding so-called Active Talk Wednesday (ATW) sessions as employee gatherings on a Employees are irreplaceable assets for Mitsui & Co. We regard health management for our valued employees as a regular basis, with the aim of stimulating internal communication. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, vital management priority, and we will implement the following initiatives with the aim of helping our employees three seated-style ATW sessions were held for small groups with a focus on stimulating communication to maintain and improve their health. between management and employees. Four buffet-style ATW sessions were also held with the aim of 1. We will create safe and comfortable workplaces in which employees can work energetically and in good health. strengthening networking among employees. At the offices in Japan, a total of 13 ATW dialogue sessions 2. We will help our employees to work in the spirit of “challenge and innovation” by supporting their health managewere held, involving employees from affiliated companies as well. Furthermore, in the fiscal year ended ment and sustainably enhance our corporate value. March 2019, “The Kurumaza” (roundtable meetings), where the president meets with employees for open 3. We will help employees to raise their awareness of the need to maintain their own health and to take the initiative discussions, was held on 26 occasions at the Tokyo Head Office, 4 times at branches and offices in Japan, in maintaining and improving their mental and physical health. and 64 times at overseas offices. By sharing management’s thoughts and ideas from a variety of perspectives and bringing Tatsuo Yasunaga Representative Director together the opinions and thoughts of employees through President and Chief Executive Officer face-to-face meetings, we will endeavor to create an Mitsui & Co., Ltd. organization with an atmosphere of openness. As we continue to promote work style innovation, and prepare for the planned move to the new Head Office building in 2020, in the fiscal year ending March 2020 we will advance various new initiatives aimed at further promoting communication within the company. Seated-style ATW sessions at the Head Office 91 Social Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Health Management Promotion Framework System Health Promotion Committee In February 2017, Mitsui established the Health Promotion Committee under the basic policy of (1) Under the leadership of the Senior Executive Managing Officer serving as the Chief Health and Safety promoting “Health and Productivity Management,” which regards health management as a management Supervisor, we have created the following framework for promoting employees’ health maintenance, priority, and (2) maintaining and enhancing employees’ health through implementation of “Health and including the establishment of the Health Promotion Committee, and have been promoting health Productivity Management” and improving the company’s productivity. Committee meetings are held on a management throughout the company. quarterly basis, and the minutes of each meeting are uploaded on the company’s intranet for the purpose of sharing the information among all employees. As part of our “collaborative health” program, through which we aim to implement effective measures for Safe and comfortable workplaces enhancing employees’ health under a partnership between the health insurance union and the company Improving awareness of (with company representatives including the Senior Executive Managing Officer in charge, the General Health maintenance and health management, productivity, Employees improvement efforts Manager of the Human Resources & General Affairs Division, the head of the Health Management Center & and quality of life (QOL) Medical Clinic Dept. of Human Resources & General Affairs Division, occupational physicians and other healthcare professionals), Mitsui and Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society will work together to plan and decide on policies aimed at maintaining and enhancing employees’ health, and to execute these policies. ・General health management ・Lifestyle disease ・Mental health measures countermeasures Hygiene Committee ・Metabolic syndrome The Hygiene Committee headed by the Company’s Chief Health and Safety Supervisor (a position held concurrently ・Health advice countermeasures ・Training, seminars ・Insurance beneﬁts by the Senior Executive Managing Director in charge), consists of occupational physicians, health officers, employees ・Working environment ・Workplace inspection improvement ・Health checks ・Long-working-hour countermeasures ・Meeting detail recommended by management, and employees recommended by the Labor union. The committee holds monthly ・Public health projects ・Smoking-habit countermeasures disclosures meetings and discusses ways to improve working environments, ways to develop an appropriate framework, and ・Speciﬁc public health guidance ・Alcohol-related measures other related matters based on the advice provided by qualified occupational physicians and health officers. ・Health support for female employees ・ “Round Refresh”activities Policies, initiatives Topics discussed by the committee include the results of workplace inspections, countermeasures based on those results, regular reports on long overtime hours, as well as implementation of regular health checks and stress checks, and influenza vaccination programs. The committee has members’ opinions reflected in safety and health measures to ensure employees’ health and workplace safety. They also communicate with Promotion Structure employees by posting the minutes of the committee’s monthly meetings on the intranet. Senior Executive Managing Ofﬁcer Health Performance Index Health Promotion Meetings • Percentage of employees undergoing health checks: 100% by the fiscal year ending March 2021 Human Resouces & Mitsui Bussan Health General Affairs Div. Collaborative-Health Insurance Society • Medical questionnaire response rate: 100% by the fiscal year ending March 2021 (Health Management Program Meetings • Percentage of employees undergoing stress checks: 90% or higher by the fiscal year ending March 2021 Center & Medical Clinic Dept. ) Mitsui & Co. Labor Union • Smoking rate: Reduction by 0.5% compared to the previous fiscal year Hygiene Committee (Employees) Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program “White 500” The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi jointly implement excellent health management. Mitsui has been recognized as one of the Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations under the initiative “White 500” for three consecutive years. P.122 Evaluation by Society 92 Social Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Employee Health Management System Activity Health Advice/Health Maintenance Promotion Measures System Activity SDGs：3.4, 3.d SDGs：3.4, 3.5, 3.a, 3.d In-house Medical Clinic Health Guidance We have established a clinic in our Tokyo Head Office and a medical treatment room in the Osaka Office. We implement the following health promotion measures to help employees avoid lifestyle diseases and The clinic in the Tokyo Head Office covers a diverse range of specialist areas, including internal medicine, metabolic syndrome. surgery, ophthalmology, E.N.T. and radiology, and is equipped to provide medical consultations for employees. It also provides comprehensive medical examinations and medical check-ups for employees Measures Target Group Guidance Provider who are about to travel overseas or have returned from overseas assignments, as well as inoculations. Designated health guidance People aged over 40 Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society (active support, motivational support) Current or potential metabolic syndrome sufferers Consultant physicians are assigned to each office in Japan to provide health management for employees Individual health guidance (weight People aged 39 or under* Public health nurses from the Health working in those locations. loss support), recommendations to Potential metabolic syndrome sufferers Management Center & Medical Clinic Dept. undergo medical examinations Examinations at the Tokyo Head Office Medical Clinic (Unit: persons) Dietary advice People affected by obesity, lifestyle diseases, or Registered dieticians FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 metabolic syndrome Examinations (total number of people examined) 24,380 24,173 21,421 18,200 13,979 Individual health guidance Underweight female aged 39 or under Public health nurses from the Health Management Center & Medical Clinic Dept. * Results of and benefits from individual health guidance (weight loss support) for potential metabolic syndrome sufferers aged 39 or younger in the fiscal year Medical Examinations ended March 2019 We provide multiple regular in-house medical examination opportunities per year, and employees are able Health advice recipients: 48 Final number of interviewees: 10 (implementation rate: 20.8%) to view the results of their own examinations on the intranet. Mitsui and the Mitsui Bussan Health Average weight loss: 1.01 kg, maximum weight loss: 7.8 kg Percentage of participants achieving weight loss: 50% Insurance Society are also working collaboratively toward the prevention and early detection of lifestyle Average BMI reduction: 0.4, maximum BMI reduction: 2.6 Percentage of participants achieving BMI reduction: 50% diseases and other conditions, and the provision of enhanced health advisory services, through the formulation and implementation of the following measures. Provision of Healthy Menus in the Employee Cafeteria, Trial Introduction of Healthy Cafeteria App • Provision of opportunities for employees aged 35 and over to undergo comprehensive health Menus in the employee cafeteria provide information about calories and the protein, carbohydrate, fat, examinations at external medical institutions, and subsidies for the cost of the examinations and salt content of each meal. Other options include healthy meals with the emphasis on dietary balance, • Provision of subsidies for employees aged 35 and over who undergo brain checkups, lung cancer and vegan lunch boxes. screening, gastroscopic examinations, and colorectal cancer screening In 2018, we trialed the Healthy Cafeteria app, a smartphone dietary management app, at the company • Provision of specific health advisory services for employees aged 40 and over cafeteria. The Healthy Cafeteria app has been jointly developed by our associated company AIM Services • Provision of subsidies for cervical cancer screening for female employees aged 34 and under Co., Ltd., and the healthcare technology • Provision of subsidies for breast cancer (mammography and ultrasonography) and uterine cancer company Oishi Kenko Inc., which is developing screening for female employees aged 35 and over healthcare technology business. It suggests • Provision of opportunities for new hires to undergo a pylori infection test at the medical check before optimal meal choices based on health data employment stored by the user, and uses meal records to analyze dietary excesses and deficits and Percentage of Employees Undergoing Health Checks provide advice. It also records other healthFY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 related information, such as step counts and Undergoing health checks 87.5% 87.7% 90.0% 97.3% 99.8% alcohol consumption. The aim is to enhance employees’ awareness of health from the Medical Support System (Mutual Aid Association) perspective of lifestyle habits, and help them This system supports association members and their families in Japan and overseas by covering medical to change aspects of their lifestyle that are The Healthy Cafeteria app expenses that are not covered by health insurance in the event of illness or injury. 93 Social Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives affecting their health. We also have provided the Healthy Diet Coaching Program, through which Smoking Rates at Mitsui employees can seek advice from registered dieticians etc. for losing weight or changing their dietary 24.3% 25% (534/2201) lifestyles. A survey conducted after the trial showed that 89% of participants had become more health20.5% 19.2% conscious, while 79% had changed their lifestyles. Moreover, participants in the Healthy Diet Coaching 20% (616/3001) (558/2912) Program achieved significant improvements in weight loss, BMI, waist measurements, triglyceride levels, 15.0% (645/4307) and other areas. 15% 10% Use of Outside Fitness Gyms, Exercise at Work 3.4% Mitsui’s lineup of optional welfare services includes attendance services for employees to use outside fitness 5% (24/711) 2.2% gyms at corporate rates. Furthermore, we have also introduced the “Round Refresh” program, under which (29/1306) trainers visit workplaces once a week during 0% working hours to lead employees in stretching Males Females Total exercises. By standing up at their desks and FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 performing light exercises, employees can relax their muscles, and alleviate shoulder stiffness and back pain. This not only helps to restore (Unit: persons) their concentration and creativity, but also Males Females Total improves the workplace atmosphere by providing a chance for communication. FY2014 534 (24.3%) 24 (3.4%) 558 (19.2%) Employees feel mentally and physically FY2015 512 (22.7%) 19 (2.5%) 531 (17.6%) refreshed and are able to reduce stress. Employees participating in a “Round Refresh” session. FY2016 645 (20.0%) 25 (2.1%) 670 (16.3%) Smoking Reduction Measures FY2017 578 (21.0%) 27 (2.4%) 605 (15.6%) In 2020, we will relocate to a new Head Office building. All spaces used exclusively by Mitsui will be FY2018 616 (20.5%) 29 (2.2%) 645 (15.0%) smoke-free, and there will be no smoking rooms. We are implementing the following measures to help employees to quit smoking ahead of the move to the new building in 2020. The target is a year-on-year reduction of 0.5% in the percentage of smokers. • Provision of a counseling room for those wishing to quit smoking • Establishment of a smoking cessation support page on the intranet • Provision of seminars on passive smoking and smoking cessation • Supply of smoking cessation aids, such as apps and patches • Phased limitation of access to smoking rooms in the temporary Head Office buildings As part of measures to reduce cancer, lifestyle diseases, and other health problems, Mitsui, in cooperation with the Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society, pays subsidies to employees who successfully quit smoking through smoking cessation therapies provided under the health insurance scheme. 94 Social Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Alcohol-Related Measures Health Management for Employees Working Overseas System Since the fiscal year ended March 2017, we have been running health seminars that include testing for alcoholism susceptibility genes. We regard health management for employees working overseas and their families as an important priority The results of a survey conducted in the fiscal year ended March 2019 following genetic testing for and have established systems to ensure that advice is available at any time if employees or family current employees indicated that people gained a new awareness of appropriate drinking behavior and members suffer physical or mental illness. Specifically, in cooperation with each business unit, were motivated to make improvements after they learned about their genetic susceptibility for occupational physicians at the Tokyo Head Office provide support for employees assigned overseas via alcoholism. email, telephone, interviews using a videophone system, and direct interviews with the physicians. Vaccinations and health checks are provided for employees assigned overseas and their families. They Results of FY 2019 Questionnaire after Genetic Testing for Alcoholism Susceptibility also receive overseas health management training covering physical and mental health and other aspects, Reduction in frequency of drinking 44% as well as information about how to obtain medical information and access support systems while overseas. We also provide health management support for employees working overseas and their families Reduction of amount consumed each time 52% in partnership with emergency medical service contractors. Change to beverages with lower alcohol content 26% Countermeasures against Infectious Diseases System Activity SDGs：3.3 Health Support for Female Employees System As a company with numerous overseas offices and branches, Mitsui recognizes the importance of responding to global health issues, such as tuberculosis, malaria, and HIV/AIDS. In addition to taking steps To provide support for female employees, we established a consultation desk to offer advice on women’s to protect employees working in locations where there is a high risk of infection, Mitsui also works actively health and maternal health through individual consultations with female physicians. Useful health-related to contribute to local communities, and provide periodic programs for them. information is provided via the intranet, together with notices on the availability of various types of health Specifically, we run an in-house program that provides influenza vaccinations, for which approximately advice. 2,000 employees apply every year. We also provide mouthwash and antiseptic solutions in every During Women’s Health Week, we hold seminars for female employees on topics relating to female workplace as part of our efforts to prevent the occurrence and spreading of infections. In addition, we health, including gynecological diseases and their prevention, and the achievement of hormonal balance. promote awareness-raising activities to make sure that employees can obtain in-depth knowledge of In the fiscal year ending March 2020, we will also introduce health guidance for underweight women preventive methods for tuberculosis, malaria, HIV/AIDS, and dengue fever through providing related aged 39 and under. training and seminar programs. We also provide subsidies for cervical cancer screening for female employees aged 34 and under, and We also maintain a framework at the company level to ensure timely action through cooperation breast cancer (mammography and ultrasonography) and uterine cancer screening for those aged 35 and between workplaces and public health clinics, the Security Management Department, clinics, and over. industrial health staff, based on risk assessments and monitoring of the occurrence of infectious diseases while obtaining information about infectious diseases from overseas medical assistance firms and public health clinics. In collaboration with the Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society, we subsidize the cost of vaccinating children aged 13 and under against influenza, as children in this age group are regarded as having a high infection rate and the potential to develop serious diseases. P.64 Responding to Global Health Problems—Fighting Infectious Diseases (Malaria, Measles, etc.) 95 Social Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Mental Health Policy System Training and Seminars on Health and Safety System Activity SDGs：3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.d In addition to mental health training and labor management training for line managers, training for health Mental Health Promotion Plan (formulated on May 1, 2016) and safety management overseas and health management training for new-graduate employees, we also Mitsui recognizes that the mental health of its employees is an important priority issue in order to hold other health and safety seminars as part of our efforts to build an organization with a high level of promote happy lives for its employees and their family members, to increase productivity at the health literacy. company, and to develop lively workplaces. Accordingly, we will promote mental health initiatives, not only in terms of dealing with mental health problems, but also in a broader sense, including measures Results of Training Activities in FY 2019 (Unit: persons) to revitalize workplace communication, etc. Training Program Participants Training before overseas assignments: Overseas risk management (overseas health 388 We have set the following targets to be achieved in the five-year period up to the fiscal year ending and safety management) March 2021. Training for new M2/line managers: Mental health for line managers, Labor Manage1. All employees, including managers, shall understand mental health issues, and become able to fill his ment for line managers 88 or her own role in promoting mental health. Introductory training for new employees: Health management for workers 160 2. Fully establish and permeate the stress check system. 3. Achieve a 100% response rate in the regular medical questionnaire. “Enjoying Alcohol Sensibly” seminar for current employees 198 Genetic testing for alcoholism susceptibility Under Mitsui’s Mental Health Promotion Plan, employees are able to obtain advice easily and at any time “Enjoying Alcohol Sensibly” seminar for employees in charge of supporting new via a dedicated consultation service. Through consultations with health nurses and occupational employees 174 physicians, employees can receive support that meets their individual needs. Employees also have access Genetic testing for alcoholism susceptibility to counseling by specialists at the company clinic. In addition, we have established external advice lines “Passive Smoking” seminar 69 through which not only employees, but also their family members can seek advice anonymously via telephone and email, or arrange consultations. Health Management Program for working women: “Protect your health yourself” 78 Even when an employee takes temporary absence from work, occupational physicians and health nurses Total 1,155 continue to provide highly attentive care. To ensure that employees can feel confident about returning to work, they go through a preparatory process that includes multiple interviews. After their return to work, they receive follow-up care, including health monitoring and measures to prevent recurrences, based on In addition to the above seminars and programs, we aim to raise awareness of health among collaboration among occupational physicians, health nurses, company doctors, and other personnel. employees by regularly uploading on the intranet lectures by occupational physicians and health nurses Mitsui also implements stress checks. In addition, we carry out stress checks with the following aims: at the Hygiene Committee and the “Messages from Occupational Physicians” and “Health Nurse Column,” (1) measuring the level of employees’ stress in order to raise employees’ awareness of their own stress enabling all employees to obtain health information. levels, (2) linking this to improvements in the workplace environment, and (3) preventing mental health problems (primary prevention). We provide employees suffering from high stress with opportunities to have interviews with occupational physicians, and give feedback pertaining to the group analysis results to the workplace, for the purpose of improving the working environment. Percentage and Number of Employees Undergoing Stress Checks Stress checks FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Percentage of employees 79.1% 77.2% 85.4% Number of employees 3,861 3,721 4,090 96 Social Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Healthy Working Environment System Activity • Regular monitoring by the Human Resources & General Affairs Division, using working hours data from SDGs：8.8 attendance management systems, building entry/exit times, and PC usage histories We have implemented the following measures to develop a safe working environment for employees. • Continual compilation and distribution of information about overtime hours worked and annual paid leave taken in each unit Safe working • Training and other occasions to help managers to maintain comprehensive knowledge about proper environment Description of Initiatives initiatives labor management Ergonomic • We aim to improve operating productivity in the Head Office by applying universal design principles and a back-to• Creation and monitoring of KPIs under the Work Style Innovation Action Plan workplace back desk layout system, in order to stimulate communication within the organization, while also allowing seating positions to be changed flexibly. In addition, based on the Industrial Safety and Health Law and the Industrial Safety and Health Law, we • Twice a month, occupational physicians, health nurses, and other medical personnel visit each workplace to examine whether a safe working environment for employees is being maintained, and to identify and respond to urge employees who have worked overtime in excess of certain standards to consult with our safety and health problems in order to ensure a healthy work environment. occupational physicians, and suggest to them measures for preventing health problems and reducing Illumination We have installed illuminance sensors, which automatically detect motion and provide constant brightness control total working hours, as well as reducing excessive working hours. at the target illuminance level (750 lux). To reduce power consumption, window blinds are automatically controlled From the perspective of consolidated management, we have been preparing standards for labor according to the intensity and angle of sunlight. management at our affiliated companies to suit the business models of the respective companies. Under Noise External noise has been reduced significantly through the use of multiple-glazing in the building’s windows. Walls in visitor meeting rooms have soundproof structures that prevent sound from being audible outside of the rooms. these circumstances, we have implemented the following measures at our affiliated companies in Japan Indoor air Effective air-conditioning is provided by a system with outside air intakes. These lower the CO2 level while reducing with the aims of promoting the understanding of laws applicable across all Japanese companies, and ways quality the air-conditioning load. The environment within the building is monitored regularly. of responding accordingly, as well as developing appropriate labor management systems by sharing Humidity/ • We maintain internal humidity at an appropriate and comfortable level above 40%, even during winter when the approaches and know-how in relation to working hours. Temperature air tends to be drier, by introducing water vapor through use of heat pump desiccant humidity controllers and a • We hold regular meetings with the aim of exchanging information and strengthening relationships community cooling and heating system. • We maintain a comfortable working environment by setting the air-conditioning at 26° C in summer and 24-25° C in between the personnel staff at our affiliated companies. At these occasions, we share Mitsui’s policies other seasons. Introducing the “Cool Biz” system has allowed a comfortable workplace environment to be mainin relation to work style innovations, and give updates on the details of any legal amendments. tained in the summer months, while also reducing the air-conditioning load. • We have created a checklist of 53 items related to labor management in general, including working • In the offices, we have installed clocks capable of measuring temperature and humidity, allowing temperature and humidity to be maintained or monitored for a comfortable workplace environment. hours management. We make use of the checklist when developing labor management systems at affiliated companies as part of governance by the supervisory divisions. Regarding overseas branches, working hours are properly managed so as to comply with related laws Working Hours Management Policy Policy System Activity and regulations in each country. SDGs：8.8 P.103 Paid Leave Days Taken and Usage Ratio (Non-consolidated)★ We are committed to the appropriate management of working hours, and implement the following measures in order to develop a workplace environment in which our employees can continue to work P.86 Work Style Innovation Action Plans healthily and safely, and with peace of mind, without falling into chronic overwork. P.103 Annual Average Actual Working Hours (Non-consolidated)★ • Company-wide efforts to raise employees’ awareness of appropriate management of working hours through regular messages from management P.103 Monthly Average Overtime Working Hours (Non-consolidated)★ • Education activities for employees, including the formulation of the Working Hours Handbook and a manual about attendance management systems, and the compilation of FAQs, to provide clear information about laws, regulations, and corporate systems relating to working hours; the posting of this information on the intranet 97 Social Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives Creating New Value Occupational Safety System Activity SDGs：8.8 Mitsui takes various steps to protect its employees from workplace accidents, including periodic Mitsui & Co. has created the Long-term Management Vision (“LTMV”) to define a clear picture of its future. inspections by occupational physicians. We have established mechanisms to ensure that any accidents are In the LTMV, the evolution of Mitsui’s role from “connecting” to “creating” is positioned at the core of the promptly reported to the Human Resources & General Affairs Division. When accidents occur at Mitsui or company’s pursuits. Essentially, Mitsui has its roots in the work of creating new business and business its affiliated companies, the immediate submission of reports in accordance with our compliance-related models. That said, in the past, our functions and roles as a general trading company have often centered procedures and appropriate actions are ensured by these mechanisms, and at the same time we strive to on the creation of value through “connecting” companies, products, and other elements. The LTMV sets prevent recurrences. out our determination to evolve beyond that pattern into a company that proactively “creates” business. We see our relocation to our new Head Office building not simply as a change in our working Targets for FY 2020 environment, but as an important opportunity to accelerate the changes that will allow us to realize our Zero Workplace Accidents envisioned goals as set forth in the LTMV. Zero Fatal Accidents Moon System Activity P.103 Occupational Health and Safety Data (Non-consolidated)★ SDGs: 4.4, 8.2, 8.3 In August 2018, we established Moon Creative Lab Inc. (“Moon”) to develop and incubate new business for the Mitsui & Co. global group. Moon’s Palo Alto headquarters is located at the world epicenter of innovation, in America’s Silicon Valley. Its base in Japan is the WeWork shared office space in Meiji Security Management System Activity Jingumae, where it offers next-generation work styles and office environments. SDGs：8.8 Moon’s mission is to create a future vision for Mitsui by building new business from the ground up. Mitsui promotes various kinds of businesses through its 139 points of global operations (as of April 1, Moon provides an environment and functional capabilities for this “0→1” process, i.e. the process of 2019), and a large number of employees go on business trips to many parts of the world almost every day. forming totally new business that provides solutions to specific social issues, thereby accelerating our Ensuring the security of employees and their families is one of the most important tasks for the company. evolution. In cooperation with relevant domestic and foreign offices and security companies, Mitsui obtains and Moon seeks business ideas from the 44,000 Mitsui & Co. global group employees. Ideas contributed analyzes the latest information on the political situation, security situation and so on, and shares such from the frontline of business around the world are enhanced through dialogue with Moon’s operating information with the related staff in order for the employees to be able to raise their safety awareness. teams. The criteria for the selection of ideas take the form of questions posed to the employees who Mitsui has also prepared systems for situations such as accidents, injuries, and diseases, in cooperation submit the ideas. For example, “Will your idea result in business that creates new value for society?” “Will with emergency health care service companies. your idea alleviate problems affecting large numbers of people and contribute to well-being?” “How will For employees who will be dispatched overseas and for their accompanying family members, the your idea solve a social issue?” “Does the business that you have presented have a vision for the future and company has programs for security measures. a scenario for the achievement of that vision?” “Is there a project leader with the ability, commitment, and passion to thoroughly carry out your project?” Questions such as these clearly reflect the values of Mitsui. The final selection of projects for which commercial implementation will be initiated is made by the Moon Committee, which also includes external partners who are professional business designers. 98 Social Creating New Value Work-X Activity Our Stories: Develop talent leading to value creation SDGs：4.4, 8.2, 8.3 Mitsui is planning to move into its new Head Office building, which is scheduled to be completed in P.31 The Moon Platform̶Realizing the Shift from “Connecting” to “Creating” February 2020. Under a project called “Workplace Experience” (“Work-X”), we are considering a vision for workplace experiences in the new building, and the mechanisms needed to turn that vision into reality. SDGs: 4.4, 8.3 For example, one concept under consideration for the new building is the introduction of the group address system to support the flexible and mobile formation of teams according to operational and project requirements. Under the group address system, while specific areas are allocated to each organizational unit, employees can choose any desk or spot within those areas. This will allow employees Digital Transformation System Activity to follow a task-oriented approach to work by selecting the locations in which they work according to SDGs: 4.4, 8.2, 8.3 their individual objectives. To encourage face-to-face communication, we are also considering the creation of inner stairwells connecting all office floors, and the establishment of communication zones where Mitsui has identified the reinforcement of innovation capabilities as one of the functions that drives the people naturally gather and ideas are actively generated. These measures and ideas will result in chance realization of its Medium-term Management Plan. We aim to achieve full digital transformation, whereby encounters within each floor and activate casual communication, thereby fostering a sense of unity we digitize various information and data that exist in the business frontline and in society, and use digital among employees and triggering “intellectual chemical reactions.” power, including artificial intelligence, to classify, analyze, and control this information so that it can be Mitsui has defined the new Head Office building as an environment where Mitsui’s diverse individuals utilized for the benefit of business and society. One of the steps taken to realize our digital transformation produce a stir of “intellectual chemical reactions” with colleagues and partners inside and outside the was the establishment of the DT Team within the Corporate Planning & Strategy Division in 2016 to company, generate a wave of changes, and create the future of Mitsui We see the relocation to the new accelerate the commercial development of new value by making full use of digital technology. In 2017, building not simply as a change of address, but as an opportunity to accelerate innovation that Mitsui, ahead of any other general trading company, appointed a Chief Digital Officer (CDO). The DT Team contributes toward the realization of our LTMV. was formed by transferring around 15 people from the Information Technology Promotion Division, the IT & Communication Business Unit, and other business units into the Corporate Planning & Strategy Division. Group Address Trial The DT Team’s task is to work with business units to drive business innovation through digital technology. Through the DT Team, Mitsui is working to reduce costs and increase sales via efficiency improvements We are currently conducting a trial of the group and optimization, to enhance the quality of existing business, and at the same time to create new business address system in order to verify the effects, models. Examples include the use of AI for such purposes as medical diagnosis, logistics route including both benefits and issues, of introducing optimization, ticket price adjustment, and food demand forecasting. the system in the new Head Office building. Part of We are also implementing DT initiatives within the company with the aim of achieving major the existing furniture and equipment used in the improvements in the efficiency of day-to-day operations, energizing communication, and facilitating office spaces of a number of units have been knowledge sharing and utilization. The first organizational structures to make the transition to fully replaced with items suitable for the group address paperless meetings using IT tools were the Board of Directors and the Corporate Management system. The results of this verification process are Committee. Various units have since enhanced the utilization of IT tools and shifted toward paperless being shared within the company as information operations. By January 2019, these efforts had resulted in a 26% year-on-year reduction in the amount of for use in the formulation of policies by paper used to produce documents on copiers. organizations within the company. 99 Social Data of Personnel Affairs Data Concerning Employees (As of March 31, 2019) ★ Number of Hires by Gender (Non-consolidated)★ (Unit: persons) Consolidated Non-consolidated New graduates Mid-career Total Total Average age of employees Average number of years of Male Female Total Male Female Total Total employees (persons) employees (years old) service (years) FY2015 103 55 158 24 5 29 187 (persons) Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total FY2016 94 57 151 35 6 41 192 2015 47,118 4,385 1,621 6,006 42.7 40.7 42.2 19.1 17.8 18.8 FY2017 113 78 191 29 1 30 221 2016 43,611 4,292 1,613 5,905 42.6 40.7 42.1 18.9 17.8 18.6 FY2018 103 80 183 38 4 42 225 2017 42,316 4,238 1,615 5,853 42.5 40.6 42.0 18.8 17.6 18.5 FY2019 104 56 160 22 4 26 186 2018 42,304 4,217 1,642 5,859 42.7 40.6 42.1 18.9 17.5 18.5 FY2020*1 96 80 176*2 – – – 176 2019 43,993* 4,141 1,631 5,772 42.7 40.7 42.2 18.9 17.6 18.5 *1 Figures as of April 1, 2019 Employees hired directly by Mitsui & Co. and by consolidated companies, without a fixed contract period. *2 Includes employees who will join us on October 1, 2019 (Male: 1, Female: 1) * Percentage of female employees in the global workforce: 33.7% (as of March 31, 2019) Hours/Days of Training for Competency Development and Expenditure on Training (Non-consolidated) Number of Employees by Operating Segments (As of March 31, 2019) (Unit: persons) Total hours of Average hours of training Average days of training Average training expenditraining per year per employee per year per employee per year ture per employee per year Non-consolidated Consolidated Iron & Steel Products 328 1,518 FY2019 91,871 hours 15.92 hours 3.47 days JPY 349,544 Mineral & Metal Resources 291 619 Training programs organized by the Human Resources & General Affairs Division Machinery & Infrastructure 844 15,264 Chemicals 676 5,276 Average Hours of Training by Gender Per Year (Non-consolidated) Energy 392 843 Lifestyle 971 13,298 Male Female Innovation & Corporate Development 419 3,694 FY2019 Business staff 19.91 hours 19.91 hours Others 1,851 3,481 Administrative staff – 10.37 hours Total 5,772 43,993 P.78 Human Resources Development Programs Number of Employees by Region (As of March 31, 2019) ★ (Unit: persons) Average Personnel Turnover & Voluntary Turnover Rate of Full Time Employees (Non-consolidated) Staff Hired in Japan Regionally Hired Staff Japan 4,561 – Average personnel turnover rate Voluntary turnover rate Americas 330 560 Male Female All Male Female All Europe, the Middle East and Africa 241 615 FY2017 4.20% 4.21% 4.21% 1.08% 2.31% 1.42% Asia Pacific 498 1,482 FY2018 3.17% 3.98% 3.40% 1.22% 2.22% 1.50% Others 142 – FY2019 5.04% 4.62% 4.93% 1.31% 2.57% 1.66% Total 5,772 2,657 100 Social Data of Personnel Affairs Performance Data Related to Diversity Number of Female Employees Dispatched Overseas (As of April 1, 2019） Proportion of Female Permanent Staff and Managers (Non-consolidated) (As of July 1)★ (Unit: persons) Permanent staff Managerial staff Business staff Administrative staff CIS Female staff as Female staff as Female staff as Total Female Total Female Total Female Total 2 % of all staff % of all staff % of all staff North 2015 6,021 1,648 27.4% 3,353 126 3.8% 4,841 468 9.7% 1,180 Europe America 2016 5,952 1,653 27.8% 3,472 168 4.8% 4,791 492 10.3% 1,161 7 5 2017 5,917 1,674 28.3% 3,514 200 5.7% 4,748 505 10.6% 1,169 Far East 2018 5,880 1,662 28.3% 3,551 221 6.2% 4,727 509 10.8% 1,153 Asia 2 2019 5,793 1,667 28.8% 3,483 240* 6.9% 4,648 523 11.3% 1,145 17 Number of Middle East Female Employees * Includes 3 female General Managers (M1). Dispatched Overseas Central and 2 South America Overseas Assignment : 26 5 Africa Oceania Overseas Trainee Dispatch : 15 Proportion of Female and Foreign Corporate Officers (Non-consolidated) (As of July 1)★ (Unit: persons) 2 3 Foreign Language & Business Culture Trainee Course : 4 Directors Corporate Auditors Total : 45 Female directors as NonNon-resident directors Female directors as Total Female Total Female % of all directors resident as % of all directors % of all directors 2015 14 2 14.3% 1 7.1% 5 1 20.0% 2016 14 2 14.3% 1 7.1% 5 1 20.0% 2017 14 2 14.3% 2 14.3% 5 1 20.0% Region name Number of people Cities 2018 14 2 14.3% 2 14.3% 5 1 20.0% North America 5 New York 2019 14 2 14.3% 2 14.3% 5 1 20.0% Central and South America 5 Sao Paulo, Florianópolis, Lima Europe 7 London, Maarsen, Hamburg, Milan Middle East 2 Dubai, Tehran Actual Status of Promoting Career Advancement for Female Employees (Non-consolidated) Africa 2 Johannesburg, Maputo Female managerial staff Asia Singapore, Bangkok, Yogyakarta, Yangon, Ho Chi Minh City, New Delhi, Kuala Lumpur, 17 Santa Rosa (Unit: persons) Oceania 3 Sydney, Perth 250 240 Far East 2 Seoul, Taipei 2020 Target: 201(*) 221 CIS 2 Moscow, Vladivostok 200 200 168 150 126 100 76 67 50 32 38 23 27 20 0 09/4 10/4 11/4 12/4 13/4 14/4 14/7 15/7 16/7 17/7 18/7 19/7 * Targeted number of female staff in managerial positions by 2020 (more than triple the number of female staff as of June 2014, which was 67). 101 Social Data of Personnel Affairs Employees Taking Childcare or Family Care Support (Non-consolidated)★ Child Care (Unit: persons) Family Care (Unit: persons) Nursing Care for Short-time working Staggered working Childbirth AttenNursing Care for Short-time working for Staggered working Childcare Leave Family Care Leave Child Leave for childcare hours for childcare dance Leave Family Leave family care hours for family care FY2015 Male 12 47 13 4 91 FY2015 Male 0 31 0 0 Female 40 111 135 1 – Female 1 52 0 0 Total 52 158 148 5 91 Total 1 83 0 0 FY2016 Male 13 42 11 7 93 FY2016 Male 1 42 0 0 Female 49 107 137 1 – Female 0 59 0 0 Total 62 149 148 8 93 Total 1 101 0 0 FY2017 Male 13 64 7 5 102 FY2017 Male 1 50 0 0 Female 50 138 162 0 – Female 0 74 0 0 Total 63 202 169 5 102 Total 1 124 0 0 FY2018 Male 23 97 0 0 90 FY2018 Male 0 36 0 0 Female 64 182 150 0 – Female 0 60 0 0 Total 87 279 150 0* 90 Total 0 96 0 0* FY2019 Male 29 120 0 NA 85 FY2019 Male 2 44 0 NA Female 45 186 127 NA – Female 2 66 2 NA Total 74 306 127 NA 85 Total 4 110 2 NA * We included the staggered working hours system for childcare and family care in the individual-based staggered working hours scheme from June 2017. * We included the staggered working hours system for childcare and family care in the individual-based staggered working hours scheme from June 2017. Return Rate and Retention Rate after Childcare Leave Re-employment System for Employees Who Had to Resign Due to the Transfer of Their Spouse (Non-consolidated) (Unit: persons) Male Female Year of Retirement/Registration FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2019 Return rate after childcare leave*1 100% 96.4 %*3 Number of Business staff 3 7 5 8 4 Retention rate after childcare leave*2 100% 97.8 %*3 Registered Administrative staff 16 11 11 6 11 Ex-employees *1 Percentage of employees who returned to work as compared to the number of employees who reached the end of childcare leave in FY2019 Total 19 18 16 14 15 *2 Percentage of employees who are enrolled as of April 1, 2018, out of those returned to work during FY2018 *3 Number of retirees does not include registrants of the re-employment system associated with the transfer of their spouse 102 Social Data of Personnel Affairs Annual Average Actual Working Hours (Non-consolidated)★ (Unit: hours/year) Comparison with Industry Average (for Wholesalers and Retailers with a Business Scale of 100 Employees or More) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Annual average actual working hours (hours) 1,911.24 1,941.03 1,920.72 1,957.72 Lost time injuries frequency rate 1.74 1.94 2.08 Employees at Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan (including contract employees). Lost time injuries severity rate 0.03 0.10 0.10 (Reference) Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s “Survey on Industrial Accidents in 2018” Monthly Average Overtime Working Hours (Non-consolidated)★ (Unit: hours/year) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Average Annual Salary of Employees (Non-consolidated) (Unit: yen) Monthly average overtime working hours (hours) 19.1 18.9 19.0 Average annual salary • Employees at Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan (non-managerial staff ) (excluding contract employees) FY2019 14,299,878 • Calculated on the basis of prescribed working hours * Employees at Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan. Paid Leave Days Taken and Usage Ratio (Non-consolidated)★ Participation Rate of Labor Union Membership (Non-consolidated) (As of March 31) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Participation Rate Average paid leave taken per year (days) 11.2 11.8 12.8 13.9 14.4 2019 85.0% Average paid leave usage ratio per year (%) 58.3 61.4 66.6 72.3 74.9 Employees at Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan (excluding contract employees) Concerning the data marked with ★(FY2019 and 2019), an independent practitioner’s assurance report prepared in accordance with the ISAE 3000 Occupational Health and Safety Data (Non-consolidated)★ international standard was given by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. Please refer to the independent practitioner’s assurance report at the link below for details. FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Target Employees Contractors Employees Contractors Employees Contractors P.124 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Number of lost time injuries 0 1 0 4 0 1 0 Number of fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost time injuries frequency rate 0 0.13 0 0.53 0 0.14 0 Lost time injuries severity rate 0 0 0 0 0 0.03 0 Occupational illness frequency rate 0 0 0 0.13 0 0 0 • Employees: Employees at Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan, Contractors: Contract employees • Calculated based on the standards of the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 103 Governance Integrity and Compliance 105 Corporate Governance and Internal Controls 110 Risk Management 113 Promotion of Supply Chain Management 116 104 Governance Integrity and Compliance Our Approach towards Integrity and Compliance Policy Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines “With Integrity” Mitsui & Co. considers a sound reputation to be the foundation of business, and recognizes that it is only Five Key Principles through a strong compliance culture that we can maintain our reputation and the trust of society. In our 1. We will comply with laws and regulations, and act to the highest ethical standards. We will respect human rights and pursuit of compliance, we recognize that it is essential not only to comply with laws and regulations but never engage in discrimination of any kind. 2. We will respect the individuality and diversity of every employee, and foster a culture of open-mindedness. also to behave and act with integrity. 3. We will engage in fair business practices, and respond to the trust placed in us by society with good faith and sincerity. In order for the Mitsui & Co. global group to continue to be a truly trustworthy corporate group for 4. We will place value on the global environment, and contribute to the realization of prosperity and a high quality of life society, we make serious efforts to heighten awareness among all officers and employees of the for society. importance of upholding integrity and to maintain our status as an organization with integrity on a global5. We will speak up with courage when we have doubts or feel that something is wrong, for the good of the company. group basis. Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines “With Integrity ” Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines and Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers Policy The “Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. ”(“Business Conduct Guidelines”) specify how every Mitsui employee and officer should act in his/her daily activities, from the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines “With Integrity” perspective of compliance with laws and regulations, internal rules, and corporate ethics. The Business Conduct Each of the Mitsui & Co. group companies has individually established its Guidelines help us fulfill our corporate social responsibility and gain the trust of our stakeholders. They have own business conduct guidelines based on its specific business activities. In been revised from time to time since their establishment in February 2001, to reflect changing times. November 2018, we drew up the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines To ensure that all our employees develop a proper understanding of the Business Conduct Guidelines “With Integrity” to further clarify our basic approach towards integrity and and to review the effectiveness of these guidelines, we implement training and e-learning courses on a compliance that has been shared on a global group basis. By each of us regular basis under the supervision of the Board of Directors, and at the same time, we require that all putting these guidelines into practice in our day-to-day work with the Five employees make a pledge to comply with the Business Conduct Guidelines every year. Key Principles as guideline core elements, the Mitsui & Co. group will be able Likewise, each of our group companies has formulated and implemented its own individual business to continue to respond to the trust placed in us by society with good faith conduct guidelines, based on the Business Conduct Guidelines, in the way best suited to its specific and sincerity. business activities. In addition, we have put in place business conduct guidelines in our overseas business Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines locations, reflecting the local laws and regulations, and customary practices, of the countries in each region. Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. 1. Compliance with the Law and Respect for Human Rights 8. Company Fund and Financial Reporting Our Stories: Build an organization with integrity 2. Office Environment and Harassment 9. Political Donations and Other Contributions 3. Compliance with Antitrust Law 10. Social Contributions 4. Conflicts of Interest between Employees and the Company 11. Protection of the Environment P.35 Sharing Values by Promoting the Concept of Integrity 5. Gifts and Favors 12. Action against Corporate Racketeering and Industrial SDGs：5.5、10.2、10.3、16.5 6. Treatment of Company Information Espionage 7. Compliance with Procedures for Export and Import and 13. Reporting and Sanctions Other Applicable Laws 105 Governance Integrity and Compliance Compliance Framework System Compliance Committee Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer The Compliance Department of the Legal Division leads compliance-related initiatives on a global group basis under the direction and supervision of the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and in collaboration with Chairperson ： CCO Members ： General Managers of Human Resources & General Affairs, the Compliance Supervising Officers appointed in each of Mitsui’s business units, and branches and offices Legal, Corporate Planning & Strategy, Corporate Logistics, CFO Planning & Administrative, and Internal Auditing, Legal Div. General Manager in Japan and overseas. The objectives of these efforts implemented on a Mitsui & Co. global group basis and two Chief Operating Ofﬁcers of Business Units Observers are to: (i) heighten compliance awareness, (ii) improve and strengthen compliance programs, and (iii) ： General Manager of Audit & Supervisory Board Member Div. and an outside attorney-at-law respond to specific compliance-related matters as they arise. In addition, the Compliance Committee has been established as a forum for discussing topics relating Administrative ofﬁce of to compliance. As the development of a compliance framework is becoming ever more important, we the Compliance Committee (Compliance Department of Legal Div.) have increased the number of the Compliance Committee meetings since the fiscal year ended March 2019. We also reviewed the composition of committee members, and added two business unit COOs as committee members to facilitate discussions that reflect business frontline aspects. With the participation Head Ofﬁce Head Ofﬁce Business Units Ofﬁces and Branches in Japan The direct jurisdiction of Americas Business Unit EMEA Business Unit Asia Paciﬁc Corporate Business Unit of external attorneys, the Compliance Committee discusses action plans for improving the compliance Staff Divisions Compliance Supervising Ofﬁcers Compliance Supervising Ofﬁcers the Head Ofﬁce Compliance Compliance Supervising Ofﬁcer Compliance Supervising Ofﬁcer Compliance Compliance Supervising Ofﬁcer (Chief Operating (General Managers of (Regional Business (Regional Business framework based on various compliance-related matters that have been reported. The minutes of the SupervisingOfﬁcers (General Managers) Ofﬁcers of Headquarter Domestic Ofﬁces Supervising Ofﬁcers (COOs of Regional Units) Unit COO) Unit COO) (Regional Business Unit COO) committee meetings are released on the company intranet. Business Units) and Branches) The Board of Directors has a function of supervising the operation and other related matters of the compliance framework on a global group basis, and, in principle, the CCO reports to the Board of Directors DepartDepartOverseas subsidiarOverseas Business Overseas subsidiarBusiness Overseas subsidiarBusiness BUs BUs Branches Branches ies, Units subsidiaries, ies, twice a year on the operational status of the compliance framework, as well as the results of deliberations ments ments branches, ofﬁces ies Units branches, ofﬁces Units branches, ofﬁces Units at the Compliance Committee meetings. The Board of Directors actively discuss key measures to be taken President President President going forward. In formulating the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines “With Integrity,” external directors General Manager General Manager COO COO COO COO General Manager COO Subsidiary President COO General Manager COO General Manager COO and Audit & Supervisory Board members made specific suggestions and comments in relation to the content of the guidelines and awareness-raising activities, and those suggestions and comments have Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff been reflected in the guidelines. In addition, Mitsui & Co. group CCO meetings, in which CCOs of Mitsui and its affiliated companies in Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Japan participate, and overseas office CCO meetings, are held regularly in order to actively exchange information and opinions about optimum initiatives and other related matters, thereby strengthening the compliance framework on a global group basis. In the event of a compliance violation, or a risk of a compliance violation, the corresponding Compliance Supervising Officer such as the COO of business unit, will take the lead in responding to the situation, identifying the causes and formulating recurrence prevention measures, and then report to the CCO. In some cases, the Compliance Department of the Legal Division will take actions under the leadership and supervision of the CCO. Procedures have been stipulated in advance for the establishment of Crisis Response Headquarters under the direct supervision of the President & CEO to ensure timely and appropriate decision-making on crisis response measures. 106 Governance Integrity and Compliance Compliance Program Policy System Activity Month. Messages were disseminated by the President & CEO, the CCO, and other senior officers, and the CCO, CAO SDGs：16.5 and others presented a panel discussion on the theme of Integrity. The program also included lectures by external We believe that even if a detailed, fine-tuned compliance program is formulated, the effectiveness of the compliance speakers. In addition to these company-wide initiatives, individual organizational units also ran active programs that framework cannot be reinforced without management executives taking the lead in compliance related initiatives. included seminars, information-sharing sessions, and discussions. For this reason, the President & CEO, CCO, and other executives are proactively engaging in awareness-raising In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we ran a course based on a compliance handbook explaining Business activities and sending messages to employees continuously and repeatedly on the importance of integrity and Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co. for those who had been unable to take the course in compliance. the previous fiscal year; we also ran an on-line test to check their level of understanding. The purpose of these Specific measures include the promotion of integrity awareness using the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct activities was to promote assimilation of basic compliance knowledge that officers and employees of Mitsui should Guidelines “With Integrity,” the CCO Blog and other media, and the fostering of a Speak Up culture in which people possess in order to perform their day-to-day tasks. do not hesitate to speak up when they feel that something is going wrong. We also steadily implement compliance Mitsui also maintains an active program of compliance training for officers and employees of group companies. awareness surveys, share information about compliance violations, and take steps to prevent recurrences. Other We distributed the Mitsui & Co. Group Compliance Handbook in response to requests from subsidiaries and group initiatives focus on thorough management in the business frontline, the reinforcement of control over operational companies in Japan. We also provided an e-learning platform to allow the distribution of our own teaching materials processes, and the promotion of human resource mobility. In addition, we provide various types of training and and the implementation of an on-line test similar to that used for Mitsui’s employees. Overseas offices and group e-learning programs. companies also implement compliance education and training programs that reflect local regional characteristics. Mitsui aims to achieve continual improvement by remaining focused on society’s expectations. We also recognize the importance of continually assessing risks relating to our business activities and reviewing our Efforts to Ensure Compliance with Applicable Competition Laws compliance-related measures based on the results of those assessments. Each year, we verify the effectiveness of We regard compliance with the competition laws in the applicable jurisdictions as an important issue for our measures implemented in the previous fiscal year and identify issues based on the results of compliance corporate management, and we provide various manuals and hold regular seminars to ensure that all officers and awareness surveys, the content of discussions by the Compliance Committee and the Board of Directors, employees are informed of, and comply with, the applicable competition laws. In particular, with respect to the exchanges of views with compliance liaison managers in each organization, and feedback from outside prevention of cartels, we established and enacted the “Code of Conduct in relation to the Prevention of Cartels,” as a assessment bodies. Findings from this process are used in the formulation of activity plans for the next fiscal year. sub-standard of the Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co. in November 2018. By presenting a specific code of conduct in relation to the prevention of cartels, we have clarified our stance on ensuring Compliance Education and Training compliance with the applicable competition laws and raise awareness among all of our officers and employees of the Mitsui implements a variety of compliance education and compliance requirements. In addition, we also work to ensure that compliance with the applicable competition laws is training programs to deepen employees’ compliance awareness achieved on a global group basis by each of the Mitsui & Co. group companies, by carrying out education and training and disseminate essential knowledge and information about on the applicable competition laws while taking into account the characteristics of each respective region. compliance. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we provided Initiatives to Prevent Corruption compliance training for employees at all levels from new We also regard compliance with anti-corruption laws in the applicable jurisdictions as an important issue for our entrants to managers, training for employees about to be corporate management, and have published the Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Anti-Corruption Policy in December 2016 in transferred overseas or to group companies, and seminars, relation to Mitsui’s comprehensive anti-corruption framework and initiatives. When examining new business projects, e-learning, and other programs on important laws and due diligence is carried out based on this policy, in particular, for projects that are deemed to have a high risk of regulations in Japan and overseas. We also implemented corruption. In addition, in order to ensure that all officers and employees comply with anti-corruption laws, we have harassment-related training based on case studies, especially for Panel discussion by management executives established rules on the management of business entertainment for public officials, as well as rules on the employees in managerial positions, as part of our efforts to prevent such situations. This training also includes appointment of sales agents, and have also been conducting various kinds of education and training. Furthermore, explanations about the procedures that staff should follow when they receive reports or requests for advice about we have been implementing education and training related to anti-corruption laws at Mitsui’s affiliated companies in harassment, with the aim of creating an organization in which employees feel safe to speak up about such issues. Japan and overseas as well, promoting the development and operation of an anti-corruption framework which In November 2018, we expanded the existing Compliance Review Week program into the Compliance Review conforms to Mitsui’s own framework. 107 Governance Integrity and Compliance The Board of Directors oversees the administration of the compliance framework on a global group to identify issues affecting each company, and to provide advice about the development and basis, including compliance with the Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Anti-corruption Policy. administration of autonomous, self-sufficient compliance programs. Mitsui & Co. Ltd. Anti-Corruption Policy In the fiscal year ending March 2020, we will continue our efforts to deepen information sharing and support the effective development and administration of compliance programs at group companies. Our aim is to ensure that all of our officers and employees always put emphasis on compliance on a global Compliance Awareness Survey group basis. Each year we conduct a Compliance Awareness Survey to ascertain the level of compliance awareness of officers and employees in Head Office and branches and offices in Japan. Surveys are also conducted at overseas offices and group companies as required. The results are used in the formulation and Facilitating Communication and Fostering a “Speak Up” Culture System Activity implementation of various policies. ① Do you think that there is good ② Do you think that the company is ③ If you became aware of a We believe that the essence of compliance lies in the development of an open working environment that workplace communication, and serious about promoting the use compliance issue, would you use reflects our management philosophy and values, so that problems can be prevented through smooth that you can easily talk about of the whistleblowing system? the whistleblowing system to communication. Should problems occur, a report must be immediately made to superiors or to those in compliance with your superiors, report the matter or seek advice? colleagues, and subordinates? charge, so that appropriate action can be taken in a timely manner. Mitsui recognizes the importance of discovering problems at an early stage, and we are actively fostering a culture in which people speak up when they become aware of issues. Management executives continually disseminate the message that we can improve the company by speaking up about issues. 92.7% 92.5% 81.8% We have established eight channels for reporting compliance-related matters within or outside of the positive positive positive responses responses responses administrative chain of command, including anonymous access to attorneys and independent organizations outside of the company. Channels for Reporting Compliance-Related Matters In relation to the third question, we are working to make the whistleblowing system easier to use for officers and employees by implementing various measures. Audit & Legal Division (Compliance Department) Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Supervisory Other Initiatives Board We identify lessons from compliance-related matters occurring within the Mitsui & Co. group and develop recurrence prevention measures. Information about such Compliance Supervising Officers in Head Office’s Corporate Staff Div. Business Units/Corporate Staff Div., Overseas matters that could be useful as reference for the Regional Business Units, the direct jurisdiction of the (Human Resources & Head Office, and branches and offices in Japan General Affairs Div. etc.) development of compliance systems is shared with other organizations. As in the previous fiscal year, we held the Mitsui & Co. Channel① Channel② Channel③ Channel④ Channel⑤ Channel⑥ Channel⑦ Channel⑧ group CCO meeting, attended by the CCOs of Mitsui and its General Manager of Compliance External External relevant Divisions Third-party affiliated companies in Japan, which included seminars and and Departments etc. Liaison Manager Attorneys Organization group discussions about the whistleblowing system. In addition, we work to ensure consistent compliance at the Group CCO meeting group level through visits to key affiliated companies in order Individual 108 Governance Integrity and Compliance The most important way to ensure that the whistleblowing system is used effectively is to prevent any form Number of Whistleblowing Reports 51 of retaliation against or disadvantageous treatment of whistleblowers. The rules for the whistleblowing system A total of 51 whistleblowing reports were submitted directly to the already prohibited such actions against whistleblowers, but in July 2018 we specifically stipulated that any Compliance Department of the Legal Division or through external channels 25 person engaging in retaliation against or disadvantageous treatment of a whistleblower could become subject in the fiscal year ended March 2019. This is a substantial increase over the to disciplinary action. Other measures to encourage people to speak up include a specific provision in the previous year’s total and reflects our efforts to foster a Speak Up culture. whistleblowing system rules that if a person who is involved in a compliance violation reports the matter to the Around 70% of the reports were related to harassment or similar matters, FY2018 FY2019 company himself/herself, such action will be taken into account when disciplinary actions are considered. while 20% concerned labor issues. In November 2018, we further enhanced the transparency of whistleblowing processes and confidence in the system by posting a video entitled “Speak up when you think something is wrong!” on the intranet for officers and employees. This video explains the various routes for reporting issues and the investigation process Status of Compliance Reports Activity after an issue is reported. We believe that if employees report compliance-related matters at an early stage, we can take action to Response after Whistleblowing mitigate problems, ultimately leading to the prevention of compliance violations. We therefore encourage Analysis of investiChecks are officers and employees to report potential issues early, even if they are not certain that compliance gation results and carried out to violations have occurred. Whistleblowing Investigation consideration of Action Feedback ascertain whether measures to retaliation has In the fiscal year ended March 2019, 945 reports were made in relation to compliance at Head Office, prevent recurrence occurred offices in Japan and overseas, and affiliated companies. None of these matters had a material effect on the The matter raised is An investigation is An analysis based on the The necessary Feedback on the After a certain period business of Mitsui or its affiliated companies. Furthermore, there were no cases where Mitsui received any reported to the CCO carried out under the investigation results is measures are investigation results is of time following the via the Compliance supervision of the carried out to determine implemented under provided if the completion of the legal sanctions or paid any fines or financial penalties due to violations of anti-bribery laws or antiDepartment of the CCO whether or not a the direction and whistleblower so measures, a check is Legal Division compliance violation has approval of the CCO wishes carried out to competition laws. occurred. Measures to ascertain whether prevent recurrences are also there has been any considered, and a report is retaliation against the submitted to the CCO whistleblower Global Tax Management Policy Policy For our group companies in Japan, we have created a process for ensuring that employees feel that it is safe to report issues, by (1) making available the use of external law firms and third-party organizations designated by Mitsui We are committed to complying with our tax obligations and simultaneously managing our global tax as external reporting channels, and (2) monitoring the actions of group companies and providing guidance to costs. Our Global Tax Management Policy is available below. ensure that whistleblowing systems are properly established and administered. As regards overseas offices and Global Tax Management Policy group companies, regional Compliance Supervising Officers are leading the development of whistleblowing channels, while also ensuring that these systems reflect local laws and regulations, as well as specific local customary practices in each country. Furthermore, Mitsui has introduced the Global Group Hotline, a special whistleblowing hotline for reporting and seeking advice regarding cases that breach the laws of Japan or another country in relation to anti-trust (monopoly) laws or anti-corruption laws, or cases that give rise to suspicion of such breaches. Under the system that is being put in place, the Compliance Department of the Legal Division of Head Office becomes a unified channel by which to receive whistleblowing reports from overseas trading affiliates, and other subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. Officers and employees of group companies are also able to seek advice directly through Mitsui’s whistleblowing system when the issues are related to officers and employees of Mitsui or when the issues could have a serious impact on the Mitsui & Co. group. 109 Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Controls Basic Corporate Governance Policy Policy System Corporate Governance Framework In structuring the corporate governance framework, Mitsui & Co. places emphasis on “improved General Meeting of Shareholders transparency and accountability” and “clarification of the division of roles between management oversight Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal and execution.” For the “improved transparency and accountability,” Mitsui ensures sound supervision and monitoring of management with the view point of External Directors and External Audit & Supervisory 1 Governance Committee Board Members (hereinafter referred to as the “External Members”). Mitsui has also established an internal Audit & Supervisory control system for disclosure so that all officers and employees fulfill their accountability to stakeholders Independent Auditors Reporting Board Members/ Auditing Board of Directors Advice 2 Nomination Committee under the principle of fair disclosure. For “clarification of the division of roles between management Audit & Supervisory Board oversight and execution,” Mitsui delegates execution of business to Managing Officers substantially while 3 Remuneration Committee the Board of Directors retains a supervisory role over Managing Officers’ business activities. Chief Operating Coordination Appointment and dismissal; Placing important Officers of 15 business units within Head Office and 3 overseas regional business units serve concurrently Accounting Coordination surveillance of selection, dismissal and conduct items on the agenda, reporting on business Auditing audits as Managing Officers and engage in business operation for the consolidated group in a responsive and Coordination of duties execution flexible manner. Internal Auditing Division Framework for Execution of Business While Mitsui believes that management by internal Directors who are familiar with our business practices and operations is essential to a general trading company, we place importance on increasing the effectiveness of supervisory functions by having Audit & Supervisory Board Members as a company Ratio of External Directors/ Ratio of Female Directors/ Ratio of Foreign Directors/ Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Members implementing corporate governance under an Audit & Supervisory Board system. Moreover, by adopting a Committee System, in which the External Members participate, Mitsui achieves highly effective corporate governance to secure “improved transparency and accountability” and “clarification of the division of roles between management oversight and execution.” External Number of Directors Internal Female Number of Directors Male Foreigners Number of Directors Japanese 5 9 2 12 2 12 35.7% 14 64.3% 14.3% 14 85.7% 14.3% 14 85.7% External Number of Internal Female Number of Male Foreigners Number of Japanese Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory 3 Board Members 2 1 Board Members 4 0 Board Members 5 60.0% 40.0% 20.0% 80.0% 0.0% 100.0% 5 5 5 110 Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Controls Board of Directors Activity Audit & Supervisory Board Activity SDGs：16.7 SDGs：16.7 The Board of Directors is the highest authority for execution of business and supervision. The tenure of The Audit & Supervisory Board Members supervise the Directors’ execution of duties as an independent Directors is one year, and can be reappointed. The Chairman is authorized to call for a meeting of the institution with the mandate of the shareholders. For this purpose, Audit & Supervisory Board Members carry Board of Directors and to chair the meeting. The role of Mitsui’s Chairman chiefly involves carrying out out multi-faceted, effective audit activities such as attending important internal meetings, verifying reports supervision of management. The Chairman does not concurrently serve as an executive officer and is not and investigating our business, and take necessary measures in a timely manner. involved in the execution of day-to-day business operations. Audit & Supervisory Board meetings are held periodically and precede meetings of the Board of Directors. As advisory committees to the Board of Directors, Mitsui also has in place the Governance Committee, Moreover, additional meetings are held on an as-needed basis. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee, in which External Members participate as attend meetings of the Board of Directors to monitor how the proceedings of the meetings are managed and members. the content of the decisions made. These members also actively express their opinions. Auditing by the Audit In accordance with the rules of the Board of Directors regarding resolutions and matters to be reported, & Supervisory Board Members covers a variety of areas, among which are execution of duties by Directors, the Board of Directors passes resolutions of fundamental policies on management of Mitsui, matters of decision-making processes at the meetings of the Board of Directors and others, status of construction and important business operation, matters mandated by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders operation of the internal control system, independence of the Independent Auditors, system of financial and issues prescribed in laws and regulations and in the Articles of Incorporation. The Board of Directors reporting, accounting policies and processing of financial information, tax policies and tax processing. also receives reports on issues prescribed in laws and regulations and the status of important business operations. A meeting of the Board of Directors generally takes place one a month, and when needed. Integrated Report 2019 (P.102 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance) Reports Made to the Board in FY 2019 regarding Sustainability/ Internal Control Systems/Risk Management and Related Matters Execution of Business Activities System Time of Matters Reported Agenda of the Board Relevant Risk Management Structures/Systems Meeting Review of status of Mar 2019 • Overview of internal control system • Authority delegation system, ringi system, oversight and support by Ultimate responsibility for execution of business operations lies with the President and CEO. The President internal control corporate staff divisions systems • Prior setting of position limits, monitoring by specialist units and CEO delegates authority to the Chief Operating Officers of the business units and regional business • Internal Control Committee, Portfolio Management Committee units, who, in turn, report to the President and CEO. The Corporate Management Committee is organized Sustainability Apr 2018 • Overview of sustainability activities • Sustainability Committee • Approach to coal-related business for deliberating the basic policies and important matters relating to the overall management. The Jun 2018 • Responding to climate change Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and CEO (the committee chair), Compliance structures/ Mar 2019 • Compliance risks • Compliance Committee operational status Oct 2018 • Establishment of and compliance with the Business Conduct the Directors in charge of Corporate Staff Units, and Representative Directors or Managing Officers Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co. nominated by the President and CEO. The Corporate Management Committee is held weekly in principle. • Development of internal whistle-blowing system • Training and other awareness-raising activities Matters referred to the Corporate Management Committee meeting are determined by the President and Assessment of internal Jun 2018 • Internal control systems for financial • J-SOX Committee control system in reporting • Self-assessment of the effectiveness of internal control systems by CEO, taking into consideration discussions among the Committee members. accordance with units subject to assessment and testing by independent units Based on the basic design of internal controls provided for by the Board of Directors, the management Financial Instruments and Exchange Act assumes the role and responsibility of maintaining, operating and assessing internal controls at Mitsui. The Internal audit results Aug 2018 • Results of internal audit • Internal audit structure centering on the Internal Audit Div. Internal Auditing Division, the division positioned directly under the President and CEO, is responsible for Mitsui’s risk exposures Sep 2018 • Credit risks (commercial claims, • Examination of credit lines and ringi applications and monitoring and management external loans/guarantees, term • Ringi screening of commodity/forex long and short positions, on-site examining the status of adaptability and implementation of the internal control approved by the deposits) inspection of inventories, etc. • Market risks (commodity/forex long • Screening through ringi processes, realization of returns from management from an independent standpoint. and short positions, inventories) investment projects and their optimization Mitsui has established major committees pertaining to the execution of business and implementation • Business risks (business assets, • Collection and analysis of country risk information, position monitorloans/guarantees to related parties, ing of individual countries, designation of business-suspended of internal control, in order to respond to a wide range of risks and forms of businesses, which continue to external investments) countries and restricted countries, formulation of country-specific • Country risk response policies increase and diversify. Cybersecurity Dec 2018 • Cybersecurity • Technological countermeasures, human countermeasures (including activities to raise awareness of security), countermeasures targeting affiliated companies 111 Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Controls Internal Control System System Systems to Secure Appropriateness of Operations within the Corporate Group Mitsui established the “Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles” In the construction of internal control processes, Mitsui implements various systems in accordance with (“Principles”). In light of other laws and regulations and to the extent reasonable, Mitsui requires its basic framework of the internal control indicated by the Business Accounting Council (an advisory body to subsidiaries to develop and operate internal controls based on these Principles, and for its equity the Financial Services Agency of Japan) to achieve “Improvement of effectiveness and efficiency of accounted investees, Mitsui coordinates with other equity participants and encourages the equity operations,” “Compliance with accounting standards and securing reliability of financial reporting,” accounted investees to develop and operate similar internal controls. In addition, from its officers and “Compliance with laws, rules that are equivalent to the laws, and observance of management philosophy employees, Mitsui appoints supervising officers for its affiliated companies and has them engage in their and company rules including all codes of conduct which reflect this philosophy,” and “The conservation of duties based on the “Rules on Delegation of Authority for Supervising Officers for Affiliated Companies.” company assets.” Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles Risk Management System Risks arising from Mitsui’s business activities are monitored and managed by chief operating officers of Integrated Reports 2019 (P.117 Internal Control System) business units and regional business units under the oversight of the Board, within the authorization delegated to them from Mitsui’s management. The management of quantitative risks include setting of P.114 Information Risk Management position limits and loss-cut limits as well as monitoring of positions by divisions with relevant expertise, and for the management of qualitative risks, the compliance with related internal regulations is obligated. P.106 Compliance Framework For the management of risks which exceed the scope of authority granted to chief operating officers of business units and regional business units, it is necessary to obtain approval of the Corporate P.113 ESG-Related Risk Management Management Committee, a Representative Director in charge, or a Senior Managing Officer in charge, depending on the importance of the case, in accordance with the standards of the internal approval system. Furthermore, with regard to the establishment and maintenance of risk management structures from all company level and the handling of significant risks, organizations such as the Portfolio Management Committee, the Sustainability Committee, and the Crisis Management Headquarters will be in charge. Such organizations are separate from the Audit & Supervisory Board, and the Directors who act as the heads of each committee report to the President and Chief Executive Officer when necessary. With respect to the risks in the fields they are in charge of, each division of the Corporate Staff Units is responsible for monitoring of the whole Company’s positions, controlling within the prescribed range of their authority, and supporting the relevant Directors and Managing Officers. 112 Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Controls Risk Management Framework for Internal Controls and Execution of Business Activities（As of April 2019） ESG-Related Risk Management System Activity Business Operating Organization SDGs：3.d, 13.3, 16.7 Internal Auditing Division President and CEO (Inside/Outside of Japan) Business opportunities, as well as the risks associated with doing business, have increased and are becoming more diversified due to the impact of economic globalization, progress in information technology, and increasing awareness of the importance of corporate social responsibility. Based on this understanding, Mitsui & Co. Crisis Management Headquarters Corporate Management Committee recognizes the necessity for comprehensively managing risk from both quantitative and qualitative perspectives, Exercise necessary decision making in place of Deliberate upon basic policies and important while responding appropriately to changes in social conditions and business models. With this awareness, we normal in-house decision mechanisms relating to all matters for the execution of groupwide business conceivable matters requiring an extraordinary operations have defined the business which have high qualitative risks including risks related to the natural environment, response. The President & CEO serves as the head of the Headquarters society, and governance as “Specially Designated Business,” and have been endeavoring to develop such businesses with due caution under our Specially Designated Business Management System. Compliance Committee*1 Portfolio Management Committee*2 In the promotion and management of each business, we bear in mind the various climate change scenarios Develop, maintain and improve the effectiveness Establish corporate portfolio strategy as well as that are put forward by internationally recognized organizations, such as the International Energy Agency, and of the compliance structure investment and loan plans, monitor our analyze the potential impact of such scenarios on our businesses. We have been reflecting the results of these corporate portfolios, and examine important individual proposals analysis in our screening processes for investments, loans, and other activities. A shift toward a low carbon society could have an impact on our energy business among others, and in response to that we have been promoting Disclosure Committee*1 Information Strategy Committee*2 environment-friendly, next generation energy business. Moreover, since Mitsui has been engaging in business in various locations around the world, climate change-related measures implemented by the countries and regions Develop principles and basic policy for statutory Plan companywide information strategy and disclosure and timely disclosure as well as the determine and monitor essential policies where we operate could have a significant impact on the profitability and sustainability of our business. We concerning the establishment of a management internal structure, and discuss and determine the materiality and appropriateness of information to platform and promotion of a structure for monitor the measures adopted in each country and region in a timely manner, and trends relating to be disclosed information strategy stakeholders influencing those measures, by utilizing the global network that we have established through our Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee business activities over many years, and use the information which we obtained in our decision making process. J-SOX Committee*1 Sustainability Committee*1 Environmental Fund Deliberation Committee Develop, maintain and improve the effectiveness Plan, design, and propose a management Specially Designated Business Management System and Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee of the system for ensuring the reliability of our approach that focuses on sustainability with consolidated financial reporting regard to Mitsui and society as a whole When beginning new projects, we conduct internal assessments and, wherever necessary, consult with the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee, the Sustainability Committee, or other committees for advice as to whether or not to proceed with the proposed projects, and for suggestions on how improvements can be Diversity Promotion Committee*2 made. Ultimately, the final decision on whether or not to proceed with any given project is made by Corporate Make proposals regarding basic policy and the Management Committee and the Board of Directors (both of which supervise the ESG risks) and through the plan for diversity promotion, and formulate and implement targets set along with the plan ringi (circular executive approval) process by representative directors, in accordance with the predetermined qualitative and quantitative standards. The members of the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee consist *1 Sub-committees to the Corporate Management Committee mainly of external experts and attorneys who are familiar with a broad range of fields including climate change, *2 Advisory bodies to the Corporate Management Committee environmental restoration, environmental policy with respect to water, energy, etc., technology trends, human rights, and labor issues. The advisory committee members assess the risks related to such matters and provide recommendations where appropriate for improving projects. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we held the committee in regards to several energy business, our identification of new Materiality, and so on. Under the Specially Designated Business Management System, we promote project formation based on the 113 Governance Risk Management results of screening from the perspectives of environment, society, and governance (ESG), and, at the same time, Information Risk Management Policy System engage in activities for raising awareness of the ESG aspects within the company and deepening the understanding of those personnel at the business frontlines. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, 23 projects Information Security Policy were individually assessed under the Specially Designated Business Management System. 15 of these projects We regard information as an important business asset, and recognize that it is essential for Mitsui to were categorized under the environment-related business domain, while 8 were categorized as the projects properly manage information. Based on our Information Security Policy, we have established the receiving subsidies, and others. We will continue to conduct comprehensive and well-balanced management of Information Risk Management Subcommittee under the Information Strategy Committee, with the Chief risks associated with Specially Designated Business from the early stages of the business development process Information Officer (CIO) serving as the committee chair. Having developed the Rules on Information up to the follow-up stage, with a focus on the ESG aspects. Management, Rules on Information System Management, and Rules on IT Security, we are properly P.40 Management of Environmental and Societal Risks managing our information assets (information and IT systems) on a global group basis, and will continue making improvements to information management. Furthermore, we have established the Rules on ODA (Official Development Assistance) Business Information Security Policy Management for promoting ODA business, which has a high public profile and, therefore, requires highly transparent operational processes. Under this system, Mitsui’s ODA Projects Evaluation Committee reviews these projects as necessary and ensures appropriate risk management. In particular, we carry out comprehensive Protecting Personal Information assessment of risks related to bribery and corruption considering the significance of those issues. We have appointed a Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) and established a CPO office to work for heightening awareness among all management and staff of the importance of personal information protection, in accordance with the Business Domains Subject to Specially Designated Business Management System Personal Information Protection Guidelines and Rules on the Protection of Personal Information. Business Domain Key Points for Screening As we have a broad spectrum of involvement in diverse commodities and services, we handle a large Applicable to All Four Business Domains • Significance and social value of the business itself amount of personal information, particularly in B-to-C (business-to-consumer) business fields. Accordingly, • Significance of Mitsui engaging in this business we take particular care to ensure that all data is protected. From the perspective of accident prevention, in 1 Environment-related business • Contributions of such business to the environment and society All business that have a large impact on the environment • Measures to mitigate environmental load (incl. climate change, addition to our education and training systems, we appoint a Personal Information Management Officer in Examples: coal fired power plant business, offshore oil field business, etc. biodiversity loss, water risk) each division. These officers regularly review the status of personal information management in the daily • Safety assurance and work environment • For development business, appropriate consideration for and course of business and enhance it as needed. understanding of the human rights of local residents and other Regarding compliance with the EU GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) that came into effect in related parties, and other related matters • Compliance with environmental laws, regulations and guidelines, etc. May 2018, Mitsui has established internal rules to ensure proper management systems and operational 2 Medical, healthcare and bioethics related business • Ethical screening based on the guidelines of three Japanese rules for the handling, at each Business Unit, of personal data that falls within the scope of application of Business related to the fields of medical and healthcare, business related to the government ministries (Ethical Guidelines for Human Genome and development of technologies relating to the human genome, genetic analysis, Genetic Sequencing Research: MEXT, MHLW, METI) the GDPR. Furthermore, we have provided all officers and employees with information on the GDPR via genetic recombination, and other relevant matters, or business that handles • Approval by the ethics committee of the research institute in the intranet, and have been engaging in operational management required by the GDPR such as products to which these technologies are applied question, acquisition of informed consent, checking of processes, Examples: Business with a high public profile in the medical and healthcare fields etc. compliance with the duty of keeping records of information processing activities. (dialysis, pharmaceutical drug manufacturing business), development of new We recognized that a timely response according to global standards towards other overseas laws and drugs using genetic analysis technology, etc. regulations related to personal information, in addition to the GDPR, leads to the enhancement of our 3 Projects receiving subsidies • Evaluation in light of Mitsui’s management philosophy (MVV) All projects that directly or indirectly receive subsidies from governmental and • Social impact and ensuring accountability and process transparency corporate value. administrative agencies, or other such entities, both within and outside of Japan • Determination of the interests of stakeholders, and resultant considerations and responses • Responsibility and capability over the medium-to-long term as the Cyber Security operator of a business with a high public profile In line with the advancement of information and communications technology (ICT) and digitalization in 4 Business harboring other unusual reputation risks • Evaluation in light of Mitsui’s management philosophy (MVV) Business that may be in conflict with public order and morality, Mitsui’s • Social impact and ensuring accountability and process transparency the business of Mitsui and its affiliated companies, we established a dedicated unit for formulating and management philosophy, etc. and business with a high public profile • Determination of the interests of stakeholders, and resultant implementing cyber security measures. While utilizing the expert knowledge of cyber security companies, Examples: Business involving utilization of sensitive personal information, social considerations and responses infrastructure business, etc. • Responsibility and capability over the medium-to-long term as the we continue to reinforce our cyber security framework on a global group basis. operator of a business with a high public profile 114 Governance Risk Management Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and Business Continuity Management (BCM) Policy BCM Framework System Mitsui regards business continuity in times of disaster as a vital management priority. We have formulated The Managing Director of the Human Resources & General Affairs Division serves as the BCM officer, a business continuity plan (BCP) to minimize business risks, such as the loss of customers and damage to who approves and periodically reviews the BCP, and implements the tasks stipulated in the Rules on our corporate reputation, resulting from the suspension of important business processes in the event that Emergency Business Continuity Management. our ability to maintain our business operations is seriously impeded by earthquakes, floods, terrorism, BCM general representative (GM of the Human Resources & General Affairs Div.) is responsible for epidemics, power shortages, or other contingencies, or when such a situation is expected to continue for the planning, management, and administration of the BCP, the formulation, promotion, and a significant period of time. implementation of the BCP, the approval of education and training for employees in relation to Following the compilation of business continuity guidelines for business corporations by the Japanese business continuity, and the compilation of disaster response manuals. government (specifically, by the Central Disaster Management Council of the Cabinet Office), Mitsui In addition, under the BCP for the entire company, we have developed manuals stipulating formulated its Business Continuity Management (BCM) Policy in 2006. Under the BCM framework, we actions to be taken by the emergency response headquarters for performing important corporate formulated the BCP, and we have regularly reviewed it to ensure that we can maintain an appropriate processes in the event of a disaster, as well as manuals stipulating actions to be taken by individual management structure. branches and offices after the occurrence of a disaster. Under this policy, Mitsui has also developed the Rules on Business Continuity Management, which defines rules for activity policies, procedures, organizational structures, and other related matters to ensure business continuity or the early resumption of business activities in the event of disasters, for each of the BCP Revision, and BCP-Related Training Activity Tokyo Head Office, branches and offices in Japan, overseas regional business units, and the direct jurisdiction of the Head Office. Mitsui regularly conducts business continuity drills involving the immediate start-up and operation of the emergency response headquarters. These drills, which give first priority to the safeguarding of human life, are based on scenarios in which a major disaster occurs, such as an earthquake directly Business Continuity Management Policy beneath the Tokyo area. We continually improve our organizational response capabilities by revising the manuals to reflect any issues identified through these drills. Safety of Human Life: We have also introduced a system to confirm the whereabouts and safety of business and Mitsui & Co. regards the safeguarding of human life as its first priority in relation to business continuity administrative staff, contract employees (including seconded employees), and temporary staff in management in the event of disasters. Japan. To facilitate the use of this system, we regularly conduct general drills, and provide information Implementation of Business Continuity Management: on the results of responses in these drills to all employees. Mitsui recognizes the importance of business continuity management in times of disaster and will maintain a In addition, each branch and office maintains stocks of emergency food and equipment. Under business continuity plan and structures to ensure the appropriate implementation and administration of that plan. the provisions of the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Measures for Stranded Persons, we maintain a We will work to enhance the effectiveness of the business continuity plan by improving the business continuity three-day supply of emergency food and equipment for the Tokyo Head Office employees and awareness and capabilities of individual employees, and by engaging in interactive dialogue with stakeholders. employees of affiliated companies based in the Head Office. Emergency kits containing food and Continuous Improvement: other supplies are also available for all the employees at the Tokyo Head Office, and can be taken by Mitsui will formulate, implement, and administer a business continuity plan for business continuity management employees who are in the urgent necessity to return to their homes. and will regularly review and continuously improve this plan. Coexistence with and Contribution to Society: When formulating and reviewing its business continuity plan, Mitsui will consider not only its economic role, but also its coexistence with society and community reconstruction. We will be aware of and respond appropriately to the roles that we may be called upon to perform from time to time, such as the prevention of secondary disasters, community contribution, and coexistence with communities. 115 Governance Promotion of Supply Chain Management Policy Current State of Implementation of Supply Chain CSR Policy System Activity Mitsui & Co. has built diverse value chains throughout the world and provides a wide range of functions SDGs：8.7, 8.8, 10.2, 12.4, 12.7, 16.5 and services. We are active at every stage of the supply chains, from upstream to downstream, and have as We attach great importance to interactive communication with suppliers. We also conduct supplier many as 20,000 suppliers. In conducting business globally, we are fully aware of our responsibilities, such questionnaire surveys and on-site surveys based on our Supply Chain CSR Policy. as complying with laws, respecting human rights, and maintaining safe and sanitary working conditions, giving comprehensive consideration to reduction of the environmental load, and ensuring safety for Company-Wide Uniform Supplier Communication Forms products and services and consumer confidence. Together with our suppliers, we endeavor to solve Beginning in the fiscal year ended March 2009, we started sending letters (in Japanese, English, Chinese, various issues present in our supply chains in order to meet society’s demands. French, Spanish, and Portuguese) to all suppliers of Mitsui’s business units, overseas offices, and To correctly assess and solve issues in the supply chains, Mitsui formulated its Supply Chain CSR Policy subsidiaries (about 50,000 suppliers in total) requesting their understanding and cooperation in regard to in December 2007, and has since made effort to ensure that all of Mitsui’s suppliers fully understand our our Supply Chain CSR Policy, in a move to ensure that all Mitsui suppliers are fully aware of this policy. In standards and cooperate in the implementation of the policy. We are working to ensure compliance with addition, we conduct internal examinations in alternate years, to verify that the letters were dispatched to and implementation of this policy while continuing to review the policy based on society’s changing the suppliers. expectations and demands. We are making every effort to enhance our supply chain management by Target period Number of Supply Chain CSR Policy letters sent to new suppliers identifying potential problems in our supply chains and identifying key issues based on the characteristics FY2014–FY2015 6,130 of each business model, country/region, and industry. FY2016–FY2017 7,130 FY2018–FY2019 4,752 Supply Chain CSR Policy 1. Mitsui & Co. will strive to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society by understanding and solving issues associated with the supply chains of its businesses, consistent with the wishes of its stakeholders. Supplier Questionnaire Surveys 2. Mitsui & Co. will strive to support improvements in the supply chains by seeking understanding and In promoting compliance with this policy, we consider interactive communication with our suppliers to be implementation of the following principles by its business associates: very important. We work to build relationships of trust, and strengthen our supply chain management by 1. To engage in fair trade, prevent corruption, and comply with all applicable laws and regulations working jointly on ideas for improvements with our partners, wherever needed. 2. Not to be complicit in human rights abuse and violations For this reason, we regularly conduct questionnaire surveys targeting the suppliers of Mitsui and its 3. To prevent discrimination with respect to hiring and employment subsidiaries to confirm the status of their adherence to our Supply Chain CSR Policy, and whether they 4. To respect the rights of employees to associate freely and bargain collectively have their own policies related to such areas as “human rights and labor practices,” “health and safety,” 5. To appropriately monitor employees’ working hours, holidays, and leaves of absence, and prohibit “business ethics,” and “environmental management.” unlawful excessive work*1 Mitsui started to conduct supplier questionnaire surveys from the fiscal year ended March 2012, and 6. To prevent forced labor, child labor, unlawfully-cheap labor, physical discipline, and physical, sexual expanded the target to all of Mitsui’s business domains from the fiscal year ended March 2015, selecting and other forms of harassment*2 major suppliers from each domain. 7. To ensure a safe and sanitary work environment Number of companies surveyed 8. To reduce and mitigate business impact on the global environment*3 FY2015 72 9. To ensure the safety and reliability of products and services FY2016 39 10. To disclose adequate and timely information relevant to the above FY2017 50 *1 This includes measures to reduce excessively long working hours. FY2018 68 *2 This includes measures to secure in each country/region where Mitsui engages in business a living wage that exceeds the minimum wage of the country/region. FY2019 74 *3 This includes measures related to energy usage, climate change issues (including greenhouse gas emissions), water usage, impact on biodiversity, effective use of resources, and waste reduction. 116 Governance Promotion of Supply Chain Management Supplier On-Site Surveys Summary of Supplier On-Site Surveys (Farmed Salmon Procurement) System Activity In addition to the abovementioned questionnaire surveys of suppliers, we also conduct interviews with SDGs：8.7, 8.8, 10.2, 12.7, 14.4, 16.5 persons in charge and on-site inspections of suppliers’ manufacturing facilities using a checklist based on Based on a checklist drawn up in accordance with the requirements of Mitsui’s Supply Chain CSR Policy, the compliance items in our Supply Chain CSR Policy. Based on our understanding of the actual situation we have conducted interviews with suppliers’ managers and conducted on-site inspections to investigate at these sites, if necessary, we provide advice and guidance. the state of our sustainability efforts. We commenced these surveys in the fiscal year ended March 2015. In the fiscal year ended March In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we visited a Chilean salmon farming, processing and sales 2019, we conducted a survey involving visits to salmon farming, processing and sales company, Salmones company, Salmones Multiexport S. A. (hereinafter referred to as Salmex), which Mitsui has invested in and Multiexport S. A. (hereinafter referred to as Salmex), which Mitsui has invested in and procured from and a procured from, visiting a freshwater/seawater farm, a processing plant, and a feed company which is one feed company operated by one of our seafood suppliers, which is also our investee. The survey focused of the main Salmex suppliers, and conducting a survey of the actual situation. Salmex is engaged, with a mainly on “environmental management,“ “human rights and labor practices,“ “legal compliance,“ and vertically-integrated business model, in the farming and sales of salmon, including its mainstay Atlantic “quality control and traceability.“ We found no violations of our Supply Chain CSR Policy. salmon, and exports salmon to Brazil, Japan, and other Asian countries, and particularly to the United States, amid growing demand for healthy protein sources. Survey Target Farming facilities were visited and inspected, including a hatchery, a sea water farm with a pontoon, feeding control units and a set of net pens. In addition to the processing and packaging lines, automatic FY2015 Supplier of food raw materials (coffee beans) quality sensors, smoke facilities, and washing rooms were inspected at the processing plant. Through FY2016 Supplier of paper raw materials (wood chips) interviews with managers and employees, surveys were conducted on the aspects of “environmental FY2017 Supplier of food raw materials (apple juice) management,” “human rights and labor practices,” FY2018 Supplier of oleochemical products (oleochemicals) “legal compliance,” and “quality control and FY2019 Supplier of seafood (salmon), feed manufacturer traceability.” At the feed factory, in addition to the processing facilities, we also inspected storage warehouses, the main control rooms, and the Implementation of Risk Assessment System Activity quality control rooms. Through interviews with SDGs：8.7, 8.8, 10.2, 12.4, 12.7, 13.3, 15.1, 16.5 managers and employees, we confirmed that our When engaging in business with new suppliers, we conduct a survey based on our Supply Chain CSR environmental, labor, and safety standards, as well Policy to assess various risks of social issues beforehand, and to ensure that all suppliers of Mitsui as traceability initiatives, were being firmly understand the said policy. As for the existing business and relevant suppliers, we also conduct regular implemented. supplier surveys based on the policy described above, in order to confirm the actual situation of business As a result of this survey, we confirmed that all operations and identify suppliers with high risks in relation to social issues, such as climate change, items had been properly addressed and that the biodiversity, environment management, human rights, and working environment. items stipulated in the Supply Chain CSR Policy Salmex headquarters To increase the sensitivity of all employees with respect to human rights, labor, and other issues in our had been satisfactorily implemented. supply chains, and to prevent problems, we will continue to heighten employee awareness and provide training seminars (120 participants in the fiscal year ended March 2019). Results of Supplier Surveys Environmental management Number of training participants • Wastewater: Plant wastewater is treated by a wastewater treatment facility in the plant to filter out organic matter; once it has been confirmed that the wastewater conforms to the wastewater standards, it FY2017 101 is discharged into the city sewage system (processing plant). FY2018 35 • Recycling Initiatives: Waste generated from corrugated cardboard/paper, organic processing wastes and FY2019 120 plastics, and other residues, are disposed of for recycling/reuse through contracts with third party suppliers. 117 Governance Promotion of Supply Chain Management • Climate Change Response: Measurement of greenhouse gases began in the fiscal year ended March 2018, • Occupational Safety: Monthly safety and health committee meetings are held, and and the goal for the fiscal year ended March 2021 is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared decisions are posted and shared on bulletin boards; safety and health experts to the fiscal year ended March 2018. In addition, Salmex is establishing a system that enables monitoring of make weekly rounds to confirm that safety and health practices are being the energy consumption for each process, and of the diesel consumption in the farming facilities. thoroughly implemented. Emergency eye wash kits and tanks are installed at all • Water usage: A system capable of measuring the amount of water usage per process has been locations (company-wide). introduced (Aquaculture and processing plants). • Employment: Employees are enrolled in the insurance system, and the same level • Chemical use: The government and industry are working together to reduce the use of antibiotics, and in of medical support is provided to their families (company-wide). Eyes wash (safety) kit at the cooperation with Monterey Bay Aquarium, the industry as a whole has set a target of realizing a 50% smoking processing plant: reduction from the 2017 level by 2025. At Salmex, through measures such as vaccination and early Legal Compliance selection of strong smolts, in the fiscal year ended December 2018 a reduction of approximately 38% • Various certifications relating to environmental, qualitative, occupational safety, and traceability have (358 g/ton) was achieved compared to the fiscal year ended December 2016 (company-wide). been acquired, including OHSAS18001*, ISO14001*, and ISO9001*, BRC, IFS, BAPs, Global GAP, MSC, etc. • Consideration for biodiversity: The cage conditions are checked periodically to prevent escape through Regional laws and regulations relating to working hours and work, as well as operating licenses, are damaged marine aquaculture nets, and the number of escapes from cages has been zero in recent years. complied with (company-wide). In addition, in order to prevent damage due to sea lions, predator nets are installed in order to protect * Certification for farming, plant operation and management the fishes and the facility from potential attacks. By introducing a remote-controlled automatic feeding system, the optimum feeding amount is monitored from below the sea surface using cameras, and each Quality Control and Traceability farming site is making efforts to minimize the feed waste that is lost or accumulated in the seabed. After • Quality control: 300 monthly samples are collected from each net pen, to check the growth status (farm). the end of the farming cycle, a 3-month fallowing period is required by law, and there are strict In order to establish an inspection system, thorough quality control has been carried out, including the requirements regarding aerobic conditions in introduction of a system for acquiring ISO17025 certification and checking the accuracy of inspection the seabed at the end of this period. If anaerobic equipment, and the introduction of an automated meat color checking system (processing plants, feed conditions are found, producers are not allowed plant). to start farming until conditions turn aerobic. • Traceability: Data such as egg production, fertilization date, and the hatching case number for each Farming activities are carried out with due farming tank (farm), are managed. For feed, a lot number is assigned to each flexible bag, and a system for consideration for the ecosystem, including managing information such as delivery destination, detailed ingredient data, supplier of raw materials, suspension. Out of the 106 sea water farming etc. has been introduced (feed factory). concessions, approximately 40 are currently in use yearly (farms). Resting days are implemented Conducting of Supplier Surveys according to legal requirements. Seawater farm Since the early 1990’s, Chilean salmon aquaculture has been providing either the largest or second largest amount of salmon exports in the world. In the meantime, while establishing a fish-disease and quarantine Human Rights and Labor Practices control system, government and industry have worked together to reduce the use of chemicals. As a • Working Hours: The aquaculture farm has introduced a two-shift system of 9 hours per shift, and all daily jobs result, significant reductions have been achieved, and Salmex will be continuing with its efforts to keep except for special operations (such as vaccination) are done by permanent employees (aquaculture farm). reducing the chemicals consumption in the future. Also, the use of fishmeal and fish oil in feed has been • Creation of a comfortable working environment (processing factory): A production line that is straight greatly reduced, due to the substitution of raw materials such as soybean meal and vegetable oils. In and efficient has been realized, and the floor surfaces are constantly cleaned to maintain a high level of recent years, fish meal has accounted for less than 10% of feed, and fish oil for less than 7%. cleanliness and safety. As demand for high-quality, safe and secure protein sources continues to increase worldwide, we and • Safety and hygiene: When entering the laboratory, special white clothes and masks are worn, and when our suppliers will continue to work together, including through partnerships with NGO/NPOs such as Global entering or leaving the laboratory, foreign matter is thoroughly removed and disinfected with adhesive Aquaculture Alliance and Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative, to develop a sustainable fishery and tape (processing plant). aquaculture industry that can coexist harmoniously with local communities, local residents, and ecosystems. 118 Governance Promotion of Supply Chain Management Introduction of Mitsui Activities: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Supply Chain Management in Apparel Operations Apparel In regard to safe and sanitary working conditions, MIF provides support for the introduction of related measures, such as ensuring the appropriate configuration of aisles and emergency exits, providing evacuation Mitsui Bussan I-Fashion Ltd. (“MIF”), a Mitsui subsidiary engaged in the trading of textile raw materials, routes and evacuation drills, installing firefighting equipment (fire extinguishers and fire hydrants) and safety industrial raw materials, and woven and knitted fabrics, as well as the production and procurement of equipment, managing chemicals, and collecting employees’ opinions and providing hotlines. Regarding labor apparel and fashion goods, continuously promotes supply chain CSR activities, encourages business that management, MIF provides domestic clothing factories with checks in respect to issues such as child or forced seek to create environmental value, and pursues initiatives in human rights management, with the aim of labor, harassment, human rights violations, discrimination, and punishments (fines). It also reviews and offers becoming a company that is trusted by stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, employees, consumers, support for improvements when required regarding other related aspects such as guaranteeing a minimum and local communities. Through global partnerships, the company makes earnest efforts to find solutions for wage, appropriate working hours (prohibiting working on holidays and long working hours), and the right to issues in the supply chain and realize sustainable growth while coexisting harmoniously with society. organize and carry out collective bargaining. Furthermore, it plans to examine the actual management of foreign trainees at its domestic clothing factories, and provide support for improvements as needed. Supply Chain CSR Initiatives Environmental Value Creation MIF engages in the development and sale of environmentally-friendly, textile-related products with advanced functionality that are eco-friendly. MIF has also obtained certification and registration under bluesign®*1 and the Global Recycle Standard (GRS) *2 and maintains compliance with these standards, which are regarded as among the most stringent in the world. To obtain bluesign® certification and registration, MIF is required to ensure that its collaborating supplychain manufacturing facilities in Japan and overseas are taking comprehensive steps to care for not only the environment but also their workers. An applicant company and its supply-chain facilities must meet the standards set out for bluesign® certification, such as the prohibition of child labor, the elimination of forced labor and discrimination, the upholding of freedom of association, and occupational safety and health. Ensuring safe aisles *1 bluesign® is a holistic system that provides solutions in sustainable processing and manufacturing to industries and brands. *2 GRS is an international, voluntary, full product standard that sets out requirements for third-party certification of recycled content, chain of custody, social Activities to Contribute to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and environmental practices and chemical restrictions. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, MIF identified important management priorities (Materiality) in managing the supply chain in consideration of the 17 SDGs in accordance with the SDG Compass. Safe and Sanitary Working Conditions/Labor Management, and Human Rights Management STEP 1: Understanding the SDGs To meet the demands of customers both in Japan and overseas, MIF carries out centralized management MIF hosted a seminar conducted by the general incorporated association The Global Alliance for of its supplying factories and offers them technical guidance, and other support. Since April 2015, with the Sustainable Supply Chain (“ASSC”) entitled “Initiatives to Contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals.” aim of building the MIF quality control system, it has been strengthening its sustainability measures, STEP 2: Identifying priorities including the establishment of a dedicated organization, the quantification of quality control levels, and From among the 169 targets corresponding to the 17 SDGs, MIF selected business risks that the addition of the check point “labor management in consideration of human rights” to the check-sheet have been recognized from the past up until the present, and the business opportunities it items for MIF factories. “Occupational health and safety” and “labor management” are important points in expects to see both now and in the future for each business field. audits. For this reason, before customers carry out their CSR audits (regular audits or new audits) MIF STEP 3: Setting targets carries out preliminary reviews at domestic clothing factories to see if any major issues exist from the MIF management engaged in discussions to identify material issues. customers’ standards, and deals with them accordingly, and thereby supporting the factories’ acquiring STEP 4: Integrating into management certification (passing audits), when necessary. MIF is currently integrating measures to be taken to address these issues into its management, and working on internal and external disclosure. 119 Governance Promotion of Supply Chain Management Introduction of Mitsui Activities: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Measures for the Stable Supply of Oleochemical Products Procurement of Oleochemical Products MIF’s Materiality Theme of initiatives Corresponding SDG SDGs：7.2, 8.5, 8.7, 8.8, 10.2, 12.2, 12.5, 12.8, 15.1, 15.2, 15.5 Respecting human rights in ・Ensure that human rights are respected at all companies in the value chain Oleochemicals are natural oil-derived fatty acid products, such as palm oil and palm kernel oil. They are the value chain ・Work to strengthen checking functions at supplying factories and undertake widely used as ingredients for a variety of everyday products, such as detergent and shampoo, as well as the elimination of human rights violations, such as forced labor and child labor ・Work to respect the human rights of foreign workers industrial products. In order to realize the sustainable procurement of high quality oleochemical products, Mitsui along with a third-party expert in this field, visited a manufacturing company’s factory and groupFunction to “connect” as a ・Support initiatives to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) trading company at all companies across countries and regions in the value chain owned plantations, and conducted on-site surveys in accordance with the checklist prepared under our ・Lead the development, manufacture, and sales of eco-friendly materials and Supply Chain CSR Policy. products At the manufacturing company’s factory, we inspected the manufacturing process, the quality control Water safety and environ・Eliminate the use of harmful dyes, and work to purify factory waste water laboratory, the control room, the storage facility, the packaging processes, the wastewater treatment mental conservation ・Adopt dyeing methods that reduce water use by 99% facility, and the employees’ canteen. Through interviews with the company’s managers and employees, we carried out checks on environmental management, human rights and labor practices, legal compliance, Promoting recycling and ・Work to reduce the use of fluorine water repellents and quality control and traceability. At the palm plantations, we inspected the plantations, the oil mill, and reuse ・Reduce harmful waste disposal the biomass power plants. Through the interviews, we examined initiatives related to the environment, as ・Develop recycled and sustainable materials well as safety and labor practices, and confirmed that operations and management are being undertaken appropriately. The supplier whom we visited this time has been a member of the RSPO since its establishment. It is a Supply Chain CSR Activities at MIF large company that carries out appropriate management and safe operation in accordance with not only October 2008 MIF established its Supply Chain CSR Policy. The company began sending notices to its suppliers, including the RSPO standards, but also other standards. At the plantations, by-products are used to generate contracted manufacturers in Japan and overseas, to request their understanding of and support for MIF’s policy, and obtaining their written confirmation. electricity (thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions), functions provided by animals and plants are effectively utilized to reduce the use of agrichemicals for pest control, and nesting boxes are installed on August 2014 MIF conducted a questionnaire survey of its 93 main suppliers concerning the utilization of the Technical Intern Training Program. the premises of the plantations for the preservation and breeding of a domestic species of barn owl. MIF started to require its suppliers to understand and comply with its Supply Chain CSR Policy and to obtain written consent from its 26 main suppliers and new suppliers. January 2015 MIF required the aforementioned 26 suppliers to conduct a CSR self-check concerning their compliance with the policy. September 2015 MIF asked the 241 suppliers from which it had obtained “written confirmation on understanding the MIF’s policy” to replace this expression with “written confirmation on complying with the MIF’s policy.” February 2017 The Supply Chain CSR Policy formulated in October 2008 was expanded from 7 items to 10. July 2018 MIF joined the general incorporated association The Global Alliance for Sustainable Supply Chain (“ASSC”) with the aim of changing corporate behavior by solving the environmental and social issues identified in the supply chain. March 2019 In accordance with the SDG Compass process, MIF identified four material issues as important management Factory of the oleochemicals manufacturing company Young palm trees that are 4-5 years old. It takes about three years from priorities among the 17 SDGs. MIF is in the process of disclosing them both internally and externally. planting to reach the stage at which harvesting can begin, which lasts MIF had obtained written confirmation on MIF’s policy from a total of 5,554 suppliers: 4,226 in Japan, and 1,328 until the tree is about 25 years old. overseas. 120 Governance Promotion of Supply Chain Management Introduction of Mitsui Activities: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Tea Leaves Procurement in Consideration of Quality, Safety, ensure complete traceability in all product stages from procurement of raw materials to manufacturing, the Environment and Work Conditions Food & Beverage Materials inspection, shipment, and delivery, both companies worked together to create an original traceability SDGs：2.2, 3.9, 7.2, 8.5, 8.7, 8.8, 10.2, 12.4, 12.5 system. In tea-producing regions, Mitsui and Mitsui Norin periodically visit tea plantations to conduct Our subsidiary Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd., who markets “Nittoh Black Tea,” which is a very familiar brand in Japan, on-site surveys of tea-growing environments, quality control, and agrochemical controls and other procures tea leaves from tea producers around the world and blends them to develop and manufacture the aspects. With regard to agrochemical controls, both companies have tests for residue agrochemicals on product. In order to meet a wide range of customer needs, a stable procurement of high-quality tea leaves is the tea leaves conducted at a third-party contract institution, in addition to on-site visits and confirmation essential. At present, it procures tea leaves from approximately 430 tea producers in six countries, including at the tea plantations. India, Sri Lanka, Kenya, and Indonesia. The tea producers who give appropriate consideration to quality and * The Rainforest Alliance Certified indicates that a plantation, forest, or tourism enterprise has been audited to meet standards that require environmental, social, safety, the environment, and work conditions, such as carrying out controls based on Rainforest Alliance and economic sustainability. certification* and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) certification, being committed to Fairtrade, and engaging in organic cultivation, etc. are designated as Mitsui Norin’s preferred suppliers. Improving Procurement Reliability Through Legal For instance, one tea producer in the Darjeeling district of India has been making various efforts to Compliance and the Forest Certification System Forest Resources Business improve both the work conditions of employees and the profitability of the business through measures SDGs：3.9, 8.5, 8.7, 8.8, 10.2, 12.2, 12.4, 12.8, 13.3, 15.1, 15.2, 15.4, 15.5 such as introduction of a small hydroelectric generator on the farm of which the management and Significant deforestation, as well as reduction and degradation of biodiversity and forest ecosystems caused by operation are entrusted to the workers, and cultivation of organic ginger and oranges and production of illegal logging have become major environmental issues globally. In 2006, as a countermeasure against illegal honey. The producer also raises cows on the farm to provide milk to children to enhance the quality of life logging, the Japanese government enacted the Green Purchasing Law, which requires that government of the workers and their families, and uses the manure as fertilizer for organic cultivation to contribute to agencies only purchase lumber that is certified as legal logging from sustainably managed forests. reducing environmental load. In August 2017, Mitsui Norin had the honor of being awarded a Certificate As one of Mitsui’s missions is to ensure the stable supply of building materials, paper resources, and of Appreciation from Sri Lanka’s Minister of Plantation Industries for its long-standing commitment to Sri other wood products, we cooperate with suppliers from around the world to ensure that our purchases Lankan black tea over seven decades. contain no illegally logged lumber. Mitsui and Mitsui Norin undertake comprehensive quality control in all phases of the value chain. To For example, in our forest resources business in Australia, Mitsui implements environmental The Black Tea Manufacturing and Sales Business Value Chain management and operation procedures based on the two major forest certifications, FSC® (the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®-C107463) and PEFC (the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes), and conducts regular checks to ensure that only reputable plantation operators are used, the operations do not result in environmental destruction such as chemical soil contamination, Tea leaf appraisal by tea-tasters and the obligation to replant logged areas is being fulfilled. In addition to Mitsui’s Australian business, in 2014 Trans Pacific Fibre, a forest resources business for pulp Overseas production locations Japan and paper manufacturing joint venture company in Chile, Tea Factory Shipper Customers obtained both FSC® (FSC®-C124327) and PEFC certification. plantations Mitsui & Mitsui Norin Fresh tea Black Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Consumers Increased awareness of environmental conservation has led to leaves tea ••Importation •• Packaging Products an increased number of companies and consumers who choose •• Procurement Blending Appraisal wood and paper products with the above-mentioned forest • Cleaning Inspection certifications. Mitsui cooperates with its partners and Blending process manufacturers to increase the use of FSC® and PEFC certified Quality management guidance products in the supply chain, in order to create products that are in Tea-picking Deciding on the tea leaf Agrochemicals management guidance blending accordance with higher awareness of environmental conservation. Woodchip processing plant (Bunbury Port in Western Australia) 121 Evaluation by Society External Recognition Our selection for inclusion in major ESG investment indices in and outside Japan indicates that we are highly evaluated by society. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices is a global stock index developed jointly by Dow Jones & Company in The Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection is designated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and the U.S. and RobecoSAM AG in Switzerland. Major corporations around the world are evaluated in terms of Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) from among the companies listed on the TSE on the basis of their economic, environmental, and social performance. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, 317 companies outstanding IT utilization initiatives. Mitsui has been selected for five consecutive years since the launch of the (which included 34 Japanese companies) including Mitsui were selected for the World Index. award in 2015. For the selection in 2019, high evaluation was given to: development of IT utilization from Mitsui’s wide-ranging business to sport, entertainment, and other various areas, including the initiatives to RobecoSAM Sustainability Award establish digital twins for improving productivity of large business assets, such as energy facilities, power RobecoSAM carries out surveys and analyses for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. From each industry, it plants, vessels, and manufacturing lines, and to utilize collected data, as well as the establishment of a dynamic recommends companies that have undertaken outstanding environmental, social, and economic initiatives. pricing company; and company-wide measures to realize work style innovation through utilization of IT tools. A total of 458 companies were selected worldwide for the RobecoSAM Sustainability Awards 2019. In the Trading Companies & Distributors category, Mitsui was selected as one of the companies to be ranked Bronze Nadeshiko Brand Class, which is awarded to companies that are within a 10% range of the score of the industry leaders. Since the fiscal year ended March 2013, METI and the TSE have been jointly selecting TSE-listed outstanding enterprises that encourage women’s success in the workplace as “Nadeshiko Brands.” Since the fiscal year ended FTSE4Good Index Series March 2015, Mitsui has been selected as a Nadeshiko or Semi-Nadeshiko Brand company for five consecutive years. The FTSE4Good Index Series is a stock index developed by FTSE Russell, which is a wholly owned subsidiary Nadeshiko Brand selection: Fiscal years ended March 2015, 2016, and 2018 of the London Stock Exchange. FTSE Russell evaluates major corporations around the world from the aspects Semi-Nadeshiko Brand selection: Fiscal years ended March 2017 and 2019 of environmental, social, and governance criteria, including the labor standards applied throughout their supply chains, as well as on the basis of corporate sustainability. It selects companies that satisfy its standards Eruboshi (L Star) as constituents of the index. Mitsui fulfilled the criteria of the index and was selected in the FTSE4 Good Index The Eruboshi system certifies companies that have submitted notifications under the Act on Promotion of Series. Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Promotion of Women’s Career Activities Act) promulgated on April 1, 2016, and that meet the specific standards and are regarded as implementing FTSE Blossom Japan Index outstanding initiatives to promote the advancement of women in the workplace. Mitsui was certified as The FTSE Blossom Japan Index is designed to measure the performance of Japanese companies that demonhaving achieved the second of three levels under the Eruboshi system. strate strong environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. The index uses FTSE Russell’s ESG Ratings data model, which draws on existing international ESG standards such as the UN Sustainable Development Kurumin Certification Goals (SDGs), and is adopted by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) of Japan as a core ESG Kurumin certification is given to “child-raising supporting companies” on an application basis. The certification benchmark for its passive investments. Mitsui fulfilled the criteria of the index and was selected in the FTSE requires that the company (1) has formulated a general employers action plan under the Act on AdvanceBlossom Japan Index. ment of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children and (2) has achieved targets set in the plan while satisfying certain requirements. Mitsui has been certified by the Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) Welfare as a company actively providing childcare support, three times in 2008, 2011, and 2015, acquiring the Developed by Morgan Stanley Capital Investment (MSCI), the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index is next-generation development logo, “Kurumin.” adopted by GPIF as a tracking benchmark for its passive ESG investment. The index is a selection of Japanese companies from each industry that represent high gender diversity. Mitsui fulfilled the criteria of the index Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program and was selected in the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index. Through this program, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi jointly recognize large companies and smallto medium-sized enterprises that have been implementing excellent health management, based on measures in line with local health problems and the health promotion initiatives pursued by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Mitsui has been recognized as one of the Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations under the initiative “White 500” for three consecutive years. 122 Evaluation by Society Awards Received in Past Five Years Fiscal Year Ended March 2019 • Received the “Best IR Award at the IR Awards 2018” by The Japan Investor Relations Association (JIRA) • Selected for the top award in the commerce industry category and won second place in the disclosure-to-individual investors category (selected out of 28 companies that represent the top 10% of each industry) at the “2018 Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure” by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan • Received the Award for Excellence at the 21st Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2018) by Nikkei, Inc. • Received Award of merit in the Environmental Report section of the Environmental Communication Awards 2018 by Ministry of the Environment Government • Judging Panel’s Incentive Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) Fiscal Year Ended March 2018 • Selected for the top award in the commerce industry category at the “2017 Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure” by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan • Received the Award for Excellence at the 20th Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2017) by Nikkei, Inc. • Judging Panel’s Special Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) Fiscal Year Ended March 2017 • Hiroko Koshino Prize and Hiroshi Yagyu Prize in the 22nd National Geographic Japan Advertising Awards (Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund) • Japan Association for Human and Environmental Symbiosis Award for Environmental Activities (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) • Judging Panel’s Incentive Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) Fiscal Year Ended March 2016 • Ranked second place in the 18th Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2015) by Nikkei, Inc. Fiscal Year Ended March 2015 • Ranked first place in the “Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking” Wholesale Category by Toyo Keizai Inc. • Ranked first place in the “18th Environmental Management Survey” Trading Company category by Nikkei, Inc. • Selected for the top award in the commerce industry category at the “2014 Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure” by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan • Received the “2014 IR Special Award” by the Japan Investor Relations Association • Received the 20th Nikkei BP Advertising Award’s Excellent Business Expert Award (2014) by Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. (Mitsui’s Forests) 123 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 124 MITSUI & CO., LTD.
