SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2 DELETE BUSINESS DELETE IN BRIEF OVERVIEW • Delete was formed in 2010 through the merger of Toivonen Yhtiöt and Tehoc and was acquired by the Nordic-based private equity investor Axcel in 2013. • Since 2011, Delete has made 34 Delete is one of the leading environmental full-service acquisitions within the industrial cleaning and demolition segments. ­providers in the Nordic countries. The Group offers • The Company offers services in business-­critical services that require specialist three business areas: Industrial ­competences and specialised equipment through Cleaning, Demolition Services, and Recycling Services. three business segments: Industrial Cleaning Services, • Delete’s largest customers are ­Demolition Services, and Recycling Services. industrial and construction companies, property developers Delete aspires to be the most trusted brand in environand the public sector. mental services. Delete’s mission is to create a cleaner • The Company is headquartered in Helsinki and employs c. 1,000 environment by helping our customers prevent and professionals at over 30 locations delete their problems in a sustainable way. in Finland and Sweden. 3 INDUSTRIAL CLEANING SERVICES The Industrial Cleaning Services the smallest cleaning jobs on a segment consists of a compreproduction line. Delete has an hensive industrial services offering extensive network of operative as well as property services, sites covering Finland and such as high-power vacuuming Sweden. and blowing services, industrial The key value proposition to shutdown and maintenance, high customers in the Industrial pressure flushing for sewers and Cleaning Services segment well emptying, industrial cleaning, includes capabilities and scale sewer and process video inspecto handle highly complex maintions, blast cleaning services and tenance shutdowns on schedule, washing and cleaning of facades. secure and fast response time Most of the revenue is related to to minimise costly process ongoing plant cleaning, shutdown interruptions, and ability to offer maintenance cleaning, as well precautionary services to minimise as sewage services. The Group downtime and services that can be provides services of all sizes, carried out even while the plant is from entire factories down to in full operation. 4 DEMOLITION SERVICES Demolition is one of the core and shows the value of different competences of Delete. The Group materials. With an effective reutihas acquired knowledge and skills lization process, it is possible to over several years to successfully avoid the use of virgin materials. complete very complex heavy The key value proposition to demolition projects. The services Demolition Services’ customers offered in the segment also include includes, inter alia, one-stop shop renovation demolition inside solutions including excellent buildings, removal of asbestos and project management, ability to other hazardous substances as handle all kinds of projects from well as hydro demolition and water entire industrial plant demolition jet cutting. Demolition targets to small and agile demolitions, include buildings of all kinds and optimisation of environmental even ships. sustainability as well as health Delete can calculate the carbon and safety issues, and the entire footprint (emissions) of the demoprocess of material handling either lition work for projects it executes. in Delete’s recycling ­facilities The produced report supports the or with a chain of qualified sub­ customers’ sustainability strategy contractors. 5 RECYCLING SERVICES Delete serves its customers at all stages of obtained mainly from demolition. The end material processing: in reuse, recycling and product is suitable for a variety of civil engireutilisation. The Group has six recycling neering and infrastructure projects. stations in Helsinki, Tampere, Espoo and Pori, The mixed construction materials such as covering well-growing urban areas where a metals and plastics are sorted and sold significant share of the Finnish population onwards to be re-used or recycled as lives and produces waste. The Recycling EU WASTE Services plants receive, re-use, recycle and materials for new products. This helps to HIERARCHY avoid the use of virgin materials. process all construction, demolition, industrial and mixed waste in an efficient, sustainable A part of the sorted and processed high PREVENTION OF and environmentally friendly manner. quality mixed material is processed into BEST WASTE GENERATION recovered fuel (REF) and delivered onwards All of Delete’s recycling facilities accept solid REDUCING WASTE for waste-to-energy purposes. As a result, materials. Additionally, the facilities in JuvanGENERATION REF is used as a fuel for district heating and malmi (Espoo) and Rusko (Tampere) accept electricity production as well as to produce REUSE liquid waste, such as port and ship/vessel bilge process steam for industrial use. water and liquids from construction sites. RECYCLE The circular economy has been identified as In its Recycling Services, the Group strives the future of material handling. Delete continto meet the highest level of the EU Waste ENERGY uously investigates and develops its material UTILIZATION Hierarchy. Waste management aims primarily handling and sorting processes to meet even to re-use, after that recycling and waste to higher re-use and recycling rates. The Group’s FINAL energy use. WORST DISPOSAL reutilisation rate (re-use, recycling and waste AT THE The Group manufactures a product called to energy use) in 2018 was approximately LANDFILL DeleKivi® from concrete and brick waste 99.4%. 6 MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN DELETE The Delete way areas of human rights, labour rights, environment principles, policies and guidelines are implemented. protection and anti-corruption. Our Corporate The Code is continuously being communicated We at Delete are not afraid of hard work or getting Responsibility Programme reflects the ten Princiwithin the organisation and new employees receive our hands dirty. We make clean out of dirty, safe out ples of the UN Global Compact. training on the Code of Conduct. of dangerous and reusable resources out of waste. We demolish the old to make way for the new. Delete’s operations are guided by our strategy Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored and values. Our management system has been through regular management reviews and through We understand our customers’ needs. We keep designed and certified to meet the requirements Delete’s Whistle Blow reporting system. The system our word, do what we promise and attend to our of the ISO 9001 & 14001 (Quality and Environenables the development, sharing and implementacustomers’ concerns professionally and efficiently. ment) and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Safety) tion of preventive actions across all units. We care about our shared environment as much as standards. we care about each other, our customers and those No incidents of violations of the Code of Conduct close to us – we feel that everyone should be able to Management of corporate social responsibility is have been reported to the Group Management get home from work safe and sound. part of daily operations. Also dedicated resources during the year 2018. of the group level CSR steering team work to We know our responsibilities and take them into implement the Corporate Responsibility Programme consideration – we operate according to laws and requirements with hign quality expectations. We and develop, manage and report the sustainability. Risk management develop sustainably and continuously through good In the area of corporate responsibility, major leadership. Code of Conduct risks relate to occupational and environmental accidents. The risks are managed through The Delete Code of Conduct sets out the Delete continuous evaluation, planning, governance and Corporate Responsibility Program way of operating in a sustainable way. The Code control process related to personnel, property of Conduct is followed by several detailed policies, To develop and manage its operations in a and business including sustainability with the principles and guidelines (Appendix 2). sustainable way, Delete has introduced a Corporate objective of preventing or minimising the impact Responsibility Programme covering the four most The Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards of risks. Delete follows a yearly risk management important areas of sustainability: Responsible for Delete’s business conduct, including all Global evaluation run by the group management and business, Responsibility for people, Responsibility Compact Principles. The Code provides the ethical reviewed by the Board. The evaluation includes, for the environment, Sustainable supply chain. and behavioural framework on which the Group amongst others, risks related to corporate social The programme is described on the next page. bases its decisions every day, as well as the exresponsibility. The Corporate Responsibility Programme sets the pectations on its suppliers. The Code of Conduct, The yearly evaluation sets the high level risks KPI’s for all central areas of sustainability (Appendix amongst other things, regulates anticorruption, and mitigation plans for the business, which are 1). The Corporate Responsibility Programme is corporate ethics, hospitality, and environmental and implemented and followed up by the management supported by the Code of Conduct. occupational safety. teams. However, daily risk management evaluation Delete is also committed to the United Nations Delete’s management team and line organisation and mitigation is done on the operating level Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) in the managers oversee that the Code of Conduct and its supported by the management team guidance. DELETE’S CORPORATE 7 RESPONSIBILITY AREAS RESPONSIBLE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS FOR PEOPLE THE ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN C U S T O M E R R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y THEMES • Responsible operations • Safety • Material and energy • Responsibility for • Supporting customers’ • Satisfaction efficiency subcontracting chain sustainable business • Work ability • Supporting circular • Responsibility for supply • Ensuring high-quality • Good management economy chain ­customer service • Equality • Clean environment INDICATORS • Profitable operations • Accident frequency, • Total energy consumption • Proportion of suppliers • No misconduct preventive activities • CO2 intensity that have signed a • Demolition CO2 • Personnel satisfaction • Recycling rate, utilisation responsibility commitment calculation • Absence due to rate • Number of auditied • Customer satisfaction sickness • Circular economy actions suppliers • Qualified supervisors • Cases of environmental • No harassment nor damage discrimination • Staff with environmental training BENEFITS FOR OUR INVESTORS Delete works continuously to improve the core areas of sustainable environment. The work supports Delete’s strategy and profitability and helps Delete’s investors and customers in their efforts for sustainability. 8 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsibility is a vital part of all Delete operations. Code of Conduct also guides our daily activities principles describe the functioning of the We utilise operating principles promoting responsiand covers compliance with generally approved processes and specify the related responsibilities. ble business methods and expect all those working ethical practices and legislation. It also creates The operating manual describes how we have for Delete to comply with them. We believe that trust among employees, customers, suppliers, arranged our quality, occupational health and the significance of responsibility will grow even subcontractors, investors, shareholders and other safety and environmental matters. In addition, we further in all business. We are actively searching for stakeholders. use our operating principles to take a stand on opportunities to support our customers by creating anti-corruption actions and anti-trust legislation, Delete operations are certified in accordance with services whose value is substantially based on questions of human rights, and behaviour culture the ISO quality and environmental standards and responsibility and sustainable development. We are at the workplace. OHSAS safety management system standards. developing our own operations according to the Delete possesses RALA qualifications in Finland principles of continuous improvement. and is included in the Reliable Anti-Corruption commitment, Our goal is to be the best Partner programme. These activities and performance provider of environmental OUR GOAL IS acknowledgements ensure that services in the Nordics and the preferred partner and provider TO BE THE BEST Delete is financially sound, tends to its social responsibilities and Delete’s operating principles, manifest in everything we do, include respect for the legislaof environmental services of PROVIDER OF the information required by the tion in force and the environment, ethics and fair our customers. We offer our ENVIRONMENTAL Finnish Act on the Contractor’s competition. customers a comprehensive SERVICES IN Obligations and Liability when Delete has implemented fair competition guideand reliable partnership. By taking care of our sustainability THE NORDICS Work is Contracted Out, and possesses the necessary lines and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Fair competition is one of and profitability, we ensure the technical skills and resources. Delete’s key operating principles. This applies to continuous development of our operations. Our operating principles create the foundation all the Group’s behaviour in respect of its competifor the responsible and sustainable development tors and customers as well as activities in industry Operating principles and management of our operations. The operating associations. Delete actively follows and observes Our operating principles concern all the activities principles are derived from Delete’s values and the changing laws and regulations in the field. To of all Delete companies. They include respect for operational policy, but the foundation is created further enhance the awareness of anticorruption the law, environment, ethics and fair competition. by valid legislation, decrees and regulations as and fair competition, Delete has at the beginning It is important for us to grow and develop the well as customers’ safety instructions and related of 2019 launched a training programme focused Group’s business responsibly in the long term. Our rules. The guidelines related to our operating on these matters. 9 Delete complies with all legislation and regulations concerning its activities in all respects, such as competition legislation, regulations on corporate governance and employment, environmental and occupational health and safety legislation. Delete is committed to fighting against illegal activities. Delete and its employees and others acting on behalf of the Group may not offer, give or accept bribes or other illegal payments. Business partners and representatives of the authorities may not be offered any inappropriate financial benefits to promote Delete’s business activity or other Group interests. Delete works systematically to strengthen business ethics, including the Global Compact´s Principle 10. The Group’s ethical guidelines and Whistle Blow system support correct behaviour if an employee should face an ethical dilemma. No incidents of violations of the Anti-corruption principle have been reported to the Group Management during 2018. Taxes/taxation In 2018, the Group paid 3,376 million Euros of Customer satisfaction services. To ensure this, we have an on-going income taxes. customer satisfactory evaluation and NPS and reputation measuring. They both are strong key performance Our customer can rest assured that the risk and indicators for Delete’s success in taking good Employment effects environmental impacts of our services have been care of our customers. In 2018, the satisfactory In 2018, Delete employed on average 757 persons minimised and are constantly monitored. The evaluation score reached a high value of 4.23 (on in Finland, 227 in Sweden and several hundred competence of our personnel plays a key role in a scale from 1 to 5), and NPS the level of 50 (on seasonal workers. Our skilled personnel that wants developing responsible business and improving a scale from -100 to 100), both of which we can to serve our customers in the best possible way is customer satisfaction. To the customers, Delete is be proud of. The evaluation has been in progress one of our strengths and the key to success. a trusted and a proactive partner in environmental since 2016. 10 The carbon footprint calculator serves customer needs To serve our customers’ needs we can measure the climate impacts of reutilisation for each demolition site and the waste generated there, i.e. the carbon footprint of the demolition site. Carbon footprint calculation is carried out with a carbon footprint calculator that was developed by Delete for demolition work and that is based on the EN 15804:2012 Sustainability of construction works standard, which is part of the CEN/TC 350 family of standards. The carbon footprint calculator was developed to meet the growing need of organisations to pay attention to responsibility and environmental aspects. The calculator not only reveals the most low-emission working methods but also encourages our employees to work in an environmentally friendly manner. The carbon footprint calculator enables us to implement sustainable development and to provide explicit information to support our customers’ sustainable development and environmental strategies. The calculation includes emission and waste reports. The emission report includes the calculation of energy consumption, fuel, transport of equipment to the demolition site, emissions resulting from the transport and treatment of construction waste, along with emissions avoided through the recycling or energy use of materials. The waste report includes different classes of waste and their delivery locations. 11 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PEOPLE Our goal is to have the best experts in the field working at Delete. be developed and renewed to better support the We support the development of competence and encourage preventive safety work. individual self-development. Management of People Occupational health and safety tions oversee the occupational health care system People are the core of Delete. Without our high level and the support for early intervention and well-being experts Delete could not offer high quality services. commitment and standards at work. These all aim to secure a good working We in Delete strive to manage and motivate our We have identified Delete personnel as the key asset environment or Delete’s personnel. people in daily work to gain great enthusiasm and in our business and in being successful. The work satisfaction. The One Delete HSEQ system improves occupationthat we do in Delete is hard and also exposed to al health and safety and aims to identify risks and The basis of the people management is stated occupational accidents. To manage the risks related reduce the number of accidents and sickness. in Delete’s HR policy that refers to the operating to personnel, we invest in a lot of working hours principles. The principles comply with Delete’s and resources to ensure the best possible working Delete uses Sherpa, a tool for reporting, planning, values: Entrepreneurialism, Efficiency, Know-how, environment and safety for our personnel. monitoring and follow-up of corrective and prevenRespect and Responsibility. tive measures on occupational safety matters. The Occupational safety is an integral part of Delete’s system also allows the monitoring of statistics and The HR policy, practical management and leadership activities as a part of instructional leadership. We are performance on all organisational levels. must support each other and comply with the committed to an objective of zero accidents and pay guidelines of the HR policy. Legislation, collective particular attention to safety management by our Delete is well known for its work safety and is labour agreements, OHS regulations and other potential subcontractors. The focus of our occualso recognised by its clients. Delete Finland Oy obligations are followed in all of Delete’s activities pational safety is on preventive actions, i.e. risks was awarded by Metsä Fibre as the safest service without compromise. and hazards are to be eliminated in advance where provider 2018. possible. We require that all our employees pass the Delete’s management team and the HR Directors Despite the strong efforts towards work safety at standardized safety training. Further the site specific are responsible for the content and development Delete, the group level LWIF was 16.1 for 2018 with safety trainings and qualifications set high standard of the HR policy. Supervisors are responsible for the goal of 12. Even though missing the target, for safe work. the practical implementation of the HR policy. All there was positive development in many areas. employees are responsible for acting in accordance Delete has HSEQ and HR organisations both in In 2019, we will focus on work safety even more with the HR policy. Finland and in Sweden. The HSEQ organisations are than before. For example, the dedicated safety working to develop and support the processes for teams will put more effort into strengthening the Delete actively supports the Universal Declaration of occupational health and safety. The HR organisasafety culture. Also the safety reward program will Human Rights. Delete respects Human Rights within 12 its sphere of influence and operates all its businesses in a transparent and trustworthy way. Delete works systematically to strengthen its business ethics, including Global Compact Principles 1–2, and anchors and follows up the Delete Code of Conduct. The Group follows an equality plan and works in a sustainable manner to ensure equal treatment and gender equality in the Group and in the areas of businesses within which the Group works. A revised version of Delete’s Equality Plan was launched in January 2018 and implemented during the first half of the year. Delete has not been subject to any investigations, legal proceedings or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents of violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Group Management. Responsible employer and ­employment, labour standards: commitment, activities and ­performance Delete respects the rights of its employees and operates its business with safe and attractive working conditions. The Group respects the freedom of association and collective bargaining and has zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. Delete’s operations are certified according to the ISO (Quality management systems) and to the OHSAS standards (Occupational health and safety management systems). The ISO and OHSAS are important tools in the Group’s efforts to continuously enhance quality and working environment standards throughout the Group. No incidents of violations of labour rights principles have been reported to the Group Management during 2018. 13 Delete Equality Plan: commitment, activities and performance Delete considers equality as a basic right for each person. Each person is equal to another at work. 16,1 ACCIDENT 5,7% ABSENCE 5,4 PERSONNEL We operate our business according to Delete FREQUENCY DUE TO SATISFACTION Equality Plan. The plan contains actions to prevent LWIF ROLLSICKNESS SCALE 1-7 discrimination of any kind and supports equality at work. The plan is updated every second year. The ING 12 KK PERCENT % PREVIOUS YEAR 5,3 PREVIOUS YEAR 5,9 GOAL <12, current version was launched in 2018. The plan is PREVIOUS YEAR 14,7 communicated and fully accessible to personnel on Delete’s intranet pages. To enhance the implementation of the Equality plan, Delete has started equality workshop discussions with employees at the beginning of 2019 to increase the awareness of extended occupational health care supports Delete Pulssi – measuring equality and respect. personnel with possible occupational accidents personnel well-being and ensures the best possible care and support The equality plan contains instructions on recruiting, for returning to work. We have also invested in Delete Pulssi is a yearly satisfaction questionnaire for hiring, leadership, education and personnel planning, preventative work in occupational health care and Delete personnel. With Delete Pulssi we make sure which aim to support equality. support sports in many different ways to improve our personnel are satisfied and feel the well-being at the well-being of our personnel and to prevent any work is at the level they expect. The equality plan between genders is made work-related sicknesses in advance. according to the equality law. The law aims to The questionnaire covers topics such as well-being, prevent discrimination between genders and To support the development of competence and recommendations, work atmosphere, company advances equality in work. The equality plan is skills, Delete offers several trainings and educations development, work safety and overall score. The supported by a separate policy for the prevention to its personnel. overall score for 2018 was high, being 5.4 on a scale of discrimination and harassment, which contains of 1–7. Comprehensive introduction training is the key instructions and actions on discrimination and training for new Delete employees. The training harassment cases. includes organisation introduction, work environData protection Equality is evaluated in the company each year ment, tools and methods. To comply with the EU General Data Protection as part of the Delete Pulssi personnel satisfaction Other key trainings are: Work Safety, Environment Regulation we defined our business processes and questionnaire and every second year as a separate Safety and Delete internal e-learning for safety, work the handling of personal data in various stages of the questionnaire. The plan is updated according to the methods and equipment training. processes. feedback received. No equality discrimination cases have been reported during 2018. To support the high quality of supervision, Delete We also defined our procedures concerning potential has offered annual supervisor training since 2014. A personal data breaches. Our data protection revised supervisor training in Finland was introduced guidelines and privacy statements were updated to Personnel training, in 2017 to support the education and training of the comply with the GDPR. Further we arranged GDPR education and well-being whole Delete personnel. The proportion of trained training for our personnel. There were no reported To enhance the well-being, Delete offers extended supervisors in 2018 is 43.2%. In 2019 the education breaches of privacy or losses of data at Delete in occupational health care to its personnel. The will start in Sweden. 2018. 14 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT The protection of the environment is one of Delete’s essential principles. Delete acts sustainably, using natural resources responsibly and continuously improving its standard of environmental CO2 96 t CO / M€ 2 99,4 % protection. The focus on environmental work is CO2 INTENSITY REUTILIZATION on preventive actions, i.e. possible environmental RATE risks and hazards are to be eliminated in advance 2018 where possible. Policies regarding the environment are implemented through comprehensive environmental training and set of policies and instructions that guide our personnel’s every-day work. 73 281 MWh 357MWh/M€ Delete works systematically to strengthen TOTAL ENERGY TOTAL ENERGY business ethics, including Global Compact´s CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION Principles 7–9. The Group has chosen enviINTENSITY ronmental KPI´s to follow in fuel and energy consumption and CO2 emissions. In accordance with the principles of continuous improvement, it Paying attention to the environment is an integral management standard. System is an important tool is our goal to constantly develop the quality of our part of the activities of everyone working at Delete to continuously enhance Delete’s environmental environmental protection. sites. In our operations, environmental responsibility performance. Creating a safety-oriented and environmenmeans that environmental matters are always taken In 2018, we launched the Environment Card Training tally-friendly mindset and activating functions seriously. An operating method that respects the to all Delete personnel and trained 276 employees that aim to achieve a working environment that environment also provides significant added value during 2018. respects the environment and is safe and healthy for our customers. Knowing the environmental is also our communicative objective. We work impact and legislation related to our work and No severe environmental accidents were reported with an attitude where our aim is to create an adhering to the requirements are fundamental to in 2018. However, some odour reports were made atmosphere in which environmental matters and environmental management. Delete uses an HSEQ related to the Rusko recycling site. Delete took safety are always taken seriously. system compliant with the ISO 14001 environmental immediate actions to correct the situation. 15 Environmental activities and performance Delete recognises that its operations have a negative impact on the environment such as CO2 emissions, fuel and water consumption, noise, odour, and dust emission to the immediate surroundings. The Group constantly works to minimise these effects. The One Delete HSEQ system (ISO 14001) ensures we meet our stakeholders’ environmental expectations, and work to improve the energy efficiency of our own and the customer’s processes. As special actions taken in 2018 to minimise the impact, we have decided to start using only bio-based fuel in Sölvesborg and also other locations when possible. Sölvesborg is our biggest IC unit in Sweden and the biggest unit when it comes to fuel consumption. We also provide preventative driving education to our personnel to reduce fuel consumption and to promote safe driving methods. As a part of Delete’s environmental programme, the Group calculates selected heavy demolition sites’ carbon footprint to see how much CO2 emissions can be avoided by the reutilisation of the dismantled materials instead of using raw materials. 16 DELETE SKIPUP AN INNOVATION TO PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY Delete has developed On-site logistics’ carbon a new skip organiser footprint cut in half that enables replacing a full skip with an The carbon footprint of the transportation empty skip while the vehicles can be cut in half by reduced transports. full skip is being lifted Changing the skip is effortless thanks to the skip on top of the lorry organiser and, within the weight limits, up to two for transport. This innovation makes on-site times of waste that takes up a lot of space can logistics up to 50 per cent more efficient, be carried in a single transport. This naturally thereby enabling emissions to be cut by half. influences the volume of used fuel as the number In addition, the need for space required for of kilometres travelled is decreased. storing the skips is significantly reduced. Minimising the environmental impact is the most important point of the skip organiser. The fact Increased occupational that lorries can carry an empty skip along with safety and optimised a full skip improves the on-site logistics and use of space reduces emissions as the number of transports decreases. Sites do not have to be without an Demolition and construction sites struggle with empty skip at any point, so to speak. The transa lack of space. Crowded areas are also an portation volume is also increased, he adds. occupational safety matter. The skip transport system brings help to this situation. It is easier The skip organiser is particularly suitable for the to change skips in a rapid cycle, the number of purposes of material recycling at construction skips required at a site decreases when only sites. The skip organiser also makes it easier for one skip for each material is needed. Thanks logistics companies to use the space reserved to the skip organiser, sites have more room for for skips, thanks to the system, in which up to other operations and uninterrupted sorting can three skips can be stacked for the duration of be achieved. In addition, the number of vehicles storage. This increases the efficiency of the area visiting the sites is also cut in half, increasing reserved for skips and decreases the required safety at the site significantly. area. The innovation has been patented: FI20175337, WO2017182719, FIU20184036, FI20185453, FI20185456, FI20185455. 17 NEW AND IMPROVED WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM TO MINIMISE THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The Rusko waste management facility in The next phase of the improvements are one Tampere has gone through extensive improvenew large building and two expansions of ments during 2018 and the work will continue existing buildings. The building process has in 2019. We have invested several million euros started in late 2018 and all construction work to enhance our waste processing with new will be ready by spring 2019. With the new facilities that are designed and made mostly in indoor space, we can handle and store waste Finland. inside and further limit the environmental impacts. The new and improved waste management meets the demands for more effective waste Delete Recycling services are a part of Delete’s sorting for better reutilisation and recycling. innovation work and cooperation is close. With This is a positive improvement on the EU waste this teamwork we expect to have great inno­ hierarchy. vations in the future. 18 WATER PURIFICATION AT SÖLVESBORG SITE Delete water purification is the solution to we check which contaminants are relevant to the problem of all the hazardous sludge that the season and the location. In this way we cannot be disposed of, but must be taken care can optimise the cleaning technique against of, after cleaning the boilers. bonding of zinc, nickel, copper, cadmium or mercury. The method separates sand and combustion residues and purifies the water of heavy The Delete method means that the dry landfill metals. Customers who can benefit from the waste becomes considerably less and cheaper method do not have to invest in long-term to handle, while the water can be so clean storage tanks or spend time, effort and money that it can go directly to the customers’ own on getting rid of the contaminated water. In the or municipal wastewater treatment plant. It purification process, we use both flocculation is also possible to clean it further using our and precipitating agents. Prior to each effort, ultra­filtration machine. 19 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN The Delete Supplier Code of Conduct is followed up through audits. Delete continuously reviews and audits its suppliers against the Supplier Code of Conduct. Delete requires that its suppliers comply with the Code. The Code covers the UN Global Compact principles of human rights, labour rights, environment protection and anti-corruption and Delete requirements for quality and safety. The supplier audits have been continued over the year to ensure compliance with the Code. Delete has identified the typical risks within the branch concerning rented labour and subcontracting and monitors the issue on a regular basis. The risk management is based on on-going audits and evaluations of the subcontractors. Delete ensures that all rented labour employees are introduced to the work according to Delete’s own method. Delete has the same high demands for subcontracting companies at Delete work sites as we have for ourselves. We audit our main subcontractors yearly and organise subcontractor education that focuses on responsibility matters, especially environmental issues and working methods. The number of audited suppliers is 25. The subcontractor audits are also a significant means to actively and critically observe the subcontractor chain companies’ policies. During 2016 and 2017, Delete has renewed its subcontracting contracts and started the Delete yearly subcontractor training seminars. The trainings cover, amongst other things, themes on safety working methods, quality, fair competition and ethics. WE DELETE YOUR PROBLEMS 21 APPENDIX 2. POLICIES GUIDING DELETE’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WORK THEMES AND POLICIES Delete’s sustainability work is guided by Code of Conduct setting out the ethics of operations. Code of Conduct is supported by several policies and quidelines. Responsibility Responsibility Responsible business for people for the Environment and supply chain Policies Policies Policies • Delete Group Code of Conduct • Delete Group Code of Conduct • Delete Group Code of Conduct • HR policy • Environmental policy • Supplier Code of Conduct • Induction instructions • Waste treatment instructions • Competition Law Instructions • Development discussions • Waste movement documentation • Delete Group Internal Audit Policy • Personnel and training plan • Environmental review • Delete Group Internal Control Policy • Equality plan • One Delete -handbook • Delete Group Disclosure Policy • Harassment, bullying and emotional abuse • Delete Group Insider Guidelines • One Delete -handbook • Delete Group Remuneration policy • GDPR guidelines 22 Responsibility KPI score card Responsibility for people Responsibility for the environment Delete’s responsibility work is closely monitored Accident frequency LWI rolling 12 months is Total energy consumption is all used energy with the following meters set for each area. We calculated with LWI accidents per million working calculated together as MWh. have chosen these metrics carefully to meet the hours that are reported with Sherpa. CO² intensity is carbon dioxide emissions in tons, industry standards and our own strategy. Absence due to sickness is calculated from calculated from energy consumption / turnover working days absent / number of staff x theoretical Meur. Responsible business and regular working time in days x 100. Total energy consumption intensity is the total Sustainable supply chain Proportion of supervisors trained with Delete’s energy consumption/ turnover Meur. own training is a percentage of trained supervisors Compliance of Code of Conduct No reported Reutilization rate is the proportion of re-used and versus all supervisors. cases of violations of Code of Conduct during 2018 recycled waste calculated from out-going waste Personnel satisfaction is measured by a yearly from Delete facilities. Audited suppliers is the total number of audited satisfactory questionnaire Pulssi for all Delete suppliers. Number of staff with environmental training personnel. is the proportion of personnel with environmental training (in Finland meaning Environmental Safety Card). 23 KPI GROUP LEVEL SCORE 2018 Responsible Business Reported cases (violations of Code of Conduct) 0 Audited suppliers 25 Responsibility for People Accident frequency LWI rolling 12 months 16,1 Absence due to sickness 5,73 Proportion of supervisors trained 32 % (Delete’s training) Personnel satisfaction 5,4 Responsibility for the Environment Total energy consumption 73281 MWh CO2 intensity 96 / Meur Total energy consumption intensity 357 MWH Reutilization rate 99,40% Number of staff with environmental training 276 employees (28 %)
