LOOKING AHEAD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT May 2018 April 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT COZE AARHUS CEO statement 1 2018-19 in short, goals 3 years ahead 4 Who we are 8 COZE AARHUS framework 9 WHAT WE’RE DOING Sustainable Development Goal 8 11 Sustainable Development Goal 12 12 We are certified 15 Long lasting products 18 Responsible partnerships 20 CSR ambassadors 22 Proud employees 24 CEO STATEMENT LOOKING AHEAD The headlines can be gloomy. The effects of a progress in our material knowledge, and climate change are on everybody's lips these we’ve become better at understanding the days. However, with environmental challenges power of certifications. Furthermore, we have also come new opportunities to make better succeeded in obtaining the Nordic Ecolabel for changes. our denim line Denim for Days. We have become better at sharing information about materials At COZE AARHUS, sustainability is at the core used in our industry, and we constantly aim of everything we do, and we are convinced that to inspire consumers to make better choices. we can make a difference through fashion. Only We finally found our tone-of-voice and we are a decade ago it was hard to explain the scope now beginning to hear the echoes of positive of sustainability in the fashion industry. But feedback. with more information available, it has become easier to get on board and understand where the WHAT’S NEXT? sustainable choices in fashion come from—and COZE AARHUS is a work in progress. For every more importantly, how to incorporate them in collection that hits the streets, we try to do the future. That’s why we rely on an honest and better. Within the next three years, we want to transparent business culture where we value focus on the following new goals: long-lasting partnerships with suppliers and other business partners who share our vision 1. In every collection that we create, we and like us believe that even small actions can want to transition from using conventionally lead to big changes. produced cotton to cotton fibres that are grown, processed and certified according to organic THE FUTURE IS SUSTAINABLE standards. We continue to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Therefore, we are 2. In every collection that we create, we want to committed to achieve the SDG goal 8, which transition from using conventionally obtained involves the promotion of decent work wood pulp used for viscose to viscose made of and economic growth through long-term wood pulp from certified renewed (FSC or PEFC) partnerships with our suppliers. We also pledge wood sources. our contribution to the SDG goal 12 of ensuring sustainable consumption and production 3. We want to find and incorporate an patterns by producing long-lasting products alternative, safe solution to plastic in terms of all using sustainable materials and production packaging. processes. At the same time, we share our knowledge with consumers to make sure that Ambitious goals. We know. But we take great their consumption is based on informed choices. part in spreading the word of sustainable We presented our first COP-report in April 2015 actions in our industry, and more and more and I am pleased to reaffirm our commitment people recognize the need for change. At COZE and endorsement of the UN Global Compact and AARHUS, we are both dedicated and proud to be its ten principles. a part of that change. Through our achievements during the fiscal year Risskov, June 2019 (May 2018 April 2019), we have experienced Cecilia Winther CEO, COZE AARHUS 1 THIS IS WHAT WE’RE DOING ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 2019 LONG LASTING PRODUCTS • Reclamation rate: 1,93%. Goal: Max. 1% LAURIE • 93,6% of the finished garments in the AW18 collection were OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified. • 86,6% of the finished garments in the SS19 collection were OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified. ECHTE • 100% of the finished garments in the SS19 collection (the very first) were OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 or Nordic Ecolabel certified (also known as the Nordic Swan Ecolabel). • Our ECHTE denim line Denim for Days obtained the Nordic Ecolabel certification. RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION • All Tier 1 suppliers (garment makers) have been audited, apart from two, who will be audited right after the making of this report. • All Tier 1 suppliers were visited at least once, most of them twice or more. • Key Tier 2 fabric suppliers were visited once, most of them twice. • Additionally, two laundries in the Istanbul area were OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified. • One print house making placement printing was OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified. CSR AMBASSADORS • LauRie Academies in Scandinavia. • The podcast Wear Your Values. • Seven co-labs with influencers. • Sustainability training of sales staff. PROUD EMPLOYEES • Lean project to create better information and workflow throughout the organization. • Quarterly HR performance measuring and a follow-up to ensure that employees thrive. • Organic lunch for the staff with at least one meat-free day a week. • Internal exercise competitions. • Flexible working hours. 4 GOALS 2019 2022 LONG LASTING PRODUCTS • Organic cotton. • FSC/PEFC certified viscose. • Safe packaging material alternative to plastic. RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION • All active Tier 1 suppliers must be registered and audited by amfori BSCI. After the second audit, the overall score must be no lower than D, with a maximum of two E sub-scores. After the third audit, all sub-scores must be A-D. CSR AMBASSADORS • Our goal is to keep doing what we do to influence and educate salespeople, B2B customers and B2C consumers about more sustainable choices of materials, productions and business conduct. PROUD EMPLOYEES • By using a new online HR performance tool quarterly, we decided on an overall ambitious score of 8,8 out of a maximum of 10 as our new goal. We will continue to evaluate and focus on maintaining a positive work environment. 5 WHO WE ARE WHO WE ARE We have more than 30 years of experience in the fashion industry, but always want to do better. Therefore, we are constantly trying to improve the way we make products, work with suppliers and educate our staff. It is important to us to make our sales representatives, B2B customers and consumers proud CSR ambassadors. In 2018, we changed our company name from LauRie A/S to COZE AARHUS A/S. The new name illustrates that we are now a multi brand company with the SS19 launch of our new brand ECHTE. Our two brands target two different segments and have two different aesthetics but share a common belief in the beauty of quality-consciousness, great design and a perfect fit. COZE AARHUS keeps evolving, and in 2020 we will introduce a new concept called lightblue too. LAURIE Since 1987, LauRie has been working with the mantra ‘It’s got to feel right.’ For us, that means that every decision has to feel right – all the way from the beginning of a design to the finished product the consumer holds in her hands. This mantra manifests itself in the service we provide along the way, the partnerships we enter and the business ethics we stand for. Every year, LauRie offers two main collections and two smaller collections brimming with timeless styles. LauRie is made for the fashion-conscious mature woman. LIGHTBLUE In SS20, we will introduce the concept lightblue. lightblue will share LauRie’s focus on unprecedented quality and peerless comfort. By introducing lightblue, we aim to create feminine and detail-oriented easy-to-wear styles for the younger part of the mature segment. We believe that the devil is in the detail and lightblue is, like LauRie and ECHTE, sustainable at heart. ECHTE ECHTE’s mission is to make effortless and uncomplicated silhouettes that celebrate the feminine figure. ECHTE cares to meet and match the demands of the modern working woman offering comfortable and sustainable key items. We want to make sure that women of many shapes and sizes can wear ECHTE – and feel great while doing it. ECHTE is designed to last and tailored to be worn all day long. ECHTE is not only big on trends. We want the consumer to wear our sustainable ECHTE styles for years and years to come. That is why the ECHTE collections are filled with essentials undefined by seasonal trends. Some call them must-haves. We just call them the foundation of any wardrobe. ECHTE’s promise is simple. We promise to do no harm. Only comfort. 8 COZE AARHUS FRAMEWORK PURPOSE/VISION To bring well-being to women all over the world. MISSION Through perfect fits, high quality, sustainability and fashion we aim to provide women with clothing that have the potential of becoming wardrobe favourites. Therefore, we create clothing to make women look and feel their best. Sustainability is the starting point of everything we do. We will take the lead to create a “new normal” in the fashion industry where collections evolve from responsibility to Earth and people. Finally, we want to make our customers, partners and employees proud to be a part of COZE AARHUS. CSR Long lasting products Responsible production CSR ambassadors Proud employees VALUES We act responsibly to improve the environment and working conditions We act to avoid harmful chemicals in all we do We provide excellent quality and service We act with loyalty, honesty and respect We consider change as a constant and we create a working environment of proud commitment and well-being 9 10 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. At COZE AARHUS, we are committed to help achieve SDG goal 8 and SDG goal 12. SDG GOAL 8: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH The SDGs promote sustained economic growth, higher levels of productivity and technological innovation. Encouraging entrepreneurship and job creation are key to this, as are effective measures to eradicate forced labour, slavery and human trafficking. With these targets in mind, the goal is to achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men by 2030. (Source: United Nations Development Programme) HOW WE WORK WITH SDG GOAL 8 To achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, we are: • Using the newest washing technology that saves significant amounts of water in production and pushing for a broader use of this. • Using laser technology as a replacement for the traditional chemical and labour intense methods of denim finishing like manual scrapping and chemical spraying. • Encouraging automated technology processes for the cutting, sewing and washing stage instead of relying solely on human hands. To protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, we are: • A dedicated member of amfori BSCI that audits our production sites. We visit all our production sites at least once a year and work closely with the people in charge of following up on the audit results. • Committed to following and supporting the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. 11 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GOAL 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION The efficient management of our shared natural resources and the way we dispose of toxic waste and pollutants, are important targets to achieve this goal. Encouraging industries, businesses and consumers to recycle and reduce waste is equally important, as is supporting developing countries to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption by 2030. (Source United Nations Development Programme) HOW WE WORK WITH SDG GOAL 12 To achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, we are: • Always producing long lasting products that are not only defined by seasonal trends. • Only chosing STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® certified materials in our productions. • By 2022, only using cotton fibre that is grown, processed, and certified according to organic standards. • By 2022, only using viscose derived from certified renewable wood sources. • By 2022, finding and incorporating an alternative biodegradable and safe alternative to plastic for all our packaging. To ensure that people have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyle, we are: • Educating and working together with various CSR ambassadors. • Sharing our knowledge via digital platforms (newsletters, brand websites, Instagram and Facebook) • Finding alternative ways to create communication and dialog with our consumers (E.g our podcast Wear your values) To support developing countries to strengthen their scientific and technological capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption and production, we are: • Focusing on safe and responsible working conditions through factory visits at least once a year. • Finding, creating and evolving new relations to business partners that share a common belief in the beauty of quality-consciousness. • Developing the best conditions for an innovative environment that will ensure dedicated and proud employees both externally and internally. 12 13 14 WE ARE CERTIFIED COZE AARHUS is certified, and we believe in certifications, as they are a way to communicate validated values – both downstream (among suppliers) and upstream (among customers). But what do we mean, when we say that we are certified? OUR GARMENTS CONTAIN NO HARMFUL CHEMICALS – VALIDATED BY OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 Our certification OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 ensures that the chemicals used to make our garments are compliant with the OEKO-TEX Standard 100. This goes for both materials as well as production processes like printing, dying and washing. Clothing contain residue from chemicals that are gradually released as the clothing is used. This chemical residue ends up inside the person wearing the clothes, because the skin is a susceptible organ. In 2016, COZE AARHUS were certified with the STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® as the first women’s fashion brand in Scandinavia and is re-certified every year. This guarantees that OEKO-TEX® certified clothing from COZE AARHUS is kind to both skin and the environment. WE CHALLENGE OURSELVES – GOING FULL CIRCLE WITH THE NORDIC ECOLABEL The Nordic Ecolabel also known as the Nordic Swan Ecolabel is the official ecolabel of the Nordic countries. The Nordic Swan Ecolabel creates stricter sustainable solutions based on a life cycle assessment and an overall goal to reduce the environmental impact from production and consumption of goods. Tough requirements in all phases of a product’s life cycle and continuously tightening of these requirements to create a sustainable development is the foundation of the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. What distinguishes the certification from other certifications is that it’s an official, independent thirdparty certification. It forces us and our factories to work harder, smarter and more environmentally friendly. We are proud that our denim line Denim for Days is certified by The Nordic Ecolabel. 15 IF WE TALK THE TALK ... WE MUST WALK THE WALK LONG LASTING PRODUCTS We believe that long-lasting products with good and comfortable fits are the best way to ensure a more sustainable consumer consumption. That is why the brands of COZE AARHUS focus on timeless and well-thought-out designs that are made to be loved and worn season after season. It’s our responsibility to create products, which to the best of our knowledge do not harm the people who work for us, the people who wear our garments or the environment. ACTIONS Our collections are still mostly made of cotton, viscose and Tencel®/lyocell. However, we always want to do better. We have intensified our work towards the use of more sustainable variants of the yarns we use the most in order to aim for the highest impact possible. We have strengthened our effort in finding ways to transition from using conventional cotton to organic cotton and FSC/PEFC certified viscose yarns. Therefore, we have decided to focus on the following future goals: 1. By 2022, we will only be using cotton fibres that are grown, processed, and certified according to organic standards. 2. By 2022, we will only be using viscose derived from certified renewable wood sources. 3. By 2022, we will find and incorporate an alternative and safe solution to plastic in terms of all packaging. In 2019, our Quality and Compliance Manager has been working on a complete material guide for COZE AARHUS. The material guide will show the properties of the different types of fabrics we use in all our productions as well as our motives behind the non-usage of certain materials. We expect it to be an important tool to help us communicate values for different pieces of garments in our collections, both upstream and downstream. Last year we faced quality issues concerning breaking elastane in key fabrics, which for the first time since we started measuring caused a reclamation rate above 1%. Even though the problem was solved by changing the fabric and the fabric supplier, our reclamation rate of 1,93% is even higher this year since we have taken in what has been returned from customers. In order to minimize the damage, we have even accepted and replaced products that were more than a half year old, which is our reclamation period. 18 RESULTS FOR 2018-2019 • 100% of our COZE AARHUS chosen materials are OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified, and 86,6% of the products in our latest LauRie SS19 collection ended up being OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified. A lack of certified flock and foil print houses was the reason for this number. We helped one print house financially getting front print certification of flock and foil printing. • ECHTE SS19 was 100% OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 or Nordic Ecolabel certified. • The reclamation rate was 1,93%. • We succeeded in obtaining the Nordic Ecolabel on our denim line Denim for days. • We continue to focus on choosing materials from close and/or local manufacturers to avoid trade barriers, long transport with high carbon emission and bribery in customs. • More than 60% of our collection consists of styles that have a long-lasting design. More than half of our activity consists of daily sales of basic models from stock. • All point of sale displays are made with sustainability in mind and printed on FSC certified paper carton. • All hangtags attached to the garments have been changed to FSC certified paper carton and marked with the FSC-logo. • At the COZE AARHUS headquarters, we only print and copy on FSC certified paper. • We stopped posting invoices and information on hard copy. All B2B customer communication is now handled online to save paper. • Cartons used for packaging are all made of recycled carton and the filling for the cartons is recycled paper. • All carton, plastic and paper wastage in our company is still being collected and recycled, which enables us to dispose of the waste at a low cost. GOALS 2019-2022 • 100% of all our chosen materials must be OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified. • 100% of the chosen marketing and packaging materials must be recycled and/or recyclable and environmentally friendly. • A maximum reclamation rate of 1% to ensure a high-quality standard. • Only use cotton fibres that are grown, processed and certified according to organic standards. • Only use viscose derived from certified renewable wood sources. • Find and incorporate an alternative and safe solution to plastic in terms of all packaging. • Finish and incorporate the material guide. • Continuously produce collections where at least 60% of the products are basics that never go out of style. 19 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION Changing the fashion industry requires an effort from all of us. We must rethink every step of our supply chain – from choice of fabric to customer aftercare. We seek long-lasting partnerships with suppliers who share our vision of sustainability and transparency. We only collaborate with European suppliers who have the will to make their production processes more sustainable and who respect the environment and live up to human and labour rights according to our code of conduct. It’s like choosing your closest friends. With reference to our values, only the like-minded are good enough. To obtain the best knowledge and control of the manufacturing of our products, we strive to achieve value chain transparency on all levels as we have learned that transparency throughout production plays an important role in enhancing a more sustainable behaviour. ACTIONS We experience a growing insight and motivation from our suppliers to meet the amfori BSCI requirements. We have focused on the cooperation with both garment makers (Tier 1), material and processing suppliers (laundries and print houses) (Tier 2 and 3). It creates a closer relation and more flexible solutions in the making of fabrics and washing of garments. Furthermore, it pushes Tier 2 and 3 suppliers out into the light, where questionable business conduct is less likely to be hidden. Amfori BSCI is still our way of following and monitoring the working conditions in our production and ensuring that our producers follow human and labour rights that have been internationally proclaimed. We include the amfori BSCI “Terms of Implementation” in our business contracts with all our suppliers to ensure that they accept the foundation of our collaboration. With these terms, the producers sign and accept the amfori BSCI code of conduct. They also accept that their working conditions are monitored and reported to us through third-party audits. Having a personal contact is very important to us as it continuously strengthens our partnerships and gives us the chance to get a better, mutual understanding of each other and reaching our common goals. Openness is the essence of COZE AARHUS. But if we talk the talk, we must walk the walk. With the brand launch of ECHTE SS19, we have chosen to provide every style with the name and location of the factory that helped us create it. This intel is provided in the hope of creating a cascading effort that optimistically inspires others in the industry to seek out the responsible suppliers, that we are proud to work with every day. RESULTS FOR 2018-2019 • Our suppliers have been audited, except for two, who have their first audit date right after the making of this report. • We have a closer and a more direct cooperation with most of our fabric suppliers (Tier 2) and know all of them. • Through our product and certification requirements, we have pushed laundries and a print house making placement printing into getting OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 and have succeeded with two laundries and one print house in the Istanbul area. • All garment makers (Tier 1) and fabric suppliers (Tier 2) were visited on site at least once last year, most of them twice. 20 GOALS 2019-2022 • All active Tier 1 suppliers must be registered and audited by amfori BSCI. After the second audit, the overall score must be no lower than D, with a maximum of two E sub-scores. After the third audit all sub-scores must be A-D. 21 CSR AMBASSADORS Whether you are just beginning to learn about sustainability in fashion, or you are a fashion-conscious veteran, it can be difficult to determine just what sustainability means within the context of fashion. Therefore, we define a CSR ambassador as an individual who is susceptible to learning more about sustainable manufacturing and consumption and excited to spread COZE AARHUS’ sustainable vision. We want to make sure that our salespeople, B2B customers and end consumers are informed and aware that they have numerous choices. Our CSR ambassadors help us do just that. It’s a butterfly effect. No one can do everything, but everyone can do something. ACTIONS In 2019 we started LauRie Academy. An academy that focuses on knowledge sharing and education of our salespeople and B2B customers. The main purpose was to create an event where dialogue and learning were possible to make them feel equipped to inform and influence the end consumers about sustainability and hence make them CSR ambassadors. The event has showed to be a great success. We have hosted LauRie Academy in Denmark and Sweden and are now planning an event in Norway in the coming year. We also created the Podcast Wear Your Values. With this podcast we wanted to inform and engage our end consumers in a new way. Over the course of five episodes we shared stories about responsible garment production, harmful chemicals in clothing and took the end consumer on a trip to two of the factories that made it possible for us to create our brand ECHTE. Wear Your Values is for all those who want to become knowledgeable on more sustainable manufacturing and consumption but just don’t know where to start. In the past year we have shared more information about our work with the SDG goals and our focus on more sustainable practices on our various social media platforms. With posts like Do the math we wanted to communicate information that is easy to understand. We also wanted to share stories from behind the scenes of the fashion industry. We also initiated multiple co-labs with influencers who set focus on sustainable living and consumption from a personal point of view. 22 RESULTS FOR 2018-2019 • Three educational LauRie Academies in Scandinavia. • The informative podcast Wear Your Values. • Seven different co-labs with influencers. • A test of our clothing and podcast conducted by Testfamilien (a Danish initiative where end consumers test different product experiences). • All members of our sales staff have participated in educational training on one specific topic twice a year when we have met prior to the selling season. Examples of topics are the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the SDGs, the amfori BSCI initiative, certifications, materials or responsible production. GOALS FOR 2019-2020 Overall, it is still our impression that salespeople, B2B customers and end consumers have only limited knowledge about working conditions, environmental and health issues in the fashion industry, so we will keep up with the actions from the past years that focusses on dialogue, knowledge sharing and education. This is how we do that: SALESPEOPLE Through at least two meetings a year we will educate our salespeople on sustainable manufacturing, environmentally friendly materials and the impact of harmful chemicals in textiles. B2B CUSTOMERS We will influence our B2B customers through salespeople, academies, newsletters, flyers, booklets, collection guides and point of sale displays to make sure that they are equipped to inform and influence the end consumers about sustainability in everyday life. END CONSUMERS We will reach the end consumer through social media, our own websites/online stores, newsletters, influencer co-labs, events and CSR statements on hangtags and garments. We will keep on encouraging dialogue and questions to make them feel comfortable enough to make more informed choices in the future. 23 PROUD EMPLOYEES Our employees are our most important asset. Their skills, enthusiasm and dedication are essential to our success and our impact as a company. COZE AARHUS strives to be an attractive workplace for everyone in the COZE AARHUS family and seek to give everyone the opportunity to develop both professionally and personally. Why? Because employee development is key to their personal success as well as our business success. We want each employee at COZE AARHUS to be both part of and proud of the value creation of our purpose, our vision and of our CSR-work. Our employees are our main CSR ambassadors in their everyday life. ACTIONS The launch of our new brand ECHTE and the coming introduction of the concept lightblue are creating both possibilities and challenges. To secure the wellbeing of our employees and a well-organized workflow, we initiated a Lean project in 2018. The purpose was to work smarter, not harder and to build bridges between departments. The project helped us optimize our value purpose and delivery of projects on time and on budget. It also contributed to a better understanding of the different tasks and workflows across the company. We continue to have Lean meetings every week. Previously, employee performance evaluations were performed once a year. We now conduct them every three months instead, using an HR online performance tool, where all employees must answer questions about how they thrive at work. Individual follow-up assessments will also follow every six months. In the follow-up assessments individual development plans are conducted as well. We offer employees flexible working hours to accommodate and respect employees’ family life. Our IT set-up makes it easy and convenient for employees to work from home thereby further enhancing flexibility at work. We believe in gender equality in decision making processes. Two male members have left our board and have been replaced by one woman, hence resulting in a gender equal board of two males and two females. Our CEO is a woman, and the daily management team consists of two women and two men. We have continued to welcome school classes to visit COZE AARHUS and encourage students to work with our sustainable framework in various assignments. Furthermore, we are proud participants off FASHION TECH 2019. A local initiative where fashion students from VIA University will work with sustainable innovation in the fashion industry based on the DNA of the brand ECHTE. RESULTS FOR 2018-2019 • Employee satisfaction survey score in November 2018: KPI was 4 out of 5, result was just below 4 out of 5. • This year all members of our sales staff have participated in educational training on subjects like certifications, materials and responsible production. • Creating an efficient information and workflow through and among departments with Lean as a project management tool. • Shared organic lunch every day at COZE AARHUS headquarters and at least one meat-free day a week. • Internal exercise competitions that inspirers and motivates our employees at COZE AARHUS headquarters. • Flexible working hours to accommodate and respect employees’ family life. 24 GOALS FOR 2019-2022 • In the new online HR performance tool, an overall score of 8,8 out of 10 is the new goal. It is a rather ambitious goal as the industry benchmark is below 8. 25 SUSTAINABILITY NEVER GOES OUT OF STYLE
