2018 Sustainability report 1 Contents Martela in brief 3 Key responsibility indicators 16 Instead of just furniture, you Contents and scope of report 4 Sustainability programme 17 CEO’s and sustainability team’s interview 5 Economic responsibility 18 get a comprehensive solution Martela Lifecycle® 7 Social responsibility 22 for the entire lifecycle of the Values 9 Environmental responsibility 27 workplace from Martela. Sustainability at Martela 10 GRI-index 33 Materiality assessment 11 Contact details 37 Value creation 12 Stakeholders and their expectations 13 Management of Sustainability 14 2 Martela in brief MARTELA IS A NORDIC LEADER SPECIALISING in user-­ centric working and learning environments. We offer our customers a single point of contact throughout the workplace lifecycle, from specifying needs to maintenance and optimisation of the workplace. Martela is a family company founded in 1945 and its shares are quoted on OMX Nordic Exchange Helsinki. Our main market areas are Finland, Sweden and Norway, and we sell our solutions globally through our network of dealers. Our head office is in Pitäjänmäki, Helsinki, Finland and our production facilities are in Finland and Poland. In 2018, the Martela Group’s revenue was EUR 103.1 million and it employed an average of 510 employees. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 3 Martela joined the United Nations’ Global Compact Initiative in 2011 Contents THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, MARTELA’S NINTH, Global Compact reporting can find the roles and duties of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the GRI (GlobMartela joined the United Nations’ Global Compact (Board), the Group Management Team (GMT) and the al Reporting Initiative) standards core option. The Initiative in 2011. We also use this report as Global Sustainability Steering Group in developing corporate and scope report covers all of Martela’s operations. Martela’s Sustainability Steering Group has reviewed and selected the performance indicators for the GRI standCompact reporting to measure the extent to which the principles of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption are in place in responsibility. The economic, social and environmental sections of this report contain information on the performance in said areas of operation. In the beginning of of report ard index based on the materiality assessment. We base the assessment on the expectations of Martela’s key stakeholders and the significance of the Martela. The GRI standard index includes the indicators that Global Compact has approved for measurement of the level and progress of actions. each section, there is a materiality assessment of indicators used and a list of the main targets. The sustainability report presents the progress of the sustainability most essential factors for business. It was mainly the programme for 2018 – 2022 and the new programme company’s internal specialists who carried out the Reporting structure for 2019 – 2030. assessment and the Sustainability Steering Group At the beginning of the report, you can find a brief inhas updated it annually based on stakeholder intertroduction of Martela as a company, and information Assurance of the report views and discussions. on its values, strategy and governance. After that, There is no external assurance of the sustainability inThe disclosed results include monitoring data for you can find the stakeholder analysis prepared by dicators. We compile our economic responsibility meta period of at least three years. Compared to the the Sustainability Steering Group and descriptions of rics from information used in the Board of Directors’ previous report published on 4 May 2018, the bigthe core risks and opportunities regarding corporate Report and the consolidated financial statements that gest change is a significant reduction in occupatioresponsibility. The related management principles KPMG have audited. nal accident rates and sickness leave due to them. and the nature of the commitments are summarised. Investment in the safety culture created the positive The full texts of our principles can be found at Martela Publication of the report trend, especially within removal services. We explain home pages. The Martela Annual Report presents The annual sustainability report is published in PDF forother deviations and limitations in connection with the the governance and risk management principles. mat in Finnish and English. We do not print copies of the indicators in question and in the GRI standard index. In the section ‘Management of Sustainability’, you report. The 2019 report will be published in spring 2020. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 4 Sustainable development against a throwaway culture From left to right Ville Taipale, MARTELA Anne-Maria 2018 I Peitsalo SUSTAINABILITY and Matti Rantaniemi AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 5 Martela has been promoting corporate responsibility and sustainable development for a long time. The efficient use of materials and the manufacture of durable, timeless products have been part of Martela’s heritage since its establishment more than 70 years ago. Martela advocates sustainable consumption and the circular economy, against a throwaway culture. In this article, Matti Rantaniemi, CEO, Ville Taipale, Chair of the Sustainability Steering Group, and Anne-Maria Peitsalo, Secretary of the Sustainability Steering Group, discuss Martela’s key sustainability themes. Martela defines itself as a developer of user-­ enables us to design and implement a solution that In what ways are you combating the modern until customers extensively begin to demand comcentric working and learning environments. best meets the customer’s needs. Our work continthrowaway culture? prehensive solutions and consider the life-cycle efWhat does this mean? ues even after the work environment has been taken Matti: From the very beginning, our operations fects of their facilities. Matti: We have come a long way from being a supinto use. The functionality of the facilities is meashave been based on the design and production of plier of office furniture to becoming a highly successured, and the solution is further developed based on high-quality office furniture. Our furniture has been Which social responsibility themes did you ful developer of working and learning environments. feedback. In other words, the optimisation of facilities designed to stand the test of time as well as heavy-dufocus on in 2018? Digitalisation and globalisation have changed our is a continuous process, as work keeps changing ty use in professional environments and public spacMatti: Sustainability is evident in our basic mission customers’ ways of working and learning quite dracontinuously as well. es. We are also investing in recycling furniture. When of developing our customers’ work environments matically. This is why we have created the Martela Ville: Our continuously developing service offering designing new facilities, we seek to make use of the and in our responsible operations. Martela is comLifecycle® strategy, a comprehensive approach to is an integral part of our strategy. Our customers can customer’s old furniture according to their needs. In mitted to the ten principles of the Global Compact developing work environments. acquire their work or learning facilities as a service, addition, we offer services that help customers find initiative concerning human rights, labour rights, meaning that they do not need to invest in furniture. new owners for their usable old furniture. environmental protection and the prevention of How is this transformation reflected in Anne-Maria: High-quality design is one of Martela’s corruption. customers’ needs? What does your user-centric approach mean strongest competitive factors. One example of our enVille: Sustainable supply chains are one of the Ville: The share of knowledge-intensive work has for your customers? during design is the Kilta chair, which we introduced most essential aspects of our operations. We have increased, particularly in industrialised societies. Anne-Maria: In user-centric facilities, work runs in 1955. This chair has won international recognition updated our guidelines and implemented the related Many tasks can be performed regardless of time smoothly, and the facilities are pleasant and comand is still in production, and used and refurbished instructions through a survey for our suppliers. Most and place. On the other hand, work environments fortable. Today, we know that wellbeing at work plays Kilta chairs are also in high demand. of our suppliers have already made a commitment to must provide facilities for a diverse range of needs. an important role in efficiency, which is why wellbecommon sustainability work, and we are continuing Sometimes employees must be able to concentrate ing is emphasised when recruiting highly competent How have customers responded to the this work by having discussions and further specifyin peace and quiet, and sometimes they need to have employees. In other words, user-centric facilities enchange in your offering? ing our goals and requirements. discussions and cooperate with others or take a lithance the customer’s competitive advantage in many Matti: With the Martela Lifecycle® model, we clearly Anne-Maria: We aim to increase wellbeing at work tle break. Old-fashioned offices do not support new ways. Our service model Workplace as a Service also lead the way not only in the Nordic countries, but both in our customer companies and here at Martela. ways of working. ensures that the workplace is continually optimised in also internationally. The required change of mindset In terms of our customers, we believe we have sucMatti: International competition sets new requireline with changing needs. will take time, but most of our customers have alceeded in this, and the feedback on the solutions we ments for efficiency. Facility rents are a significant exVille: Our user-centric approach takes the efficient ready realised the benefits of our offering. Our goals offer has been very positive. At Martela, investing in pense for customers, particularly in growth centres. use of space to an entirely new level. It means imfor 2018 also included strengthening the customer wellbeing at work was one of our focuses for 2018. proved functionality in a smaller space. This also reexperience, and we have achieved good results in We measured job satisfaction by means of an annual What is the Lifecycle® strategy about? duces facility expenses in many cases. this respect. We ranked best-in-industry in the Office survey and more frequent opinion surveys. We have Matti: Our strategy is based on our strong and Anne-Maria: The world’s most pressing challenge 2018 survey. received valuable feedback from our employees and extensive expertise in working and learning enviis global warming caused by carbon dioxide emisVille: Martela has a strong brand and high recoghave been able to implement various development ronments. It begins with identifying the customer’s sions. In addition to reducing rental expenses, more nisability. Customers know they can expect highly measures in response to challenges. current situation and needs comprehensively, in efficient use of space reduces customers’ energy professional solutions and new insights from us. terms of both the organisation and individuals. This consumption and climate effects. However, there is still a great deal of work to be done MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 6 4. Service models WORKPLACE MAINTENANCE AND Costs Usage % DEVELOPMENT Ensuring the achievement or Workplace as a Service objectives and continuous Work spaces have traditionally been designed to last five to seven measurement of development. years. However, the current fast-paced working environment makes it impossible to know when and how the organisational situation, number of employees and ways of working are in need of change. Martela’s service model Workplace as a Service ensures that the work environment is always optimal. Instead of individual furniture orders, the model offers organisations a comprehensive solution for the entire lifecycle of the work place that takes continuous care of work spaces, furniture – and people. An integral part of the service is continuous work space optimisation according to the changing needs of users. The service model allows for the organisation to pay only for the services it truly needs, and erases 1. problems related to ownership of furniture. Within the model, the work WORKPLACE place is always equipped to answer to current needs and goals. 3. SPECIFICATION All of Martela’s service models comply with the Waste Nothing WORKPLACE Ensures that work environment principle; for example, changing existing furniture is not an end of itself. ® Martela Lifecycle IMPLEMENTATION change supports both company If proper use for existing furniture cannot be found, the furniture can be Implementation as a full goals and user needs. found new uses through the Martela Outlet. service with single point of contact. Learning environment as a Service The operating culture of learning environments is changing, and the ways of teaching and learning are more diverse than before. New practices and methods set requirements also for the renewal of the learning environment. Developed through service design and in cooperation with clients, Martela’s new service model Learning environment as a Service answers this challenge. 2. By adapting the model, schools and other places of learning no WORKPLACE longer have to own a single furniture but can rent the needed solutions PLANNING as a service. The most important benefit of the Learning environment as User-oriented and a Service model is that it creates a practical framework for the renewal of participatory planning to learning environments and is a concrete way of bringing circular economy meet the defined goals. to schools on a practical level. Value for customer Durable and recyclable furniture Improved user-experience Solutions enabling new Monitoring and optimising Space efficiency reducing climate to meet the real user needs and increased wellbeing working methods the utilisation rate effects MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 7 Martela Lifecycle® – user centric workplaces and learning environments USER CENTRIC WORKPLACES and learning environenvironment. The targets for change are always Implementation Workplace or Learning ments support a wide range of needs and situations, derived from corporate strategy to ensure that the Careful advance planning and efficient project manenvironment as a Service including spaces for a variety of activities, such as change supports the organisation towards its future agement ensure a smooth implementation of the The service model allows customers to select not collaboration, communication, chill out and concenvision. Carefully implemented specification includes, change and maintenance work. Martela takes care of only a product but a comprehensive solution for the tration. The best workplaces and learning environfor example, workplace utilisation measurements, all changes beginning from removal service and instalentire lifecycle of the workplace or learning environments are created based on the goals and values of workshops and working environment surveys while lation of the office to recycling and final clean-up as well ment focusing on the premises, the furniture and the each organisation and by listening to the needs of ensuring end-user engagement in the change. At the as the introduction of the new working environment to people. An essential aspect of the service is the conend-users. The more the environment supports work end of the specification phase, a workplace report the personnel. tinuous optimisation of the workplace or learning enand learning, the more satisfied the users are. The and space usage plan are created. These are used in vironment in accordance with the changing needs of way of working and learning is improved! the workspace and interior design planning. Maintenance the users. With the service model, the customer pays Martela Lifecycle® is a comprehensive service Based on a user experience survey and the actual only for what is genuinely needed erasing problems that covers the entire lifecycle of workplaces and Planning utilisation measurements, the maintenance phase related to owning furniture. All of Martela’s service learning environments. With this model, maintenance User centric workplace planning ensures a responconsists of an enquiry of the workplace needs as models follow the Waste Nothing principle: we don’t of premises and furniture is continuous ensuring that sibly created and maintained work environment for well A good working environment is a source of change furniture just for the sake of change and we the workplace evolves with changing needs. the organisation. Space and interior design help to creativity and enables employees to reach optirecycle furniture that is not needed. optimise the use of space in the work environment mal productivity and wellbeing. as development Specification and clarify the company’s visual image. In the user suggestions based on the measurement results. Value for customers Future needs of the work environment are considered centric design phase, a company-specific space plan Maintenance reduces need for major changes, A successful working and learning environment in the specification phase. If a company has the opis created that can take into account existing furlowers costs and supports occupational wellguides and challenges personnel to be more enportunity to move to new premises, the specification nishings, recycling of unneeded pieces and furniture being and work efficiency of employees, as the gaged in their work. The environment has a direct phase provides support for finding the right kind of rental opportunities. space supports work also during organisational link to efficiency, cost savings, employee satisfaction, space. The company that has previously operated in As a result of the planning, the customer receives change. and cooperation. Successful organisations undera traditional office can find ample room in usually 20 a custom made space plan that is used in impleOrganisations and work methods are constantly stand the potential of the working environment as a to 40% smaller premises. menting the change. The workplace as a whole can changing. It is advisable to regularly check if the management tool. A succesful environment supports The specification starts with locating user-drivalso be leased with Martela’s flexible financial servicwork environment supports the current ways of its end-users in taking initiative. It supports the oren needs by going through the organisation’s roles, es. At this stage, a plan for employee orientation for working. The changes do not always have to be ganisation to achieve its key objectives and ensures a tasks, space and product needs as well as the goals the utilisation of the new space is created. Additionsubstantial. Even small changes to the workspace smooth flow of information. A good working environfor trans-Martela Lifecycle® – user centric workally, a unit audit is carried out for possible removal can have a major effect on productivity and emment is a source of creativity and enables employees places and learning environments forming the work service and recycling. ployee wellbeing. to reach optimal productivity and wellbeing. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 8 Values OUR CORPORATE VALUES ARE expressed by the terms: Family business, Passion for Innovations, User Driven Design and We look further than Finnish. just the next quarter. Family Business explains the long-term approach that we take. We look further than just the next quarter, and we maintain contacts over generations. We look to the future, and we value both the environment and our roots. Passion for Innovations is in our DNA. Innovation applies to our offering but is also evident in our endeavours to improve everything we do. User Driven Design can be seen and felt in our products and services in a very tangible sense. We can improve the everyday lives of our customers in many ways. Martela was founded in 1945 and it has developed along with the country itself over the decades since. We are very proud of our Finnish roots. A key aspect of being Finnish is keeping your word. At Martela this means keeping our customer promises: we finish the work we have started, with pride. Therefore, our fourth value is represented by the word Finnish. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 9 Sustainability at Martela MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 10 Agenda 2030 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning Martela Lifecycle and learning environments – we help our customers create learning environments for the goals opportunities for all. 4.a Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive needs of the child. Many of the solutions applied with the Martela Lifecycle and provide safe, nonviolent, inclusive and effective model help our customers follow the new curriculum: learning environments for all. the learning environment supports the pupils’ insight, experimentality and communality. CUSTOMER CASE: SYVÄLAHTI COMMUNITY CENTRE https://martela.com/reference/syvalahti-community-centre Promote inclusive and sustainable With the Martela Lifecycle model, we help economic growth, employment and our customers create spaces that support decent work for all. work, promote collaboration and produc8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global tivity, not forgetting resource efficiency. resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth Martela Lifecycle model and solutions from environmental degradation, in accordance with enable new working methods. the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead. CUSTOMER CASE: FINNISH EVANGELICAL LUTHERAN MISSION https://martela.com/reference/felm Ensure sustainable consumption and Martela’s material efficiency, recycling business and production patterns. new service models to minimise material usage for 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste customer products. generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Providing Martela’s sustainable services and products 12.7 to public procurement and creating discussion on Promote public procurement practices different sustainable development opportunities. that are sustainable, in accordance with national policies and priorities. CUSTOMER CASE: KALASATAMA URBAN LAB https://martela.com/reference/kalasatama-urban-lab MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 11 Value creation Resources and capabilities Martela’s activities Output and it’s distribution • COMPONENT AND SUBASSEMBLIES MARTELA LIFECYCLE® CUSTOMERS • 9 million kg (wood based 60 %, metal based 29 %) • Workplace specifications, layout planning, • Implementation, maintenance, wellbeing, cost savings, PRODUCTION FACILITIES • New and re-manufactured furniture • Laminate and melamine component production in Kitee, Finland • Final assembly of new and re-manufacturing of used furniture in Nummela SUPPLIERS OF GOODS AND SERVICES • Upholstered furniture component manufacturing in Piaseczno, Poland Costs Usage % • Purchases total EUR 64 million incl. materials, • Components, energy costs, fuels, waste management, PERSONNEL • Property rentals, rental of vehicles, services, IT licenses • 510 permanent employees, including 265 factory employees and 245 office employees PERSONNEL • 142 External resources in manyear • EUR 21 541 000 salaries paid including • Investments in staff development EUR 112 000 per year share-paid contributions • EUR 4 925 000 employee social security PARTNER NETWORK and pension • 150 suppliers, 50 re-sellers, 5 freelancer designers OWNERS SOCIETY • 3 689 owners, of which 94.7% households, 4.4% companies, 0.3% • EUR -84 000 taxes external investors 78.9% owns 500 shares of less, 2.5% over 5000 shares FOR OWNERS AND FINANCIERS • EUR 1 326 000 dividends • INCOMPATIBLE CAPITAL • EUR 821 000 interest expenses • Martela brand, Martela Lifecycle -strategy, 6 utility models, 1 registered design • Versatile expertise • WASTE • 1.7 million kg, recovered 99.6%, less than 0.4% FINANCE of hazardous waste • EUR 50 million equity and liabilities RECYCLING SERVICE FOR CUSTOMERS INVESTMENTS AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT • 2.7 million kg, of which 98% wood, metal and • EUR 1.7 million investments, EUR 1.9 million survey and product energy fractions developement NATURAL RESOURCES • Electricity 5 228 MWh • District heating 4 403 MWh • Heating by gas 210 MWh • 78% renewable energy, 20% fossil energy and nuclear power 2% MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 12 Stakeholders and their expectations Owners Other interest Customers Specifiers Employees Dealers Suppliers and Investors groups QUANTITY AND • Companies and public • People responsible for • 501 permanent em• About 50 dealers, of • About 150 • Major owners are Martela • Media, areas of DESCRIPTION purchasers. Private customers customer definitions, ployees: 28.5% factowhom four operate under suppliers, of family and pension operations, industry only through the Martela Outlet architects, interior ry workers, 23.2% Martela brand which about 70% insurance company organisations, channel. 84% of turnover from architects removal service • Other dealers, about half in Martela’s home Ilmarinen and funding by schools and Finland, 7% from Sweden, workers and 48.3% of which in Europe, offer market, ie Norway, the well-known Nordic educational 5% from Norway and 4% from knowledge workers Martela products as part Sweden, Poland banks institutions other countries • 142 work years of of their other offering and Finland external resources THEIR • High quality products and • Information on • Continuity of • High quality products • Stable • Stable development • Promotion of local EXPECTATIONS services products, materials, employment and services development • Successful risk social wellbeing • Information on products, supply environmental trends relationship • Information on products, and trust management by, among others, chain and materials and brand value • Professional supply chain and materials • Clear • Profitable business and employment • Compliance with laws, principles • Possibility to realise development • Compliance with communication of ability to pay dividends • Open of corporate governance and new ideas with opportunities laws, agreements and instructions and communication agreements both internally and respect to Finnish • Training on new sustainable business expectations in the supply chain design traditions skills and best principles • Availability of eco labelled practices in • Reliable business products, especially in Sweden, occupational relationship Denmark and Norway safety • Availability of eco labelled • Some expect especially Finnish products, especially in design Sweden, Denmark and Norway OUR ACTIONS • Ensuring availability of product • Material and brand • Employee • Exceeding the • Investments • Close monitoring of • Co-operation with information studies satisfaction and performance of in long-term competitiveness and representatives of • Ensuring compliance with Code of • Design events to enable wellbeing studies other suppliers cooperation performance and open other stakeholders Conduct interaction • Training • Open discussion • Communication, communication • Open communication focusing on • Designers’ ideas and • Appraisals on performance tracking and • Development of materiality influence to offering • Open internal discussion of sustainability and its • Use of eco-labels communication sustainable reporting • The right to use the Key Flag procurement • Constant development of Symbol and the Design From principles Sustainability indicators Finland mark MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 13 Management of MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY is normal everyday work at Martela. Sustainability is an integral part of Martela’s values, operating principles and strategy. Martela’s goal is to provide responsible solutions for its customers’ workplaces and learning environments through the Martela Lifecycle® model. With sustaina­bility In addition, the company has defined specific management principles for guiding corporate responsibility work. Martela reviews annually and, if necesthe Martela Lifecycle® model, we can implement the changes in the workplace required by the transformation of work, while also fulfilling the requirements for sary, revises the management principles originally room efficiency, wellbeing at work and work efficiency. drawn up in 2011. Sustainability in the whole value chain of production Martela Corporation’s Board, together with the also plays an important role in corporate responsiCEO, leads the sustainability work. The Sustainability bility. To manage this aspect, Martela clarified the Steering Group prepares and coordinates practical principles for sustainability of the supply chain at the development measures. The company’s normal orgabeginning of 2018. nisation controls the implementation of these. The susAnnual training sessions on management printainability programme summarises annual sustainabiliciples are organised to increase awareness and to ty objectives and gives them a longer time perspective. engage the whole organisation. The goal is to enOperations implement the sustainability programme in sure the correct and sufficient level of knowledge of the annual planning and monitor implementation at the each employee regarding the sustainability aspects management level. Since the beginning of 2018, the of their duties and to involve them in the development Vice President, Customer Supply Management has of the company. been responsible for sustainability matters in the GMT. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 14 Corporate Code of Conduct MARTELA CORPORATION’S BOARD approved the Board and by the Annual General Meeting explain pact of its customers. These indirect effects are the The Sustainability Steering Group also acts as the Martela Corporate Code of Conduct for the first corporate governance principles and issues, thus best way that Martela can fight global warming. management review group for quality, environmental time in 2011. In February 2019, the Board approved they are not treated separately in this report. and occupational safety management systems. a clearer ban on obtaining competitor information Sustainability policy Once a year, the Sustainability Steering Group reby misleading means. At the same time, we corRisk management for the supply chain views the results of the sustainability work undertarected the references to the changed organisation The Annual Report and the Board of Directors’ ReMartela’s Sustainability Policy for the Supply Chain, ken, the plans for further work and the reporting. The structure of Global Compact and Martela’s Susport describe risk management in more detail, so it approved by the GMT, presents our core requireSustainability Steering Group approves the report betainability Policy for the Supply Chain updated in has not been included in this report. ments for suppliers of goods and services. The fore we publish it. The Sustainability Steering Group 2018. The Code states a position on good financial principles deal with suppliers’ compliance with laws, consists of the Sustainability Team with representamanagement, responsibility in personnel issues, Human resources policy regulations and the Martela Corporate Code of Contives chosen from the Martela Management Team. environmental responsibility, cooperation with supMartela’s People Policy, approved by the GMT, outduct, as well as delivery reliability, environmental Martela’s Sustainability Manager acts as secretary for pliers of goods and services, customer relations, lines the principles on which responsible HR manissues and other issues. In addition to the general the Sustainability Steering Group and prepares the communications and stakeholder relations, among agement is founded. These principles clarify and harprocurement principles, suppliers and their supply necessary material. The chair of the Steering Group other things. The Code also records Martela’s intermonise the HR management process and describe chain are subject to social responsibility obligations. is the Vice President, Customer Supply Management. national commitments. how to maintain and develop a good corporate and Suppliers are required to comply with national labour The GMT follows the progress of the sustainability The Martela Management Team defined the set of employer image. Martela’s success is dependent on laws and ILO conventions. The areas that we monitor programme and considers proposals put forward by CR policies that support the Code in 2011. In March skilled and motivated personnel who enjoy their work. include working time, pay, child labour, forced labour, the Sustainability Steering Group, the Management 2019, the Management Team confirmed the EnviThe company ensures the maintenance of these perdiscrimination, the right to organise and collective Team member in charge of sustainability matters, ronmental Policy and the People Policy in the form sonnel qualities with responsible HR management in bargaining, as well as health and safety at work. The the Vice President, Customer Supply Management in which they were updated in 2016 and the Sustaiboth the short and long run. policy describes supplier selection and control modor other GMT members. The GMT approves the prinnability Policy for the Supply Chain that we formed els. We apply the Sustainability Policy for the Supply ciples guiding sustainability, except those that require in 2018 from a combination of Purchasing Principles Environmental policy Chain to suppliers of products with the Martela label approval by the Board. and Social Requirements for Suppliers. You can find The Environmental Policy, approved by the GMT, aims and contract suppliers whose products are included Of the principles guiding sustainability, the Board the complete text of the Corporate Code of Conduct, to decrease the company’s environmental impacts in Martela’s product programme. approves the Corporate Code of Conduct, the goand the Policies that support it, on Martela’s website and promote recycling. Martela manages its environvernance policy and the risk management policy. The at www.martela.com/responsibility. mental activities in accordance with the ISO 14001 Sustainability organisation GMT will submit other sustainability proposals to the management system. We present it in more detail in Martela manages sustainability as part of the normal Board as necessary. The Board has not nominated Corporate governance principles the environmental section of this report. The policy planning process and everyday work. We have set up any of its members to specialise in CR issues. Martela’s Annual Report, the Board of Directors’ Regives guidance on how we apply an environmental a Sustainability Steering Group to prepare developport, stock exchange releases and the resolutions approach to developing Martela’s offering, with which ment measures, coordinate these in the operations passed by the organisational meeting of Martela’s the company indirectly affects the environmental imand make all the necessary proposals to the GMT. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 15 Key responsibility indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Revenue (EUR million) 132.8 129.1 109.5 103.1 Profit before taxes (EUR million) 3.4 5.6 0.0 -2.5 Income Taxes (EUR million) 0.9 2.3 -0.7 0.1 Return on investment, % 12.1 18.2 1.6 -4.9 Equity to assets ratio, % 40.9 45.3 40.8 39.2 Dividends paid (EUR million) 0.4 1.0 1.5 1.3 Wages and salaries (EUR million) 30,1 29,2 25,7 25.7 23.8 21.9 21.5 Number of employees (average in man-years) 627.3 544.1 497.8 505.4 Purchases 2017, (EUR million) 92.8 87.8 77.7 76.1 Gross investments (EUR million) 0.7 2.9 2.1 1.7 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Average age of employees (years) 45.0 45.1 44.0 45.0 Number of employees with more than 10 years’ service, % 48.5 49.7 49.2 51.9 Employee turnover, % 19.7 26.2 17.8 14.7 Reasons for leaving (incidents) • terminated by employer 43 53 12 6 • terminated by employee 67 85 73 65 • retirement 8 12 8 6 Absences due to illness (% of work time) 3.0 3.0 2.5 2.8 Investment in training (EUR / person) 208 333 376 221 Development discussions (% of staff) 79 87 64 66 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Material use (1 000 kg) 11 655 10 423 10 928 9 215 Direct energy (GJ) 0 0 0 0 Indirect energy (GJ) • district heating 20 188 23 231 17 331 16 339 • electricity 24 334 22 291 19 019 18 820 • gas 703 682 702 757 Carbon dioxide emissions (1 000 kg) • from direct energy 0 0 0 0 • from indirect energy 1 533 1 742 1 268 477 • from own transport equipment 1 219 1 058 1 035 928 • from company cars 131 114 114 98 • from business flights 106 116 97 105 • from material use 16 323 11 826 18 314 13 214 Waste • total (1 000 kg) 1 594 1 288 1 237 1 670 • hazardous waste % 1.3 % 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.4 % • recovery, % 95.6 % 95.5 % 95.7 % 99.6 % MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 16 Sustainability Programme 2019 − 2030 At the beginning of 2019, the Sustainability Steering Group approved Martela’s new CR action plan for 2019 – 2030. The plan includes overall goals including economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability. GOAL SCHEDULE EBIT level of 8 per cent excluding non-recurring items Long term Increase the share of the service business Customer employee wellbeing, knowledge workers Mid term • 50% of new Martela Lifecycle® customer workplace change specifications lead to implementation • Minimum 30% of employees say that wellbeing has increased and minimum 50% of employees say that working efficiency has increased according to a user experience study Martela employee wellbeing: Mid term • People Power ® rating to reach AAA level in People Spirit survey • Annual survey, action plans and implementation Improvements in working and learning environments and reducing environmental impact Mid term with Martela Lifecycle® ensuring the best customer experience • To identify the real need to develop efficient environment that suppprt work, taking into account the opportunities offered by new working methods • Promoting the space efficiency with sustainable and multifunctional solutions, utilising existing and avoiding unnecessary • Continuous improvement of value chain to ensure the best customer experience optimising the use of materials and energy • Knowledge based optimisation, continuous development and maintenance of working environment, taking into account the circular economy Minimising climate impacts in logistics and in use of materials Mid term Developing occupational safety towards accident free working Mid term Demonstrating the social responsibility of the supply chain and fight against bribery and corruption Short term • Written commitment on respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery of the supply chain • Clear discount terms and decision patterns in the sales process • Training and raising awareness throughout the value chain MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 17 Economic responsibility Materiality assessment Evaluation of stakeholders A Customers’ cost savings through space efficiency improvements B Customer satisfaction C Analyses of corruption risks D Purchases from local suppliers E Financial results Impact on Martela MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 18 Product offering changes weekly reports. In 2018, general customer satisfaction chain is based on partnerships with a history of sevwith customers’ needs increased slightly from the previous year, to an average eral decades. The role of suppliers varies greatly. In Goals Martela’s product and service development is based of 8.64 on a scale of 1–10. Martela received particularterms of sustainability, Martela’s key suppliers produce on customers’ changing needs. Usability, durability ly good scores for the professionalism of its employees custom components based on materials and product • EBIT 8% level excluding and aesthetic and physical quality are the most imand the quality of its deliveries and installation work. structures chosen by Martela’s designers. This means non-recurring items portant factors in products. These requirements reNearly 700 customers responded to an extenthat the cooperation begins as early as the product • To identify the real need to develop main unchanged, even though trends are changing sive customer experience survey carried out in late development phase. At the other end of the supplier efficient environment that support work and new functionalities are being added. Martela’s 2018. The survey measured customers’ interest in spectrum are companies that supply their standard • To increase the share of the offering is updated and new products are designed recommending Martela to others and their level of components and that Martela chooses based on service business in response to customers’ needs. Martela’s product satisfaction with Martela’s services. In terms of Marproduct specifications. • Continuous improvement of value portfolio lays a solid foundation that can be adjusted tela’s services, the customers appreciated the qualTo ensure efficiency and sustainability, Martela dechain to ensure the best customer to trends through minor changes. During 2018, we ity of its furniture and other products, environmental velops its supply chain in cooperation with the supexperience optimising the use of expanded our product portfolio by introducing several responsibility, expertise and comprehensive offering pliers. In 2018, the goals for purchasing operations materials and energy new products in the Pod family, which has been dein particular. The feedback on its removal, recycling, included significant cost savings and high delivery signed to meet the growing need for flexible facilities. delivery and installation services was also positive. reliability. To achieve these goals, Martela invested in In addition to the physical products, monitoring users’ The Net Promoter Score (NPS) was 42, with 56% of the efficient use of materials, as well as efficient logisbehaviour is important in shaping the customer expethe respondents being willing to recommend Martela, tics that also reduce its environmental impact. Martela Economic value by stakeholder group rience. We can achieve our desired results only by dewhile 30% were neutral and 14% were critical. Martefurther developed its own production by investing in Martela seeks to create economic value for its customveloping working and learning environments based on la’s Customer Satisfaction Score (CSAT) was 4.1 on centralising its production of wood-based board comers, shareholders, employees, partners and surroundmonitoring the actual user experience. New services a scale of 0–5. ponents in Finland. This shortens the supply chain for ing societies. Of this economic value, more than 70% is are continuously being developed for these purposes. certain products. distributed to providers of products and services, and Supply chain management When selecting new, significant suppliers, their nearly 20% is distributed as salaries to employees. Of A high level of customer satisfaction An efficient, high-quality supply chain is one of Marteability to deliver products and produce quality is asthe companies providing products and services, more Martela aims to offer the best customer experience la’s key success factors. In its own operations, Martela sessed, along with their financial background. The than 70% are based in Martela’s countries of operation in its field by providing working and learning environfocuses on final assembly and the service business. operations of significant companies are also evalu(Finland, Sweden, Poland and Norway) and more than ments that support customers’ productive work. For Purchases of materials related to products and servicated by studying their production conditions. Martela 20% in other European countries. User-centric working this reason, the customer experience is measured reges sold by Martela represented around 60% of Martecarries out supplier assessments to examine its most and learning environments designed and implemented ularly, developed based on feedback and managed la’s total purchases, with the share of other products important subcontractors’ commitment to its sustainfor customers increase wellbeing at work and, conso as to increase customer loyalty. Martela’s unique and services being 40%. Martela’s purchasing funcability principles. Based on self-assessments carried sequently, customers’ productivity and operational corporate culture and its way of working lay a strong tion is responsible for acquiring sustainably produced out by suppliers, their most significant environmental capacity. Martela seeks to be a reliable partner for its foundation that its competitors cannot imitate. products, materials and components that meet cusaspects of corporate responsibility are usually related suppliers, service providers and financiers, a fair and Martela monitors customer satisfaction through tomers’ needs. Its purchasing criteria are strict, and its to the sorting of waste, energy consumption, safety at encouraging employer for its employees, and a profcontinuous measurements carried out after deliversuppliers are selected carefully. work and employment relationships. Social risks are itable investment for its shareholders. The distribution ies and occasional extensive customer experience A network of around 150 reliable suppliers delivers assessed specific to each supplier, as the supplier is of financial benefits is presented in more detail in the surveys. The results of the continuous customer satmaterials and components for products in Martela’s not necessarily based in the same country as where its value-creation diagram on page 12 of the report. isfaction measurements are monitored by means of standard range. To a significant degree, the supply components, sub-assemblies and products are manMARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 19 REVENUE AND OPERATING PROFIT, KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 2018 EUR MILLION Of Martela’s economic value, 150 – Revenue, EUR million 103.1 more than 70% is distributed 120 – Operating profit, EUR million –2.1 to providers of products Equity to assets ratio, % 39.2 and services. 90 – Gearing, % 0.7 60 – Investments, EUR million 1.7 30 – Dividends paid, EUR million 0.1 Market value in the end of 2018, EUR million 12.26 0 – 2016 2017 2018 Revenue Profit ufactured. Martela monitors supply chain operations ticles of Association. In addition, Martela has a Code and compliance with the jointly agreed rules specific of Conduct, which includes sound financial manageto each supplier. Through supervision, Martela can ment policies. As a listed company, Martela complies ensure that laws, operating principles and joint agreewith Nasdaq Helsinki’s guidelines for insiders and the ments are followed under all circumstances. Finnish Corporate Governance Code published by the Analysis of sustainability aspects is an important Securities Market Association in 2015. Most indicapart of continuous interaction with suppliers. Martela’s tors of economic sustainability are derived from the sustainability policy for the supply chain was updated consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in 2018, and it also emphasises the importance of soand presented in accordance with the International Ficial responsibility in the suppliers’ own supply chains. nancial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Martela’s auditor, The new policy was communicated to key suppliers KPMG, annually inspects the accounts and transacduring summer 2018. Through a sustainability survey tions of its subsidiaries. An auditor’s report is presentcarried out after the policy had been updated, a total ed at Martela’s Annual General Meeting. of 153 material, component and product suppliers Through its membership of the Association of Finncommitted to compliance with the requirements of ish Furniture and Joinery Industries and the Service the sustainability policy. The work to implement measSector Employers of Finland, Martela has an influence ures based on the survey results continues and will on legislation and collective bargaining. In Sweden, include further discussions with individual suppliers, if Martela is a member of the Swedish Federation of necessary. These measures and cooperation further Wood and Furniture Industry. strengthen the suppliers’ commitment to compliance Martela does not condone bribery in its business with Martela’s sustainability requirements. operations in any market area. Its anti-corruption and sustainable business principles are discussed in Laws and rules guide operations conjunction with an annual sustainability training proMartela’s decision-making and governance comgramme. Martela does not support politicians or politiply with the laws of Finland and the Limited Liability cal parties in any of its countries of operation, and was Companies Act in particular and with other regulations not granted state subsidies for its business operations concerning public listed companies, as well as its Arduring 2018. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 20 ECONOMIC VALUE BY STAKEHOLDER GROUP SALARIES, EMPLOYEE COSTS AND TAXES BY COUNTRIES, EUR 1000 30 000 – 1.4% 2.3% 4.6% 20 000 – 20.3% 10 000 – 0 2016 2017 2018 71.6% Finland Sweden and Norway Poland Other Payments to product and service providers PURCHASES 2018 Employee wages Employee social security & pension Dividends paid to shareholders 61% 39% Other (taxes –0.1%, paid interests 0.8%, investments 1.6%) MATERIAL SPEND, % Case YIT 2016 2017 2018 Materials Other Wood 11.9% 11.9% 9.6% YIT CREATES A BETTER LIVING ENVIRONMENT by developing and building Plastics 2.2% 2.7% 2.1% housing, housing services, business facilities, infrastructure and entire areas. PURCHASED BY AREAS, % After the merger of YIT and Lemminkäinen in the spring of 2018, it was also imMetal 28.5% 30.4% 26.2% portant to create a joint workplace for the company, where the space supports 80 – Upholstery materials 4.0% 4.0% 5.6% the new common operating culture and serves different tasks and individuals. 60 – Contract manufacturing 7.5% 7.9% 8.7% Pirjo Pernu from YIT’s space services says: “Martela was able to provide good 40 – tools for defining the needs in our headquarters by involving the personnel. Trading 20.6% 19.4% 28.9% Working together, we created a work supporting, space-efficient and modern Supplies 18.7% 7.8% 5.4% 20 – workplace that strengthens our brand. Our goal was to create a workplace that also works in any future changes in business.” Other 6.6% 15.7% 13.5% 0 2016 2017 2018 Finland, Sweden Europe (others) Non Europe Poland MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 21 Social responsibility Materiality assessment Evaluation of stakeholders A Improved employee wellbeing B Health & safety at work C Equal opportunities D Freedom of association and collective bargaining E Product safety Impact on Martela MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 22 tela has a strong employer brand, and the availability is based on the organisation’s strategic competenThe goal of performance and development appraisals of new employees is at a good level. Martela is highly cies, as well as individual employees’ strengths and and internal events is to strengthen each employee’s Goals appreciated, especially within its industry. Its eminterests. Individual training needs are discussed and commitment to their work. Other development needs ployee turnover rate decreased to 14.7% (17.8%), and personal development plans are created during perinclude the further development of work facilities to • To increase wellbeing at work in most of its employment relationships are long-lasting. sonal Talent discussions. In addition to external trainbetter meet the changing needs related to ways of working and learning environments Martela leads the way in its industry: its approach ing, Martela makes use of internal information-sharworking and interaction. with Martela Lifecycle model and offering, which are based on the Martela Lifecying through job rotation, for example. During 2018, In addition to the annual survey, Martela has con• Occupational safety target is cle® strategy, are unique in the world. Martela has deinternal training was provided to sales professionals ducted employee pulse surveys since late 2017. Their accident free working veloped from a manufacturer of office furniture into a in particular. purpose is to provide quick feedback and information • To improve wellbeing at work designer and provider of working and learning environabout the general feeling among the employees. Pulse at Martela: annual People ments. This change in its operations offers new opporWellbeing at work is surveys were carried out 13 times during 2018. The Spirit survey, action plans and tunities for its employees to develop their knowledge measured in many ways level of job satisfaction fluctuated during the year, with implementation and skills, and Martela works to provide everyone with The annual People Spirit personnel survey was carried the highest rate being more than 70% of all employees equal opportunities for professional and career develout during the spring. The response rate was 86.6%, and the lowest being 41%. The results of the pulse opment. As a workplace community, Martela seeks to and the overall score remained unchanged from the surveys are monitored, and the required improvement offer an encouraging and inspiring environment that previous year, reaching the satisfactory A level. There measures are implemented as quickly as possible. The makes use of everyone’s knowledge, skills and ideas. were no major differences in job satisfaction between responses to the open-answer questions about sucThis guarantees the continuous development of the countries and locations. Martela aims to reach the cessful aspects and development needs are shared A valued employer company’s operations and offering. AAA level, meaning that work remains to be done. within the Management Team each month, so that At the end of 2018, Martela had 501 employees (507), Martela’s employees have broad and varied experBased on the survey results, the most significant deeach member can take measures in their area of reof whom 425 were based in Finland, 26 were based tise and experience. Their job descriptions vary from velopment needs are related to the flow of information sponsibility. In addition, the responses are shared with in Sweden or Norway and 39 were based in Poland. experts and designers to production and removal and the functionality of tools. In terms of their own the person responsible for the operation in question in During 2018, Martela hired 30 new employees in Finservice employees. The changes in its operating envicapabilities, the employees felt that expectations had clearly identifiable cases. land, seven in total in Sweden and Norway and three ronment call for the continuous development of knowlbeen exceeded, and the feedback on cooperation in Poland. Personnel expenses totalled EUR 26.7 edge and skills in terms of individual employees and between departments and the work environment in Consistent safety guidelines million (27.1). In 2018, the emphasis in HR was on dethe company as a whole. Martela aims to encourage general was also positive. The results provide clear The stress factors of work vary between jobs. Work in veloping expertise, improving wellbeing at work and and support its employees’ continuous development. guidelines for the further development of wellbeing at production is repetitive, and removal services involve strengthening dialogue within the organisation. MarTo serve this purpose, its Martela Talent programme work. Practical measures have been planned in teams. moving furniture in varied environments. In office work, MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 23 Martela seeks to offer an encouraging and inspiring environment that makes use of everyone’s knowledge, skills and ideas. the stress factors are often related to the mental asCode of Conduct. The most recent version of the most of whom are women. Their average total income Booth, a phone booth for office facilities. In 2018, the pects of work and its demands. Occupational health Code of Conduct emphasises that no inappropriate is 81% of men’s average total income. Regional State Administrative Agency carried out a and safety are extremely important, and the related behaviour is tolerated in the workplace community. In 2018, the Martela Group’s Board of Directors market monitoring inspection of the Beatbox stand, guidelines and practices are updated frequently and Around 70% of the participants answered a question had seven members: three men and four women. an auditorium-like piece of furniture for working and communicated actively to prevent accidents. The right concerning the Code of Conduct, and nearly all of The Group Management Team had six members: one learning environments. There is no harmonised prodattitude and an awareness of the risks are the primary them were aware of the most recent update. woman and five men. Of Martela’s entire personnel, uct standard for this innovative product yet, so the inmeans of ensuring safety at work. Based on random sampling, the Regional State 66% are men and 34% are women. The largest age spection was based on a risk assessment and instrucThere have been no fatal accidents at Martela Administrative Agency selected Martela Corporation group is 50 – 59, representing 35% of all employees, tions of use prepared for the product and examining during its history. The most recent serious accias a company in which an occupational health and with the average age being 45. In 2018, the oldest their sufficiency. As a result of the inspection, a label dent – that is, an accident resulting in more than safety inspection would be carried out to monitor the employee was aged 66. Investment in training for warning users about the risk of falling was added to 30 days of absence from work – was a sprain that implementation of the Non-Discrimination Act, which employees decreased markedly in 2018, to EUR 221 the product in order to prevent any accidents. occurred in assembly work in 2017. Most of the acwas amended in 2015. During 2019, equality will be per person-year. Martela’s products are shipped, installed and adcidents that occurred in 2018 were strains, bruises, monitored internally across the Martela Group. justed ready for use by professional installation perwounds or superficial injuries. Martela’s lost workAll Martela employees in Finland and Sweden are Product safety sonnel. The health effects of Martela’s products are day injury frequency (LWIF) rate in Finland was 8.4. covered by jointly negotiated collective agreements. The physical products offered by Martela are mainly mainly related to their ergonomic use and adjustment. The number of accidents and absences caused by Poland does not yet have an applicable collective furniture items intended for use in normal office and Instructions for use, maintenance and ergonomics for accidents decreased to a fraction of previous years’ agreement. In restructuring situations, Martela follows learning environments, and do not involve any specific adjustable pieces of furniture, such as office chairs numbers. Martela has also paid attention to overall the notice periods based on the local legislation in risks for their users. Product safety is ensured during and electrically adjustable desks, are available on wellbeing at work by creating a new operating modeach country of operation. In 2018, in comparison with product development by following the product standMartela’s website. el, which was implemented across the organisation the minimum wage in the industry, the lowest wages ards for product groups and purposes of use in EuIn assessing the volatile substances in products, during 2017. In addition, the company has investpaid by Martela were 7% higher in Finland, 62% highrope, Martela’s main market area. This also promotes Martela relies on suppliers’ material-specific emission ed in coping at work by creating various flexibility er in Poland and 28% higher in Sweden. In Finland, ergonomics and long useful lives. In connection with tests. At the end of 2018, Martela expanded the availmodels that serve the needs of both the employer where men represent a clear majority of the employits Nummela unit, Martela has a laboratory for testing ability of its product variants with the Nordic Ecolabel and the employees. ees, women’s average total income is 99% of men’s product durability and stability and compliance with to cover the Finnish market. Emissions into indoor air average total income. Among white-collar employees, dimensional requirements. are one of the key criteria for the Nordic Ecolabel, also Fair rules and equality of whom slightly more than half are women, women’s There are as yet no harmonised European standknown as the “swan label”. To control this, the classiCorporate responsibility is promoted and monitored average total income is 88% compared with men. In ards for CE markings for the pieces of furniture in Marfication requirement for chipboard components used through training and surveys. In 2018, nearly 70% of Poland, the corresponding figures are 97% and 86%. tela’s selection. Product-specific risk assessments are in products with the Nordic Ecolabel is E0.5, which the employees participated in training on Martela’s In Sweden, Martela only has white-collar employees, made for new products in particular, such as Podguarantees lower formaldehyde emissions. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 24 NUMBER OF PERSONNEL AT YEAR END PERSONNEL GROUPS AT YEAR END GENDER DISTRIBUTION 2017, % GENDER DISTRIBUTION IN THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM, % 600 – 600 – 80 – 34% 66% 70 – 500 – 500 – 60 – 400 – 400 – 50 – 300 – 300 – 40 – 30 – 200 – 200 – 20 – 100 – 100 – 10 – 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Board of directors Group 2018 2018 On duty Unpaid leave Office employees Factory employees Men Women Men Women EXTERNAL RESOURCES PERSONNEL BY COUNTRIES YEARS IN SERVICE 2018, % EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 2018, % 200 – 30 – 30 – 36 452 25 – 25 – 40 150 – 20 – 20 – 100 – 15 – 15 – 10 – 10 – 50 – 5 – 5 – 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Work years Finland Poland Sweden and Norway 0 – 5 6 – 10 11 –15 16–20 21 –25 26 – 30 > 30 MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 25 OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS TRAINING, EUR/EMPLOYEE 550 – 400 – 500 – 450 – 300 – 400 – 350 – 300 – 200 – 250 – 200 – 100 – 150 – 100 – 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Accidents Sick leave in days 2018 PERSONNEL BY GROUPS Number of personnel at year end 522 Finland Poland Sweden and Norway Number of contractual employment 501 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Case Vinmonopolet relationships at year end Personnel, men, % 68 69 68 51 55 63 46 39 40 Number of employees on unpaid leave Personnel, women, % 32 31 32 49 45 37 54 61 60 21 at year end VINMONOPOLET IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL SALES OF ALCOOffice employees, men % 57 49 48 33 45 50 46 39 40 HOL IN NORWAY. Vinmonopolet has an objective of being a leadOffice employees at year end 242 Office employees, women, % 43 51 52 67 55 50 54 61 60 ing company within environment and sustainability. This goal is Factory employees at year end 259 Factory employees, men % 83 85 86 64 58 66 0 0 0 based on expectations from its owners (the Norwegian state) and Factory employees, women, % 17 15 14 36 42 34 0 0 0 also based on a strategic decision to maintain its good reputation. Full time employees at year end 491 Personnel, 18 – 29 years, % 9 9 9 7 14 5 15 15 12 Part time employees at year end 10 To be the leading environmental company means that it is important Personnel, 30 – 39 years, % 23 24 23 34 29 30 26 32 35 Permanent employees at year end 489 to enable smart environmental solutions, effective operations and Personnel, 40 – 49 years, % 26 24 24 37 33 33 28 32 28 include environmental requirements in all procurements. By asking Temporary employees at year end 12 Personnel, 50 – 59 years, % 35 37 37 17 22 30 18 17 30 for products and services based on actual needs, with smart enAverage personnel, work year 505.4 Personnel, over 60 years, % 7 6 7 5 2 3 13 5 5 vironmental requirements such as product lifetime, resource effecPersonnel, average age 45 45 45.5 42 42 44.0 43 41 42.0 tive operations and materials with environmental certificate, great Temporary agency workers, work years 141.5 environmental results and lower costs over time can be obtained. Personnel, eldest 67 65 66 60 64 65 63 61 63 No longer employed 77 New employees 29 39 30 8 4 3 10 6 7 This is the “Win-Win” that Vinmonopolet always strives for in proEmployee turnover, % 14.7 Injuries 35 36 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 curement processes. Based on these objectives Vinmonopolet Resigned 65 Lost workday due injuries 195 510 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 chose Martela to be the supplier for their office furniture in the Training costs per work year 81 270 231 132 120 111 1513 329 227 period from December 2018 to December 2020. Given notice 6 Development discussion, % 93 63 66 53 64 73 89 70 58 Retired 6 of work force MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 26 Environmental responsibility Materiality assessment A Combating climate change by improving space efficiency of customers Evaluation of stakeholders B Material efficiency with sustainable and environmentally friendly products C D C Reducing the use of materials by replacing products with services B D Extending product use life by develoE ping recycling services E Reducing direct environmental impacts Impact on Martela MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 27 cilities more efficiently and reduce their climate effects refurbished and restored, and its materials can be level. Martela further developed its storage process through the Martela Lifecycle® model. However, as recycled or used to produce energy. When designing and experimented with software robotics. Its product Goals Martela does not have measurement data on the denew facility solutions for customers, their old furnidevelopment and production departments cooperatvelopment of its customers’ efficient use of space or ture can either be included in the new design or reed more closely, as the number of new products de• Workplace optimisation, continuous reduced energy consumption, the company focuses cycled responsibly through Martela. In Finland, used signed in 2018 was higher than in the previous year. improvement and maintenance with on the environmental effects of its own operations in furniture in good condition is cleaned and refurbisMartela has a test laboratory in Nummela to ensure attention to circular economy its reporting on environmental responsibility. hed and then made available to customers through the quality of new products before their introduction. • Promoting space efficiency as well the Martela Outlet stores and online store. In 2018, Martela manufactures products based on custoas sustainable and versatile soluSustainable, environmentally nearly 20 000 pieces of used furniture, from Traimers’ orders, and some materials are purchased actions using existing and avoiding unnecessary friendly products ler side tables to indoor phone booths, found new cording to customers’ wishes. For example, customers • Minimising climate impacts in the Over the decades, Martela’s operations have been homes through the Martela Outlet chain. As part of can always choose the upholstery materials used in logistics chain and material use developed with environmental aspects in mind. Susits comprehensive service, Martela also offers a furseats and space dividers from Martela’s comprehentainability is reflected in its comprehensive assessniture recycling service to its customer companies. sive standard fabric selection or its extensive range of ment of environmental effects throughout the value In 2018, the amount of used furniture received from special-order fabrics. Most of the upholstery materials chain and in its measures to reduce its environmental customers decreased on the previous year, to 2.7 used in 2018 had an EU Ecolabel, an Oeko-Tex label impact. Martela’s products and services are designed million kilos. or both. In using materials, Martela aims for minimal Reducing the environmental to be environmentally friendly, from production to diswaste, and any surplus materials are recycled. All waste impact of Martela’s offering tribution. Efficient production is recycled appropriately. Martela uses recyclable cardThe main idea behind the Martela Lifecycle® strateIts products have been designed for long-lasting, In 2018, Martela’s production volumes decreased board and plastic in its product packaging. gy is to provide customers with efficient, user-centric heavy-duty use. Product design at Martela aims to slightly compared with 2017, mainly because of delays Delivery times for products are determined based work facility solutions and related services. Efficient create products that can be used for decades. By in contract negotiations concerning public procureon the planned supply chains. Components for prouse of space in working and learning environments producing high-quality furniture for long-term use, ment. Changes in customers’ needs were reflected in ducts with a one-week delivery time are stored in Marreduces rental costs and maintenance expenses, such Martela is taking a stand against the modern throproduction, particularly in the lower need for storage tela’s logistics centre, and components for products as the cost of heating and electricity. Maintenance serwaway culture. Good examples of timeless design furniture as a result of electronic storage methods. with two-week or three-week delivery times are stovices help customers extend the useful lives of faciliinclude the Kilta chairs from 1955 and the Kari chairs Thanks to the enterprise resource planning system red in their standard supply chain. Special products ties and furniture while also ensuring their optimal use from 1969, which are still in production. implemented in 2017, production was monitored and often require design work, which is why they have continuously. Martela’s most significant environmental Recycling furniture is also key to Martela’s opecustomer feedback was recorded more accurately in longer delivery times that depend on the product and performance lies in helping its customers use their farations. Martela’s furniture has been designed to be 2018. Quality and delivery times remained at a good amount ordered. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 28 Operations management systems management system with multi-site certifications in Nearly all production waste and packaging materials by Martela can be calculated to be around 9% of the Martela’s head office, Martela House, is located in accordance with the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standcan be either recycled or used to produce energy. The total material usage. In addition to the metal compoPitäjänmäki in Helsinki. The Nummela logistics centre ards, ensuring that consistent operating models are amount of production waste increased to 1.7 million nents used, recycled materials are contained in, for focuses on the final assembly of new products and the used at all levels of operations within the Group. The kilos in 2018, with the utilisation rate increasing to example, the acoustic panel in the Face screen – the manufacture of recycled products. Upholstery comcertification covers the Group functions managed at 99.6%. Most of the increase in production waste was panel is made from recycled PET bottles. Customers ponents are assembled at Martela’s plant in Poland, the headquarters, the operations in the logistics centre related to the improved and more accurate monitorcan also choose upholstery materials made from reand cover and storage unit components are manufacin Nummela, at Kidex Oy in Kitee and the production ing of the chipboard fractions delivered to the district cycled fibres. tured at Kidex Oy, Martela’s production facility in Kitee, plant in Piaseczno, Poland. heating plant located next to Kidex Oy, in cooperation Finland. Martela has several sales offices in Finland, with a partner. Materials cause Sweden and Norway. Martela’s products are also sold Sustainable and recyclable materials In 2018, the amount of materials used for producthe majority of emissions through a strong network of dealers. Martela’s GroupMartela purchases wood, wood-based board, mettion decreased significantly on the previous year, to Martela’s own production generates practically no wide operations have continuously had a third-party al components, plastic materials, fabrics and otharound 9.2 million kilos. Purchase item data reveals emissions into the air, and no hazardous substances auditor’s certificate for their environmental and quality er materials for its products. The company favours that around 60% of the materials used were woodare used. Martela’s most significant climate impact systems since the 1990s. The Group’s structure and sustainable and recyclable materials that have been based and nearly 30% were metal-based. Comprearises from the use of materials related to products operating models have evolved over the years, and the produced responsibly. Materials are purchased from hensive material or weight information is not recorded and services offered to customers. Martela’s greenGroup companies’ quality and environmental managea well-established chain of reliable suppliers located in the production management system for customhouse gas emissions totalled nearly 15 million kilos in ment systems have been integrated into a consistent, mainly in nearby areas. Most of the materials used er-specific products and traded products. As the re2018, representing a decrease of nearly 30% on the comprehensive operating model. Since 2017, Marare recyclable, and wood materials, for example, are cycled material content of metals is estimated to be at previous year. Of these emissions, 89% were related tela has had a third-party environmental and quality sourced from sustainably grown commercial forests. around 33% on average, the recycled materials used to the use of materials, 3% arose from the indirect MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 29 Martela’s most significant climate impact arises from the use of materials related to products and services offered to customers. use of energy and 6% were related to the delivery in Poland are heated with gas by the lessor. The use coefficients from the EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission Monitoring commuting of finished products to customers. Carbon dioxide of electricity decreased by 1%, and the use of district inventory guidebook (2013). Using this method, the and business travel emissions from the use of materials have been calcuheating decreased by 6%. The use of heating energy total amount was 928 tonnes. The lowest result, 664 Martela also seeks to reduce its environmental impacts lated using the coefficients for material use provided produced from gas increased by 8%. The electricity for tonnes, was achieved using a previous method that by promoting telecommuting and videoconferencing by the Footprinter software. The most significant deMartela House is purchased by the lessor. The Numtakes the emission categories of the company’s own opportunities, which decrease the need for business crease from the previous year was mainly related to mela and Kitee sites purchase their electricity, which is fleet into account. The previously estimated number of travel, and by encouraging employees to commute an increase in the use of wood materials in relation generated solely from renewable sources, from a sinkilometres was replaced with the average number of using public transportation. Emissions from company to other materials with higher environmental impacts. gle supplier. The unit in Poland purchases its electricity total kilometres, and the Lipasto coefficients were upcars are also monitored closely. The number of leased Greenhouse gas emissions from energy use in Finland from a local supplier. Regional environmental working dated. However, the most accurate initial data available company cars used in Martela’s operations in Finland have been calculated using actual coefficients providgroups monitor the implementation of measures relatis the fleet’s actual number of kilometres. When the decreased during 2018, and their average carbon died by the main supplier of electricity. The coefficients ed to reducing energy consumption, as well as other number of kilometres was multiplied by the Lipasto cooxide emissions decreased to 118 g/km. This is still far for district heating have been provided by suppliers in measures related to environmental protection. efficient for all transportation vehicles used in Finland, above the limit of 95 g/km set for personal car manuHelsinki and Nummela, and the coefficients for gas are The environmental effects of transportation are the total amount of carbon dioxide emissions was 823 facturers for 2020. Total carbon dioxide emissions from based on the fuel classification published by Statistics monitored actively, and optimised fleet and distribution tonnes. Of these figures, the highest value was selectall leased company cars used by Martela’s employees Finland. Average coefficients published by Motiva have plans are implemented to reduce the effects, as well as ed as the figure for monitoring emissions in 2018. This were calculated at around 98 tonnes. Around 80% been used in other respects. designing packaging and planning loading operations value was slightly lower than the result for 2017. The of the business trips made by Martela’s employees The total amount of energy used for heating, lightcarefully. Martela has its own transportation fleet, and it calculation based on fuel consumption also produced are booked via a centralised reservation system. The ing and ventilation in Martela’s premises was around also uses its regular or changing rental fleet, as well as an estimated amount of nitrogen oxide emissions. Due carbon dioxide emissions from work-related flights 36 000 GJ in 2018. Calculated energy consumption partners, when necessary. This is the first time that the to a difference in the calculation method, nitrogen oxbooked through the reservation system increased by has been reported for Martela House since 2014. Of indicator for emissions from transportation was calcuide emissions from our own transportation operations 8% in 2018, to around 105 tonnes. the total amount of energy used, 88% was from related using three different methods. The calculations for and business flights more than doubled to 10 tonnes. newable energy sources, 11% was from fossil sources 2018 also cover transport using rental fleet and transSulphur oxide emissions from business flights were 20 and 1% was nuclear power. The premises in Nummela port performed by key partners in Finland. The highest kilos. The emissions of volatile organic compounds and Kitee mainly use district heating generated from result for greenhouse gas emissions was achieved us(VOC) were related to the treatment of edges at the renewable sources of energy. The production facilities ing fairly accurately measured fuel consumption and Kidex plant and decreased to 61 kilos. MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 30 PURCHASED MATERIALS, 1000 KG PURCHASED MATERIALS, % USE OF INDIRECT ENERGY, GJ CO2 EMISSION DIVISION 2018, 1000 KG 6000 – 1% 7% 3% 1% 5000 – 1% 50 000 – 6% 3% 89% 4000 – 40 000 – 3000 – 30 000 – 60% 2000 – 20 000 – 1000 – 10 000 – 29% 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Wood Metals Plastic Wood Metals Plastic Finland Sweden Poland Material use Own deliveries Glass Others Glass Others Purchased energy Business flights Company cars INDIRECT ENERGY 2018, % CO2 EMISSIONS OF MATERIALS, 1000 KG CO2 EMISSIONS OF OWN FLEET, 1000 KG VOC EMISSIONS, 1000 KG 15 000 – 1 250 – 11,00 – 1% 10,00 – 11% 12 000 – 1 000 – 9,00 – 8,00 – 7,00 – 9 000 – 750 – 6,00 – 88% 5,00 – 6 000 – 500 – 4,00 – 3,00 – 3 000 – 250 – 2,00 – 1,00 – 0 0 0,00 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Renewable Fossil Nuclear power Wood Metals Plastic Glass CO2 ekv VOC NOx SOx MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 31 WASTE, 1 000 KG RECOVERED WASTE, FINLAND 2018, % 1 600 – 1% 0% 1% 1 600 – 0% 4% 1 400 – 7% 1 200 – 1 000 – 8% 800 – 600 – 79% 400 – 200 – 0 2016 2017 2018 Recovered, Finland Recovered, Poland Wood Cardboard Energy Landfill, Finland Wood Landfill, Poland Wood Bio Plastic Hazardous, Finland Metal Hazardous, Poland Paper Glass Case: Evry RECOVERED WASTE, POLAND 2018, % RECYCLING DISTRIBUTION IN FINLAND 2018, % EVRY IS ONE OF THE LARGEST IT SERVICE CONSULTANTS IN THE NORDICS. EVRY is expanding rapidly and is currently refitting all offices in Sweden to cre7% 2% ate attractive work environments for its consultants and clients. After comparing 4% various alternatives on the market, the choice fell on Martela as a partner for the 14% changes in Solna’s headquarters. 24% 51% Martela’s consultants handled everything from design and floor plans to the actual furnishing and unpackaging on site. A large part of the furnishings was reclaimed from EVRY’s previous furniture of other offices around Sweden. The end result is an inspiring and interactive setting for activity-based work where employees and clients can meet. “The atrium now has a vivacious vibe and is a place that we are proud to show to our clients and suppliers. It’s inviting, and we genuinely feel 65% that it represents who we are at EVRY. It’s a really cool place that strengthens our 33% corporate image,” says Mikael Lyster, facility manager at EVRY. Read more on reference EVRY SOLNA Energy and insulation Paper and cardboard Wood Energy https://www.martela.com/reference/evry-solna Plastic Other Metal Other MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 32 GRI-standard content index CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION AND COMMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Martela in brief p. 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Martela in brief p. 3 102-3 Location of headquarters Martela in brief p. 3 102-4 Location of operations Martela in brief p. 3 102-5 Ownership and legal form Martela in brief p. 3 102-6 Markets served Martela in brief p. 3 102-7 Scale of the organization Martela in brief p. 3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social responsibility p. 24 x 102-9 Supply chain Economic responsibility p. 19 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No major changes in organisation or supply chain during 2018 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Annual report 2018 p. 11–15 102-12 External initiatives Contents and scope of report p. 4 102-13 Membership of associations Economic responsibility p. 20 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s and sustainability team’s interview p. 6 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities CEO’s and sustainability team’s interview p. 6 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Values p. 9 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Corporate Code of Conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-19 Delegating authority Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Management of Sustainability p. 14 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Stakeholders and their expectations p. 13, Management of Sustainability p. 14 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Annual report 2018 p. 66 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual report 2018 p. 66 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 33 CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION AND COMMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Annual report 2018 p. 61–64 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Management of Sustainability p. 15 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Management of Sustainability p. 14 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns No critical concerns were detected or received during 2018 102-35 Remuneration policies Compensation at Martela 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual report 2018 p. 61 Shareholders whose voting rights exceed 50% of the voting rights have possibility to affect 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration the remuneration of the Board of Directors 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio (of highest local to median) Decreased to 5.29 (2017:14.26) 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio -518: compensation to CEO decreased 63% and average salary increased 0.1% Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders and their expectations p. 13 x 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 92 %, personnel in the Nordic countries 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Contents and scope of report p. 4 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders and their expectations p.13 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders and their expectations p.13 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual report 2018 p. 41 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Contents and scope of report p. 4 102-47 List of material topics Economic, social and environmental responsibility p. 18–22 102-48 Restatements of information Contents and scope of report p. 4, GRI-standard content index p. 33–36 102-49 Changes in reporting Contents and scope of report p. 4 102-50 Reporting period Contents and scope of report p. 4 102-51 Date of most recent report Contents and scope of report p. 4 102-52 Reporting cycle Contents and scope of report p. 4 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact details p. 37 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI-index p. 33–36 102-55 GRI content index GRI-index p. 33–36 102-56 External assurance Contents and scope of report p. 4 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Economic, social and environmental responsibility p. 18–22 103-2 The management approach and its components Management of Sustainability p. 14–15 MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 34 CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION AND COMMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT 200 – ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic responsibility p. 18–21 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Annual report 2018 p. 36 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic responsibility p. 20 Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Social responsibility p. 24 x 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 100% Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Economic responsibility p. 19–21 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Management of Sustainability p. 15, Economic responsibility p. 20 x 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There have been no detected cases of corruption in Martela’s operations during 2018 300 – ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental responsibility p. 29 x 301-2 Recycled input materials used Environmental responsibility p. 29 x 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Environmental responsibility p. 28–31 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental responsibility p. 30 x 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental responsibility p. 29–31 The energy purchased (district heating, electricity, gas) by Martela in relation to net sales 302-3 Energy intensity was 348 GJ / million € Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 304-1 Martela does not have activities in nature reserves or in areas of high biodiversity value value outside protected areas Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental responsibility p. 29–31 x 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental responsibility p. 29–31 x 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Environmental responsibility p. 29–31 x Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Martela has no discharge to waterways 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental responsibility p. 29–32 x MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 35 CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION AND COMMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT 400 – SOCIAL IMPACTS GRI 401: Employment The total number of new employees was 40, of which 30 in Finland, 7 in Sweden and 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover x Norway and 3 in Poland GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Martela follows the notice periods defined by its operating countries x GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 there were occupational safety committees only in Finland, covering 85% of the Group’s 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system x total personnel 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Social responsibility p. 23–24 x GRI 404: Training and Education Training is not followed in hours, but as training costs. In 2018, the average cost was EUR 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 221 per man-year 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Social responsibility p. 23 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews The development discussion model covers all employees. Metrics: Social responsibility p. 26 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Social responsibility p. 24 x 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Social responsibility p. 24 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken In 2018 there were no detected incidents of discrimination in Martela GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Economic responsibility p. 19–21 GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Economic responsibility p. 20 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Social responsibility p. 24 There were no detected incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services impacts of Martela products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Social responsibility p. 24 x MARTELA 2018 I SUSTAINABILITY AT MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 36 Contact Sustainability Steering Group chairman Sustainability Steering Group secretary VP, Customer Supply Management, Ville Taipale Sustainability Manager, Anne-Maria Peitsalo details tel. +358 (0)50 55 72 611, ville.taipale@martela.com tel. +358 (0)40 720 1491, anne-maria.peitsalo@martela.com 37 Contact Finland Sweden Martela Oyj Martela AB Takkatie 1 Storgatan 49A P.O.Box 44 57132 Nässjö FI-00371 Helsinki tel. +46 380 37 19 00 tel. +358 (0)10 345 50 fax. +46 380 37 08 32 fax. +358 (0)10 345 5744 www.martela.se www.martela.com Norway Kidex Oy Savikontie 25 Martela AS FI-82500 Kitee Drammensveien 130 tel. +358 (0)10 345 7211 N-0277 Oslo fax. +358 (0)10 345 7244 tel. +47 23 28 38 50 fax. +47 23 28 38 51 Muuttopalvelu Grundell Oy www.martela.no (Martela’s Removal service) Riihikuja 4 Poland FI-01720 Vantaa tel. +358 (0)10 480 4200 Martela Sp. z o.o. www.martela.fi/muuttopalvelu ul Geodetów 156 05-500 Józefosław www.martela.com 38
