DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS AND RECOGNITION IN 2018 STRATEGY INTRODUCTION Sustainability at StarHub 103 Sustainability Targets: 2019 105 Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals 105 ENVIRONMENT A. Addressing Environmental Challenges Our Environmental Strategy 107 Implementing E-waste Programmes 107 Addressing Climate Change and Other 108 Environmental Challenges PERFORMANCE Environmental Stewardship 109 Environmental Performance 109 SOCIAL B. Investing in our People Reorganising and Right-sizing for Agility and Growth 111 Talent Acquisition, Retention and Development 111 Employee Training, Benefits and Leave 112 Workforce Snapshot 2018 113 Employee Engagement 114 Employee Health, Safety and Wellness 115 GOVERNANCE C. Investing in our Community Our Approach 116 Our Contributions 116 Supporting Local Communities 117 GOVERNANCE & MARKETPLACE D. Improving Customer Experience Service Quality 119 Clarity of Pricing and Billing and Product Simplification 120 Data Security and Customer Privacy 120 Cyber Security Solutions for our Customers 120 SUSTAINABILITY E. Being a Responsible Business Responsible Business Practices 121 Responsible Marketing 124 STARHUB VALUE CREATION SCORECARD 125 APPENDIX About this Report 126 Engaging with our Stakeholders 126 Our Materiality Process 127 Material Topics and Boundaries 128 Memberships and Associations in 2018 129 FINANCIALS GRI Content Index 130 Independent Limited Assurance Report 135 100 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Introduction Sustainability Governance Structure We are pleased to present our Sustainability Report 2018, our eighth annual sustainability report detailing our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. As in 1 RISK COMMITTEE our previous reports, we have followed the Our Risk Committee provides guidance on sustainability topics Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles to be identified as material to the business and ensures the for defining content and quality and have alignment and integration of our sustainability strategy and prepared the report in accordance with the approach with our business practices. GRI Standards: Core option. The GRI content index can be found within the Appendix at the end of this report. 2 MANAGEMENT RISK COMMITTEE The Management Risk Committee comprises StarHub’s Senior Leadership Team and is responsible for reviewing and determining material sustainability topics, developing sustainability strategy, and considering stakeholder feedback and expectations as well as establishing priorities, goals and targets. 3 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ADVOCATE The Corporate Sustainability Advocate is responsible for developing, implementing and coordinating programmes and initiatives with the support of cross-functional representatives. The Board, as supported by the Risk Committee, reviews and considers sustainability issues as part of its strategic formulation. This includes the determination, management, target-setting and monitoring of material ESG factors, as set out in this report. 102 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW Sustainability at StarHub For StarHub, sustainability means using our core strengths as a Group to help spread the benefits of our ICT solutions in Singapore, while strengthening our business and upholding the highest standards of responsible conduct. With the roll-out of our strategic transformation plan in 2018, which includes our operational efficiency programme and the associated STRATEGY internal re-organisation, our approach to sustainability and ESG performance has also evolved to align with our key business objectives and our material sustainability risks and opportunities. Our 13 sustainability material topics in 2018 have remained unchanged from last year. These have been identified following a comprehensive materiality assessment, including extensive engagement with our internal stakeholders and senior management. Our Sustainability Material Topics PERFORMANCE ONLINE SAFETY SERVICE QUALITY CUSTOMER PRIVACY DATA SECURITY CLARITY OF PRICING AND BILLING GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBLE TALENT ACQUISITION, EMPLOYEE HEALTH, EMPLOYEE SUPPORTING LOCAL MARKETING RETENTION AND SAFETY AND ENGAGEMENT COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT WELLNESS RESPONSIBLE ADDRESSING CLIMATE E-WASTE SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESS PRACTICES CHANGE AND OTHER PROGRAMMES ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES See pages 127-128 for more on our materiality process and 13 Material Topics and Boundaries. FINANCIALS 103 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) Addressing Our 13 Material Topics Through Our 5 Sustainability Objectives GOVERNANCE & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL MARKETPLACE A. Addressing Environmental B. Investing in our People D. Improving Customer Challenges Supporting our employees and Experience ICT companies such as StarHub are developing their skills for both current Our business depends on building significant energy users and a source of and future roles is fundamental to our strong, long-lasting relationships with greenhouse gas emissions associated long-term business success. Similarly, a variety of customers that expect the with climate change. We also believe ensuring their welfare, well-being and best from our services and solutions. StarHub has a role in promoting safety while at work is essential to We use a wide range of methods to responsible consumption and disposal StarHub’s operations. We constantly gather feedback from customers, of electronic waste (e-waste). review and improve our HR practices and ensure we are meeting their to ensure StarHub has a strong expectations. We also innovate Preserving our planet is central to our corporate culture to drive individual as within our core businesses to provide sustainability plan and we are keen on well as Group success. solutions and empower people reducing our environmental footprint to manage every aspect of their as well as helping businesses and Further details can be found on pages own lives in a smarter way through communities in Singapore tackle the 111-115 of this report. networks and improved connectivity. same challenge. Further details can be found on C. Investing in Our Community Further details of our environmental pages 119-120 of this report. The rapid growth of digital efforts can be found on pages 107–110 technologies in the workplace has of this report. enhanced productivity for many E. Being a Responsible Business companies. However, the increased Acting responsibly is integral to use of technology has led to a sharp business performance. Strong reduction in the number of traditional governance is paramount. As semi-skilled and back-office jobs. As a our business relies on a large result, unemployment can generate a supply chain spanning over 1,000 range of serious social and economic companies, we look beyond our challenges for communities. own operations and seek to ensure the safety, well-being and ethical We believe that StarHub can play an treatment of all who work with important role in helping young people StarHub in any capacity, anywhere in in particular to gain the skills required to the world. thrive within the global digital economy Further details can be found on through our community investment. pages 121–124 of this report. Further details can be found on pages 116-118 of this report. 104 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW Sustainability Targets: 2019 Moving into 2019, our Board has identified the following five sustainability targets that we will commit to: • Increasing our renewable energy capacity to 10% by 2022 • Increasing the volume of e-waste collected by StarHub annually to 125 tonnes by 2022 STRATEGY • Establishing a Climate Risk Framework • Establishing a formal governance structure to implement our new Supplier Code of Conduct • Enhancing our corporate social responsibility through employee engagement. Driving participation to do good together as a Group Continuing from last year’s focus on aligning our sustainability approach with our business objectives, we have established the sustainability direction and targets for the upcoming year. This is geared towards aligning action plans with our overall business strategy and priorities, driven and owned across functions. StarHub is committed to communicating clear targets in the coming sustainability reports, along with each objective and the progress made in meeting these targets. PERFORMANCE Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals Our 13 Materiality Topics and five sustainability targets are mapped to the global UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We hope to help create a better world in which our business can grow while being able to assist people to improve their lives through learning. We aim to contribute to addressing these global issues on a local scale in Singapore. For StarHub, operating responsibly is an important first step in supporting the global UN SDGs. Beyond that, we have identified eight SDGs where we believe we have an opportunity to make the biggest impact through our business practices, products and services, programmes, as well as partnerships, by addressing growing inequality, high youth unemployment, market disruption caused by technology and artificial intelligence, and pressure on our natural resources. GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS 105 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) 2018 Spotlight on priority SDGs: Consumption and Climate How StarHub supports SDG 12 How StarHub supports SDG 13 The amount of e-waste generated globally we also encourage the Singapore public 2018 was the year of climate action is rapidly growing as consumers dispose to recycle their unwanted electronic in Singapore, focusing on reducing of older gadgets for newer and more products through the network of over emissions, adapting to climate change, sophisticated mobile phones, laptops 460 designated bins provided by StarHub harnessing green growth opportunities and/or electronic devices. In the course nationwide across 419 locations. All and forging international collaborations. of providing ICT solutions, our products brands of e-waste are accepted as part of In support of this, StarHub has pledged to and customers form part of this cycle. We RENEW, extending the reach and impact of do our part in addressing climate change are therefore committed to responsible the programme. RENEW has been running by reducing our energy consumption consumption and production. since 2012. It is encouraging to see greater and measuring our carbon footprint, as volumes successfully collected each year. well as educating our stakeholders on the StarHub handles and disposes electronic This year saw a significant extension of importance of taking climate action. equipment and devices daily as part of our the programme, with four major electronic services. We collect e-waste and ensure it is retailers joining us in partnership, and We focus on operating in an energyrecycled by licenced e-waste contractors. adding an additional 20 recycling bins in efficient manner and adopting energytheir stores across Singapore. efficient technologies. We will continually StarHub recycles the e-waste generated in work to further drive our energy efficiency. our own operations. Through our flagship See page 107 for the types of e-waste We are committed to increasing our use of e-waste recycling programme, RENEW collected from the RENEW recycling bins renewable energy to 10% by 2022 to help (REcycling the Nation’s Electronic Waste), all over Singapore in 2018. us realise our commitment to reducing our carbon footprint. RENEW – amounts of e-waste recycled We have been monitoring our carbon footprint since 2011 and track all our Scope 120 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. 90 We are also committed to developing Tonnes Collected a Climate Risk Framework to protect and enhance the resilience of our 60 infrastructure, products and services as well as intensify our efforts on climate 30 action to future-proof our business in preparation for a changing climate. 0 See page 108 for how we are trialling 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 new energy reduction initiatives in our Year networks and infrastructure. 106 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW A. Addressing Environmental Challenges STRATEGY At StarHub, we are conscious of the need to understand and minimise our environmental impact as we continue to enhance our competitiveness and expand our business and network infrastructure. We focus on monitoring and managing our energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and e-waste. We also strive to motivate employees, customers and communities to respect the environment and encourage them to apply the same values in their personal lives. Our Corporate Sustainability Advocate works with cross-functional representatives to implement various environmental initiatives. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY PERFORMANCE 1 2 3 Implementing E-Waste Addressing Climate Change and Environmental Programmes Other Environmental Challenges Stewardship Tackling e-waste through reduction, Striving for energy-efficient operations and Innovative paths to reducing carbon recycling and reuse adopting energy-efficient technologies, footprint, raising awareness and promoting while consistently monitoring and action by employees and others GOVERNANCE implementing initiatives to reduce energy consumption and resource use Our Environmental Strategy 1: Implementing E-Waste Programmes (Material Topic) We generated 212.9 tonnes of e-waste from our operations in 2018. All e-waste generated is collected and recycled by licensed e-waste contractors. SUSTAINABILITY RENEW is StarHub’s flagship public e-waste recycling programme launched in 2012 that encourages the local community to recycle their unwanted electronic products. The top five items recycled through RENEW are: • Cables: 16 tonnes • Laptops: 11 tonnes • Modems/Routers: 8 tonnes • Mobiles: 2 tonnes FINANCIALS • CPU Computers: 2 tonnes Expansion of RENEW 107 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) RENEW first expanded in 2014 when we exponentially year on year. The programme from additional sources that were not tracked started our collaboration with DHL and has cumulatively collected more than 327 previously to help us better understand our TES, a trusted e-waste recycling company, tonnes of e-waste since 2012. Over 126 carbon footprint. These include adding a providing more opportunities for the tonnes of e-waste have been collected from robust measurement of refrigerant gases and public to recycle by simply depositing the public in 2018, 34 tonnes more than in expanding the coverage to business travel their unwanted electronic products into 2017, and a significant jump from the two emissions in 2018. the RENEW bins. DHL collects the e-waste tonnes collected in 2012. from all the RENEW bins in Singapore and Our technical centres, such as data centres delivers them to TES’s e-waste recycling StarHub has identified RENEW as one pillar and base stations, are our key infrastructure facility. To celebrate World Environment of our sustainability targets for 2019, with and the basis of our products and services. Day in 2018, the initiative was significantly the aim of further increasing the volume of They are also our main energy consumption expanded, with four major electronic e-waste collected annually. We will continue sources. As such, we focus on operating retailers – Best Denki, COURTS, Gain City to champion this initiative. our technical centres in an energy-efficient and Harvey Norman – joining the RENEW manner and adopting energy-efficient programme to further encourage e-waste Our Environmental Strategy 2: technologies. Despite a decrease in our recycling in Singapore. The signing of the Addressing Climate Change and petrol consumption, our total energy collaboration agreement was graced by Other Environmental Challenges consumption has increased this year. The Minister for the Environment and Water (Material Topic) increase is due to the expansion of our Resources, Mr Masagos Zulkifli, and Singapore has pledged to reduce national measurement of energy consumption to Senior Minister of State, Dr Amy Khor, at emission intensity by 36% from 2005 levels include two additional technical centres. We StarHub Green. and to stabilise the country’s emissions with will continue to evaluate opportunities to the aim of peaking around 2030. Singapore reduce our emissions, including a focus on See page 106 for more on our priority SDGs will also be implementing a carbon tax in increasing our renewable energy capacity. and promoting responsible consumption. 2019 on large direct emitters which produce over 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide Besides energy consumption, our resource This collaboration is timely, given the growing equivalent of greenhouse gases a year. usage also includes water consumption. As amount of e-waste being generated in a service provider, our water consumption is Singapore and the implementation of the At StarHub, we constantly monitor our mostly contained within our offices, shops national e-waste management system by 2021. energy consumption and emissions. We and data centres. We draw all our water from implement initiatives that reduce our energy municipal sources. Even though the impact “The support of individuals, communities consumption and improve energy efficiency. of our operations on water conservation and the private sector is crucial in building We also seek to increasingly track emissions is limited, we regard it as integral to our a robust recycling culture in Singapore. I am heartened by DHL, StarHub and TES’s leadership, in the creation of Singapore’s largest voluntary e-waste collection and recycling programme, and commend Best Denki, COURTS, Gain City and Harvey Norman for joining this effort to encourage e-waste recycling. I encourage members of the public to make use of these bins, and more businesses to take action in tackling climate change and working towards our vision of a circular economy for Singapore.” Mr Ronnie Tay, CEO National Environment Agency (NEA) Since the launch of RENEW in 2012, the amount of e-waste collected has increased School Green Day 2018 108 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW environmental practices. Based on our Environmental Performance utilities bills, our water consumption across the Group in 2018 is 24,695m3. This does not include water consumption at our data Electronic Waste Generated from Electronic Waste Collected centres for which we were not billed. Operations and Recycled Through RENEW tonnes tonnes STRATEGY StarHub Green was awarded Green Mark Gold by the Building & Construction Authority in 2016 for its environmental efficiency. 2018 213 2018 127 Our Environmental Strategy 3: 2017 242 2017 92 Environmental Stewardship StarHub boosted our support of 2016 379 2016 59 environmental initiatives in 2018 through 2015 117 2015 32 four key programmes and events. PERFORMANCE 1. Singapore Environment Council (SEC) – We sponsored the SECStarHub School Green Awards (SGA) 2018 with $125,000 and another sum of Emissions Intensity Emission Sources $10,000 towards the Schools E-waste tonnes CO2e per challenge. The Schools E-waste $million revenue challenge included biodiversity learning trails for underprivileged students, led 3.6% 0.5% 95.9% by SEC and assisted by our employees. 2018 26.1 Through this, we hope to foster environmental awareness and climate 2017 22.8 GOVERNANCE action in the students. 2016 22.7 Scope 1: Fuel Consumption & Fugitive Emissions 2. National Parks (NParks) – As part Scope 2: Purchased Electricity 2015 23.2 of the Schools E-Waste Challenge, Scope 3: Travel Emissions & Electricity Consumption by Exclusive Partners we invited the top five schools with the highest e-waste collection to a tree planting event to raise further awareness about e-waste and climate change. We donated $10,000 and Energy Consumption Electricity Use planted 50 trees in East Coast Park gigajoules million kWh which we hope the community will SUSTAINABILITY enjoy for generations to come. 2018 471,470 45,834 2018 129 13 3. World Wide Fund for Nature Singapore (WWF Singapore) – 2017 468,020 2017 128 StarHub raised $10,000 from collected 2016 439,721 2016 120 e-waste in the Schools E-waste Challenge which was donated to 2015 448,012 2015 122 WWF–Singapore’s Forest Restoration StarHub Additional Technical StarHub Additional Technical Programme in Indonesia. Centres in 2018 Centres in 2018 4. BirdLife International – StarHub committed $10,000 to wildlife and FINANCIALS biodiversity conservation. 109 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) Energy Intensity Fuel Consumption Water Consumption gigajoules per $million revenue thousand litres cubic meters 2018 219 2018 30 100 72 2018 24,695 2017 195 2017 23 81 92 2017 27,633 2016 183 2016 24 93 103 2016 28,421 2015 183 2015 42 113 114 2015 27,500 Diesel – Stationary Combustion Diesel – Mobile Combustion Petrol – Mobile Combustion EMISSION SOURCES FY20181 FY2017 FY2016 Scope 1 Stationary combustion 81 61 65 Mobile combustion 436 426 487 Fugitive emissions (refrigerant gases) 1,721 – 9 Total Scope 1 emissions (tonnes CO2e) 2,238 487 561 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 59,188 54,145 53,957 Total Scope 2 emissions (tonnes CO2e) 59,188 54,145 53,957 Scope 3 Electricity consumption by Exclusive Partners 179 190 187 Employee business travel (air) 111 – – Total Scope 3 emissions (tonnes CO2e) 290 190 187 Total emissions (tonnes CO2e) 61,716 54,822 54,705 1 The CO2 equivalent emissions for fossil fuel sources are calculated based on the United Kingdom Greenhouse Gas Inventory that is compiled according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2006) Guidelines. The CO2 equivalent emissions for electricity purchased is calculated based on the Singapore Energy Statistics 2018 by the Energy Market Authority. 110 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW B. Investing in our People Our People Strategy 1: Reorganising employees. Impacted employees are paired The strategic transformation plan is aimed at STRATEGY and Right-sizing for Agility and Growth with employability coaches to discuss their simplifying our corporate structure, product Our workforce consists of 2,216 permanent career needs and are invited to attend an offerings and customer touchpoints with employees. employability workshop to build and develop an ultimate aim to be more agile, to deliver job search skills. The coaches also assisted better customer experience and to drive Our strategic transformation plan was with job matching such as job referrals as well sustainable growth. While reducing overall announced in October 2018. Recognising as encouraging attendance at events such as resources, StarHub will continue to grow its the pressures from intense local competition career fairs to meet prospective employers. workforce in specific areas such as cyber and disruptive industry trends, we initiated an security, home and enterprise solutions and PERFORMANCE operational efficiency programme to improve “We wish to recognise the extensive customer care. We remain committed to productivity, improve speed in decisioncontribution that our impacted employees supporting our employees and providing making and lower operating expenditures have made to the company’s past a safe, respectful and collaborative across the board. The strategic review development and growth. Such decisions workplace. process resulted in a reduction of workforce. are never taken lightly. I am very aware of the impact on all our employees, and Our People Strategy 2: Talent Workforce reductions primarily affected we are making every effort to support Acquisition, Retention and non-customer facing functions, with those impacted through this challenging Development (Material Topic) approximately 300 employees impacted. transition. The redundancies are not an Our talent acquisition, retention and Working closely with Singapore Industrial and individual performance issue but one of development management approach remains Services Employees’ Union (SISEU), NTUC’s strategic realignment of StarHub. We have focused on investing in people development GOVERNANCE e2i (Employment and Employability Institute) been extremely fortunate to have many to build a high-performing organisation. and other agencies such as Workforce competent people in our team, but some The need for highly-skilled employees Singapore, we provided comprehensive positions are not sustainable given the with learning agility in the ICT sector will career transition assistance and outplacement current industry pressures.” continue to grow as our business implements counselling, including career coaching and technology such as the 5G network and the skills upgrading programmes, to our impacted Mr Peter Kaliaropoulos, CEO Internet of Things (IoT). Employment Culture SUSTAINABILITY Our policies promote: Merit-based hiring Safe and healthy 1 2 Teamwork 3 and remuneration working conditions Reward and recognition 4 5 People development 6 Career growth for performance 7 Work-life balance 8 Diversity and inclusion 9 Employee volunteering FINANCIALS 111 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) StarHub management regularly reviews HR policies and practices such as hiring, diversity and inclusion, equal opportunity, training and performance management. We adhere to fair employment practices, strive to provide a safe, non-discriminatory work environment and continually strengthen our workplace policies to provide a level playing field for our employees. Our People Strategy 3: Employee Training, Benefits and Leave Building diversity and respecting fair employment practices Career Development and Training We invested $1.4 million on training in 2018 and received $159,701 in training training expenditure of $618 per employee. government agencies such as SkillsFuture subsidies from various government To maximise the learning and funding Singapore, the Info-communications Media agencies. In total, we provided 41,206 opportunities for our employees, we have Development Authority (IMDA), and the hours of training with an average also established partnerships with multiple Economic Development Board. Highlight for 2018: Diversity In October 2018, StarHub was awarded the top honours in Asia Pacific for Gender Equality and is ranked fifth globally amongst corporate stalwarts such as General Motors and L’Oreal in Equileap’s list of the world’s top 200 companies, leading the way in gender equality. Equileap is the leading organisation providing data and insights on gender equality in the corporate sector. Veronica Lai, StarHub’s Chief Corporate Officer, received the award for StarHub: “It is our privilege and honour to be recognised as the leader in Asia Pacific in advocating gender equality. Women still face challenges in the workplace, so it is important that we recognise and support their aspirations both at work and at home. Only then can we retain and develop the best talent for the company’s growth. This recognition will spur us to continue advocating that gender equality is not only beneficial for women, it is also ultimately advantageous for businesses.” Currently, there are three female directors out of 12 (or 25%) on StarHub’s Board of Directors. This is significantly higher than the average representation of board seats held by women at Singapore’s top 100 listed companies (14.7% – Diversity Action Committee Singapore). 112 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW Workforce Snapshot 2018 Gender Diversity Employment Profile Permanent 1,298 918 STRATEGY Contract/Temporary 61 74 Full-time 1,357 983 59% 41% Male Female Part-time 2 9 Male Female Seniority of Permanent Employees Age Diversity PERFORMANCE Function Employees 926 709 Middle Management 309 172 8% Senior Management 63 37 15% Male Female <30 years old 77% 30-50 years old >50 years old Employees’ Average Training Hours Function Employees 21.3 13.2 GOVERNANCE Middle Management 21.3 17.7 Local Employees Senior Management 23.2 28.1 Overall 21.4 14.7 16% Male Female 11% Singapore Citizens 73% Foreigners Permanent Employees by Age Singapore PR >50 years old 188 11 81 SUSTAINABILITY 30-50 years old 1,706 220 502 <30 years old 322 127 133 Employees New Hires Turnover Ethnic Diversity 13% 3% 9% 6% Turnover & New Hires by Gender 6% 13% Chinese Malay No. of turnover 410 306 Indian Others No. of new hires 229 129 74% 74% Male Female FINANCIALS StarHub National Ethnic Composition 113 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) At the beginning of the year, key skills and leave. In 2018, 145 of our employees Our People Strategy 4: Employee capabilities were identified to support applied for the parental leave with a 99% Engagement (Material Topic) our employees in carrying out their roles. return rate. We also had a retention rate of We believe that happy and engaged These include cyber security, robotics, 57% for those employees that returned to employees lead to happy customers. It is virtualisation and mobile network. To work after taking parental leave in 2017. therefore important to take the experiences this end, we have secured the IMDA of our employees into consideration while Company-Led Training (CLT) funding MOU with Employee Union growing our business. to invest in our employees’ upskilling to We have signed a Memorandum of ensure they have the relevant learning Understanding with SISEU which allows rank We encourage our employees to volunteer and development opportunities to build and file employees to participate in recreational their time and skills in these initiatives. functional and technical skills to succeed and social activities organised by SISEU. We All employees are entitled to two days of in their jobs. In addition, we continue to maintain a collaborative partnership and have volunteering leave. In 2018, our employees invest in our leaders by continually building open and timely dialogues with SISEU and contributed 328 hours in volunteer service management and leadership skills, through will continue to work closely with SISEU to with 3.3% of our workforce using their our People Leadership programmes, to ensure our employees’ skills stay relevant as we volunteering leave allowance. enable them to engage and motivate teams undergo our business transformation. to perform effectively. StarHub employees received regular performance and career development reviews in 2018 as part of our performance Employee engagement activities in 2018 focused management system. Personal targets are on two areas: set by supervisors and employees under four categories: Business, Customer, Process and People. Behavioural goals are also set GREEN LEARNING • StarHub volunteers took part in an eco-workshop on according to StarHub values and behaviours. JOURNEYS AND greening lifestyles and office areas in conjunction WORKSHOPS with Earth Hour 2018. Employee and Leave Benefits To raise employees’ • StarHub volunteers planted 50 trees along East We offer employees competitive environmental Coast Park, together with winners of the top schools remuneration packages that are awareness and for the Schools E-Waste Challenge. commensurate with their job responsibilities, appreciation of performance and experience. nature through • Partnering with LIEN Aid to host an exhibition open educational events to all tenants and visitors at the StarHub Green lobby In addition to product benefits, we also on water issues and conservation. provide additional leave benefits for our • StarHub volunteers joined A Walk in the Park session, permanent employees, including birthday SOCIAL accompanying youths from Care Corner Crossroad leave, examination leave, eldercare leave OUTREACH Youth Centre on a biodiversity learning trail. and volunteerism leave. All remuneration To give employees and benefits packages comply with the • StarHub volunteers joined over 100 children as the opportunity to relevant statutory requirements related to part of the Nurture programme for a day out at the contribute to the employment in Singapore. In accordance Singapore Science Centre to learn more about community with Ministry of Manpower guidelines, climate change. StarHub employees are also entitled to • StarHub volunteers and their family members took maternity leave, paternity leave and shared part in the annual Community Chest Heartstrings parental leave. Parental leave is available for Walk 2018. all employees. Eligible working fathers are entitled to two weeks of paid paternity leave and up to four weeks of shared parental 114 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW With these efforts, we are seeing that employees are becoming more aware of initiatives through our community investment arm, the Sparks Fund, as well as other social and environmental issues. Through these events, our employees are STRATEGY motivated to do more for the environment and the community. Enhancing our corporate social responsibility employee engagement is one of our key sustainability targets for 2019. We aim to get more volunteers involved and ramp up our initiatives to do good together as a Group. More details about our community PERFORMANCE initiatives can be read in Investing in our Community on pages 116–118 of this report. Team building through dragon-boating Our People Strategy 5: Employee Health, Safety and Wellness (Material Topic) The WSHRC provides updates, as needed, continue to grow our pool of first-aid The health and safety of our employees to the Management Risk Committee (MRC) trained employees year-on-year to deal is important and is one of the factors that which comprises members of Senior with any medical emergencies. contributes towards their performance Management. Enterprise Risk Management in the Group. We have a responsibility also sits in the WSHRC and act as secretariats We adopt the WSH Council’s calculation to create a workplace environment that for the MRC. Additionally, the chairman methodology for our health and safety GOVERNANCE promotes the health and ensures the safety of the WSHRC is also a member of the indicators. In 2018, there were no fatalities and of our employees. Exclusive benefits for MRC. Workplace health and safety-related one reported incidence. Looking forward, StarHub’s permanent employees include incidents are escalated where necessary. we aim to strengthen the implementation of comprehensive health screening, as well as workplace health and safety initiatives. additional insurance coverage for medical, StarHub continues to be a certified dental and group life and accidents. bizSafe Level 3 organisation, which is Employees may provide feedback awarded by the Workplace Safety and on health and safety matters via the Our management approach is to ensure Health Council Singapore (WSH Council) Workplace Safety and Health Feedback workplace health and safety by creating based on an independent audit. We Form on StarHub’s intranet. employee awareness and taking preventive measures based on assessment of SUSTAINABILITY risks. StarHub’s Workplace Safety and Health Review Committee (WSHRC) is represented by both management and employees and consists of a representative and an alternate from each work area within StarHub. The WSHRC works closely with employees, business units and external parties with the relevant expertise and knowledge for the effective implementation of workplace health and safety. The WHSRC periodically reviews policies, procedures and practices relating FINANCIALS to occupational health and safety and monitors the effectiveness of our approach. Beach cleaning at Pasir Ris 115 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) C. Investing in our Community While our community relies on StarHub services to support their daily personal contribute to society, we provide access to ICT and integrate it into the community $826,698 committed and business needs, we understand that programmes we support which allows to local community digital disruption can also have a negative people with disabilities to achieve a greater programmes in 2018 impact. New technology requires new degree of independent living. skills which can be hard for disadvantaged groups to develop, such as those with We also invest in programmes that provide 16 learning or physical disabilities or at-risk at-risk youths with life skills and career paths. charity partners youths. Such skills are now essential for everyday life, especially in terms We value our partnerships with innovative of employability. StarHub is therefore organisations and government agencies 7,311 committed to taking steps to overcome which allow us to drive positive benefits people this digital divide and share the benefits of throughout our community. StarHub is have benefited from technology with everyone. a strong advocate for these issues and programmes supported by StarHub continuously seeks to raise awareness Our Approach among our customers and business partners. Our social and digital inclusion as well as employability activities to help Our Contributions disadvantaged groups are areas we care In 2018, StarHub committed a total deeply about. of $826,698 to 16 voluntary welfare organisations and non-profit organisations We empower people with disabilities by to promote employability and essential life supporting several organisations that skills of underprivileged youth, families and equip them with workforce-ready skills. to persons with disabilities. These activities aim to increase their selfreliance and connect them to professional More details about our employee opportunities that benefit our community. engagement initiatives can be found in As ICT is a core enabler that allows people Investing in our People on pages 111-115 of with disabilities to successfully integrate and this report. Day out at the Science Centre with children from the Nurture Programme 116 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW 100 elderly and youths. StarHub contributed over $25,000 to provide SIM cards, service bundles (talk time, data and SMS) and tracking devices to allow caregivers and parents to monitor the location of their loved ones, to have peace of mind. This STRATEGY empowered both the elderly and youths to travel more independently. We have been supporting the Nurture programme run by the Central Singapore StarHubbers at the Community Chest Heartstrings Walk 2018 Community Development Council (CDC) since 2011. With a contribution Our Community Investment Strategy: and social skills training was also provided of $120,000 in 2018, the programme Supporting Local Communities for PMHIs, following which five were supported 380 underprivileged (Material Topic) assessed to be ready for employment and children in their academic studies and PERFORMANCE all five are currently employed. life skills through two core modules – Social and Digital Inclusion communication and problem-solving. The The StarHub Open, our annual charity We also piloted a project with the programme also served as a platform to golf event, raised $200,000 this year in Alzheimer’s Disease Association and help build their character and encourage partnership with our corporate clients to Autism Association of Singapore in 2018 to values that would inspire them to give support social and digital inclusion causes. enhance the mobility and connectivity of back to the community. Through Community Chest, we donated these funds to three voluntary welfare organisations that provide services to people with intellectual or developmental disabilities and mental health issues to help them live CASE STUDY EXAMPLE GOVERNANCE independently. Beneficiaries obtain life Nurture 3.0, Central Singapore CDC and vocational skills that prepare them for employment opportunities and assist them with integrating into the community. • Metta School – 398 students with intellectual disabilities were equipped for a more promising future through a specialised employability and life skills Ricarda, 10 years old and Richley, 8 years old programme to help them integrate better into society. SUSTAINABILITY • MINDS Towner Garden School – 197 Ricarda and Richley are siblings. While Richley would come to class students with autism and moderate intellectual or developmental disability in high spirits, Ricarda tended to be more serious. Teachers soon between the ages of 6 and 18 are currently discovered that Ricarda was often sternly scolded by her mother, enrolled in this programme teaching causing her to be reserved in class. With the help of her Lead Teacher critical employment skills. and volunteers from the programme funded by StarHub, Ricarda is • Singapore Anglican Community Services (SACS) – 50 employers and gaining confidence and is even participating more actively in lessons co-workers were trained to enhance their and helping her younger brother in class. knowledge and skills for working with people suffering from mental health issues (PMHIs) as part of Project H.I.R.E. Vocational FINANCIALS 117 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) In 2018, we also supported The Business Times Fundraising Concert for the Muscular Dystrophy Association (Singapore) and School of the Arts Assistance Fund with $10,000. This unique concert serves as a platform to promote a more inclusive society in Singapore by showcasing differently-abled students on the concert stage and provided opportunities for creative and talented individuals to contribute to the community in different ways. StarHub was honoured to be recognised as a Silver Sponsor. CASE STUDY EXAMPLE Employment Support Programme (SPD) Engaging the youths from Care Corner Crossroad Youth Centre in an Amazing Race Youth and Employability outreach also engaged 416 youths to raise StarHub contributed $130,000 in 2018 to awareness of counselling programmes and fund the Employment Support Programme other supportive resources. Navin Nair (ESP) by SPD (formerly known as the Society for the Physically Disabled). ESP Through a donation of $25,000 to the Navin was born with cerebral equips persons with disabilities (PWDs) ‘Football with a Heart’ charity fundraiser palsy, and was assessed by with Microsoft Office skills as well as job organised by the 2018 Singapore Community matching or sheltered workshop options Games, we supported Boys’ Town as well SPD in 2017 after a year of after the course completion. During the year as Shine Children and Youth Services and unemployment. As part of 167 PWDs were trained, of whom 83 were helped reach 5,500 beneficiaries. the Employment Support subsequently successfully and purposefully Programme funded by employed. Client satisfaction is measured at Boys’ Town is a charity that provides the end of every module. residential care, street outreach and StarHub, he completed the fostering as well as community and schoolDigital Skill Enabling Training Since April 2017, StarHub partnered with based programmes for disadvantaged in 2018, which equipped him Care Corner Crossroad Youth Centre families, children and youths. The with essential IT and workwhich reaches out to at-risk youths aged programme equips beneficiaries with the between 11 and 18 that lack meaningful skills they need to become responsible readiness skills. Navin is now engagement at home and in school. contributing members of society. employed as a recruitment The objective is to prevent delinquency specialist, and is an advocate by providing them with after-school Shine Children and Youth Services aims for the employment of programmes and services, teaching critical to address the needs of underprivileged life skills and offering study support. We youths aged between 5 and 21. This persons with disabilities. contributed $52,450 to the programme in programme offers academic intervention, 2018 (together with an additional $10,000 remedial programmes and counselling to in-kind donation), to support the enrolment equip them with critical life skills to enhance of 106 youths into the programme. Street their employability. 118 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW D. Improving Customer Experience STRATEGY A customer’s experience starts from their very first contact with StarHub, whether through various media channels or via interactions with our service staff. It is these interactions that are essential in creating a safe, secure and reliable environment for our customers to connect with and access pre and aftersales service support. We are committed to being fair, transparent and responsible in dealing with customers and strive to listen to their PERFORMANCE needs and recommend best fit solutions to create a positive experience for them. Customer Experience Strategy 1: Service Quality (Material Topic) In a highly competitive environment, service quality plays an ever-growing important role in maintaining customer interest and loyalty. Faster and better network coverage with minimal interruptions requires the continuous upgrading of infrastructure to provide stable, Providing personalised offerings to customers GOVERNANCE reliable and high-speed data and network services to our customers. As part of our 5-year implementation plan, we are focusing on: We continue to invest in infrastructural upgrades that would: 1. Improve the resilience of our network NEW 5G NARROWBAND INTERNET services that allow our customers to COVERAGE READINESS OF THINGS (NB-IoT) surf the internet and stream multimedia content smoothly even during peak hours and mega events. SUSTAINABILITY 2. Make our networks faster and more efficient to enhance connectivity for CORE NETWORK the IoT age, support Singapore’s Smart A DEEPER 1.4GBPS CAPACITY FUNCTIONS Nation initiatives and to prepare for next 4G COVERAGE EXPANSION VIRTUALIZATION (NFV) generation mobile services (5G). 3. Provide better quality of service, pricing In 2018, we upgraded our Mobile-Single RAN using trial 3.5GHz spectrum towards the end and capability for our customers with the network to enable peak 4G speeds of 1Gbps of the year. Through 2019, we will continue to transition to StarHub’s own fibre network. and NB-IoT. As testament to our efforts, we monitor developments and conduct 5G trials, 4. Ensure prompt service recovery with clocked Singapore’s fastest mobile speeds in readiness for the 5G future. minimal human intervention in the according to OpenSignal’s independent unfortunate event of service disruption. analysis. In terms of 5G, we completed We are continuously developing our FINANCIALS 5. Optimise our service delivery lead time. Singapore’s first outdoor 5G New Radio pilot customer service to provide a seamless 119 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) experience across all touch-points, data bundles that are easy to buy, use and received inputs from internal and external sales and service transactions. We take modify. Customers now have just three security sources which we have reviewed customer feedback seriously as it is a key SIM Only mobile plans to choose from: $25 and taken the necessary actions to enhance mechanism for us to listen to and understand SIM Only, $50 SIM Only and $80 SIM Only. our control measures. We aim to maintain consumer preferences and enhance our The plans are devoid of hidden charges zero leaks and breaches of customer privacy product and service offerings. We collect for customers to enjoy peace-of-mind. In a in 2019, but we also recognise that the cyber feedback from customers through surveys market-first, StarHub scrapped all one-time security environment is ever evolving and and across various touchpoints. We use administrative, activation and SIM card fees, additional threats appear almost daily. the Net Promoter System (NPS) index as well as monthly subscription fees for caller to gauge customers’ overall satisfaction number display and auto-roam, which add The public may refer to our Data Protection with our products and services, as well as up to about $200 over 12 months for a typical Policy webpage that helps interested customers’ loyalty and follow up with those customer. In 2019, we will continue to focus parties to understand how StarHub who have submitted unfavourable ratings on product simplification and maintain clarity manages the collection, usage and for our products or services to address their in pricing and billing for our customers. disclosure of personal data. concerns. Customer Experience Strategy 3: Customer Experience Strategy 4: Customer Experience Strategy 2: Data Security and Customer Privacy Cyber Security Solutions for our Clarity of Pricing and Billing and (Material Topic) Customers Product Simplification (Material Topic) Keeping our customers’ data secure means StarHub delivers end-to-end cyber security We strive to make our bills clear and easy protecting the data and supporting our solutions to organisations in Singapore and to read so that we can build a relationship customers to keep their own data secure. overseas markets. Our capabilities comprise of trust with our customers. When new Professional Services, Systems Integration products and services are launched, our Personal Data Protection Act and Managed Security Services, as well as customer service staff are trained to clearly We take customers’ privacy seriously. unique telco-centric and network-based communicate to our customers our pricing We expect all our employees as well security monitoring capabilities to provide structure and contract terms. Customers as contractors, telemarketers, service enhanced security for enterprises and may also access our Finance & Billing page providers and temporary staff to comply critical infrastructure. on our website for details on understanding, with the Singapore Personal Data managing and paying their bills. Illustrations Protection Act (PDPA) and observe our In 2018, Ensign InfoSecurity Pte. Ltd. (Ensign and explanations are also provided on the Personal Data Protection Policy in the InfoSecurity), Southeast Asia’s largest cyber website for the various scenarios, products course of their daily work. security provider, became part of our Group. and services. Ensign InfoSecurity is our new joint venture We have appointed a Data Protection with Temasek Holdings, which brought During 2018, our initiatives included (a) the Office which oversees the Personal together StarHub’s Cyber Security Centre simplification of our Terms and Conditions Data Protection Policy within StarHub of Excellence and our security infrastructure to be more customer-friendly in plain to achieve PDPA compliance. The Data subsidiary, Accel Systems & Technologies English and updated for the latest legal Protection Office together with the Legal Pte. Ltd. (now known as Ensign InfoSecurity developments, (b) the simplification of the and Regulatory departments monitor (Systems) Pte. Ltd.) with Temasek’s presentation of our SIM Only plans to better upcoming legislative changes and integrated security subsidiary, Quann World communicate the plan’s key details, and ensures our operations are aligned. Our Pte. Ltd. (now known as Ensign InfoSecurity (c) the simplification of the presentation of Internal Audit function serves as the (Cybersecurity) Pte. Ltd.) The newly-formed our Hubbing Plan to make pricing and new monitoring arm to provide assurance Ensign InfoSecurity is the only Singaporeservices clearer. to management on the effectiveness based pure play cyber security company and of the control measures. Our Personal aims to create scale and depth of expertise With a focus on simplicity for the customer, Data Protection Policy is reviewed and to address the multitude of cyber security we launched our new unique SIM Only updated as needed. risks facing both Government and Enterprise mobile plans in 2018 which marked the start clients in Singapore and overseas. of our “Hello Change” journey to do different In 2018, there were no complaints received and better by providing truly contractconcerning breaches of customer privacy free options to give customers extra-large and zero identified leaks. We have also 120 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW E. Being a Responsible Business STRATEGY Running a business responsibly and with Risk Management team. In 2018, all incidents Anti-Corruption and Whistle Blowing integrity is expected by all our stakeholders. detected were mitigated. These incidents We do not tolerate ethical or legal violations, To earn the trust of our stakeholders, it is include Distributed Denial-of-Service attacks, including corruption. We have put in place critical that StarHub upholds the highest failed logins, vulnerability scans, trojans and an Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics ethical standards in our business conduct and malware, as well as hacking tool activities. (Employee Code), a Corporate Gift and seek to promote openness and transparency. Hospitality Policy as well as a Supplier and We are also compliant with the Secure and Vendor Policy to set out the standards of Responsible Business Strategy 1: Resilient Infrastructure Code of Practice behaviour, business conduct and procedures Responsible Business Practices requirements from the IMDA with regards for employees when dealing with customers, (Material Topic) to our broadband infrastructure. Audits are business associates and other stakeholders. PERFORMANCE performed pursuant to the Code. In 2019, These are accessible to all employees and Cyber Security Resilience we will continue to ensure compliance to the stakeholders via the StarHub intranet as Our objective is to ensure cyber security Code and the Cybersecurity Act. well as on our website. Employees are also resilience, protection of data and compliance required to disclose personal relationships to the newly-passed Cybersecurity Act 2018. Corporate Governance and business activities with StarHub’s vendors As a public company listed on the and business partners, as well as relationships Our Security Team references the ISO Mainboard of the Singapore Exchange with any personnel employed by such 27001 standard for an information security Securities Trading Limited (SGX-ST), we vendors and business partners. management system to create and ensure the adhere to the listing requirements as well implementation of relevant security policies as the Code of Corporate Governance Our whistle blowing policy aims to encourage including the Information Security Policy, issued by the Monetary Authority of responsible and secure reporting of any GOVERNANCE Vendor Security Policy and Mobile Device Singapore. The Singapore Governance and irregularity, inappropriate behaviour, legal or Security Policy. Employees are required Transparency Index (SGTI) is the leading ethical violation or other serious breaches to comply with these policies which are index for assessing corporate governance of internal processes by lending confidence supplemented with procedures, guidelines practices of Singapore listed companies. As that whistle-blowers will be treated fairly and and checklists to ensure the confidentiality, testament to our commitment to responsible accorded due protection against reprisals. integrity and availability of our assets. corporate governance, our SGTI score has The policy is publicly available on our website. been increasing every year, achieving 100 Reporting channels include a dedicated Some of our service offerings (for example, out of a maximum of 143 points in 2018, whistle blowing email and a direct channel Argonar Cloud) are ISO27001 certified. with our ranking also moving up one place to the Audit Committee Chairman and the since 2017 to the joint 17th position in General Counsel (via email and/or mail). Our Corporate Security Officer and Data Singapore. Our ISS1 score is 2 out of 10 in SUSTAINABILITY Centre Team conduct an annual review 2018 (where a smaller number indicates Errant employees will be subject to of our employees’ eligibility to access lower governance risk), a testament of our appropriate disciplinary and legal actions restricted areas (including data centres) strong corporate governance. (including dismissal), for any non-compliance based on their job responsibilities. We also with the Employee Code or the applicable set specific targets for security incidents, For more details, refer to the Corporate policies. We are pleased to report that there with performance against these critical Key Governance section on pages 52-82 of the was no incidence of corruption in 2018. Risk Indicators monitored by our Enterprise Annual Report. 1 Institutional Shareholder Services Inc (ISS) is a global leading provider of corporate governance and responsible investment solutions for institutional investors FINANCIALS through objective governance research. 121 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) Fair and Competitive Market StarHub is represented on the Management 3. StarHub suppliers shall respect Apart from our customers and employees, Committee of the Global Compact Network workers’ right to freedom of association our industry peers are also a driving force Singapore, the Singapore chapter of the in accordance with local laws and for us to pursue the new development of UNCG network. collective bargaining. products and service excellence to improve 4. Our suppliers’ workers shall be free to our performance. As such, we respect and A Member of: enter and terminate their employment. comply with relevant legislation, licence Compensation paid to workers will comply obligations and codes of practice relating to with applicable local laws, including those anti-competitive behaviour for our business. relating to minimum wages, working hours, overtime hours and legally mandated We are pleased to report that there was no benefits, and at least one rest day per week legal action taken against StarHub for antiis offered. Workers will be provided with a competitive behaviour in 2018. StarHub made this public commitment to our safe and healthy workplace. employees, suppliers, customers and other 5. Suppliers shall comply with all Promoting Supply Chain Integrity stakeholders by sharing our Supplier Code local minimum working age laws or StarHub seeks to ensure the integrity of our of Conduct (Supplier Code) in 2018 after a regulations and not use child labour. international supply chain by responsibly risk assessment that started in 2017. Moving 6. Discrimination, in all its forms, in terms applying human rights, labour, environmental forward, we plan to develop materials to of employment practices shall not be and anti-corruption considerations grow the awareness of our employees and tolerated. throughout our business. We understand that suppliers in the Supplier Code. 7. Suppliers shall take a precautionary supply chains are challenging to manage, approach to environmental challenges and we continue to strive for transparency, Our business also has policies in place to guide while complying with relevant local and honesty and integrity across our operations. procurement decisions, which are available international environmental standards on our website and managed by StarHub’s and laws. In 2018, we began the second phase of our Corporate Purchasing team. Our procurement 8. Suppliers shall adopt initiatives to approach to supplier management to ensure performance targets are laid out in our encourage environmental responsibility. that companies supplying StarHub with Corporate Purchasing Targets statement. This will include avoiding the use of products or services are aligned with our rare minerals, where possible, as well values and are compliant with the applicable Supplier Code of Conduct as materials and resources to minimise regulations. Upon the completion of this Our Supplier Code was updated in 2018. All negative environmental impact. second phase, we aim to establish a robust StarHub suppliers need to meet or exceed 9. Suppliers shall encourage the governance structure for the new Supplier the basic requirements in our Supplier Code. development and scaling of Code to promote sustainable and responsible In jurisdictions where local laws or national environmental technologies. business practices across StarHub. regulations have stricter requirements, 10. Suppliers will adhere to ethics and suppliers will be held to the higher standard. business integrity will be adhered to in Commitment to UNGC We will support our suppliers to meet these combatting corruption. Suppliers will not We have been a signatory member of the objectives and overcome any obstacles. offer gifts, entertainment, hospitality or United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) other gratuities to StarHub employees to since 2012. As part of this commitment, we Our Supplier Code has ten core areas, namely: influence their affairs with our business. have pledged to implement the UNGC’s Ten Principals across our operations. 1. Across our supply chain and the Moving forward, we will develop training for communities in which we operate, our Corporate Purchasing team to actively StarHub shall respect internationally promote and implement our Supplier Code, proclaimed human rights. helping them engage with our suppliers and 2. Our suppliers’ operations shall not their representatives. be complicit in human rights abuses. Workers shall be treated with dignity and respect on a physical and emotional level. 122 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW Risk Assessment Our supplier risk assessment started in 2017. In 2018, we identified the level of risk that certain suppliers may pose to our business. This assessment is key to our resilient and responsible sourcing strategy. We value our relationships with our suppliers and aspire to work together to go beyond commercial interests, to minimise social and environmental risks. STRATEGY 1 2 3 A COMPREHENSIVE A RISK-BASED DUE DILIGENCE, GOVERNANCE INVENTORY OF SUPPLIERS SEGMENTATION AND ESCALATION PROCESS PERFORMANCE COMPLETED: IN PROGRESS: NEXT STEPS: In 2017, StarHub developed a The results from the segmentation In the future, StarHub will tailor system to track suppliers and in 2017 highlighted 47 suppliers due diligence activities to monitor the risk they pose relative as high-risk. StarHub will be specific supplier risk categories. to our Group. We categorised conducting due diligence on such The high-risk suppliers which GOVERNANCE risk, using a weighted approach, suppliers. While we intended to were previously identified, will based on relevant issues for each complete this in 2018, we delayed undergo additional scrutiny. supplier category. the process due to our 2018 strategic transformation plan. This We will establish governance will resume in 2019. structures and processes to ensure that our business is internally aligned throughout this process. As a final step, StarHub will develop an escalation mechanism to remediate potential issues. SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS 123 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) Responsible Business Strategy 2: guidelines as well as internal policies and our customers by providing them with an Responsible Marketing (Material Topic) guidelines when working with external opportunity to redeem their reward points StarHub is committed to communicating creative and media agencies. in support of these causes via our Rewards and advertising our products and services Redemption platform, which allowed responsibly. We comply with relevant In 2018, StarHub had no incidence customers to redeem 53 StarHub Rewards local regulations and guidelines such as of non-compliance with regulations Points in exchange for a $5 contribution by the Television and Radio Advertising and concerning marketing communications StarHub to their desired cause. Sponsorship Code. including advertising and promotion. Airtime Sponsorships of Social and Our Data Protection Office oversees the As an ICT Group, we are cognisant of Environmental Causes compliance with our Do Not Call (DNC) Policy our ability to contribute to promoting StarHub provided airtime sponsorships that guides and ensures that we comply with social cohesion through our products totalling $800,000 in 2018 for social and the PDPA – Do Not Call Registry provisions. and services. We see cause-related environmental campaigns. We are firm Targeted marketing messages will not be marketing as part of our direction believers in using our assets to do good for sent to any Singapore mobile number that towards responsible marketing. On an society. These included $300,000 for WWF has been registered with the National DNC annual basis, we celebrate our nation’s Earth Hour 2018, $400,000 for President’s Registry, and any messages sent will be independence with the launch of a Challenge and $100,000 for 2018 National prefixed as a notification to ensure the clear campaign that highlights different Day celebrations. intent of our communication. segments of our society and champions various social causes. #TogetherWeCan Our Customer Communication Guidelines was the theme for 2018, honouring the provide support to our DNC Policy can-do and never-give-up Singapore and serve as further guidance on our spirit by shining the spotlight on the customer communication materials. We stories of five inspiring Singaporeans. use a combination of local regulations and We also took the opportunity to engage 2018 National Day Campaign From Left to Right: 1. Mr Lim Seng, Team Lead of GoSpace, who hopes to realise his dream of launching the first Singaporean into space. 2. Ms Sarah Pang, Professional Tennis Player, who is pursuing to compete in the WTA. 3. Mr Sazzad Hossain, Founder of SDI Academy, who is providing basic English education to help migrant workers adapt to Singapore. 4. Mr Peter Draw, Creator of the Ai Movement, who uses his art to inspire the world with love and happiness. 5. Mr Joel Seah, social worker at Care Corner Crossroad Youth Centre, who guides youths and organises workshops to equip them with skills to excel in life. 124 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW StarHub Value Creation Scorecard Performance Indicators FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2016 Environmental CO2e emissions generated (tonnes) 61,716 54,822 54,705 STRATEGY Carbon emission intensity per $million revenue (tonnes CO2e) 26.1 22.8 22.7 Energy intensity per $million revenue (gigajoules) 219 195 183 Water consumption (cubic metres) 24,695 27,633 28,421 Internal e-waste recycled (tonnes) 213 242 379 Paper recycled (kilogrammes) 17,797 24,230 16,012 Electricity used (million kWh) 141.6 128.0 119.9 Social Employees PERFORMANCE Permanent employees 2,216 2,541 2,685 Local employees (Singapore citizens) 73% 75% 75% New hires 358 332 283 Female employees 41% 42% 42% Female managers (% of Senior level) 37% 36% 37% Female managers (% of Middle level) 36% 36% 36% Female Heads of Department (% of HODs) 36% 30% 33% Average training hours per employee 19 17 19 Training expenditure per employee $618 $994 $784 Employee turnover rate 32%1 20%1 12% GOVERNANCE Number of reported work injuries 1 0 2 Fatal Accidents 0 0 0 Community Employee volunteerism participation 3% 7% 5% Community investment and donations to charities ($million) 0.8 0.7 0.8 Governance & Marketplace Revenue ($million) 2,362 2,401 2,397 Net profit ($million) 200.5 250 341 SUSTAINABILITY Dividends paid to shareholders ($million) 277 294 346 Suppliers Share of local suppliers as % of total supplier payments 86%2 93%2 86% Proportion of local suppliers 89% 2 84% 2 85% 1 Figures include voluntary and involuntary turnover. These refer to employees who are effectively no longer part of the Group’s headcount within the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. 2 Figures for all purchase orders raised during 2018, except for those related to content acquisition. Most of our procurement is done through purchase orders. Suppliers are classified as local if the purchase order is raised for an entity located in Singapore, as these entities contribute to Singapore’s economy, for FINANCIALS example, through employment and taxes. As far as possible, we try to support local suppliers. 125 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) Appendix About This Report This report is printed on FSC paper on soyWe are committed to listening to our This is StarHub’s eighth annual sustainability based ink. stakeholders and responding to their report. The information in this report covers needs. We believe their perspectives StarHub’s financial year 2018 (1 January 2018 Share with us your feedback on our offer valuable insights for improving our to 31 December 2018). The scope of the report sustainability practices by contacting business, implementing our sustainability content covers all business units, StarHub starhubcsr@starhub.com. strategy, and meeting our goal to deliver our shops (excluding Exclusive Partners unless sustainability vision. otherwise stated), data centres, subsidiaries Engaging with our Stakeholders and associated companies (excluding D’Crypt 2018 has been a year of change for We engage our stakeholders through a Pte Ltd and Ensign InfoSecurity, being new StarHub. With the roll-out of our strategic variety of means, ranging from one-on-one subsidiaries acquired in 2018). transformation plan, our operational discussions to surveys, feedback forms, efficiency programme and the associated written communications, focus groups, This report is prepared in accordance with internal re-organisation, our stakeholder roadshows and social media channels. the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability engagements have focused on business Reporting Standards (GRI Standards): activities and our day-to-day procedures Engagement specifically around our Core option. The GRI content index can be ensuring quality services and products. sustainability initiatives and reporting in 2018 found at the end of this sustainability report. has been limited to internal discussions and Please refer to pages 130-134. Many different people within and outside preparations for the coming year. StarHub have a stake in our business. As in our previous reports, we have Everyone from our customers, being both In 2019, we will continue to find the most followed the GRI principles for defining the businesses and individuals, to our investors, effective channels for interacting with our sustainability report content and quality. We employees and suppliers are impacted by stakeholder groups. have determined the report content using the actions we take. the principles of stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness. To ensure quality of the report, we have applied the GRI principles EXTERNAL of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability, STAKEHOLDERS 1 MEDIA reliability and timeliness. NGOs & ADVOCACY 2 GROUPS This report also adheres to SGX-ST 3 CUSTOMERS Listing Rule 711A on preparing an annual sustainability report and describes our LOCAL 4 sustainability practices with reference to INTERNAL COMMUNITIES the primary components set out in SGX-ST STAKEHOLDERS GOVERNMENT OUR 5 Listing Rule 711B. & REGULATORS STAKEHOLDER SENIOR 1 ENGAGEMENT MANAGEMENT DISTRIBUTORS / 6 There are no restatements of previously RETAILERS 2 EMPLOYEES published information. BUSINESS 7 PARTNERS StarHub has sought an independent 8 SUPPLIERS limited assurance for this sustainability report to provide greater confidence to our 9 INVESTORS readers on the accuracy of the information reported. Please refer to pages 135-138 TRADE 10 UNIONS for the assurance statement and scope of data assured. The findings of the assurance procedures are shared with StarHub’s Board. 126 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW Our Materiality Process We focus on the topics that matter most to our business and our stakeholders. Our material topics in 2018 have remained unchanged from last year, where we undertook a comprehensive materiality assessment following best practices outlined by the globally recognised international reporting standards by GRI. This assessment included extensive engagement with our internal stakeholders and senior management, resulting in the 13 topics we believe remain most material at this time. Materiality Matrix STRATEGY 10.0 Data security 9.5 Talent acquisition, retention and development Responsible Service quality Employee health, safety and wellness business practices PERFORMANCE Customer privacy Clarity of pricing and billing 9.0 Diversity and inclusion Responsible marketing IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Disaster preparedness Local innovation Employee engagement and response Online safety Providing solutions that are socially inclusive and accessible to people Providing solutions that 8.5 Child safety enable sustainable lifestyles Supporting local communities Gender equality Implementing e-waste programmes Providing solutions that enable other companies to reduce their environmental impact Addressing climate change and 8.0 other environmental challenges GOVERNANCE 7.5 Radio frequency emissions 7.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 SIGNIFICANCE TO BUSINESS Employees Customers Governance & Management Environment ICT for the Environment & Sustainable Lifestyles SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS 127 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) Material Topics and Boundaries Where Impact Occurs/Boundary Government and Distributors and Local Trade Unions Trade Regulators Customers Employees Suppliers Retailers Investors NGOs Communities Associations Our Material Sustainability Topics Online Safety X X X Service Quality X X X Customer Privacy X X X Data Security X X X X Clarity of Pricing and Billing X X X X Responsible Marketing X X X Talent Acquisition, Retention X X X X and Development Employee Health, Safety and X X X Wellness Supporting Local Communities X X X X Employee Engagement X X X X Responsible Business Practices X X X Addressing Climate Change and X X X X Other Environmental Challenges Implementing E-waste X X X X Programmes 128 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW Memberships and Associations in 2018 Advertising Standards Authority of Singapore Global Compact Network Singapore Singapore Advertisers Association American Chamber of Commerce in Global TD-LTE Initiative Singapore Business Federation Singapore STRATEGY Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce Asia Digital Marketing Association GSMA & Industry Asia Pacific Network Information Centre Institute of Advertising Singapore Singapore Computer Society Asia Video Industry Association Institute of Service Excellence at SMU Singapore Corporate Counsel Association Association of Small & Medium Enterprises Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants Singapore Hotel Association Investor Relations Professionals Association Association of Media Owners (Singapore) Singapore Human Resource Institute of Singapore PERFORMANCE IMDA Tech Skills Accelerator Governing Singapore InfoComm Technology British Chamber of Commerce, Singapore Council Federation Business China Singapore ISS Management Board Singapore Institute of Directors Singapore International Chamber of Cable Television Laboratories Law Society of Singapore Commerce Chartered Secretaries Institute of Singapore Lawnet for Legal Research Singapore National Employers’ Federation Singapore Training & Development Cloud Security Alliance Singapore Chapter Pacific Telecommunications Council Association GOVERNANCE Singapore-Guangdong Collaboration Conexus Mobile Alliance Promax Asia Council Consumers Association of Singapore Singapore Academy of Law Wireless Broadband Alliance Singapore Advanced Research & Education Contact Centre Association of Singapore Network SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS 129 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE Page(s) General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation StarHub Ltd 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10 102-3 Location of headquarters Singapore 102-4 Location of operations Mainly Singapore 102-5 Ownership and legal form 262-263 102-6 Markets served 10-11 102-7 Scale of the organisation 111 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 111-115 102-9 Supply chain 122-123 Roll-out of strategic transformation plan in 2018, including an operational efficiency 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain programme and the associated internal re-organisation. For further details refer to pages 111, 122-123. 102-11 Precautionary principle of approach 90-93 102-12 External initiatives 106-109, 115-118, 120-124 102-13 Membership of associations 129 GRI 102: General 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 126 Disclosures 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 52-85 102-18 Governance structure 102 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 126 30% of our workforce are 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements general members of SISEU. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 126 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 126 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 127 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 198-201 127-128 For a detailed description of the materiality 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries assessment and process please refer to StarHub Sustainability Report 2017. 102-47 List of material topics 128 102-48 Restatements of information 126 102-49 Changes in reporting 126 102-50 Reporting period 126 130 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE Page(s) General Disclosures (Cont’d) StarHub Sustainability Report 2017; STRATEGY 102-51 Date of most recent report published March 2017 GRI 102: General 102-52 Reporting cycle 126 Disclosures 2016 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 126 (Cont’d) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 126 102-55 GRI Content Index 130-134 102-56 External assurance 135-138 Topic-Specific Disclosures Addressing climate change and other environmental challenges PERFORMANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 107 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its components 107 Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 107 Approach 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 108-109 GRI 302: 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 110 Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 110 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 108 GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 108 Water 2016 GOVERNANCE 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 110 GRI 305: 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 110 Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 110 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 109 Implementing e-waste programmes GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 107 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 107 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 107 107-108: specifically relating to the material SUSTAINABILITY topic of e-waste. GRI 306: Effluents In 2018, StarHub generated 45,950kg of 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method and Waste 2016 general waste (non-hazardous) that was disposed to the municipality for incineration. A total of 17,797kg of paper (non-hazardous) was also collected and recycled. FINANCIALS 131 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE Page(s) Topic-Specific Disclosures (Cont’d) Supporting local communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 116 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 116 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 116 GRI 413: Local Operations with local community engagement, 413-1 116-118 communities 2016 impact assessments, and development programs Online safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 120 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 120 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 120 Commitment to and active management of cyber security Non-GRI OS1 120-121 policies and systems Responsible marketing and clarity of pricing and billing GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 120, 124 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 120, 124 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 120, 124 GRI 417: Marketing Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 417-3 124 and labelling 2016 communications Data security and customer privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 120 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 120 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 120 GRI 418: Customer Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 418-1 120 privacy 2016 privacy and losses of customer data Total number of identified digital attacks or digital security Non-GRI DS1 120 breach Service quality GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 119 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 119 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 119 132 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE Page(s) Topic-Specific Disclosures (Cont’d) STRATEGY Responsible business practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 121-122 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 121-122 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 121-122 GRI 205: Anti205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 121 corruption 2016 GRI 206: AntiLegal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and competitive 206-1 122 monopoly practices behaviour 2016 GRI 204: PERFORMANCE Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 125 practices 2016 Talent acquisition, retention and development and employee engagement GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 111-112 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 111-112 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 111-112 113 Further 2018 breakdown: New hire rates: • Male: 18% GOVERNANCE • Female: 14% • <30 years old: 39% • 30-50 years old: 13% 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover • >50 years old: 6% GRI 401: Employment 2016 Turnover rates: • Male: 32% • Female: 33% • <30 years old: 41% • 30-50 years old: 29% SUSTAINABILITY • >50 years old: 43% Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-2 114 provided to temporary of part-time employees FINANCIALS 133 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Towards a Sustainable Future (Cont’d) GRI Content Index GRI STANDARD GRI DISCLOSURE Page(s) Topic-Specific Disclosures (Cont’d) Talent acquisition, retention and development and employee engagement (Cont’d) 114 Further 2018 breakdown: • All full-time employees are entitled to parental leave, being 1,298 males and 918 females in 2018. • 93 males and 52 females took parental GRI 401: leave in 2018. Employment 2016 401-3 Parental leave • 92 males (99%) and 52 females (100%) (Cont’d) returned to work after taking parental leave in 2018. • In 2018, 49 males (59%) and 31 females (53%) were still employed 12 months after returning to work from parental leave taken in 2017. GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training per employee 112 and education Programs for updating employee skills and transition 404-2 112, 114 2016 assistance programs Employee health, safety and wellness GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 115 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 115 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 115 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker 403-1 115 health and safety committees Further 2018 breakdown: • 1 minor injury (female) reported at a minor injury rate of 45.13 per 100,000 employed persons (rate of 108.93 per 100,000 employed females). • 0 major injuries reported at a major injury GRI 403: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, rate of 0 per 100,000 employed persons. Occupational 403-2 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related • Accident frequency rate of 0.2 per million health & safety fatalities working hours. 2016 • Lost Day Rate of 0.10 per million working hours. • Absentee Rate of 3049 per million working hours. • Occupational disease rate of 0 per 100,000 employed persons. Workers high incidence or high risk of diseases related to Zero occupational disease incidents 403-3 their occupation recorded in 2018. 134 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OVERVIEW Independent Limited Assurance Report To the Directors of StarHub Ltd Conclusion We were engaged by the Board of Directors of StarHub Ltd (the Company) to provide limited STRATEGY assurance on the accompanying StarHub Sustainability Report 2018 for the year ended 31 December 2018 (the Report), as set on pages 90 to 124, and the selected Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards disclosures (Selected GRI Disclosures) as identified below. Based on the evidence we obtained from the procedures performed as described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities section of our report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: (a) the Report has not described the sustainability practices on a comply-or-explain basis with reference to the following components as listed under Rule 711B of the Singapore PERFORMANCE Exchange’s (SGX) Listing Manual; – Material environmental, social and governance factors; – Policies, practices and performance; – Targets; – Sustainability reporting framework; and – Board statement; (b) the Report is not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards): Core option; and (c) the Selected GRI Disclosures as identified in the table below, are not calculated, in all GOVERNANCE material respects, in accordance with the relevant topic-specific disclosures requirements in the GRI Standards. SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS 135 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Independent Limited Assurance Report (Cont’d) Material topic GRI Standards topic-specific disclosure Selected GRI Disclosures Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 517,304 gigajoules (GJ) GRI 302-2 and outside of the organization GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 219 GJ per $million revenue (including Exclusive Partners) Water GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 24,695 cubic metres Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2,238 tonnes CO2e GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 59,188 tonnes CO2e GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 290 tonnes CO2e GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 26.1 tonnes CO2e per $million revenue Effluents and Waste GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Internal e-waste recycled: 213 tonnes Paper recycled: 17,797 kilograms Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Male Female Number of new 229 129 employee hires Number of 410 306 employee turnover Training and GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Male Female education Function employees 21.3 13.2 Middle management 21.3 17.7 Senior management 23.2 28.1 Overall 21.4 14.7 Procurement GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Share of local suppliers as a percentage of total practices supplier payments: 86% Proportion of local suppliers as a percentage of total suppliers: 89% 136 STARHUB LTD Annual Report 2018 OVERVIEW Basis for Conclusion Responsibilities of Management Auditors’ Responsibilities We conducted our limited assurance Management is responsible for: Our responsibility is to carry out a limited engagement in accordance with Singapore – preparing and presenting the Report in assurance engagement in accordance with Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 accordance with the GRI Standards and SSAE 3000 and to express a conclusion Assurance Engagements other than Audits Rule 711B of the SGX Listing Manual, and based on the work performed. SSAE 3000 or Reviews of Historical Financial Information the information and assertions contained requires that we plan and perform the STRATEGY (SSAE 3000). Our responsibilities are further within it; engagement to obtain limited assurance described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities – determining StarHub’s objectives in about whether the Report is free from section of our report. respect of sustainable development material misstatement. The extent of performance and reporting, including our work performed depends on our We have complied with the independence the identification of stakeholders and professional judgement and our assessment and other ethical requirements of the material issues; of the engagement risk. Accounting and Corporate Regulatory – establishing and maintaining appropriate Authority (ACRA) Code of Professional internal control systems that enable A limited assurance engagement consists Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants the preparation and presentation of the of making inquiries, primarily of persons and Accounting Entities (ACRA Code), Report and the selected GRI disclosures responsible for the preparation of information PERFORMANCE which is founded on fundamental principles that are free from material misstatement, presented in the Report, and applying of integrity, objectivity, professional whether due to fraud or error; analytical and other evidence gathering competence and due care, confidentiality – preventing and detecting fraud and procedures, as appropriate. These and professional behaviour. for identifying and ensuring that the procedures included: Company complies with laws and Our firm applies Singapore Standard on regulations applicable to its activities; and – Inquiries of management to gain an Quality Control 1 and, accordingly, maintains – ensuring that staff involved with the understanding of StarHub’s processes a comprehensive system of quality control preparation and presentation of the for determining the material issues for including documented policies and Report are properly trained, information StarHub’s key stakeholder groups. procedures regarding compliance with systems are properly updated and that – Interviews with senior management ethical requirements, professional standards any changes in reporting encompass all and relevant staff at group level and GOVERNANCE and applicable legal and regulatory significant reporting units. selected business unit level concerning requirements. sustainability strategy and policies for The directors’ responsibilities include material issues, and the implementation overseeing the Company’s sustainability of these across the business. reporting process. SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS 137 DARE To Evolve SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Independent Limited Assurance Report (Cont’d) – Interviews with relevant staff at the The procedures performed in a limited Restriction on use corporate and business unit level assurance engagement vary in nature and This report has been prepared for the Directors responsible for providing the information timing from, and are less in extent than of StarHub Ltd for the purpose of providing in the Report. for, a reasonable assurance engagement. an assurance conclusion on the Report and – Visits to offices and data centres Consequently, the level of assurance Selected GRI Disclosures and may not be operating in Singapore selected on the obtained in a limited assurance engagement suitable for another purpose. We disclaim any basis of a risk analysis including the is substantially lower than the assurance that assumption of responsibility for any reliance consideration of both quantitative and would have been obtained had a reasonable on this report, to any person other than the qualitative criteria. assurance engagement been performed. Directors of StarHub Ltd, or for any other – Enquires about the design and purpose than that for which it was prepared. implementation of the systems and Due to the inherent limitations of any internal methods used to collect and report control structure it is possible that errors or on the GRI Disclosures, including the irregularities in the information presented in aggregation of the reported information. the Report may occur and not be detected. – Comparing the GRI Disclosures Our engagement is not designed to detect all KPMG LLP presented in the Report to weaknesses in the internal controls over the Public Accountants and corresponding information in the preparation and presentation of the Report, Chartered Accountants relevant underlying sources to determine as the engagement has not been performed whether all the relevant information continuously throughout the period and the Singapore contained in such underlying sources procedures performed were undertaken on 28 February 2019 has been appropriately included in the a test basis. GRI Disclosures. – Reading the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of the Company. 138
