THE LEADING NORDIC HOTEL COMPANY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CONTENTS This is Scandic Insert Cost efficiency 40 Administration Report 72 The leading Nordic Sustainable corporate culture 42 Risks and risk management 78 hotel company Insert Engaged & motivated team Corporate governance 82 members 44 Board of Directors 90 2018 in summary 2 25 years of leading Executive Committee 92 CEO statement 3 sustainability initiatives 48 Financial reports 94 Value creation for all Responsible partner in society 58 stakeholders 7 Notes 102 Work to develop strategy Strategic areas of focus 15 & targets 64 Adoption 119 The Nordic markets 22 GRI Index 68 Auditor’s Report 130 A leading hotel portfolio 26 Auditor’s Report on the The Scandic share 134 A leading customer offering 34 Statutory Sustainability Report 71 Definitions 136 Optimized distribution 38 Shareholder information 137 Scandic is a Swedish company subject to Swedish laws. All values are expressed in Swedish kronor. Figures in parentheses refer to 2017 unless otherwise specified. Data on markets and competition in Sweden is based on Scandic’s own assessments unless a specific source is indicated. These assessments are based on the best and latest available facts from published sources. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 72–128 of this document. The statutory sustainability report can be found on pages 1–15 and 42–70 in this document. THIS IS SCANDIC 57,000 THE LEADING HOTEL COMPANY IN THE NORDIC COUNTRIES Scandic has the largest and widest hotel network in the Nordic market. This creates a unique offering and enables high efficiency. Scandic runs operations under a single, fully-owned brand that is clearly the best-known brand in the Nordic hotel market. Scandic has hotels in about 130 locations, with 57,358 rooms in operation and HOTEL ROOMS IN OPERATION & UNDER DEVELOPMENT under development at 283 hotels. A LOYAL CUSTOMER BASE 283 130 Scandic has driven development in the Nordic hospitality industry. Its innovative thinking is appreciated by guests and the company enjoys a high share of returning customers. About 35 percent of Scandic’s bookings are ­related to Scandic Friends, the leading loyalty program in the Nordic ­market. HOTELS LOCATIONS IN OPERATION & UNDER DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC COOPERATION Most hotels in the Nordics are operated through long-term leasing agreements. Scandic focuses on revenue-based leasing agreements, PIONEER IN SUSTAINABILITY which con­tributes to financial stability. This also links the interests of For many years, Scandic has been a driving force in the hotel industry within the area Scandic and the property owners, which enables long-term positive of sustainability, both when it comes to environmental and social issues. Scandic’s development of the hotels. Thanks to Scandic’s market position and sustainability initiatives contribute to reducing the use of resources, which is apprecibusiness model, it is often the first choice for many property owners ated by guests and helps lower the company’s costs. when it comes to new hotel projects. 15 18,000 HOTELS IN THE PIPELINE TEAM MEMBERS HIGH-QUALITY HOTEL PORTFOLIO ENGAGED EMPLOYEES At year-end, Scandic had a high-quality pipeline that includes 15 new hotels at Scandic’s team members are highly engaged, which is a prerequi­attractive d­ estinations that will open between 2019 and 2022. Scandic also works site for maintaining strong customer loyalty and for creating great constantly to optimize its existing hotel portfolio through extensions, renovations hotel experiences. and reconfigurations. GRI: 102-2 THE LEADING NORDIC HOTEL COMPANY With 57,000 hotel rooms in operation and under development at 283 hotels, Scandic is the leading hotel company in the Nordic region. In 2018, net sales totaled 18 SEK billion and Scandic employed more than 18,000 people. NET SALES ADJUSTED EBITDA & EBITDA MARGIN REVPAR MSEK MSEK % SEK 20,000 2,400 12 800 16,000 2,000 10 600 1,600 8 12,000 1,200 6 400 8,000 800 4 200 4,000 400 2 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net sales, MSEK Adjusted Adjusted EBITDA margin, % RevPAR, SEK EBITDA, MSEK Target adjusted EBITDA margin, 11% 2018 IN SUMMARY Net sales and underlying earnings improved during 2018 in part due to more rooms in operation from the Restel acquisition that was concluded in December 2017. Demand continued to develop positively in Scandic’s markets more or less in line with growth in supply. This led to relatively stable development in both occupancy and ­average room rates during the year. Scandic opened six hotels with lease contracts in 2018 and signed agreements for a number of new hotels. Scandic has an attractive pipeline of hotels that provides a good foundation for ­continued growth going forward. IMPORTANT EVENTS IN 2018 NEW LOYALTY PROGRAM INCREASED HOTEL PORTFOLIO RESTEL HOTELS NOW SCANDIC In January, Scandic launched a new version of In 2018, Scandic opened six hotels with lease agreements with Between February and June 2018, Scandic its Scandic Friends loyalty program and a 1,610 rooms. At year-end, the pipeline of new hotels corresponded rebranded 33 former Cumulus hotels from mobile app. The new program offers better to 11 percent of the existing hotel portfolio. the Restel acquisition in Finland into Scandic benefits, new partnerships and more ways for hotels in line with the original plan. At the members to spend their points. same time, Scandic carried out a technical integration and coordinated the company’s support functions. NEW CHAIRMAN In April, Per G. Braathen was elected Chairman of the Board of ­Directors after Scandic’s previous Chairman, Vagn Sørensen, announced that he would not stand for re-election. 2 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CONTINUED IMPROVED RESULTS Scandic improved its results during 2018 despite somewhat lower underlying market development. We have a strong market position with a clear and scalable b­ usiness model and we will maintain our high tempo in our continued efforts to operate more efficiently. Jens, on January 17, you were appointed new – In 2018, we also reviewed our organization and made President & CEO of Scandic. How is it apparent that some changes, not least in our commercial operations. Scandic has a new CEO? Among other things, three new members joined the – Scandic is a strong company with a unique culture ­Executive Committee. We also put a great deal of energy among our 18,000 team members, and I’d like to emphainto successfully integrating Finnish Restel, which we size that we have a clear strategic focus that is firmly acquired in December 2017. established. How did the market develop during the year? – My ambition is to ensure that we maintain a high pace in – Just as in many other parts of Europe, RevPAR developour efforts to improve our efficiency and that we defend our ment in the Nordic region has been positive for a long margins. I think we need to be a bit more selective in our period. Among other things, this can be explained by priorities at the same time as we address the parts of our ­generally good economic activity combined with structural hotel portfolio that aren’t contributing financially. We also growth in travel and greater demand from non-Nordic clearly need to focus on evaluating Scandic’s long-term guests. Clearly, the Nordic region is becoming an increasgrowth opportunities. ingly attractive destination for international travelers. How would you summarize 2018? – In 2018, demand in the hotel market continued to grow – We improved our adjusted EBITDA in 2018, in part in the Nordic countries, especially in many of the larger through contributions from new hotels that were added ­cities, and we saw positive development in Germany. during the year. We saw continued growth in RevPAR in the RevPAR rose in the Nordic markets by between 2 and Nordic markets, but the rate of increase was lower than 4 percent. Overall, the Nordic hotel market was relatively during the previous year in some of our markets. Sales ­balanced with growth in demand that was roughly in line increased by 23 percent, primarily from the acquisition of with total supply growth, but with some variations. Restel, while the increase in net sales for comparable units – In Sweden, demand increased in most major cities and was around 1 percent. RevPAR stabilized in Stockholm after the capacity increase – It was gratifying that the increase in capacity we saw in that took place in 2017. Finland showed the strongest Stockholm in 2017 was gradually absorbed by higher growth in RevPAR, although the pace was lower than in the demand during the year. The market in Stockholm showed previous year. In Norway, the rate of growth in RevPAR fell positive RevPAR growth on a full-year basis, despite the due to increased capacity at a number of destinations weak start to the year. including Oslo and Bergen. The Danish market showed GRI: 102-14 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 3 a slight increase in RevPAR with continued high average occupancy. How has the integration of Restel gone so far? – When we presented the deal, we were clear that the great potential was in strengthening the revenues of the acquired hotels. To achieve this, they needed to be fully integrated into Scandic’s distribution capacity with our existing Nordic customer base and loyalty program. During much of 2018, our ­primary focus was on implementing the integration and rebranding the former Cumulus hotels as Scandic ones. This was largely carried out during the first half of the year in line with our plans, and it is gratifying that we have already seen certain cost synergies in, for example, purchasing, marketing, sales and administration. – After the first phase of the integration was completed, we increased our ­commercial focus for our Restel hotels. We see great opportunities to improve RevPAR in the acquired hotels, but it will take a few years before we reach full potential. What internal changes took place in 2018? – At the beginning of the year, we reviewed the way our company is organized. Scandic has grown rapidly in recent years and there’s been a need to strengthen our expertise in certain areas while also achieving a somewhat clearer division of responsibility to ensure that we can truly benefit from our economies of scale. In June, we presented a partly new Executive Committee with a stronger focus on digitalization, branding, sales and distribution. The previous role of Commercial Director 4 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-14 was divided into two functions at the same “2018 WAS YET ANOTHER ACTIVE YEAR year, we also involved our team members time as we now also have a Chief Informain a sustainability hackathon where everytion Officer in the Executive Committee. FOR US WITH A NUMBER OF one was able to contribute ideas on how I am convinced that these changes will ­IMPORTANT HOTEL OPENINGS.” Scandic can operate more sustainably. ­contribute to increased commercial power and improved efficiency for Scandic. What’s the outlook for Scandic in 2019? Was the level of activity related to – It’s hard to predict market trends in the new hotels equally high in 2018? long term. But right now, we don’t expect – 2018 was yet another active year for How would you describe Scandic’s What’s your view of Scandic’s any major changes in demand in our Scandic with a number of important hotel portfolio strategy? sustainability initiatives? ­markets. We will, however, see increases openings. We increased the total number – Our growth target for net sales is – Scandic is truly a pioneer in sustainability in capacity in Copenhagen and Oslo, for of rooms in operation by just over 3 per5 ­percent per year over a business cycle in the hotel industry. This is something we example, which will probably put some cent during the year. Among other things, excluding acquisitions, and about half of should be proud of and build upon. I see pressure on RevPAR at these destinations. in early July, the prestigious Hotel Norge this growth should come from the annual sustainability as a natural part of Scandic’s by Scandic opened in Bergen as a signature increase in the number of rooms. We strive business model and we will strive to What are your main areas of focus hotel and in September, Scandic K­ ødbyen to maintain a balance between new hotels ensure that our entire business is characfor this year? opened in Copenhagen’s Meatpacking and takeovers of existing hotels to ensure terized by a sustainable approach. – Scandic has a strong market position District. that we grow without affecting supply too and a clear and scalable business model, – It is clear that our corporate customers much. New hotels should ­primarily be in but I still see potential to be even more – We added several new hotels to our and leisure guests are placing increasing our key destinations, that is, larger growefficient. It is important for us to defend pipeline, which now corresponds to about demands on sustainability that we need to ing cities. And naturally, all of our hotels our margins, not least in light of the fact 11 percent of the current portfolio. This live up to. Our sustainability initiatives must meet our investment ­criteria. that we are now in a period of more subwill contribute to growth in the coming ­contribute to instilling pride and motivation dued RevPAR development. years. The most important destination in – Scandic’s portfolio has grown substanin our team members, which is absolutely the pipeline is Copenhagen, where we tially in recent years, partly through two crucial for a service company. It also – I also see a need to work a bit more intend to open one new hotel per year over major acquisitions, and we now truly enjoy makes it easier for us to secure future actively with our portfolio so we can optithe next three years. Copenhagen is a unique geographic coverage in the Nordic ­talents for the hotel industry. Through mize our investments and address parts of growing destination where occupancy is region. An equally important part of the offering work experience, we can lower the portfolio that aren’t profitable. In addinow at a historically high level. portfolio strategy is that we constantly thresholds to entering the labor market tion to this, we will continue full speed review our existing hotels so we can optiand, in this way, contribute to integration. ahead with our long-term efforts to achieve – In addition to the Nordic countries, we mize our investments in renovations and revenue synergies from the Restel hotels. see Germany as an interesting market – We’re continuing to support the UN take measures at hotels where profitability where we want to continue expanding. Global Compact and we operate according – To conclude, I’d like to thank all of our is too low. Our existing hotels in Berlin and Hamburg to its ten principles regarding human rights, team members. It is in our daily work that performed well during the year with rising – I think we have a great relationship with labor, environment and anti-corruption. we together create great experiences for RevPAR and improved profitability. Scandic our property owners that has evolved over people at our hotels. And thank you to our – Scandic has chosen to join the Inter­ Museumsufer, which opened in Frankfurt time and our model with variable lease guests and owners for your continued national Tourism Partnership (ITP), an in February 2018, also had a promising agreements helps stabilize our profitability confidence in Scandic. organization that includes many of the start. And in December, we announced while promoting growth over time. world’s leading hotel chains that together that we would open an exciting new Jens Mathiesen, are working to ensure that the entire ­234-room hotel in Munich in 2021. President & CEO industry operates sustainably. During the GRI: 102-14 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 5 MISSION VISION CO R E VA L U E S WE CREATE GREAT HOTEL A WORLD-CLASS NORDIC BE CARING EXPERIENCES FOR THE HOTEL COMPANY BE YOU MANY PEOPLE BE A PRO BE BOLD 6 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 VALUE CREATION FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS SUCCE SS FAC TO RS STRENGTHS E X T E R N A L FA C T O R S Changing distribution landscape Evolving customer behaviors COMMERCIAL VARIABLE Digitalization PLATFORM LEASE MODEL Supply/demand balance S T R AT E G Y Sustainability Scandic’s strategy is to grow profitably by taking advantage of the growing demand for hotel experiences in Scandic’s ­markets with a leading hotel ­portfolio and a ­customer-focused approach. LEADING SUSTAINABLE Scandic’s strategic focus is to MARKET THE LEADING VA L U E C R E AT I O N FOOTPRINT ­constantly develop its customer POSITION NORDIC HOTEL offering, optimize distribution and COMPANY drive profitability. All areas of ­operation shall be characterized by EA O TIO a sustainable approach and conM N SS I NE ducted with values that contribute LEADING ENGAGED CR S TA K E H O L D E R S B US to committed and m ­ otivated BRAND & MOTIVATED VA team members. Customers TEAM MEMBERS LU DE L E Investors Team members Society Property owners Suppliers SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 7 HIGH PROFITABILITY OVER TIME Scandic’s financial targets aim to create shareholder value through profitable growth and continued financial strength. 8 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 HIGH PROFITABILITY OVER TIME FINANCIAL TARGETS & OUTCOME 2018 1 2 3 4 GROWTH PROFITABILITY CAPITAL STRUCTURE DIVIDEND The Group shall have organic growth, i.e. The adjusted EBITDA margin of the Group The Group shall have net debt in relation The dividend policy is to distribute at least sales growth excluding acquisitions and shall be at least 11 percent on average to adjusted EBITDA of 2 to 3x. 50 percent of net profit for the year. adjusted for exchange rate fluctuations, over a complete business cycle. of at least 5 percent on average over a complete business cycle. TARGET & OUTCOME 2014–2018 TARGET & OUTCOME 2014–2018 TARGET & OUTCOME 2016–2018 TARGET & OUTCOME 2016–2018 % TARGET: 5% % TARGET: 11% Times TARGET: 2–3x SEK TARGET: ≥ 50% % 15 12 3.0 3.6 60 12 10 2.5 3.5 50 8 2.0 3.4 40 9 6 1.5 3.3 30 6 4 1.0 3.2 20 3 2 0.5 3.1 10 0 0 0 3.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 2016 2017 2018 Dividend, SEK Share of earnings per share, % In 2018, revenue growth adjusted for In 2018, the adjusted EBIDTA margin was At the end of 2018, net debt in relation For 2018, the Board proposes a dividend exchange rate fluctuations was 20.7 per10.9 percent for the Group, slightly higher to adjusted EBITDA was 2.0x. Net debt of SEK 3.50 per share (3.40), corresponding cent. The acquisition of Restel accounted than the previous year and driven among increased somewhat during the year to 54 percent of reported earnings for about two-thirds of growth. Organic other things by lower costs for central in part due to a high level of investment per share. growth was 6.0 percent, mainly driven by functions. Restel had a slight negative and costs for the integration of Restel. more rooms in operation. effect on profitability for the year. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 9 HIGH PROFITABILITY OVER TIME SCANDIC’S POSITION IN THE VALUE CHAIN The hotel industry can be divided into three different parts: property ownership, hotel operation One clear advantage of Scandic’s model is that it can ensure that what the customer gets and brand and distribution. Scandic has chosen to focus on a model with long-term lease is truly in line with what is marketed, and the company can enjoy economies of scale in both agreements with property owners where Scandic maintains full responsibility for the brand, areas. The fact that Scandic does not tie up capital in owning real estate enables high hotel operations and distribution. This is the dominant model in the Nordic markets and in growth in the hotel portfolio. Because a large part of Scandic’s leases are revenue based, Germany. Internationally, many large hotel chains instead prioritize a franchise model where the cost base is flexible while the company shares interests with the property owners since they only control the brand while operations are run either by a specialized management higher ­revenues for Scandic mean more rental revenue and property value for the landlords. company or by the property owner itself. And some hotel companies have a wholly integrated model where the property owner is responsible for both operations and the brand. 10 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 HIGH PROFITABILITY OVER TIME BRAND & FRANCHISOR DISTRIBUTION HOTEL OPERATOR WITH ITS Scandic’s model involves OWN BRAND control of both hotel operations (SCANDIC) and the brand. This ensures INTEGRATED HOTEL HOTEL that what the customer gets HOTEL OPERATIONS OPERATOR is in line with what the hotel OPERATOR company markets at the same time as Scandic enjoys economies of scale in both areas. PROPERTY PROPERTY OWNER SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 11 HIGH PROFITABILITY OVER TIME AN ATTRACTIVE FINANCIAL PROFILE Scandic’s ability to deliver good profitability over time rests on four pillars. 1 2 3 4 STABLE GROWING SALES FLEXIBLE COST STRUCTURE STABLE EBITDA MARGINS STABLE CASH FLOWS Scandic has stable growing sales with a Scandic has a flexible cost structure. A large share of recurring sales and a flexScandic is good at generating cash flow. large share of returning guests. Its strong About 25 percent of its costs are fully ible cost structure have provided Scandic Since customers generally pay when market position in the mid-market seg­variable in the form of consumables and with relatively stable EBITDA margins in checking in and suppliers are paid with the ment and good geographic footprint sales-related costs such as rents and recent years. The acquisitions of Rica in usual terms of credit, Scandic has negameans that Scandic is often the first commissions. Accordingly, these costs Norway in 2014 and Restel in Finland in tive working capital. The requirement for choice for Nordic business travelers. This vary directly with the sales volume. About 2017 have contributed to reducing the investments in fixed capital is limited can be seen in the large number of frame55 percent of Scandic’s costs are semimarket risk, stabilizing EBITDA margins through the division of responsibilities work agreements with companies and flexible. To adapt these to current business over time. Another contributing factor is between the property ­owners and Scandic. organizations, many of which are renewed conditions, Scandic closely monitors the cost efficiencies at all levels through careThe need for re­investments in the hotel every year. Recurring sales are strengthened order status at all levels of operations. This ful planning of staffing and economies of business, excluding the construction of by the Scandic Friends loyalty program. allows the company to address deviations scale within IT, purchasing and administranew hotels, is usually 4 percent of sales. Scandic also enjoys growing demand from quickly by reducing costs. tion. Having a business model with variThe ability to convert profits into cash flow, leisure travelers in the Nordic countries, not able leases contributes to stable margins or cash ­conversion, is a result of the low least from non-Nordic guests. Scandic is over time. level of capital tied up. an attractive partner for property owners, and its leasing model with variable rents contributes to creating a platform of common values between Scandic and the property owners. This is a prerequisite for continuing to expand the hotel network in attractive locations. 12 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 13 STRATEGY Scandic aims to grow profitably by taking advantage of the rising demand for hotel experiences in its markets with a leading hotel portfolio and a customerfocused approach. Scandic’s strategic focus is to constantly develop its customer offering, optimize distribution and drive profitability. All areas of operation shall be characterized by a sustainable approach and demonstrate values that contribute to committed and motivated team members. 14 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS S T R AT E G Y Scandic aims to grow profitably by taking advantage of the rising demand for hotel experiences in Scandic’s markets with a leading hotel portfolio and a customer-focused approach. Scandic’s strategic focus is to constantly develop its customer offering, optimize distribution and drive profitability. All areas of operation shall be characterized by a s­ ustainable approach and conducted with values that contribute to committed and motivated team members. A LEADING A LEADING OPTIMIZED CO S T H OT E L C U S TO M E R ­D I S T R I B U T I O N ­E F F I C I E N C Y ­P O R T F O L I O OFFERING Develop and maintain a leading Provide the strongest customer Maintain presence in all relevant Capitalize on ­economies of position in the Nordic region and a offering for corporate and channels and a focus on maintaining scale and ­constantly improve selective presence in Germany ­leisure guests a large share of distribution ­internal efficiency through its own channels and ­Scandic Friends E N G AG E D & M OT I VAT E D S U S TA I N A B L E TEAM MEMBERS F O OT P R I N T Having an inspiring culture is a prerequisite for creating great hotel experiences Maintaining a focus on diversity and inclusion, wellness and reducing and for attracting and keeping team members ­environmental impact benefits all stakeholders SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 15 STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS A LEADING HOTEL PORTFOLIO Scandic shall be a leading participant in the Nordic hotel market with a market-leading posiby about 2.5 ­percent per year. The focus is on hotels with long revenue-based leases, while tion in all selected destinations. Scandic also aims to establish hotels in the largest cities in ­franchise and management agreements are only considered under special circumstances. Germany. In addition, Scandic may also consider taking over hotels in areas outside of its To avoid creating a surplus of supply on the market, growth should take place with a balance key destinations in the Nordic countries provided they meet the Group’s commercial and between ­taking over existing hotels and adding new capacity. financial criteria. Scandic shall ensure that renovations, extensions and reconfigurations are carried out in Scandic works proactively with existing and new property owners to constantly expand a way that optimizes the value of the portfolio. Over time, investments in renovations should and improve its hotel portfolio. To maintain its market position and achieve the Group’s not exceed 4 percent of net sales. growth targets, Scandic aims to grow the hotel portfolio measured in number of rooms 16 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS A LEADING CUSTOMER OFFERING Scandic is the most well-known hotel brand in the Nordic markets and shall maintain its Scandic measures customer satisfaction regularly and develops its product offering, strong position in the business segment while striving to move its position forward among ­concept and service to meet customer demands. This applies not least to developing digital leisure guests. ­solutions for all relevant parts of a customer’s interaction with Scandic. Not only that, Scandic aims to continue to increase the number of active members in the Scandic ­Scandic segments its offering between the hotels in its portfolio based on their different Friends loyalty program, which is an important tool for creating a direct relationship with locations, business mix, customer needs and profitability. guests and also helps increase customer loyalty. Scandic Friends offers additional opportuScandic’s signature hotels, which are unique and centrally-located, are brands in themnities to interact with the members throughout the guest journey, from planning to booking selves that complement the Scandic brand. and staying. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 17 STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS OPTIMIZED DISTRIBUTION Scandic’s distribution strategy is based on having a visible and bookable offering in all distrip­ ossible, Scandic also builds on its knowledge of customers and markets to convert bution channels that are relevant to customers. Scandic enters into agreements with distria guest’s next visit into a booking made through Scandic’s own distribution channels. bution partners without guaranteeing that they will always have access to the lowest availScandic strives to maintain and develop its strong position among Nordic corporate able room rates, which means that market dynamics control pricing and access to rooms. ­customers. It is also working to strengthen its position in the growing leisure segment, In its efforts to optimize room revenues between different distribution channels, Scandic not least among non-Nordic travelers. To reach international customer groups to a greater focuses on the net price, that is, after commissions. extent, Scandic works with selected distribution partners. Scandic differentiates its offering by giving better benefits and prices to Scandic Friends members and to customers that book in Scandic’s own channels. To the greatest extent 18 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS COST EFFICIENCY Scandic benefits fully from economies of scale in areas such as IT, purchasing and adminisScandic’s operations are characterized by a clear division of responsibility between its hotels tration. Internal efficiency is continually improved through standardization and sharing of and central functions. Central functions shall have close proximity to business operations best practice. This is done through modern IT systems and services throughout the Group and, to the greatest extent possible, benefit from the Group’s economies of scale. that are handled by a central IT function. Business and administrative processes are continually developed through a coordinated exchange of measurements of knowledge and efficiency. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 19 STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS 20 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS ENGAGED AND MOTIVATED TEAM MEMBERS & A SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM MEMBERS SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT Scandic shall be an attractive employer that appeals to and keeps employees. The company Sustainability is integrated into everything Scandic does. The company and all of its stakestrives to be a workplace characterized by diversity and inclusion. holders have sustainability as a natural part of the agenda, in all decision-making processes. Scandic understands that its team members represent the brand in every interaction A sustainable working methodology reduces negative environmental impacts, contributes with guests. Work to develop the company’s culture and team members is constant. Scanto the society in which Scandic operates and strengthens Scandic’s business. Scandic’s dic wants its guests to feel that each team member can make their own decisions within sustainability initiatives are led by a central sustainability department, but implemented by their area. everyone. Scandic challenges its team members to think creatively and come up with ideas for developing themselves and the company. Four main sustainability goals are measured using selected KPIs while Scandic’s long-term sustainability goals, stakeholder dialogues and materiality analyses are reviewed regularly. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 21 THE NORDIC MARKETS Demand for hotel nights continued to improve in all Nordic countries in 2018 while RevPAR growth slowed somewhat due to higher supply at a number of destinations. 22 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SCANDIC’S MARKETS CONTINUED POSITIVE GROWTH IN DEMAND NORDIC MARKETS DOMINATED “AVERAGE REVENUE PER Germany, the UK and the US. This growth has been driven BY LEASING MODEL by increased travel and the fact that the Nordic region has The Nordic hotel market differs somewhat from other ROOM (REVPAR) become an increasingly popular destination, both in larger markets. The model with long-term leasing agreements is INCREASED IN THE cities and at more traditional tourist destinations. One clearly dominant while larger international hotel chains focus mainly on operating hotels through franchises or MARKET AS A WHOLE” example is northern Norway where a number of destinations have gone from being summer destinations to management agreements, which has meant that their enjoying high occupancy during the winter months thanks presence has been very limited in the Nordic region. In to increased international tourism. addition, in the Nordic countries, a larger share of customer Leisure travel is expected to continue to grow and it is bookings takes place through the hotel companies’ own less cyclical than the business segment. This means that distribution channels. MORE FOCUS ON INTERNATIONAL it is important for Scandic, which has historically focused on LEISURE TRAVELERS corporate customers, to adapt. The company is working to GOOD HISTORIC GROWTH Both the business and leisure segments have grown, ensure that its distribution manages to reach international In the past 10 years, demand for hotel nights has grown but the strongest development has been in the leisure guests and that over time, it offers hotels with the locations by between 2 and 5 percent per year, while the number segment, which is estimated to account for almost half and configurations to appeal to all types of customers. of available rooms has grown by an average of about of the total hotel market in the Nordic region. In particular, 2 percent annually. Average revenue per available room demand from non-Nordic guests has increased signifi(RevPAR) increased in the market as a whole. There has, cantly, not least from travelers from Asia. Among other however, been some variation between the markets as the things, changing travel habits, the growing middle class development of supply and demand has varied between in Asia and cheaper airfares have contributed to this trend. different destinations. At the moment, most international guests come from OCCUPANCY IN THE MARKET ANNUAL CHANGE IN REVPAR ANNUAL CHANGE IN NUMBER OF AVAILABLE ROOMS % % % 80 12 6 5 70 9 4 6 60 3 3 2 50 1 0 0 40 -3 -1 30 -6 -2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Source: Benchmarking Alliance and Finland Statistics. Source: Benchmarking Alliance and Finland Statistics. Source: Benchmarking Alliance and Finland Statistics. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 23 SCANDIC’S MARKETS HIGHER SHARE OF LEISURE TRAVELERS DEMAND CONTINUED TO GROW SWEDEN: GROWTH IN NUMBER OF AT RESTEL DURING 2018 OCCUPIED ROOMS PER SEGMENT With the acquisition of Restel that contributed just over Demand for hotel nights continued to grow in all Nordic % 40 Finnish hotels, Scandic increased its exposure to leisure countries in 2018, although growth in RevPAR slowed 12 travelers in Finland as the portfolio now includes a number somewhat as a result of increased supply at a number 8 of hotels that are in primarily holiday destinations. In addiof destinations. In Copenhagen, the number of available tion, Scandic’s already strong position in Helsinki and at rooms is estimated to have increased by about 3 percent 4 Helsinki Airport improved further. This is positive not least during the year, and in Oslo including Gardemoen, the 0 considering that the Finnish airline Finnair is the leader in increase was around 8 percent. In Bergen, the number of -4 the growing air traffic from Asia to the Nordic countries. available rooms increased by 7 percent. Overall, RevPAR in the market in the Nordic region was between 1 and 4 per-8 cent with the strongest development in Finland and weak-12 est market growth in Norway. In the Greater Stockholm 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Business Leisure area, the RevPAR trend was positive for most of the year Source: SCB. due to good growth in demand that absorbed the ­relatively large increase in supply during 2017. DENMARK: GROWTH IN GUEST NIGHTS NORWAY: GROWTH IN GUEST NIGHTS FINLAND: GROWTH IN SOLD ROOMS PER SEGMENT PER SEGMENT PER SEGMENT % % % 20 16 12 16 12 8 12 8 4 8 4 4 0 0 0 -4 -4 -4 -8 -8 -12 -8 -12 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Business Leisure Business Leisure Business Leisure Source: Statistics Denmark. Source: Statistics Norway. Source: Statistics Finland. 24 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SCANDIC’S MARKETS MORE SUPPLY AT SOME DESTINATIONS Prospects for continued growth in demand are good thanks SWEDEN: GROWTH IN GUEST NIGHTS to general economic growth combined with continued A N N UA L I N C R E A S E I N PER DOMESTIC MARKET increased demand from leisure guests. RevPAR, however, D E M A N D F O R H OT E L % will likely be impacted by increased supply at certain key NIGHTS 20 destinations. This applies not least to Copenhagen, which 15 after several years of historically high occupancy will see 2–5% a marked increase in the number of hotel rooms in 2019. 10 A significant increase in hotel capacity is also expected in 5 the coming year in Oslo. 0 -5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Nordic Non-Nordic Source: SCB. DENMARK: GROWTH IN GUEST NIGHTS NORWAY: GROWTH IN GUEST NIGHTS FINLAND: GROWTH IN SOLD ROOMS PER DOMESTIC MARKET PER DOMESTIC MARKET PER DOMESTIC MARKET % % % 24 16 20 12 15 18 8 10 12 4 5 6 0 0 -4 0 -8 -5 -6 -10 -12 -12 -16 -15 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Domestic International Nordic Non-Nordic Nordic Non-Nordic Source: Statistics Denmark. Source: Statistics Norway. Source: Statistics Finland. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 25 A LEADING HOTEL PORTFOLIO With presence in almost 130 locations, Scandic is clearly the leading hotel company in the Nordic region. 26 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 A leading hotel portfolio CLEAR NORDIC MARKET LEADER Scandic is clearly the leading hotel operator in the ­Nordic market. With a network of just over 280 hotels in close to 130 different locations, Scandic offers unique SCANDIC’S MARKET reach for customers. SHARE IN THE NORDIC Scandic’s total market share in the Nordic region is CO U N T R I E S about 15 percent, giving the company a market leading position in all of the Nordic countries. Scandic enjoys the 15% strongest position in Finland, becoming the clear m ­ arket leader after the Restel acquisition was completed in December 2017. Scandic’s lowest market share is in ­Denmark, a market that is more fragmented than the other Nordic countries. Today, about half of the hotels in the Nordic market are run by hotel chains and half by independent A H OT E L N E T W O R K operators. There is a clear trend where the largest hotel W I T H U N I Q U E R E AC H chains are growing faster than the market over time by F O R C U S TO M E R S taking market share from smaller players. Operational economies of scale and stronger distribution capacity combined with financial capacity are contributing to this 130 development, which is expected to continue in the future. LO C AT I O N S MARKET SHARE IN THE NORDIC COUNTRIES 2018 BASED ON NUMBER OF ROOMS PER OPERATOR MARKET SHARE 2012 – 2018 Number of rooms per brand, ’000 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Total % 20 Scandic 17 14 4 12 47 Nordic Choice 16 13 1 1 31 15 Rezidor 2 6 2 10 S-Group 10 10 10 Thon 10 10 Elite 5 5 5 Other 85 37 40 30 192 0 Total market 125 80 47 53 305 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scandic’s market share, % 13.3 17.0 9.5 22.5 15.3 Scandic incl. Restel Nordic Choice S-Group Scandic Rezidor Elite Restel Thon Data in the table above is by hotel operator, not hotel brand. Scandic’s data includes Hilton and IHG hotels in Finland operated by Scandic and excludes Scandic hotels run as franchises. Source: Scandic Nordic Hotel Database. Source: Scandic Nordic Hotel Database. GRI: 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 27 A leading hotel portfolio NEW HOTELS IN 2018 NEW HOTELS DURING 2018 agreement was signed. In 2018, Scandic it was known for its slaughterhouses and At the end of 2017, Scandic’s portfolio also agreed to take over two Norwegian factories, and today, Scandic Kødbyen has NEW HOTELS increased with 43 Finnish hotels as a hotels in Svolvaer and Molde, both of which been developed to reflect both its history result of the acquisition of Restel. And in opened in early 2019. and the present-day character of the area. 1. SCANDIC MUSEUMSUFER, 2018, Scandic opened six hotels with Since opening, the hotel has seen an FRANKFURT lease agreements with 1,610 rooms. Most HOTEL NORGE BY SCANDIC increase in occupancy and an influx of 2. SCANDIC KØDBYEN, of the growth in the number of rooms was On June 28, 2018, Hotel Norge by Scandic both leisure and business guests. It has COPENHAGEN at key destinations – larger cities considopened in Bergen as a new signature received much attention for its design and 3. HOTEL NORGE BY SCANDIC, ered to have good underlying growth in hotel. Hotel Norge first opened its doors rustic feel, and guests have written glowBERGEN demand over time. Four of these were in 1885 and has since become one of ing reviews. Scandic is convinced that the takeovers and two were new hotels. The ­Bergen and Norway’s most prominent hotel will enjoy even more positive develadvantage of expanding by taking over establishments. Scandic opened the hotel opment thanks to its clear profile and existing hotels is that it gives Scandic the after a full renovation where among other favorable location. opportunity to grow without affecting the things, a new floor was added. Today, it is Copenhagen is an attractive destination total supply on the market. An additional a vibrant meeting place where city dwellers for leisure and business travelers alike. advantage is that there is a relatively short and international guests can socialize in Some of the largest European congresses time between the agreement and taking an exciting, unique atmosphere. are also held in the city. Given the over operations when Scandic takes over expected continued increase in capacity a newly renovated hotel. Scandic Museum­ SCANDIC KØDBYEN in Copenhagen, it is particularly important sufer in Frankfurt opened in February On September 7, 2018, Scandic Kødbyen that Scandic’s new hotels meet the 2018 after Scandic signed a takeover opened in Copenhagen’s centrally-located demands of the customers of today and agreement in July 2017 and Scandic Meatpacking District. The area is one of tomorrow while maintaining a clear The Mayor in Aarhus opened in March the city’s trendiest and in recent years has ­segmentation strategy. 2018, just three months after the takeover undergone a huge transformation. Earlier, HOTEL PORTFOLIO 1,610 Hotel openings during year Location Type No. rooms Scandic The Mayor Aarhus, Denmark Conversion 162 Scandic Museumsufer Frankfurt, Germany Conversion 293 Scandic Lillestrøm Oslo, Norway New 220 Scandic Helsinki Airport Helsinki, Finland Conversion 150 Hotel Norge by Scandic Bergen, Norway Conversion 415 Scandic Kødbyen Copenhagen, Denmark New 370 N U M B E R O F R O O M S I N T H E 6 H OT E L S 1,610 W I T H L E A S E AG R E E M E N T S T H AT W E R E O P E N E D I N 2018 28 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 A leading hotel portfolio 1 2 3 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 29 A leading hotel portfolio A SOLID PIPELINE A SOLID PIPELINE FOR GROWTH Kastrup Airport, which will open in 2021. In 2019, Scandic Falkoner, which underwent At the end of 2018, Scandic had a contracted pipeline of 15 hotels and about 5,655 rooms, a major renovation after Scandic took it over, will also open in the Danish capital. corresponding to about 11 percent of the current hotel portfolio. Scandic aims to grow the portfolio by about 2.5 percent per year on average, which corresponds to approximately 3 to ACTIVE PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 5 hotels on an annual basis, to achieve the Group’s sales target of 5 percent growth annuIn addition to new hotels, Scandic is constantly working with the property owners to optimize ally. Scandic believes that the current pipeline is in line with its growth ambitions. its existing hotel portfolio through improvements, extensions and reconfigurations. At the Scandic’s pipeline is largely concentrated on key destinations. Copenhagen has the end of 2018, Scandic had ongoing extensions including 344 rooms, which roughly corregreatest weight in the pipeline, which is a market for tourism as well as business travel, not sponds in capacity to one new hotel. In addition to the current pipeline, Scandic is also least visitors to large conferences. involved in several ongoing negotiations regarding additional agreements. Important Scandic opened a new hotel in Copenhagen in September 2018 and plans to open one aspects of the efforts to optimize the hotel portfolio include careful planning and followhotel per year in the city over the next three years. Among other things, Scandic Spectrum, up on renovations, extensions and conversions and divesting hotels that do not contribute with a total of 632 rooms in direct proximity to the Central Station and Tivoli Gardens, will financially over time. In general, Scandic’s renovation investments shall not exceed open in 2021. In addition, Scandic is building a hotel in the emerging Scanport area beside 4 ­percent of net sales. 30 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 A leading hotel portfolio “SCANDIC’S HOTEL PIPELINE OF NEW HOTELS AND EXTENSIONS Pipeline, year Hotel Location Type No. rooms PORTFOLIO SHOULD GROW ON 2019 Scandic Alexandra Molde, Norway Conversion 165 AVERAGE BY AROUND Scandic Vestfjord Svolvaer, Norway Conversion 63 2.5 PERCENT PER YEAR.” Holiday Inn Messukeskus Helsinki, Finland Renovation 244 Scandic Bergen Strand Bergen, Norway Renovation 173 Marski by Scandic Helsinki, Finland Renovation 363 Scandic Falconer Copenhagen, Denmark Conversion 336 2020 Scandic Voss Voss, Norway New 216 Scandic Pasila Helsinki, Finland Conversion 178 Scandic Landvetter Airport Gothenburg, Sweden New 220 2021 Scandic Helsinki Railway Helsinki, Finland New 483 Scandic Copenhagen Oceanview Copenhagen, Denmark New 357 Scandic Frankfurt Hafenpark Frankfurt, Germany New 506 Scandic Munich Macherai München, Germany New 234 NUMBER OF PIPELINE’S SHARE Scandic Spectrum Copenhagen, Denmark New 632 ROOMS IN OF CURRENT Scandic Hamburger Börs Turku, Finland Conversion 300 ­P I P E L I N E H OT E L P O R T F O L I O Scandic Helsingborg Hamn Helsingborg, Sweden New 180 Scandic Ferrum Kiruna, Sweden New 230 2022 Scandic Nyhavna Trondheim, Norway New 425 5,655 11% New Scandic in central Gothenburg Gothenburg, Sweden New 451 Ongoing extensions 344 Total pipeline, gross 6,100 Exits and assets held for sale -445 Total pipeline, net 5,655 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 31 A leading hotel portfolio SUCCESSFUL PARTNERSHIPS WITH PROPERTY OWNERS Scandic’s business model is based on hotels that are oper“THE MODEL WITH VARIABLE in a hotel over time, while Scandic generally invests up ated through leases with property owners. These leases to 4 percent of sales in renovations. are generally long term with variable leases based on the LEASE AGREEMENTS The eight largest property owners currently represent hotel’s revenue. ­ENABLES A FLEXIBLE roughly half of Scandic’s total hotel portfolio. Pandox, At the end of 2018, 242 of Scandic’s 268 hotels were operated through leasing agreements. Just over two-thirds COST STRUCTURE.” which is Scandic’s largest property owner, currently owns approximately 22 percent of the portfolio. had variable leases with a minimum guarantee, approxiThe model with variable leases ensures a ­flexible cost mately 19 percent had fully variable leases and only 16 structure, making it possible to adapt costs and keep had fixed leases. ­margins stable during periods of weak demand. RevenueThe revenue-based leasing model has been developed based leases also encourage constructive cooperation over considerable time, and Scandic currently has very Responsibility for investments is clearly regulated in the between Scandic and property owners, with a joint interest close and long-term cooperation with property owners. leases. In general, Scandic is responsible for maintaining for both parties to develop and improve the properties In Sweden and to some extent in Denmark, there is a legal and renovating furniture, fixtures and equipment while the ­continuously, as increased revenues for Scandic also tenure, meaning that the tenant is entitled to extend the property owner is responsible for the building as well as ­generate higher rents for the property owner. lease on market terms at the end of the original lease. technical installations and bathrooms. Accordingly, the At the end of 2018, the average remaining lease term property owner is responsible for most investments made was 12 years. LARGEST PROPERTY OWNERS1) BREAKDOWN OF LEASE AGREEMENTS1) REMAINING LEASE LENGTHS2) Number of rooms 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 Pandox Capman Balder Variable Variable with fixed minimum rent Fixed 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 02 8 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 >2 Rica Eiendom KLP Eiendomsspar Variable Variable with fixed minimum rent Fixed Utstillingsplassen Midstar Other 1) Exclusive pipeline 2) Inclusive pipeline 32 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 A leading hotel portfolio CONTINUED POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT IN GERMANY IMPROVED RESULTS IN GERMANY Central Bank’s new headquarters. In December, Scandic signed an agreement for a new Scandic operates six hotels outside of the Nordic countries: four in Germany and two in 234-room hotel in Munich that will open in 2021. The hotel is being built in the emerging Poland. Even if Scandic’s base is the Nordic market, the company aims to continue to Macherei district, a former industrial area that will have an urban feel and offer art and culgrow in the largest cities of Germany. Today, Scandic has two hotels in Berlin, one hotel tural activities as well as new workplaces and social spaces. in ­Hamburg and one hotel in Frankfurt. Scandic’s German hotels have generally had positive RevPAR and margin development Scandic’s first hotel in Berlin, Scandic Potsdamer Platz, opened in 2010 and two years in recent years. Despite the fact that Scandic does not have as strong a brand or the same later, Scandic Hamburg Emporio opened in Hamburg. In 2014, the company opened its economies of scale in Germany as in the Nordic countries, its German hotels have shown ­second hotel in Berlin under the name Scandic Kurfürstendamm. In 2018, Scandic took over good profitability. the operations of Scandic Museumsufer in downtown Frankfurt. At the end of 2017, Scandic The German hotel market is fragmented and like the Nordic one, it is dominated by the also signed an agreement to operate a new hotel that will open in 2022 beside the European model with long leasing agreements. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 33 A LEADING CUSTOMER OFFERING Scandic operates its hotels under one brand. Because Scandic ­controls both the operation of its hotels and the brand, it can ensure a consistent customer offering and high efficiency. 34 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 A leading customer offering OWN BRAND & A LEADING CUSTOMER OFFERING A CONSISTENT CUSTOMER OFFERING “SCANDIC IS POSITIONED IN REBRANDING CUMULUS HOTELS Scandic’s business model is based on controlling both From February to June 2018, 33 Cumulus hotels acquired hotel operations and the brand, allowing the company to THE MID-MARKET SEGMENT, through the Restel acquisition in Finland were rebranded ensure a consistent offering in all markets and hotels. This WHICH CONSTITUTES A as Scandic hotels in line with the plan at the time of the model allows Scandic to make changes and launch new concepts and processes in all markets. This is different VERY LARGE PROPORTION acquisition. In connection with the acquisition, the tech­ nical integration was implemented and the companies’ from many other hotel companies that only control their OF THE NORDIC HOTEL support functions were coordinated. Average room prices brand. The fact that focus is on a single brand – Scandic – MARKET.” and occupancy at Restel hotels are currently lower than in allows significant efficiencies in marketing and operations. Scandic’s other hotels, but Scandic believes these differIn addition, Scandic has 10 franchise hotels where Hilton ences will be reduced once the hotels are fully integrated and IHG are responsible for the commercial side. into Scandic’s brand and strong distribution capacity. SEGMENTATION & DESTINATION STRATEGY STRONG POSITION AMONG BUSINESS Scandic is positioned in the mid-market segment, which arise when new Scandic hotels take customers from the TRAVELERS constitutes a very large proportion of the Nordic hotel marcompany’s existing hotels. Scandic is clearly the most well-known brand in the Nordic ket. Unlike in many other countries, only a few hotels in the In 2016, Scandic introduced a separate category of hotel market with a strong position among Nordic business Nordic countries fall into the luxury category. The pure budhotels called signature hotels. These belong to the higher travelers. This can be seen in the large number of frameget segment is also very limited in the area. But even if price segment of the company’s portfolio and they have a work agreements with companies and organizations, many Scandic’s portfolio is concentrated to a single category and more experience-based character. They offer additional of which are renewed each year. Recurring sales are brand, there are, of course, differences between hotels services such as concierge assistance and are individually strengthened by the Scandic Friends loyalty program and when it comes to offerings and location. There is therefore designed, aiming to attract target groups that otherwise contribute to stability over time. a slight segmentation between the hotels, most notably in may not have chosen Scandic. In 2018, Scandic opened its Scandic’s key destinations. This is most important when fourth signature hotel, Hotel Norge by Scandic, in Bergen adding capacity – avoiding the “cannibalization” that could and in 2019, Hotel Marski by Scandic will open in Helsinki. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 35 A leading customer offering SCANDIC FRIENDS NEW VERSION OF SCANDIC FRIENDS LAUNCHED CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS & DATA At the beginning of the year, Scandic launched an updated version of its loyalty program, The updated loyalty program was intended to establish closer relationships with Scandic’s Scandic Friends. The program had existed for about 10 years from the time that Hilton sold ­loyalty customers and to gain a better understanding of their consumption habits so that the Scandic. Having a powerful loyalty program is of the utmost importance in a consumercompany can make decisions that affect sales going forward. The design is more emotional related sector, perhaps in particular in the travel industry. The starting point for the new prothan before and the app that complements the program is based in part on gamification to gram is more personal communication that is relevant to the customer. Scandic also encourage customers to move up to the next level of the program and spend more at Scandic. expanded its network of partners within the framework of the program and in these agreeIn 2018, Scandic Friends members’ share of bookings corresponded to approximately ments there is more space for earn and spend arrangements between the various compa35 percent of the Group’s accommodation sales. During the first year, the new program nies involved. Among other things, at the end of the year, Scandic introduced a Scandic received significant feedback and work to develop the program further continues at full Friends credit card together with SEB to provide more opportunities to earn points and speed. Scandic’s marketing department is also processing data from guest feedback to level up faster in the program. optimize the program in the future. 36 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 A leading customer offering SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 37 OPTIMIZED DISTRIBUTION Scandic’s offering shall be available in all of the distribution channels that are relevant for its customers. 38 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 OPTIMIZED DISTRIBUTION IMPROVED DIGITAL DISTRIBUTION THROUGH SCANDIC’S CHANNELS RAPIDLY-CHANGING DISTRIBUTION to drop. The number of bookings through OTAs remained c­ ustomers that Scandic cannot access as easily through LANDSCAPE relatively stable at just under 17 percent. In addition to its own channels. Digital booking sites, which are known as online travel OTAs, external booking channels include contracted agencies or OTAs, have taken an increasingly large share ­dealers and global distribution systems (GDS). DEVELOPMENT OF DISTRIBUTION MIX of hotel bookings. Metasearch engines such as TripAdvisor There has been a gradual transfer of distribution to digital have also become more important. Through these chanIMPROVED DIGITAL SOLUTIONS channels and in recent years, bookings on Scandic’s nels, customers can compare prices and read reviews as Scandic’s digital offering has improved considerably in ­website have grown faster than OTAs. Investing in website well as book stays either on the hotel’s website or through recent years. Among other things, Scandic has allocated improvements and launching the Scandic app have an OTA. more resources to producing better content for its digital ­contributed to this development. channels, which contributed to driving traffic. In early HIGH SHARE OF DISTRIBUTION THROUGH 2018, Scandic launched an app at the same time as it RELEVANT IN ALL CHANNELS OWN CHANNELS introduced an updated version of the Scandic Friends loyScandic’s ambition is for the company’s offering to be Compared with many other hotel companies, Scandic alty program. Scandic Friends is integrated in the app, givavailable in all channels that are relevant to its customers, enjoys a relatively high proportion of bookings made in its ing members an overview of partnerships and benefits. while at the same time enjoying a large proportion of bookown channels. This is explained, among other things, by its There are several reasons why a high share of distribuing though its own channels. strong position within the Nordic business segment that tion through Scandic’s own channels is positive. The obviAs a result of the increase in non-Nordic guests, it is has been developed through close relationships. Scandic ous advantage is that Scandic receives the entire revenue becoming increasingly important to cooperate with distrialso hosts a significant number of conferences, most of for bookings made directly through the company rather bution partners to reach customers that Scandic cannot which are booked through direct contact with the hotels. than having to pay commissions for bookings to OTAs. reach as easily through its own channels, which means In 2018, 62 percent of rooms sold were booked through Additionally, Scandic can use bookings through its own that the share of bookings through OTAs will likely continue Scandic’s own distribution channels, that is, its website, channels to develop relationships and communicate with to grow. This does not necessarily have to be negative for call center and directly through hotels. This represents a customers, from searching to booking and staying. Scandic as long as it occurs in the right way and with the marginal decrease year-on-year. The share of bookings Scandic strives to maintain as much control as possible right customer mix. For Scandic, it could be profitable to through Scandic’s website increased slightly while the over inter-Nordic hotel bookings while OTAs and similar pay a commission to reach individual customers from, for share of bookings through analogue channels continued participants are important for reaching non-Nordic example, Asia and North America, since it is expensive to reach them through its own channels. At the same time, Scandic aims to control inter-Nordic bookings to the greatest extent possible. Scandic’s leading position makes it an DISTRIBUTION MIX 2016–2018 SALES BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL attractive partner for OTAs and it generally pays lower commissions for intra-Nordic bookings than for international % guest nights 2016 2017 2018 guests. Scandic’s website & app 22.4 23.7 25.4 In addition, there is a tradeoff between commissions Hotel direct 33.4 31.9 30.1 paid to OTAs and Scandic’s costs for driving traffic and Call center 8.3 7.1 6.7 bookings to its own website. Direct 64.1 62.8 62.2 OTAs 16.0 16.5 16.8 GDS 12.1 12.2 13.2 Wholesalers 7.8 8.5 7.8 Indirect 35.9 37.2 37.8 Hotel direct, website, call centers Online travel agents Global distribution Contracted (OTA & ADS) systems (GDS) leisure SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 39 COST EFFICIENCY Scandic benefits from economies of scale within areas such as IT, purchasing and administration. Internal efficiency is improved constantly through standardization and sharing of best practices. 40 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 COST EFFICIENCY SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIES OF SCALE CLEAR COST FOCUS “SCANDIC HAS A PROVEN efficiently implement new concepts and processes in Scandic considers itself to be the most profitable hotel its organization. company in the Nordic market. One reason for this is that MODEL TO QUICKLY The Nordic hotel industry has consolidated over time, as the largest operator in the market, it enjoys economies INTEGRATE NEW HOTELS.” and given the clear economies of scale, it is likely that this of scale. With a clear division of responsibilities between trend will continue. hotels and central functions, there are excellent opportunities to benefit from these economies of scale in a number QUICK INTEGRATION OF NEW HOTELS of important areas such as IT, purchasing, investments and Scandic has a proven model to quickly integrate new hotels administration. so they can be run as efficiently as possible. This also General managers have full responsibility for revenue Scandic’s strong market position also helps the company applies to major acquisitions. When Scandic acquired Rica and costs for their respective hotels, with all the necessary control distribution costs. With what is clearly the most in Norway in 2014, many cost synergies were identified. support from Scandic’s central functions. There are effiextensive offering on its market, Scandic has the strength And with the Restel acquisition in Finland, clear cost synercient systems for following up which means that when one to compete with external distribution partners that smaller gies in IT, purchasing and administration were achieved as hotel implements measures that improve profitability and companies do not have. Scandic can also maintain an early in the second half of 2018, less than a year after the efficiency, they can be easily implemented in the rest of the effective website, unlike independent hotel operators. transaction was completed. hotel portfolio. Since Scandic focuses on one brand, it can quickly and SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 41 SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE CULTURE Scandic has sustainability on the agenda in all decision-making. The company shall be an attractive employer known for its inclusive culture and diversity among team members. 42 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-16 Sustainable footprint VISION, MISSION & VALUES OUR VISION OUR MISSION OUR VALUES To be a world-class Nordic hotel company To create great hotel experiences for the The foundation for the culture that characterizes Scandic With the help of our Nordic spirit, corporate culture and many people was built 50 years ago when the first Esso Motor Hotel way of doing things, we will be the best hotel company we We want to cater to as many people as we can. No opened. Even though today we have thousands of employees can be. World class isn’t about five stars, red carpets or the ­matter who they are, how they dress, where they are from in six countries, we always try to live up to the driving number of hotels, but about delivering an appreciated or where they are heading, we get up every morning to forces that laid the foundation for Scandic. This legacy runs experience every day, both on stage and behind the scenes ­create great hotel experiences for everyone from the like a common thread throughout our entire organization for our guests, customers, employees and owners. moment our guests first think of us until they check out and governs the way we recruit new team members. and tell their friends. Our culture can be summed up in four main values that team members can apply in their daily work and in all relationships, both internal and external. They are formulated and communicated internally as follows. O U R VA LU E S We are warm and welcoming, meeting everyone with We are reliable and always deliver consistent high quality. open arms and minds. And we care for the people, But we also exceed expectations. We know that the key planet and society around us. to success is focusing on details and constantly endeavoring to be even better. We are ourselves. We celebrate each other’s potential We dare to do things differently. We leave our comfort zone and and appreciate our differences, just as we treat look forward, always aspiring to inspire our guests, our stakeholders, each guest as a unique individual. each other and society at large. GRI: 102-16 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 43 Sustainable footprint ENGAGED & MOTIVATED TEAM MEMBERS CONTINUED FOCUS ON CULTURE DIGITAL TOOLS FOR BETTER BUSINESS 2018 was the fourth year for Scandic’s cultural platform, In 2017, Scandic launched a digital tool for social learning Inspiring Nordic. The project was started to further improve and internal communication, Fuse. At the end of the year, E M P LOY E E S W I T H customer service by instilling pride and a feeling of security users numbered about 2,000. One year later, there were ­CO L L E C T I V E AG R E E M E N T S among team members. In the first year, the cultural platform more than 9,000. One in three Scandic team members is 89% was introduced. Following this, all team members particiactive on Fuse and the number of users has also increased pated in workshops on Scandic’s values, vision and mission. markedly as new features have been added. During year three, targeted training was held for the Social learning and shorter digital paths strengthen ­company’s leaders to give general managers and heads Scandic’s business. The tool is based on team members of departments the tools required to develop as individuals creating content themselves that their colleagues can and develop their teams. interact with. Over time, information sharing and tips have In 2018, Scandic took the next step to fully realize the increased and it can be said that 2018 was the year that meaning of its culture in interactions with guests. The work Scandic fully migrated to a more modern way of communifocuses on three main areas: welcoming guests, exceeding cating and learning from each other – throughout the expectations and turning disappointed customers. Workentire company. G E N E R A L M A N AG E R S shops on these topics have been held at the hotels and The platform itself has been created to great extent by R E C R U I T E D I N T E R N A L LY training is continuing on the company’s digital platform for Scandic’s own team members through a project run as part learning and internal communication. Ultimately, it boils down of Scandic’s internal training program, Talent at Scandic. 81% to imbuing team members with a sense of responsibility and On page 49, you can also read about Scandic’s Sustainauthority so that they can choose the best way to provide ability Hackathon that was held to generate ideas on how service in any situation. These service-related efforts are of Scandic can operate more sustainably with the goal of the utmost importance, not least because reviews on digital implementing solutions across the company. sites such as TripAdvisor are increasing in significance. D I G I TA L T R A I N I N G H A S R E P L AC E D T H E “1 IN 3 TEAM CL ASSROOM & HELPS SCANDIC ME ASURE T R A I N I N G M O R E Q UA L I TAT I V E LY MEMBERS IS ACTIVE ON FUSE FOR SOCIAL LEARNING AND INTERNAL Thanks to a digital tool, Scandic can optimize learning for its team members, regardless of what roles or needs the team members have. COMMUNICATION.” 44 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-41, 403-4, 404-1, 103-1/ -2/ -3 Sustainable footprint SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 45 Sustainable footprint ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER REFLECTING SOCIETY TO STRENGTHEN “SCANDIC OFFERS RESPONSIBLE & APPRECIATED EMPLOYER BUSINESS Every year, Scandic carries out an extensive employee surScandic strives to have an inclusive culture throughout its YOUNG PEOPLE THE vey that results in a Voice Index. The 2018 Voice Index was operations. The company’s recruiting strategy is clear – ­OPPORTUNITY TO GAIN 771 in total. The result was affected by the Restel acquisiit seeks diversity among its team members. The company has distinct goals linked to this area, see page 50. Gender VALUABLE PROFESSIONAL tion since many new team members joined the company. Despite such a large acquisition, Scandic placed in the distribution in the Group is 63 percent women and 37 perEXPERIENCE. ” Excellent category among companies using the same cent men and the proportion of female general managers is ­measurement tools. Excluding new team members from 56 percent. The total number of employees in the Group Restel, the score was 781. The form of the survey changed was significantly impacted by the Restel acquisition and to a new two-digit index and this year’s total result was Scandic’s workforce has grown by some 13 percent since 80 according to the new index. the end of 2017. Adjusted for Restel, the increase is are an important recruiting base for its operations, and Within the framework of the Voice survey, special approximately 4 percent. many people are offered permanent employment within ­categories measure commitment, loyalty and work enviJust under 60 percent of the new employees hired in the ­company. ronment. Four out of five team members said that they are 2018 are under 30 and of the Group’s employees, approxiA total of 13 percent of the company’s employees are proud to work at Scandic and happy to speak positively mately 40 percent are under 30. This is natural, as Scanover 50 and there are more than 120 nationalities working about Scandic to others. The same proportion, 80 percent, dic’s operations are affected by seasonality and temporary at Scandic’s hotels. Scandic strives to develop a rich culbelieve strongly in the company and its future direction. highs. To meet these changes in an effective way, Scandic ture with a strong diversity of skills and languages among Just as many team members, approximately 80 percent, has a great need for temporary employees. In this respect, its team members. Approximately 90 percent of Scandic’s say that they can make decisions themselves, regardless Scandic has a key role to play as a first employer. Scandic team members believe that the company is diverse and of their position, which is important in a fast-moving industry offers young people the opportunity to gain valuable that all team members, regardless of background, where customer focus is key. The increase was greatest ­professional experience. Scandic’s temporary employees ­contribute and help create value. among team members that are not managers, which may AGE DISTRIBUTION, NEW EMPLOYEES1) A N AT T R AC T I V E E M P LOY E R Scandic Sweden Most attractive workplace according to Visita. Scandic Finland First place in Great Place to Work, large company category. 1,468 NEW HIRES 2018 Scandic Denmark First place for inclusion in Great Place to Work, workplaces with more than 500 employees category. Median 33 years Scandic Germany Third place in Great Place to Work, multinational 56% 40% 4% companies category. < 30 30–50 > 50 1) Data refers to permanent employees. 46 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 401-1, 403-4, 103-1/ -2/ -3 Sustainable footprint be a result of the efforts aimed at moving decision-making closer to the customer. GENDER DISTRIBUTION, GENERAL MANAGERS TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Having a happy, healthy workplace is a competitive advantage when it comes to recruiting, and the company strives to provide a good work-life balance for its employees. 56% 44% 63% 37% Read more about Scandic’s work to promote good health (52%) (48%) (63%) (37%) among team members on pages 52. The company complies with national legislation and rules to ensure a good 11,927 women 6,980 men working environment for its team members. Employees receive remuneration based on local salary levels and women men TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 18,907 ­market practices, and the remuneration model is based on clearly-set criteria regardless of gender, origin, ethnicity or age. Scandic also greatly values being a committed 6,934 women 4,049 men ­corporate citizen, see pages 58–59. The company seeks GENDER DISTRIBUTION, NEW EMPLOYEES1) to reflect the society in which its hotels operate and consePERMANENT EMPLOYEES: 10,983 quently ­analyzes appointments of new positions from an equality and equal opportunities perspective. For many 57% 43% roles, development is carried out through Scandic’s internal (55%) (45%) 4,541 women 2,753 men training program. For other roles, externally recruited experts with specific skills are required. TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES: 7,294 779 women 639 men 452 women 178 men CONTRACTED WORKERS: 630 VOICE INDEX DEVELOPMENT NUMBER OF 790 ­N AT I O N A L I T I E S 781 780 774 120+ 770 760 771 760 750 2016 2017 2018 Scandic incl. Restel Scandic excl. Restel 1) Refers to permanent employees. GRI: 102-7, 401-1, 403-4, 103-1/ -2/ -3 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 47 1993 2017 25 YEARS OF LEADING SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES 1993 1999 2006 2015 Launched the “hang up your towel” First Nordic Swan Ecolabeled hotels. Started serving Fairtrade coffee at all hotels. Launched “Breakfast for All,” a vegan and ­initiative that today is the global industry allergy-friendly breakfast buffet. Started standard. 2001 2008 “Snabbspåret” fast track program to help Launched Scandic in Society (hotel Started serving local Scandic water in integrate and employ new arrivals to 1995 ­activities that support the local sustainable, refillable bottles designed ­Sweden at Scandic’s restaurants. Adopted Introduced smart shower heads to reduce ­community). specially by Scandic. the principles of the UN Global Compact. water use. 2002 2010 2016 1996 Appointed a Director of Accessibility. Implemented comprehensive employee Introduced an anti-trafficking policy at Started reporting environmental data on survey. all hotels. the hotel level. Began phasing out singleuse plastic packaging. 48 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainable footprint 2018 Health initiative with health inspirers at Swedish hotels and support offices to promote team member wellness through health-boosting activities. Completely phasing out cage eggs by 2022. 22/326 RANKING IN THE SUSTAINABLE BRAND INDEX Ranked high in the annual Sustainable Brand Vegan burger on the menu. In Sweden, about Index. Best in the industry in Sweden for the 15,000 burgers sold in first month. eighth year running, placing 22/326. No straws or cocktail sticks at Scandic going ­forward, a reduction of about 1.3 million straws and 120,000 sticks per year. LANGUAGE INTEGRATION Sustainability Hackathon: All team members PROJECT ­participated to generate ideas on how Scandic can operate more sustainably. More than Integration project with language training 400 innovative ideas put forward. at hotels. Partnerships to sell leftover food on digital platforms. During 2018, more than 125,000 portions of ­leftover food were sold onwards. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 49 Sustainable footprint SCANDIC’S SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Scandic has four main goals within sustainability and each area has been chosen based on its high relevance to Scandic’s operations. The company’s ability to make a difference in these areas is consequently great. 1 2 4 MAIN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 2016 2017 2018 Goal 2020 D I V E R S IT Y & H E A LT H Share of employees who state in 85 87 86 >90 ­I N C LU S I O N 1 the employee satisfaction survey that Scandic has a good level of diversity in the organization Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Total employee index in the 760 774 771 >820 Scandic will lead the hotel Scandic will be the premier 2 employee satisfaction survey industry in giving all employees hotel choice for customers Increase of 4 points in employee 61 63 64 >65 the same opportunities and who prioritize a healthy lifestyle satisfaction survey regarding reflect the society in which and an attractive employer recovery from stress, physical it operates. when it comes to work-life work environment and leadership balance. index Share of hotels using renewable 86.0 99.6 97.0 100 3 electricity,% CO2 emissions kg/revenue, KSEK 2.75 1.62 2.45 <2.5 3 4 CO2 emissions kg/guest night % share of hotels that are 2.64 N/A 1.55 90 2.42 90 <2.3 100 ­environmentally certified 1 year after opening/rebranding CO 2 E M I S S I O N S WA S T E Water use (m3)/guest night) 0.18 0.18 0.19 <0.16 Share of environmentally-­ 78 82 81 >95 certified chemicals Goal 2020 Goal 2020 Total kg waste/guest night 1) 0.7 0.76 0.64 <0.62 4 Scandic will be the hotel Scandic will continually work Recycled waste 69 79 89 >76 company with the lowest to reduce total waste and 1) Excluding household waste due to difficulties sourcing reliable information. This is because in many Swedish municipalities, household waste CO2 emissions. increase the share is not weighed at collection. of ­recycled waste. 50 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-12 Sustainable footprint 1 DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Diversity refers to the mix of people of variwho perceive that Scandic has a good level My Dream Now is a Swedish project that ous backgrounds and characteristics, while of diversity. In the 2018 survey, the figure brings together mentors and secondary inclusion is how to manage the mix to was 86 percent, very close to the company’s school students in vulnerable areas. During achieve the best possible results. Scandic 90 percent target. 2018, many of Scandic’s senior managers employs more than 120 nationalities and The annual employee survey carried out continued to act as mentors for these youths. there is a relatively even gender distribution in 2018 had a response rate of 93 percent. In Norway, Scandic entered into its second within the organization. Scandic’s Diversity Projects linked to diversity and inclusion year in the Helt Med project together with & Inclusion Policy stipulates that the comare often carried out internally by Scandic or the SOR organization and the Norwegian pany shall actively recruit employees that with Scandic as a partner. Scandic Sweden authorities, a program where people with reflect society and Scandic’s customers. In has trained several young chefs, many of special needs can gain work experience addition, Scandic does not tolerate any form them new arrivals to the country, in its and then have the possibility to be of discrimination. The annual employee sur­restaurants and has arranged competitions employed at Scandic. The results have vey covers various issues regarding diversity where their abilities were recognized by been positive and several participants are and job satisfaction and Scandic measures a qualified jury. Several of them were later now employed. the proportion of people in the company offered jobs at Scandic hotels. KPI – GOAL 2020 OUTCOME At least 90 percent of employees shall state 100 in the employee survey that there is a GOAL: >90% 90 good level of diversity in the company. 80 70 60 2017 2018 GRI: 102-12, 103-1/ -2/ -3 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 51 Sustainable footprint 2 3 HEALTH CO2 EMISSIONS Scandic constantly focuses on the wellequally to all team members, regardless of To Scandic and its stakeholders, doing Scandic obtains 97 percent of all electricity being of its team members. The company their form of employment. When suppliers ­business sustainably is of the utmost from fossil-free sources. Over the year, some regularly monitors physical and psychoare procured, those who meet the UN ­importance. From an environmental standhotels obtained solar panels to ­generate social work environments through safety Global Compact criteria are prioritized. One point, this ultimately involves both helping electricity. Water consumption remained on inspections, employee surveys and diasuch example is Scandic’s cooperation to protect the planet and making the busialmost the same level as before. In some of logues between managers and team with Fairtrade, an organization that ensures ness more profitable. Scandic regularly the company’s hotels, water-saving shower ­members. The company also appraises good working conditions for people working monitors its emissions and the general heads were installed, for example at Scandic team members’ perception of how they with its products. manager of each hotel is responsible for Oulu City in Finland. Such measures have recover from stress, how they rank their Scandic encourages physical activity reporting several key performance indicators. led to a reduction in water consumption from leaders and how they regard their physical among its employees through wellness This way, each hotel can see the results of 18 to 12 liters/minute. work environment. In 2018, the index was ­subsidies. Scandic Sweden has started a its efforts. In addition, Scandic can also influScandic has adopted the target that all 64, close to the target of >65. club to share exercise and diet inspiration ence property owners when it comes to new hotels shall meet the certification requireScandic’s Code of Conduct covers and organize competitions and activities. constructions and renovations. ments of the Nordic Swan Ecolabel, or human rights aspects. It states that fundaAll of Scandic’s hotels have also designated Scandic’s key performance indicators Green Globe or EU Ecolabel for Germany mental human rights and working conditheir own health inspirers. for following up on emissions are provided and Poland, which includes guidelines for tions shall be known, respected and apply on page 50. In 2018, Scandic reached or CO2 emissions, water consumption, waste nearly reached all targets. management, energy consumption and In total, Scandic’s emissions increased chemical use. By the end of 2018, over in 2018. This is because the new Restel 90 percent of Scandic’s hotels met these hotels, particularly in Finland, had higher requirements. Scandic supports and mainemissions. At the same time Scandic’s tains a close dialogue with the Nordic Swan total emissions for comparable units Ecolabel and its equivalents to remain decreased. See page 60 for a detailed up ­to date with the latest findings and explanation of Scandic’s CO2 emissions. ­continue developing its own environmental efforts. KPI – GOAL 2020 OUTCOME KPI – GOAL 2020 OUTCOME At least 65 percent of employees shall 75 10 percent reduction in CO2 emissions/­ 4 state that they are positive about being GOAL: >65% revenue. GOAL: <2.5 kg/revenue 65 3 able to manage stress in the annual employee survey. 55 2 45 1 35 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 52 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-12, 403-4, 412-2, 103-1/ -2/ -3 Sustainable footprint 4 WASTE WASTE MANAGEMENT In 2018, Scandic recycled 89 percent of its waste, an increase of 10 percentage points ­compared with 2017. Household waste, which constitutes a high share of total waste, is Scandic handles waste management in a Since Scandic introduced these initiatives excluded in this calculation as a result of difficulties in sourcing reliable information mainly variety of ways and has KPIs that the comand partnerships, the company has seen from Sweden’s municipalities. pany follows up on regularly to reduce food constant improvement. By the end of 2018, 2017 2018 waste and increase the share of waste that there was a clear reduction in food waste, Non-­ Non-­ is recycled. To reduce food waste, Scandic with some 89 percent of leftover food sold Hazardous hazardous Hazardous hazardous has introduced smaller plates in its restauonwards instead of being thrown out, Total weight per method of disposal, tonnes waste waste waste waste rants. In Sweden, Norway and Denmark, exceeding Scandic’s goal for 2020. See the Reuse 0 0 0 0 Scandic also cooperates with Karma, Too outcomes for all KPIs linked to Scandic’s Recycling 5.88 9,191.51 15.82 10,249.93 Good To Go and #KuttMatSvinn2020, main goals for 2017 and 2018 on page 50. Energy recovery 25.96 2,073.64 23.08 1,025.62 organizations that ensure that that leftover Since Scandic started digital partnerCombustion 35.87 0.00 28.16 0.00 food that would normally have gone to ships in S­ weden, Denmark and Norway, Landfill 4.72 299.97 3.67 234.15 waste is sold on digital platforms. Scandic more than 125,000 portions of food have Total 72.4 11,565.1 70.7 11,509.7 measures the share of waste that goes to been saved. Data on waste from newly-acquired Restel hotels is insufficient. recycling and the total kilograms of waste For comparable units, Scandic’s total per guest night. In 2018, the share of waste was just under the total waste for Total weight per type of waste, tonnes 2017 2018 ­re­­cycled material increased and the com2017. Paper 2,229.5 2,396.4 pany is ahead of its 2020 t­ arget. Scandic’s Glass 1,854.3 2,067.4 waste per guest night in 2018 was 0.64 kg Metal 218.6 161.9 compared with the target of 0.62 kg/guest Plastic 303.3 304.9 night. Other 6,959.4 6,579.1 KPI – GOAL 2020 OUTCOME 10 percent more waste recycled. 90 GOAL: >76% 80 70 60 50 2017 2018 GRI: 102-12, 306-2, 103-1/ -2/ -3 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 53 Sustainable footprint SCANDIC SUPPORTS THE UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS & CONTRIBUTES TO MANY OF THEM Scandic has a Code of Conduct that applies to all team members. The code is based on the UN Global Compact principles dealing with anti-corruption, working environment, the environment, employees and human rights. Scandic is a signatory of Agenda 2030 and the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The company contributes to most of them to varying degrees, but significantly to the following goals: SUS TA I N A B LE D E V E LO PME NT GOA L S H OW SC A N D IC CO NTR I BUTE S Equality is a goal in itself as well as a prerequisite for sustainScandic analyzes and acts to achieve gender balance in recruiting able and peaceful development. Gender equality is achieved through internal programs as well as internal and external recruiting. when both women and men, girls and boys, enjoy equal rights, Scandic is conscientious in ensuring that its team reflects society and conditions, opportunities and the power to shape their lives the company strives for gender balance at all levels in the Group. themselves and contribute to the development of society. Scandic offers equal conditions, follows up on work environment and has Work for inclusive and long-term sustainable economic a Supplier Code of Conduct. The company also offers work experience growth, with full and productive employment and programs for people outside the labor market such as Helt Med in decent working conditions for all. ­Norway. Read more on page 51. Scandic offers equal conditions regardless of gender, disability, ­ethnic background, etc. through value and leadership development. Reduce inequality within and between countries. The ­company also offers work experience for people outside the labor ­market and has a focus on Fairtrade products. For example, Scandic only serves Fairtrade coffee. 54 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-12 Sustainable footprint SUS TA I N A B LE D E V E LO PME NT GOA L S H OW SC A N D IC CO NTR I BUTE S Scandic carries out third-party environmental certifications of all of its Promote sustainable consumption and production patterns hotels, for example Nordic Swan Ecolabel certification and similar. through the efficient use of resources, consideration for This helps reduce energy, water and chemical use and waste. It also ecosystem services that are necessary for supply and has environmental requirements for suppliers. In 2018, digital reduce the impacts of hazardous chemicals. ­partnerships contributed to ensuring that more than 125,000 portions of leftover food was sold onwards. All of Scandic’s hotels must be Nordic Swan Ecolabeled. When taking Ensure availability and sustainable management of over new hotels, the hotel must be certified within the first year. Waterwater and sanitation for all. Focus on responsible reducing shower heads have been installed at several hotels and water stewardship. shower timers were trialed at one new hotel. Water consumption is measured and monitored regularly through a reporting program. Focused work to primarily reduce the amount of waste and recycle a greater share of waste. Integration projects for new arrivals and work Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. training for people with special needs. Regular security and anti-­ trafficking training at hotels. Scandic buys all electricity from fossil-free sources and the newly acquired Restel hotels will shift to the same model as soon as possible. Take urgent action to combat climate change and The cooling systems used in the Group are largely based on hydroelectric its impacts. power. In 2018, Scandic reduced CO2 emissions for comparable units compared with 2017. GRI: 102-12 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 55 Sustainable footprint SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS Scandic’s sustainability work is built on the valuable cooperation it has with companies, organizations and authorities. Scandic’s operations also create value for stakeholders from a broader social perspective. EXAMPLES OF INITIATIVES SCANDIC SUPPORTS Organization Description Country Type of cooperation Organization Description Country Type of cooperation Mitt liv Works to promote an inclusive Sweden Partner Joblinge Partnerships between com­panies, Germany Partner society and labor market diverindividuals and authorities to ­support sity through mentoring, training and vulnerable youth and i­ntegrate them ­networking. so they can earn their own living. My Dream Now Works to link the labor market with Sweden Partner Helt Med Aims to create meaningful work for Norway Partner students from upper secondary people with physical and/or learning schools in vulnerable areas. disabilities. Diversity Charter Part of Diversity Charter’s European Finland Member and one Ringer i vannet Works to improve conditions for Norway Partner Finland network. Works to promote diverof the founders (NHO) recruiting people outside the labor sity and inclusion in companies/­ market. organizations. Dansk Erhverv Network for the service i­ndustry Denmark Member The Finnish Para­ Encourages young athletes and Finland Sponsor CSR netværk in Denmark (17,000 Danish lympic Committee ­contributes to research and training ­companies). within sports for the disabled. ReFood Collects and distributes leftover Denmark Member Food Bank Charity Project to reduce food waste. Poland Partner food from restaurants. GOT – Gdansk Networks in tourism and hotels Poland Member Tourism Organisation with focus on sharing experience as well as opportunity to participate in ­charity projects. Budnianer hilfe e.V. Provides physical and social ­support Germany Supporter for marginalized children and young adults. 56 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-13 Sustainable footprint SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 57 Sustainable footprint RESPONSIBLE PARTNER IN SOCIETY SECURITY (automated external defibrillators). All activities related to i­nternationally-accepted principles of anti-corruption. Security is a key area of focus for Scandic. Scandic’s team security are collected in a digital tool that enables easy Scandic complies with all relevant national legislation. members undergo regular training in basic security issues, ­follow-up, analysis and continued development of Scandic’s Scandic has signed the UN Global Compact and complies both interactively and through practice, and two mandatory security initiatives. with its principles. The principle applicable to Scandic’s fire and evacuation drills are carried out each year. In addiAnti-Corruption Policy is Principle 10: Businesses should tion, every six months, Scandic carries out comprehensive ANTI-CORRUPTION work against ­corruption in all its forms, including extortion crisis management exercises to simulate possible and relScandic has a special Anti-Corruption Policy that stipulates and bribery. The policy covers compliance and responsibilevant events. For example, all hotels have carried out three that Scandic shall never engage in any form of corruption. ity as well as the consequences of breaches, bribery or exercises related to extraordinary events such as terror Scandic works to eliminate all forms of corruption, “lubrication ­payments.” It also deals with how Scandic attacks and lockdowns. These are run by Scandic’s Central including extortion, bribery, nepotism, fraud and money regards gifts and entertainment, donations, sponsorship Crisis Unit, which follows up on the results. All hotels also laundering. Scandic works to ensure that all employees, and political party contributions, fraud, extortion and money have access to emergency help from the Scandic Crisis partners and suppliers understand that corruption is laundering, conflicts of interests, fair competition and Call Center, a 24-hour emergency service run by speciallyun­acceptable. Confidence and trust between companies insider trading (for which there is a special policy). For trained security staff. Crisis support can, among other things, and their customers, employees and the public are very Scandic, it is of the utmost importance that the company involve contact with psychologists and crisis support staff important factors for corporate development. adheres to good business practices in all contexts for at all times of the day. Additionally, every year, all hotels Scandic is committed to complying with good business ­society, people and Scandic to perform well. hold first aid courses focused on CPR and using AEDs practices and acting in a sustainable way based on 58 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainable footprint SCANDIC IN SOCIETY SCANDIC IN SOCIETY For Scandic, it is important to contribute to the communities ECONOMIC VALUE FROM INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES in which it operates hotels. Scandic’s hotels are often hubs in the cities or stops along highways. For several years, Economic value creation, MSEK 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scandic has run a project called “Scandic in Society” where Direct economic value generated 12,211 13,360 14,592 18,019 each hotel aims to carry out at least three activities or initiaRevenues 12,211 13,360 14,592 18,019 tives that help the local community at each location. Some Economic value distributed 12,103 12,478 13,882 17,341 examples are Scandic’s Norwegian hotels that provide Operating expenses 7,642 7,959 8,920 11,405 breakfast to people who do beach cleans, Swedish hotels Employee wages and other remuneration 3,954 4,211 4,738 5,620 that cooperate with the Swedish Society for Nature Financial expenses 500 133 133 185 ­Conservation (Naturskyddsföreningen) to arrange clothing Taxes 6.5 175 90 131 swap days in the local community and the many hotels Social investments1) 0.34 0.17 1.18 2.29 within the company that lend space to non-profit organi­ Remaining economic value 108.16 881.83 709.82 675.71 zations and language training activities in the evenings. In Denmark, Scandic Roskilde invited people to pick up and sell furniture that was being removed for a renovation, 1) Social investments, SEK 2015 1) Social investments, SEK 2017 encouraging them to donate the proceeds to charity. Sweden 139,150 Denmark 24,559 Finland 98,983 Norway 11,290 Norway 35,483 Sweden 1,000,000 Denmark 70,100 Other Europe 139,820 1) Social investments, SEK 2016 1) Social investments, SEK 2018 Denmark 105,200 Sweden 2,000,000 Poland 7,700 Finland 20,000 Germany 57,400 Norway 206,800 Denmark 36,701 Other Europe 28,620 The information in the table shows the generated and distributed economic value. This indicates how Scandic has created value for stakeholders from a broader social perspective. Scandic’s operations are run in a sound way with a sustainable ­distribution of operating expenses, including salaries, taxes and social investments while there is still good profitability for shareholders. GRI: 201-1, 103-1/ -2/ -3 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 59 Sustainable footprint CLIMATE IMPACT Scandic measures its environmental impacts by monitoring energy consumption, CO2 emissions and waste. In 2018, significantly more hotels were included than in 2017, mainly due to the Restel acquisition. This led to a general increase in emissions. Scandic’s central sustainability unit calculates emissions in Scopes 1 to 3 based on data from hotels and the energy suppliers and travel companies with which Scandic cooperates. 2 1 3 SCOPE SCOPE SCOPE INDIRECT EMISSIONS DIRECT EMISSIONS OTHER EMISSIONS 2 1 3 Scope 2 – indirect CO2 emissions – Scope 1 – direct CO2 emissions – includes In scope 3 – other emissions – Scandic includes emissions from the electricity and emissions from oil and gas that Scandic reports only on emissions from business Indirect Direct Other district heating/cooling that Scandic uses. uses in its operations. In 2018, direct travel (air and train). During 2018, emissions emissions emissions emissions During 2018, indirect emissions increased ­emissions increased mainly because of decreased marginally. As in Scope 2, these mainly due to new hotels in operation and the greater number of hotels in operation, emissions come from purchased energy, then primarily from the Restel hotels that including the Restel hotels that were added but from a third party such as an airline. were added to Scandic’s portfolio from to Scandic’s portfolio from January 1, 2018. These emissions dropped during the year. January 1, 2018. The warm summer in the For comparable units, direct emissions and Calculations are based on data Scandic Nordic countries also led to a higher use of use of gas and oil went down. The increased receives from travel agents. Based on this cooling compared with the previous year. use of biofuel is positive as Scandic is striving data, Scandic uses the GHG protocol to For comparable units, emissions increased to use it as the primary fuel in its kitchens. calculate CO2 emissions. marginally. Scandic states and analyzes Scandic is also working to replace gas and emissions based on market-based calculaheating oil with district heating. Scandic tions, since the values depend on suppliers’ uses the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) protocol material choices and calculations are to calculate CO2 emissions. based on supplier reports. 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Energy consumption, Energy consumption, Air MWh MWh Total km 7,251,664 6,303, 974 Electricity 290,835.0 362,670.7 Propane gas 1,774.8 1,702.1 CO2 emissions, District heating 213,176.3 299,452.2 Natural gas 5,229.2 5,590.2 tonnes 879.1 790.9 District cooling 12,383.1 23,648.1 Biofuel 311.6 871.8 516,394.4 685,771.0 Heating oil1) 1,089.0 67.8 Train CO2 emissions, 8,404.6 8,231.9 Total km 1,306,348 1,199,545 tonnes CO2 emissions, CO2 emissions, Electricity1) 85.9 7,125.6 tonnes tonnes 0.003 0.003 District heating 20,553.4 33,488.1 Propane 416.0 398.9 Disctrict cooling 461.5 682.1 Natural gas 997.6 1,117.4 21,100.8 41,295.8 Biofuel 10.5 421.9 1) Many newly-acquired Restel hotels used electricity from a variety Heating oil 287.3 17.9 of sources until July, which resulted in higher emissions. 1,711.4 1,956.2 1) From Q2, heating oil was no longer used. Instead, Scandic uses ­district heating or electricity. 60 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-49, 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 103-1/ -2/ -3 Sustainable footprint ACTIVE COOPERATION WITH SUPPLIERS As the leading hotel company in the Nordic countries, Scandic buys goods and services worth substantial amounts each year. For this reason, procurement and supplier control are important elements of the company’s sustainability initiatives. Scandic works systematically to ensure that only suppliers that live up to the company’s requirements are contracted. SUSTAINABILITY – A NATURAL PART manner described in a corrective action plan approved by the supplier that best supports Scandic in achieving its OF THE SELECTION PROCESS Scandic. The measures stated must be implemented sustainability goals. To ensure that Scandic only cooperates with suppliers that within the agreed timeframe for the supplier to remain share its values, sustainability is included as an item in the under contract. CONSTANTLY DEVELOPED selection process when it comes to cooperation. A special Scandic has successfully worked with systematizing its sustainability screening is carried out by Scandic’s procureCOOPERATION process for supplier management. To support the process, ment team as a first step in the process. This involves After decades of working with sustainability, Scandic has the company constantly works with skills development and ­criteria regarding the environment, anti-corruption, human extensive knowledge and gladly shares it with its suppliers. follows up on the procurement team as regards challenges rights and work environment. During the year, all suppliers The company encourages a continuous dialogue with in the area. To simplify the process for team members that that underwent and passed the selection process under­suppliers parallel to the screening process to support and are responsible for procurement, Scandic has developed took to follow the principles in Scandic’s Code of Conduct help develop suppliers’ sustainability initiatives. In Norway, general criteria for materials and substances that are suitfor Suppliers. Scandic also regularly carries out risk assessScandic is driving supplier sustainability forward together able for use from a sustainability perspective, including the ments of the entire supplier base. If there is uncertainty with other companies through the procurement company requirement to always apply the precautionary principle. regarding a supplier, a more in-depth assessment is carried Gress-gruppen. And in January 2018, Scandic Sweden These guidelines will be further developed in 2019 to out through a self-assessment that may also be followed held a conference at which its larger suppliers and general include specific criteria for food and beverages. by an onsite audit of the supplier. All deviations identified managers were invited to develop this work further. In during selfor third-party audits must be addressed in the ­addition, each year a sustainability prize is awarded to KEY FIGURES PROCUREMENT 96% OF ALL CONTR AC TE D 5.4 SEK BILLION 1% SUPPLIE RS ACCOUNT SUPPLIERS SCREENED ­P U R C H A S I N G V O L U M E F O R 74% (G O A L 9 5%) OF SPENDING GRI: 102-9, 102-11, 102-16, 308-1, 414-1, 103-1/ -2/ -3 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 61 Sustainable footprint EMPLOYEE DATA Breakdown by type of employment Sweden Norway Finland Denmark Other 2018 Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Total Total number 5,201 2,869 3,220 2,261 2,047 807 1,191 830 268 213 18,907 Permanent employment 2,619 1,442 1,827 1,278 1,476 597 770 541 242 191 10,983 Full-time 1,489 1,013 1,090 947 753 380 396 410 234 184 6,896 Part-time 1,128 429 735 331 724 217 374 131 9 7 4,085 Temporary 2,582 1,427 1,393 983 119 32 421 289 26 22 7,294 Contracted workers 0 0 0 0 452 178 0 0 0 0 630 Sweden Norway Finland Denmark Other 2017 Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Total Total number 4,966 2,650 3,235 2,178 913 481 1,085 761 286 206 16,761 Permanent employment 2,504 1,387 1,747 1,207 558 303 690 488 252 178 9,314 Full-time 1,489 972 1,022 892 325 211 361 357 239 173 6,041 Part-time 1,015 414 725 315 233 92 329 131 13 5 3,272 Temporary 2,462 1,263 1,488 971 68 27 395 273 34 28 7,009 Contracted workers 0 0 0 0 287 151 0 0 0 0 438 New hires1) Employee turnover1) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number Share, % Number Share, % Number Share, % Number Share, % Total number/% of total 1,468 7.8 1,418 8.5 Total number/% of total 2,218 11.7 1,807 10.8 Of which Women 836 7.6 779 8.4 Of which Women 1,296 11.8 974 53.9 Men 632 9.2 639 10.6 Men 922 13.4 833 46.1 Of which Age <30 819 20 808 24.7 Of which Age <30 979 24 803 44.4 Age 30–50 580 8 550 7.8 Age 30–50 1,017 13.9 856 47.4 Age >50 69 11 60 13.7 Age >50 222 35.2 148 8.2 Of which Sweden 456 31.1 534 37.7 Of which Sweden 800 36.1 707 39.1 Norway 375 25.5 341 24 Norway 431 19.4 445 24.6 Finland 174 11.9 94 6.6 Finland 428 19.3 128 7.1 Denmark 349 23.8 328 23.1 Denmark 416 18.8 386 21.4 Other Europe 114 7.8 121 8.5 Other Europe 143 6.4 141 7.8 1) Data refers to permanent employment. 1) Data refers to permanent employment. 62 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-8, 401-1, 405-1 Sustainable footprint Demographic breakdown Total number of Board of Executive 2018 employees, % Directors, % ­Committee, % Managers, % Employees, % NEW PERMANENT Men 6,802 37.2 5 55.6 10 83.3 678 44.5 6,114 36.5 E M P LOY E E S Women 11,475 62.8 4 44.4 2 16.7 845 55.5 10,628 63.5 DURING Age <30 7,711 42.2 164 10.8 7,547 45.1 THE YEAR Age 30–50 8,163 44.7 1 11.1 6 50 1,050 68.9 7,097 42.5 Age >50 2,403 13.1 8 88.9 6 50 299 19.6 2,098 12.5 1,468 Total number 18,277 9 12 1,523 16,742 Total number of Board of Executive 2017 employees, % Directors, % ­Committee, % Managers, % Employees, % Men 5,527 36.9 9 75 8 88.9 588 46.5 4,922 36 Women 9,449 63.1 3 25 1 11.1 677 53.5 8,768 64 Age <30 6,564 43.8 – – – – 143 11.3 6,421 46.9 Age 30–50 6,670 44.5 4 33.3 7 77.8 908 71.8 5,751 42 Age >50 1,742 11.6 8 66.7 2 22.2 214 16.9 1,518 11.1 Total number 14,976 12 9 1,265 13,690 During the year, the total number of employees increased by 13 percent. The increase was greatest in Finland due to the Restel acquisition. Adjusted for Restel, the increase was 4 percent. Both demographically and geographically, distribution was largely unchanged except for in Finland where there was a large shift in gender distribution related to Restel, with a greater share of women. Scandic’s employee data is secured though the company signing employment contracts with team members and managing the data in an HR system to maintain an overview of staff composition, overall and locally. There is a deviation within 404-1 (Average hours of training per year per employee): Scandic does not measure the average number of training hours in the same way. See page 44 for a more detailed description of digital ­learning. GRI: 102-8, 401-1, 404-1, 405-1 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 63 Sustainable footprint WORK TO DEVELOP STRATEGY & TARGETS Scandic has clear HR and sustainability goals that extend to 2020. In 2018, the company During 2019, Scandic will present a complete materiality analysis, updated goals and a began to develop and update its materiality analysis, which is presented on the next page. comprehensive sustainability strategy that shows the direction ahead. The new goals and Stakeholder dialogues will continue in 2019 when more in-depth discussions with the updated strategy will continue to be integrated into the company’s overall strategy and ­company’s stakeholder groups will be held. Together, these stakeholder dialogues will ­business model. Scandic recognizes the importance of doing business sustainably for its form a more comprehensive and profound materiality analysis. own operations, for the company’s stakeholders and for society at large. 64 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 103-1/ -2/ -3 Sustainable footprint Scandic’s sustainability initiatives need to be in line with the The starting point has been to select strategically important Stakeholder Main sustainability aspects based interests of different stakeholders. Stakeholder dialogues areas where permanent value can be created and where group on earlier stakeholder dialogues are therefore an important part of Scandic’s sustainability Scandic’s opportunities to influence are considered to be Employees • Satisfied customers strategy. Ultimately, Scandic’s Board of Directors deterhighest. Since sustainability is integrated into Scandic’s • Hotel security mines the company’s final sustainability strategy. During business model and Scandic wants to demonstrate corpo• Minimizing waste 2018, Scandic worked to update and further develop its rate social responsibility, these issues are of the utmost materiality analysis. importance for the environment, for people and for perOwners and investors • Reducing CO2 emissions forming well financially. Scandic’s employee resources and • Minimizing waste UPDATED MATERIALITY ANALYSIS goals play an important role in sustainability management • Commitment of Board and Executive Scandic has chosen to start internally to select, prioritize as do the company’s policies, which are presented on page 66. Committee to sustainability and delimit the most important sustainability issues. SurSustainability issues are governed by Group manageveys, reports and studies concerning external stakeholders’ ment and the Board is continuously kept updated. ScanNGOs • Reducing CO2 emissions perception of Scandic have also been reviewed, partly from dic’s central sustainability unit monitors the ongoing work in • Minimizing waste previous materiality analyses. In 2019, Scandic will the company and reports to the Executive Committee. The • Fair working conditions strengthen its focus on external stakeholders. In addition to effectiveness of the governance of sustainability work is Future employees • Fair working conditions the stakeholder groups shown to the right (based on previevaluated through KPIs where outcomes are measured • Minimizing waste ous dialogues), Scandic will add property owners as a against set goals. Scandic is well positioned in relation to its stakeholder group. targets for 2020 and consequently has concluded that Guests • Minimizing waste Below is an overview of the modified materiality analysis management of sustainability issues is effective and that • Reducing CO2 emissions with the areas identified based on dialogues that have been progress is being made. • Occupational health and safety conducted. Within parentheses, it is stated whether Scandic alone has control over an issue or whether other stakeholders Corporate customers • Fair working conditions also have a major impact. • Occupational health and safety • Choosing interiors with consideration for environmental impacts M ATE R I A LIT Y A N A LYS I S ESG analysts • Action to prevent trafficking/­ prostitution Areas where Scandic drives change • Diversity and inclusion (Scandic) • Reducing CO2 emissions Environmental issues – many of these areas • Health (Scandic) • Commitment of Board and E­ xecutive • Waste – reduction and recycling (Scandic and customers) Committee to sustainability are interconnected and when aggregated help • Energy – heating/cooling and electricity (Scandic and property owners) ­contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. • Food & beverage (Scandic) Business partners • Ensuring all employees have equal • CO2 (Scandic and customers) rights and opportunities Social issues – these are especially important • Water (Scandic and customers) for Scandic as part of the service industry and • Action to prevent trafficking/­ • Materials & construction (Scandic and property owners) prostitution in its role as a driver of integration in society. • Fair working conditions Areas where Scandic strives for • Anti-trafficking (Scandic and customers) excellence every day • Fair and decent working conditions (Scandic) • Health and safety – employees (Scandic and customers) These key areas are integrated in Scandic’s • Hotel safety (Scandic and customers) daily operations and must be fulfilled to • Equal opportunities (Scandic) ensure Scandic’s success. • Financial governance (Scandic) • Transparency (Scandic) • Anti-corruption (Scandic and suppliers) • Customer privacy (Scandic) GRI: 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 103-1/ -2/ -3 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 65 Sustainable footprint POLICIES THAT STEER SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Scandic has an established Code of Conduct that applies to all employees in both the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. It is based on the UN Global Compact principles dealing with the environment, anti-corruption, work environment, employees and human rights. All managers within the company are responsible for providing their team members with information about the content of the code. Thereafter, it is the responsibility of each manager and team to follow the content of the code in their everyday work. P O L I C I E S & F O L LO WU P All of Scandic’s policies have been adopted CO D E O F CO N DU C T SU PPLI E R by Scandic’s Board of Directors. Within the Owned by the CEO. CO D E O F CO N DU C T framework of all policies, team members are encouraged to first contact their managers Members of the Executive Committee are responsible Owned by the CFO. if they notice irregularities or if there are for implementation within their units. The Director Group Procurement and ­problems interpreting the content. Country Heads are responsible for implementation. UPDATED WHISTLEBLOWING A NTI CO R RU P TIO N ­SERVICE Owned by the CFO. If employees or external parties discover E N V I RO NME NT Members of the Executive Committee are responsible ­deviations from these policies, they can be for implementation within their units. Owned by the SVP HR & Sustainability. reported anonymously through Scandic’s Members of the Executive Committee Whistleblowing Service, which guarantees are responsible for implementation anonymity. Scandic also has a whistleblowing function made up of representatives from D I V E R S IT Y & within their units. Scandic’s Executive Committee and Board I N CLU S IO N of Directors to handle reported issues. Owned by the SVP HR & Sustainability. Members of the Executive Committee are responsible for implementation within their units. 66 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-16, 103-1/ -2/ -3 Sustainable footprint SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 67 Sustainable footprint GRI INDEX This is Scandic’s fourth Annual Sustainability Report. The report was prepared in accordance reports on emission factors for district ­heating and cooling. Waste data is based on a compiwith GRI G4, Level Core. The Sustainability Report can be found on pages 1–15 and 42–71 lation provided by Scandic’s waste management suppliers. Employee data is compiled using in this report and it fulfills the requirements for sustainability reporting as stipulated by the Scandic’s HR system and supplier data is compiled based on Scandic’s risk assessment Accounts Act. It also constitutes Scandic’s Communication on Progress (COP) to the Global tool. Customer satisfaction data is compiled from monthly customer surveys. Compact on the Signatory level. The sustainability information provided has been assured by Ethos International in accordance with AA1000AS. The report includes all of Scandic’s hotels CONTACT DETAILS operated under lease agreements in all countries of operation, as well as the Group’s support For questions regarding Scandic’s operational sustainability work, please contact Scandic’s offices. Scandic’s partner hotels and franchises are excluded as they act under their own Director Sustainable Business. Questions regarding Scandic’s Annual Report and Sustainability governance systems. When calculating environmentally-certified hotels, however, all hotels Report should be directed to the Investor Relations department at ir@scandichotels.com. are included. Both units are located at Scandic’s head office in Stockholm, Sweden The report refers to the period from J­ anuary 1 to December 31, 2018. The previous report was published on March 26, 2018 and the base year for environmental data is 2015. Emissions data is calculated based on the GHG protocol, supplier information and third-party GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure Page Comments/UNGC Disclosure Page Comments/UNGC GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Stakeholder engagement Organizational profile 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 65 102-1 Name of the organization 72 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 44 GC principle 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services II, III, 27 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 64–65 102-3 Location of headquarters 72 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 64–65 102-4 Location of operations 27, 77 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 64–65 102-5 Ownership and legal form 72 102-6 Markets served 27, 77 Reporting practice 102-7 Scale of the organization 27, 47, 77, 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 68, 72 94–95 financial statements 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 62–63 GC principle 6 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 64–65 102-9 Supply chain 61 102-47 List of material topics 65 102-10 Significant changes to the organization 72, 83 102-48 Restatements of information 68 and its supply chain 102-49 Changes in reporting 60, 68 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 61 GC principle 7 102-50 Reporting period 68 102-12 External initiatives 50–55 102-51 Date of most recent report 68 March 26, 2018 102-13 Membership of associations 56 102-52 Reporting cycle 68 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 68 Strategy & analysis 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 68 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3–5 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 68–70 Ethics & integrity 102-56 External assurance 68, 71 102-16 Values, principles, standards 42–43, 61, 66 GC principle 10 and norms of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure 82, 86–87 68 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-45, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-55, 102-56, 103-1/ -2/ -3 Sustainable footprint SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI standard Disclosure Page Comments/UNGC ECONOMIC Financial results GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 59, 64–66, 68 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 59 ENVIRONMENT Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 60, 64–66, 68 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 60 GC principle 7, 8 Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 60, 64–66, 68 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 60 GC principle 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 60 GC principle 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 60 GC principle 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 60 GC principle 8 Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 53, 64–66, 68 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 53 GC principle 8 Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 61, 64–66, 68 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 61 GC principle 8 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI: 102-55 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 69 Sustainable footprint GRI standard Disclosure Page Comments/UNGC SOCIAL ISSUES Employment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 46–47, 64–66, 68 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 46–47, 62–63 GC principle 6 Work environment, health and safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 44, 46–47, 64–66, 68 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communication 44, 46–47, 52 on occupational health and safety Training and education GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 44, 46–47, 64–66, 68 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 44, 63 GC principle 6 Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 44, 46–47, 51, 64–66, 68 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 62–63 GC principle 6 Human rights assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 52, 64–66, 68 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 52 Since 2015, all team members have been trained to detect ­trafficking, prostitution and other human rights violations at all of Scandic’s hotels. GC principle 1 Supplier social assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 / -2 / -3 61, 64–66, 68 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 61 GC principle 2 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-55 AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders in Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556703-1702 ENGAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY It is board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2018 on pages 1–15 and 42–70 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. THE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FARs auditing standard RevR 12 The auditors opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standars in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. OPINION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm April 4, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt Authorized public accountant Auditor in charge GRI: 102-56 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 71 ADMINISTRATION REPORT O P E R AT I O N S 2018 in summary Group key ratios, MSEK 2018 2017 Change, % • Net sales rose by 23.5 percent to 18,007 MSEK (14,582) driven by higher RevPAR and more rooms in operation. Financial key ratios Excluding the acquisition of Restel and currency effects, net Net sales 18,007 14,582 23.5 sales increased by 6.0 percent. For comparable units, net Adjusted EBITDA 1,957 1,573 24.4 sales went up 1.2 percent. Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 10.9 10.8 • Adjusted EBITDA was 1,957 MSEK (1,573), corresponding EBITDA 1,853 1,477 25.5 to a margin of 10.9 percent (10.8). EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 983 925 6.3 • Restel contributed 196 MSEK to adjusted EBITDA, corresponding to a margin of 9.1 percent. Profit/loss before taxes 810 800 1.3 • Earnings per share amounted to 6.54 SEK (6.86). Excluding Net profit/loss for the year 678 711 -4.6 items affecting comparability, effects from finance leases Earnings per share, SEK 6.54 6.86 -4.7 and currency effects from revaluation of loans, earnings per Hotel-related key ratios share rose by 7.5 percent. RevPAR (Revenue Per Available Room), SEK 683 680 0.4% ARR (Average Room Rate), SEK 1,045 1,012 3.2% OCC (Occupancy), % 65.3 67.1 Total number of rooms at year-end 51,693 42,659 21.2% Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) In Finland, the number of sold rooms increased by 0.3 percent HOTEL MARKET DEVELOPMENT IN THE Corp. Id. 556703-1702 during the year and RevPAR went up by 3.1 percent driven by NORDIC COUNTRIES 2018 1) The Board of Directors and the CEO of Scandic Hotels Group higher average room prices and higher occupancy. % AB (publ), with its registered office in Stockholm, hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for Seasonal variations 3.5 the 2018 financial year. Scandic operates in a sector affected by seasonal variations. 3.0 Revenues and earnings fluctuate during the year. The first 2.5 2.0 Operations quarter and other periods with low levels of business travel The company owns 100 percent of the Scandic Group through such as the summer months, Easter and Christmas/New Year’s 1.5 its wholly-owned subsidiary, Scandic Hotels Holding AB. Over are generally the weakest periods. The Easter holiday may fall 1.0 the year, Scandic conducted hotel operations in six countries: in both the first and second quarters, so this should be taken 0.5 Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, Germany and Poland. On into account when making comparisons between years. 0 the reporting date, Scandic had 51,693 rooms in operation at Approximately 70 percent of Scandic’s revenue comes from -0.5 268 hotels, of which 242 had lease agreements. business travel and conferences while the remaining 30 per-1.0 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland cent comes from leisure travel. Average room rates Occupancy RevPAR Nordic hotel market development Demand for hotel nights in the Nordic markets was good during Sales and profit/loss the year. In Sweden, the number of sold rooms increased by Net sales rose by 23.5 percent to 18,007 MSEK (14,582). % 3.4 percent and RevPAR went up 2.9 percent with a slight The Restel acquisition is included in the income statement as 4 increase in both occupancy and average room prices. In Stockof January 1, 2018, and the contribution to net sales was 3 holm, the rate of increase in the number of available rooms 2,148 MSEK during the year. Sales for comparable units grew went down gradually during the year, which resulted in a good by 1.2 percent. 2 balance in supply and demand during the latter part of the year. Currency effects impacted net sales positively by 2.8 percent. In the Norwegian market, the number of sold rooms Organic growth, revenue growth exclusive of currency effects 1 increased by 2.8 percent and RevPAR grew 1.8 percent and acquisitions, was 6.0 percent or 861 MSEK. with an increase in average room prices and slightly lower Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) dropped by 0 ­occupancy. 2.4 percent in local currency compared with the previous year. In the Danish market, the number of sold rooms went up RevPAR was affected negatively by Restel, which has lower -1 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland by 1.0 percent while RevPAR climbed 2.0 percent driven by average RevPAR than Scandic Finland. For comparable units, Sold rooms Available rooms RevPAR strong development in Copenhagen. Average room prices and RevPAR grew by 1.1 percent. RevPAR for comparable units occupancy went up slightly in Denmark. grew in all market segments except Sweden, and Finland 1) Source: Benchmarking Alliance. ­contributed particularly strong growth. 72 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-1, 102-3, 102-5, 102-10, 102-45 Revenue from restaurant and conference operations grew by The Group’s net financial expense amounted to 173 MSEK Growth in RevPAR and net sales compared with 2017 20.8 percent and the share of total net sales was 32.6 percent (-124). The interest expense, excluding the effect of finance RevPAR, RevPAR, Net sales, Net sales, (33.3). leases, was -116 MSEK (-110). The loan agreement concluded Jan–Dec 2018 SEK % MSEK % Rental costs excluding finance leases accounted for 26.5 on June 22, 2017 and the establishment of a commercial percent (25.8) of net sales and grew to 26.0 percent, excluding paper program as of March 2018 reduced the average interest Currency effects 19 2.8% 416 2.8% Restel. Fixed and guaranteed rental costs were 65.0 percent on loans, counteracting the effect of higher interest expenses Acquisitions -23 -3.4% 2,148 14.7% (61.7) of total rental costs. The increase is due to the former due to the higher loan volume after the Restel acquisition. Organic growth 7 1.0% 861 6.0% Restel hotels’ higher share of fixed rental costs. Excluding Restel, The result of exchange rate fluctuations from the revaluation New hotels 0 0.0% 897 6.2% the share of fixed rental costs fell as a result of increased sales of loans and investments amounted to 3 MSEK (-23). Divested hotels -1 -0.1% -205 -1.4% and additional contracts with lower or no guarantee levels. Profit/loss before tax was 810 MSEK (800). Finance leases Central costs and Group adjustments declined to affected the profit before tax by -28 MSEK during the year. LFL 8 1.1% 169 1.2% 349 MSEK (401). As of July 1, 2018, hedge accounting is Reported tax amounted to -132 MSEK (-90). In June 2018, Reported growth 3 0.4% 3,425 23.5% applied to forward contracts for electricity. Thereafter, only a the Swedish parliament decided to reduce the corporate tax LFL contribution to growth = LFL portfolio change in RevPAR and net sales in marginal part of the change in market value for such instruin two steps, from 22 percent to 20.6 percent, from 2021. relation to the total portfolio. ments will be recognized in the income statement. The market Reported tax was affected positively by approximately 40 revaluation of forward contracts for electricity had a positive MSEK due to the decision to reduce corporate tax, as the net Financial targets effect of 43 MSEK (4) on the profit. deferred tax liabilities were valued at the lower tax rate. At the beginning of 2016, Scandic adopted the following Adjusted EBITDA rose to 1,957 MSEK (1,573). The adjusted Net profit dropped to 678 MSEK (711). Earnings per share ­financial targets: EBITDA margin grew to 10.9 percent (10.8). Performance after dilution totaled 6.54 SEK per share (6.86). Excluding • Annual net sales growth of at least 5 percent on average improved in all segments mainly due to the greater number of ­currency effects related to the revaluation of loans and the over a business cycle, excluding potential M&As. rooms in operation. Restel contributed 196 MSEK to the effect of finance leases, earnings per share after dilution • An adjusted EBITDA margin of at least 11 percent on Group’s adjusted EBITDA during the year. Currency translation amounted to 6.74 SEK (7.04). Integration costs attributable to ­average over a business cycle. effects had a positive impact of 56 MSEK on adjusted EBITDA Restel had a negative impact on earnings per share. Underlying • Net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA of 2 to 3x. compared with the previous year. earnings per share adjusted for items affecting comparability • The dividend shall amount to 50 percent of the year’s Pre-opening costs for new hotels totaled -92 MSEK (-67). increased to 7.81 (7.27). results. For 2018, the Board of Directors proposes that the Items affecting comparability amounted to -141 MSEK Annual General Meeting resolve on a dividend of 3.50 SEK (-30) comprising integration costs of 133 MSEK related to the Adjusted EBITDA (3.40) per share. The dividend will be paid out in two ­equal Restel acquisition, transaction costs of 2 MSEK and restructuring MSEK 2018 2017 amounts on two occasions during the year. costs of 6 MSEK related to changes to the commercial organization. EBITDA 1,853 1,477 EBITDA was 1,853 MSEK (1,477). EBIT amounted to Effect of finance leases, fixed and 983 MSEK (925). The EBIT margin was 5.5 percent (6.3) and ­guaranteed rental costs -129 0 depreciation and amortization totaled -870 MSEK (-553). The Pre-opening costs 92 67 increase in depreciation and amortization is largely due to the Items affecting comparability 141 30 depreciation and amortization of assets from the Restel acquisition. Finance leases affected EBIT positively by 40 MSEK during Adjusted EBITDA 1,957 1,573 the year. RevPAR, SCANDIC AVERAGE ROOM RATES, SCANDIC OCCUPANCY, SCANDIC SEK SEK % 800 1,200 70 700 1,000 60 600 800 500 50 400 600 300 40 400 200 200 30 100 0 0 20 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 73 Five-year summary SEGMENT MSEK 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Sweden Jan – Dec Jan – Dec Change, Financial key ratios – income statement MSEK 2018 2017 % Net sales 18,007 14,582 13,082 12,192 10,826 Net sales 6,275 5,977 5.0 Net sales growth, % 23.5 11.5 7.3 12.6 37.4 Net sales growth, % 5.0 6.0 Net sales growth LFL, % 1.2 4.7 6.6 7.3 4.5 Organic growth, % 5.0 6.0 Adjusted EBITDA 1,957 1,573 1,513 1,246 1,019 Net sales growth LFL, % 0.6 1.7 EBITDA 1,853 1,477 1,462 1,114 686 Adjusted EBITDA 910 878 3.6 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 983 925 925 613 211 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 14.5 14.7 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 10.9 10.8 11.6 10.2 9.4 RevPAR, SEK 719 710 1.3 EBITDA margin, % 10.3 10.1 11.2 9.1 6.3 ARR, SEK 1,054 1,029 2.4 Operating margin (EBIT), % 5.5 6.3 7.1 5.0 1.9 OCC, % 68.2 68.9 Profit/loss for the year attributable to the Parent Company 674 707 879 117 -439 Financial key ratios – financial position Net sales rose by 5.0 percent to 6,275 MSEK (5,977). Net Balance sheet total 17,737 16,964 14,144 12,900 13,456 sales for comparable units grew by 0.6 percent. During the first quarter, market capacity in Stockholm grew more than the Equity 7,806 7,356 7,103 6,205 3,614 number of sold rooms. From the second quarter, the balance Working capital -1,575 -1,501 -1,161 -1,132 -909 between supply and demand has improved every quarter. Interest-bearing net liabilities 3,837 3,629 2,709 3,355 6,073 Organic growth was 5.0 percent or 298 MSEK. The greatest Interest-bearing net liabilities/adjusted EBITDA 2.0 2.3 1.8 2.7 6.0 contribution to sales was from Downtown Camper by Scandic, which opened in Stockholm on September 1, 2017. Cash flow from operating activities 1,723 1,544 1,609 1,186 790 Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) increased Operating cash flow 469 -549 890 401 -1,596 by 1.3 percent compared with the same period the previous Operating cash flow, excluding effects from year. For comparable units, RevPAR fell by 0.3 percent. finance leases 340 -549 890 401 -1,596 Adjusted EBITDA rose to 910 MSEK (878). The adjusted EBITDA margin fell from 14.7 percent to 14.5 percent. Key ratios per share ­Measures implemented at the beginning of the year to adapt Average number of shares after dilution 103,075,976 103,003,004 102,457,837 81,826,211 81,826,211 costs had a positive effect. Earnings per share, SEK 6.54 6.86 8.58 1.43 -5.36 Norway Equity/share, SEK 75.4 71.4 69.3 75.8 44.2 Jan – Dec Jan – Dec Change, Hotel-related key ratios MSEK 2018 2017 % RevPAR (Average Revenue Per Available Room), SEK 683 680 643 601 574 Net sales 5,116 4,586 11.6 ARR (Average Room Rate), SEK 1,045 1,012 976 934 927 Net sales growth, % 11.6 22.5 OCC (Occupancy), % 65.3 67.1 65.9 64.4 61.8 Organic growth 8.1 22.5 Net sales growth LFL, % 0.9 9.4 Adjusted EBITDA 502 490 2.4 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 9.8 10.7 RevPAR, SEK 646 617 4.8 ARR, SEK 1,044 988 5.6 OCC, % 61.9 62.4 Net sales rose by 11.6 percent to 5,116 MSEK (4,586). Net sales for comparable units grew by 0.9 percent. Organic growth was 8.1 percent or 371 MSEK. The greatest contributors were Scandic Lillestrøm, which opened on January 9, 2018, Hotel Norge by Scandic in Bergen, which opened on July 1, 2018, and Scandic Flesland Airport in Bergen, which opened on April 3, 2017. Other contributors were Grand Hotel Oslo and another four hotels that were added in the Pandox and Eiendomsspar transaction, which was implemented in the second quarter 2017. 74 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) grew by Other Europe On December 31, 2018, the average number of shares and 1.2 percent in local currency compared with the previous year. votes was 103,075,976 after dilution. Equity was 7,806 MSEK Jan – Dec Jan – Dec Change, For comparable units, RevPAR grew by 1.6 percent. MSEK 2018 2017 % compared with 7,356 MSEK on December 31, 2017. Adjusted EBITDA rose to 502 MSEK (490). The increase is chiefly due to positive currency effects. Net sales 2,448 2,104 16.4 Cash flow and liquidity The adjusted EBITDA margin fell to 9.8 percent (10.7). The Net sales growth, % 16.4 7.9 Operating cash flow excluding finance leases amounted to margin was negatively affected by the initially lower margin for Organic growth 10.0 7.9 340 MSEK (-549) during the period. The cash flow contribution the new hotels. Hotel Norge by Scandic in Bergen had a negafrom the change in working capital amounted to 45 MSEK (196). Net sales growth LFL, % 0.6 2.3 The Group has negative working capital as the majority of the tive impact on EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA 304 267 13.9 revenue is paid in advance or in direct connection with stays. Finland Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 12.4 12.7 Paid tax amounted to -174 MSEK (-125). The decision on RevPAR, SEK 811 753 7.7 ­supplementary taxation in Finland for the 2008 tax year, which Jan – Dec Jan – Dec Change, Scandic received in October 2017, was confirmed by a unanimous MSEK 2018 2017 % ARR, SEK 1,100 1,023 7.5 Adjustment Board in June 2018. The total amount, including Net sales 4,168 1,915 117.7 OCC, % 73.7 73.6 taxes, fees and interest, of approximately 96 MSEK paid by Net sales growth, % 117.7 9.4 Scandic in November 2017 was reduced by approximately Net sales rose by 16.4 percent to 2,448 MSEK (2,104). Net 8 MSEK in fees. In 2018, the Adjustment Board also confirmed Organic growth -1.1 9.4 sales for comparable units grew by 0.6 percent. the supplementary taxation for the years 2009–2017, of which Net sales growth LFL, % 4.1 7.1 Organic growth was 10.0 percent or 211 MSEK. Scandic 99 MSEK (2009–2011) was paid in August 2018 and the Adjusted EBITDA 590 339 74.0 Sluseholmen in Copenhagen, Scandic The Mayor in Aarhus, remaining amount of approximately 180 MSEK (2012–2017) Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 14.2 17.7 Scandic Frankfurt Museumsufer and Scandic Kødbyen in was paid by Scandic in January 2019. RevPAR, SEK 612 663 -7.7 Copenhagen were the greatest contributors to the increase. Scandic and its tax advisors are of the opinion that the company Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) grew by has complied with applicable legislation and, accordingly, that the ARR, SEK 1,001 1,000 0.1 1.3 percent in local currency compared with the corresponding decision is incorrect. The company has appealed the decision and OCC, % 61.1 66.3 period in the previous year. For comparable units, RevPAR grew requested that the tax decision be rejected in its entirety. The by 1.3 percent. The trend in Germany was positive, while the company does therefore not include any cost for the taxes in the The Restel acquisition is included in the income statement as development in Poland and Denmark was marginally negative. accounts. of January 1, 2018. Since early June, all of the Cumulus hotels Adjusted EBITDA rose to 304 MSEK (267). Based on the Adjustment Board’s decision, Scandic’s prelimihave been operated under the Scandic brand. Cost synergies The adjusted EBITDA margin fell to 12.4 percent (12.7). nary assessment is that the total exposure for the years 2008– within marketing, sales, purchasing and IT have been identified 2017 is approximately 370 MSEK including interest, which is and are starting to have a positive effect. In the fourth quarter, Central functions ­recognized as a contingent liability. all elements of the integration of Restel were completed. InteAdjusted EBITDA for central functions was -349 MSEK (-401) Net investments during the period amounted to -1,254 MSEK gration costs for Restel amounted to 127 MSEK and are recogduring the year. From July 1, 2018, hedge accounting is (-2,093), of which hotel renovations accounted for -708 MSEK nized in items affecting comparability, while investments in applied to forward contracts for electricity. Thereafter, only a (-618) and IT for -93 MSEK (-55). Investments in new hotels and connection with the rebranding of hotels to the Scandic brand marginal part of the change in market value for such instruincreased room capacity totaled -415 MSEK (-291). During the and system integrations were 31 MSEK. The acquired hotels ments will be recognized in the income statement. The market period, adjusted consideration and transaction costs for Restel of contributed 2,148 MSEK to net sales over the year and made value of forward contracts for electricity had a positive impact -54 MSEK were paid (-1,146) and two hotels in Finland were a positive contribution of 196 MSEK to adjusted EBITDA. of 43 MSEK (4) on profit for the year. The effect of the market divested for 16 MSEK. Net sales rose by a total of 117.7 percent to 4,168 MSEK valuation on profits is almost exclusively attributable to the Cash flow from financing activities amounted to -482 MSEK (1,915). Net sales for comparable units grew by 4.1 percent. period prior to the introduction of hedge accounting. over the period (-372). The change is chiefly due to the effect of Organic growth was -1.1 percent or -19 MSEK. Scandic finance leases and an increase in net borrowing, where the Helsinki Airport, which opened at the end of the first quarter, Financial position ­utilization of the loan agreement declined by -877 MSEK while has contributed positively while Scandic Marski was closed for The balance sheet total on December 31, 2018 was 17,737 commercial papers of 1,000 MSEK were issued. Scandic has renovations in 2018. MSEK, compared with 16,964 MSEK on December 31, 2017. established a 2,000 MSEK Swedish commercial paper program. Average Revenue Per Available Room (RevPAR) dropped by In connection with the Restel acquisition, a finance lease The issued commercial papers have a maturity from three months 14.2 percent in local currency compared with the correspondliability was identified in relation to hotel property leases that to one year. C ­ ommercial papers in issue impact the total credit line ing period in the previous year. For comparable units, RevPAR at December 31, 2018 amounted to 1,677 MSEK and correand replace other short-term financing intended for short-term grew by 4.6 percent. sponding tangible fixed assets. Finance lease liabilities are not ­financing of the working capital requirement and have reduced Adjusted EBITDA rose to 590 MSEK (339). included in the d­ efinition of interest-bearing net debt. Scandic’s financing costs Interest-bearing net liabilities increased in the period from On June 22, 2017, Scandic Hotels Group AB entered into 3,629 MSEK on December 31, 2017 to 3,837 MSEK on a 5,000 MSEK loan agreement. On February 15, 2018, it was December 31, 2018. The increase is explained by a high level agreed to amend the loan agreement, increasing the total credit of investments, expenditures related to the integration of ­Restel, line by 500 MSEK. As of December 2018, the amendment is currency effects and dividend payments. included in the regular loan agreement, which now amounts to Loans from credit institutions amounted to 2,940 MSEK 5,500 MSEK. It remains applicable until June 22, 2021 and may and commercial papers totaled 1,000 MSEK at the end of the be extended by another year. period. Net debt on December 31, 2018 corresponded to 2.0x adjusted EBITDA for the past twelve months (2.3x as per December 31, 2017). SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 75 At the end of the period, the Group had 103 MSEK (140) in Acquisitions and divestments Research and development cash and cash equivalents. Unused credit facilities totaled On June 21, 2017, the Scandic Group entered into an agreeNo R&D work was carried out during the year since the opera1,522 MSEK (1,182). Hence, available funds amounted to ment to acquire 100 percent of the shares in Restel Hotellit Oy. tions of the company are not of the type requiring R&D. 1,625 MSEK (1,322). On December 29, 2017, the Scandic Group completed the acquisition for a preliminary purchase price of 1,160 MSEK. Share and ownership structure Total rental costs In 2018, the purchase price was adjusted to 1,177 MSEK after Scandic’s share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid MSEK 2018 2017 a complete reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents, workCap list since December 2, 2015. According to the company’s ing capital and investments compared with the targets for each share register kept by Euroclear Sweden AB, Scandic had Fixed and guaranteed rental costs accorditem as stated in the acquisition agreement. Restel’s operations 14,427 shareholders at the end of 2018. All shares have equal ing to the income statement -2,968 -2,323 comprised 43 hotels in Finland, of which seven were operated voting rights, the same share of assets and profit and a right to Fixed and guaranteed rental costs, through franchise agreements with InterContinental Hotels the same dividend. Of the total share capital, Stena Sessan AB reversed effect of finance leases -129 0 Group. Most hotels were operated under the Cumulus brand, is the largest shareholder with 17.4 percent of the votes and Total fixed and guaranteed and these were rebranded as Scandic hotels during 2018. capital. Rolf Lundström, through Novobis AB and private holdrental costs -3,097 -2,323 Transaction costs of -2 MSEK and integration costs of ings, is the second largest shareholder with 16.3 percent of the Variable rental costs -1,667 -1,442 133 MSEK were included in items affecting comparability in votes and capital. Scandic has entered into a share swap the Group’s income statement as at December 31, 2018. For agreement with a third party to ensure the delivery of shares Total rental costs -4,764 -3,765 more information, see Note 7. that may be allotted according to the long-term incentive proFixed and guaranteed rental costs of net The Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority’s approval gram, LTIP. If the full number of matching shares and perforsales 17.2% 15.9% of Scandic’s acquisition of Restel was subject to the condition mance shares is allotted, the total number of shares allotted Variable rental costs of net sales 9.3% 9.9% that Scandic must divest three hotels: one in Lahti, one in Pori according to the LTIP will be 579,546, which ­corresponds Total rental costs of net sales 26.5% 25.8% and one in Kuopio. On June 20, 2018, the sale of Cumulus Pori to approximately 0.6 percent of Scandic’s share ­capital and was announced and on August 30, 2018, an agreement to sell votes. Effect of finance leases the hotel operations of Cumulus Kuopio was concluded. The The following items in Profit/loss have been affected by finance sale of both hotels was made with no capital gain or loss. Risks and risk management lease accounting: Scandic has initiated the process of divesting Scandic Lahti. A description of Scandic’s significant risks and uncertainties is ­provided in the Risks and risk management section on pages MSEK 2018 2017 Portfolio development 78–81. Fixed and guaranteed rental costs 129 0 At year-end, Scandic had 51,693 rooms in operation at Depreciations -89 0 268 hotels, of which 242 had lease agreements. During the Employees year, the number of hotels increased by a net of 39 and the The average number of employees was 11,560 on December Effect of finance lease accounting number of rooms by 1,710. New hotels in operation during the 31, 2018 compared with 9,929 on December 31, 2017. Scandic on EBIT 40 0 year were Scandic Helsinki Airport, Finland (150 rooms), aims to be an equal opportunity employer and to provide a safe Financial expenses -68 0 ­Scandic the Mayor, Denmark (162 rooms), Scandic Lilleström, work environment, which among other things is governed by Effect of finance lease accounting Norway (220 rooms), Scandic Museumsufer, Germany (293 the Group’s Code of Conduct. During the year, the annual on EBT -28 0 rooms), Holiday Inn West Ruoholahti, Finland (256 rooms), employee survey again showed good results and improvements Taxes 6 0 Scandic Hönefoss, Norway (83 rooms), Scandic Kødbyen, within leadership, motivation and commitment to the company. ­Denmark (370 rooms), Hotel Norge by Scandic, Norway According to the research company TNS Sifo, Scandic is ranked Total effect of finance lease ­accounting on Profit/loss -22 0 (303 rooms) and Scandic Brennemoen, Norway (100 rooms). as an “excellent” company from an employee perspective. INVESTMENTS, 5 YEARS NET SALES ADJUSTED EBITDA & MARGIN MSEK MSEK MSEK % 1,500 4.7% 3.7% 3.4% 4.2% 3.9% 20,000 2,000 16 1,200 16,000 1,500 12 900 12,000 1,000 8 600 8,000 500 4 300 4,000 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Renovations New hotels & expansions IT Adjusted EBITDA, MSEK Adjusted EBITDA margin, % % Renovations as a % of net sales 76 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Sustainability report of the LTIP has been hedged through Scandic’s entering into Parent Company Scandic has prepared a Sustainability Report in accordance a share swap agreement with a third party on market terms. The operations of the Parent Company, Scandic Hotels Group with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, which has been subSee Note 6 and the Corporate Governance Report on AB, include management services for the rest of the Group. mitted by the Board of Directors. The Sustainability Report is page 82 for further details. Revenues for the period amounted to 34 MSEK (54). Operating available on pages 1–15 and 42–70. The Sustainability Report profit was 1 MSEK (-17). The net financial expense for the covers the Parent Company and the Swedish subsidiaries. Events after the reporting date period was 143 MSEK (9). The Parent Company’s loss before In January, Scandic paid approximately 180 MSEK related to taxes was -1 MSEK (325). Executive Committee and Board of Directors a decision by the Adjustment Board regarding supplementary Scandic’s Executive Committee is diversified and has solid ­taxation in Finland for the years 2012 to 2017. Scandic and its Appropriation of profits experience from the hotel sector and consumer-oriented opertax advisors are of the opinion that the company has complied In accordance with the Board’s dividend policy adopted on Sepations in various markets. The Executive Committee comprises with applicable legislation and, accordingly, that the decision tember 14, 2015, Scandic aims to distribute at least 50 percent the CEO and 11 senior managers: The Chief Financial Officer is incorrect. The company has appealed the decision and of its net profit from the financial year 2016 onwards. (CFO), SVP HR & Sustainability, VP Business Development, requested that the tax decision be rejected in its entirety. The Decisions regarding appropriation of profits are made with Chief Customer Officer, Chief Information Officer, Chief company therefore does not include any cost for the taxes in the consideration for the company’s future profits, financial posi­Commercial Optimization Officer and the Group’s five country accounts. tion, capital requirements and macro-economic conditions. heads. Five nationalities are represented in the Executive On January 18, Scandic announced that Jens Mathiesen The Board of Directors proposes that the profits be distrib­Committee, which consists of nine men and two women. would take over from Even Frydenberg as President & CEO. uted as follows: At the Annual General Meeting held on April 26, 2018, Ingalill On February 7, Scandic signed an agreement to sell Scandic SEK Berglund, Per G. Braathen, Grant Hearn, Lottie Knutson, Christoffer Hasselbacken in Stockholm for approximately 230 MSEK with Lundström, Eva Moen Adolfsson, Fredrik Wirdenius and Martin an expected capital gain of about 180 MSEK. Dividend to shareholders, 3.50 SEK per share 360,477,763 Svalstedt were re-elected, and Frank Fiskers was appointed as To be carried forward 5,858,439,804 a member of the Board for the period up to the end of the next Outlook Total 6,218,884,567 Annual General Meeting. Per G. Braathen was appointed Chairman Scandic has a positive long-term view of its markets although of the Board. Frank Fiskers resigned prematurely as a member of growth in capacity at some destinations could have a tempoThe Board of Directors proposes that the dividend be paid in the Board at the end of November 2018. rary negative effect on the market balance during 2019. In two equal amounts of 1.75 SEK per share on two occasions. Oslo, capacity will increase at the beginning of the year and in The proposed record date for the first payment is May 9, 2019 Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives Copenhagen, a significant increase is expected from the second and for the second payment, October 28, 2019. Guidelines for remuneration and other terms and conditions quarter. At the same time, growth in supply in Stockholm and For more information, please see the following financial for the CEO and other senior managers were adopted at the Helsinki is expected to be at a relatively limited level in the statements and notes. Annual General Meeting held on April 26, 2018. See the coming year. ­Corporate Governance Report on page 82 for more information. For the first quarter 2019, like-for-like revenue growth is expected to be about 2 percent including calendar effects from Long-Term Incentive Program the fact that Easter fell partly in March in 2018. In addition, Scandic has a share-based long-term incentive program. having more rooms in operation is expected to contribute The expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted approximately 2 percentage points to sales growth. under the LTIP and the delivery of shares to the participants HOTELS & ROOMS IN OPERATION AND UNDER DEVELOPMENT Operational Under development Franchise and partner Lease agreements Management agreements ­agreements Owned Total Total Dec 31, 2018 Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Sweden 79 16,655 1 145 5 646 85 17,446 3 1,092 Norway 67 13,450 17 2,117 1 135 85 15,702 3 1,052 Denmark 25 4,411 1 210 26 4,621 3 1,325 Finland 65 12,139 1 67 66 12,206 4 1,446 Other Europe 6 1,718 6 1,718 2 740 Total 242 48,373 2 355 23 2,830 1 135 268 51,693 15 5,655 GRI: 102-4, 102-6, 102-7 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 77 R I S K S & R I S K M A N AG E M E N T All business activities are associated with risks. Scandic has developed processes to handle different types of risks. The ability to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks is an Risk management process identified is assigned to a designated manager who is responimportant part of the management and control of Scandic’s Scandic has established a risk management process designed sible for proposing measures to fill any gaps and ensure the business operations. The aim is that the Group’s objectives to identify and reduce risks that can have an adverse effect on execution of action plans. Financial risks are managed by will be achieved through well-considered risk-taking within the Group’s earnings, cash flow, brand and reputation or longGroup Finance in accordance with Board-approved policies established limits. term competitiveness. The process that provides a framework and instructions and are reported by the Chief Financial Officer The risk management process includes strategic, operational for the Group’s risk management follows an annual cycle: to the Audit Committee. and financial risks. • The Executive Committee carries out risk mapping where Scandic has good underlying risk diversification in the form risks are identified and measured based on the probability Sustainability risks of a geographically diverse and balanced customer base. The that they will occur as well as the consequences of their During the year, an evaluation of sustainability risks was carried company operates primarily in the Nordic market through its occurrence on the Group’s operations and financial posiout. The evaluation considered all four areas of the UN Global hotels. Of the Group’s revenues, corporate travel accounts for tion. This results in a risk map where each risk is classified Compact: environment, human rights, labor and anti-corruption. approximately 70 percent and leisure travel for about 30 peras low, medium or high. The internal controls and the conThe results were included in Scandic’s work to develop its suscent. Scandic is not dependent on a specific industry or a few trol environment are then evaluated to ensure that relevant tainability strategy. The company’s business development and customers. controls are in place that can reduce risks both in terms of its operational and strategic decisions include sustainability as For a detailed description of internal controls designed to probability and consequences. a parameter that is evaluated based on opportunities and risks. manage risks relating to financial reporting, see pages 82–93 • Based on the Group’s risk profile and risk strategy, any gaps The management of sustainability risks is an integrated element in Scandic’s Corporate Governance Report. in relation to the desired level of control are identified. of the Group’s risk management process. Thereafter, an action plan is developed to reduce gaps where the value of reducing the risk is measured against Strategic and operational risks the cost of establishing and maintaining internal controls. The following pages provide a description of the most signifiRISK MAPPING • The structure and frequency of monitoring risk status and cant risks to which Scandic’s operations are exposed. These action plans is determined. Strategic risks are reported to are not the only risks and there may be other risks that are the Board and monitored in connection with strategy meet­currently considered immaterial that may have a negative ings, establishing business plans and regular Board meeteffect on the Group’s business, financial performance or position. ings. Financial risks are reported and monitored both in The order in which risks are presented should not be considACTION PLAN VALUATION AND financial reporting to the Board and at Audit Committee ered an indication of the probability of the occurrence of the TO REDUCE CLASSIFICATION meetings according to the agenda adopted at the Annual risk or the seriousness of the consequences. GAPS OF RISKS ANNUAL CYCLE General Meeting. Operational risks are managed by the Strategic risks include external factors that may affect Executive Committee, but more significant risks are Scandic’s business and long-term competitiveness as well as reported regularly to the Board. internal factors that could lower the prospects of achieving Scandic’s strategic business objectives. Operational risks are IDENTIFICATION EVALUATION Responsibility and monitoring risks over which Scandic has control and primarily include OF GAPS IN DESIRED OF INTERNAL The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring ­processes, assets and people. CONTROL LEVEL CONTROL that the Group has appropriate risk management structures in place. The Board is also responsible for following up on strateBusiness risk gic risks. The Audit Committee is responsible for evaluating the A change in RevPAR due to variable rental costs and variable efficacy of the structure and risk management processes. The costs will have an impact of approximately 45 to 65 percent on Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring financial EBITDA. Based on Group results and assuming that all other risks in accordance with the committee’s instructions. factors except RevPAR remain unchanged, Scandic assesses The President & CEO is responsible for managing risks in that an increase or decrease of 1 percent in RevPAR will have accordance with the guidelines adopted by the Board. The risk an impact of approximately 60 to 80 MSEK on EBITDA on an management process and work within specially identified risk annual basis, where the higher value relates to a change driven areas are driven centrally by the Group’s Chief Financial Offientirely by the average room rate and the lower value refers to cer, who has overall responsibility. Operational risks are mana change driven solely by occupancy. aged by the Executive Committee where each significant risk 78 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MARKET RISKS Risk management Scandic operates in a sector where demand for hotel nights Scandic operates in the mid-market hotel segment, which historically has demonstrated greater resilience in economic downturns. and conferences is influenced by the underlying domestic Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements where approximately 84 percent of the agreements have variable, development and purchasing power in the geographic mar­revenue-based rents. This results in lower profit risks since revenue losses are partly offset by reduced rental costs. Scandic’s kets in which Scandic does business, as well as development other expenses also include a high share of variable costs where above all, staffing flexibility is important to be able to adapt cost in countries from which there is a significant amount of travel levels to variations in demand. All together, this means that by having a flexible cost structure, Scandic can lessen the effects of to Scandic’s domestic markets. seasonal and economic fluctuations. Additionally, profitability in the sector is impacted by Scandic sells products to a wide range of customers and industries. The company has achieved a high percentage of satisfied changes in room capacity. When new hotels are established, and returning customers and guests. occupancy can decrease in the short term. In the long term, A significant share of distribution, just over 60 percent, is achieved through Scandic’s own channels, and a high level of however, greater availability of rooms can help generate inter­revenues from members of Scandic’s loyalty program contributes to revenue stability. Scandic invests regularly in achieving an est in particular destinations for business and leisure travel, optimal and customer-focused buying process and maintaining a leading digital dialogue with customers. To increase the inflow thereby increasing the number of hotel rooms sold. of international leisure travelers, distribution through digital channels with international reach is essential. Increased growth in apartment hotels and concepts such as Airbnb as well as the rising use of video conferencing may impact demand for traditional hotel and conference services. Competition from digital distribution channels and search engine companies may reduce traffic to Scandic’s own distribution channels, which could have a negative impact on Scandic’s operations and profitability. POLITICAL RISK, TAXES & DECISIONS OF AUTHORITIES Risk management Changes in VAT or other taxes may affect demand for hotel Scandic operates only in countries that are politically mature and stable, which leads to a low political risk. Through geographic stays, conference facilities and restaurants. Changes in taxes, spread, the risk that changes to legislation and regulations in a single country may impact Scandic’s earnings negatively is social security fees and other fees that increase ­Scandic’s reduced. costs may have a negative effect on the Group’s results. During 2018, Scandic worked to implement routines and procedures to meet the new demands resulting from the introduction Scandic is also impacted by regulations and legislation of GDPR. on the EU and national levels. The EU introduced the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on May 25, 2018, which has led to stricter requirements on handling personal data. LEASE AGREEMENTS – FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Risk management Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements. The risk involved in long-term financial commitments is reduced through a high proportion of agreements with variable rent. These agreements are signed for a period of typically 15 to Of Scandic’s total lease agreements (based on the number of rooms), approximately 84 percent have fully variable rent or variable 20 years, with the option to extend in many cases. According rent with a minimum guaranteed rent. The latter is the most common contract model in the Nordic countries. to these agreements, the property owner and the tenant Revenue-based rent and joint investment responsibility mean that the property owner and tenant have a common interest in (Scandic) share responsibility for investments in and maintedeveloping and maintaining the property in order to increase guest satisfaction and generate revenue. Scandic prepares rolling plans nance of the property. Scandic’s commitment relates in for renovating and maintaining hotels to ensure their standard, attractiveness and ability to continue to generate good revenue. ­general to maintenance and replacement of finishes, furniAccording to Scandic’s portfolio strategy, the company only enters into lease agreements for hotels in markets that have good, ture, fixtures and equipment. Historically, these investments stable demand, that are in attractive locations and that have the scale and configuration that allow for good profitability and thereby have accounted for 3 to 4 percent of Scandic’s net sales. low commercial risk. Where these criteria are not met and the risk of entering into a lease agreement is deemed too high, a franchise agreement may be considered if the geographic location of the property has a strategic value or may contribute to increasing the value of Scandic’s loyalty program by improving geographic reach. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 79 BRAND & REPUTATION Risk management The hotel market is constantly evolving in terms of preferScandic is the leading brand in the Nordic countries and the Scandic brand is one of the Group’s most valuable assets. Scandic’s ences and customer behavior. For this reason, it is extremely loyalty program, Scandic Friends, is the largest in the Nordic hotel industry. In 2018, Scandic Friends generated about 35 percent important for a hotel company to ensure that its brand and of the Group’s revenues from accommodations. By owning its brand, Scandic can guarantee the consistency and quality of its content as well as its perceived position remain relevant and offerings and service and also ensure that the content and offering are constantly adapted to the demands and preferences of appreciated at all times. Maintaining the strength and releboth existing and new customers. vance of the Scandic brand and customer perception of Scandic’s Code of Conduct is based on social and environmental sustainability as well as ethical business conduct in all areas Scandic’s offering and concept is therefore critical to ensure of its operations. The Code applies to all employees and also places demands on Scandic’s suppliers and partners. long-term competitiveness. HUMAN RESOURCES & TALENT MANAGEMENT Risk management Scandic operates in the service industry where each cusScandic has a strong corporate culture and to strengthen it further, the company’s cultural platform has been implemented fully tomer and guest experience has a great impact on how the in the Group. Each year, Scandic conducts an employee survey that has a very high response rate and high scores when it comes Group’s offering, quality and service are perceived. to job satisfaction. The insight obtained through this survey is an important tool for continued improvement throughout the entire Employee engagement is a key driver in terms of customer organization. satisfaction and it is therefore also central to the Group’s Scandic develops leadership through regular evaluation and development programs at all levels of the organization, including long-term results. The ability to attract, develop and retain the Scandic Business School. Talent@Scandic is the Group’s program for training leaders and developing talents. talents and build a good service and corporate culture is therefore critical. SUSTAINABILITY Risk management Hotel security The risk of incidents associated with hotel security, such as Scandic has a security program that includes crisis management in the event of fire, accidents or terror incidents. The security fire, accidents involving staff or guests or terror incidents. program includes having AEDs (automated external defibrillators) in all hotels. All employees receive regular training and selfinspections are carried out twice per year. In 2018, an evaluation was carried out and measures were implemented to ensure that internal routines for security are optimal in all countries. Supply chains Scandic requires all suppliers to comply with the UN Global Scandic has a process where all suppliers are reviewed on the basis of different risk criteria during a procurement. If Scandic Compact criteria. In addition, Scandic has detailed requireidentifies a possible risk, careful checks are carried out covering all areas of sustainability. ments, including environmental aspects. There is a risk that suppliers do not comply with these high requirements. Working conditions There is a risk that working conditions do not reach the level Scandic carries out regular safety audits in all hotels to ensure employee safety. These are followed up with annual self-­ where the health and safety of employees can be guaranteed. inspections and evaluations by the employees of their physical and psychosocial work environment as part of the annual employee survey. In addition, Scandic has an anonymous whistleblowing system that enables employees and external parties to report gross deviations/incidents anonymously. 80 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY cont. Risk management Property ownership structure Scandic does not own any hotel properties. This means that Scandic is engaged in continuous dialogue with its property owners, encouraging them to implement measures to reduce their Scandic is dependent on the property owners implementing environmental impact. measures to reduce their environmental impact, such as systems for ventilation and heating. There is a risk that property owners may not want to make these types of investments, making it more difficult for Scandic to meet its CO2 emission targets. Corruption and fraud There is a risk that Scandic’s routines are not secure enough Scandic has internal rules and procedures in place that are intended to prevent corruption and fraud. Managers and leaders also to prevent corruption and/or fraud in various forms. receive training in these areas. Trafficking and prostitution Hotels are locations where prostitution and trafficking may In cooperation with the police, the employer organization, the unions and the authorities, Scandic has developed a training occur. This is a risk, as this type of activity attracts other program aimed at helping hotel employees detect if trafficking or prostitution is occurring at a hotel. This training is carried out forms of crime and poses a direct danger to victims. regularly. FINANCIAL RISKS Risk management The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: Risk management is handled by Group Finance in accordance with policies established by the Board of Directors. These include market risk (including exchange rate risk and interest rate overall risk management as well as risk management for specific areas such as exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial the use of derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity. Group Finance identifies, policy focuses on the unpredictability of the financial markets evaluates and hedges financial risks in close collaboration with the Group’s operating units. and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the For a description of financial risks and their management, see Notes 22b and 22c. Group’s financial result. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Scandic is a Swedish public limited liability company, with its registered office in Stockholm, whose shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Nordic Mid Cap list. Scandic applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and hereby submits its Corporate Governance Report for the 2018 financial year. THE BASIS OF SCANDIC’S CORPORATE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT SCANDIC GOVERNANCE Scandic’s corporate governance aims to support the Information ANNUAL GENERAL Decision NOMINATION Board of Directors and the Executive Committee so that Election MEETING Proposal COMMITTEE all operations create long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders. Governance includes upholding: • an efficient organizational structure; AUDIT COMMITTEE • systems for risk management and internal control; EXTERNAL AUDITOR Information BOARD OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE and • transparent internal and external reporting. Goals Strategies Reports GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Steering instruments Control Responsibility for the governance and control of Scandic is distributed between the shareholders, the Board of Directors, its appointed committees and the CEO. The governance of Scandic is based on external and internal PRESIDENT & CEO governance instruments. The external governance framework includes the Swedish Companies Act, ­Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) and other Chief Financial Senior Vice President Vice President Business Chief Information Chief Customer Chief Commercial applicable Swedish and foreign legislation and regulaOffier HR & Sustainability Development Officer Officer Optimization Officer tions. The internal binding governance instruments include the Articles of Association, the Rules of Procedure for Head of Sweden Head of Norway Head of Denmark Head of Finland Head of Europe the Board of Directors, instructions for the Board’s committees and the CEO, Scandic’s Code of Conduct, the authorization and delegation procedure, the Finance EXTERNAL STEERING INSTRUMENTS INTERNAL STEERING INSTRUMENTS Policy, the Information Policy and the Insider Policy. • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Annual Accounts Act • Rules of Procedure and Instructions DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE • Other applicable legislation for the CEO and the Board Scandic complies with the Swedish Corporate Gover• Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rulebook for Issuers • Values nance Code with the following exception: • The Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Code of Conduct • Rule 9.7: Incentive programs – To adapt the vesting • Policies and guidelines period for potential future share-related incentive programs, the vesting period in the Long-Term 82 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-18 I­ncentive Program implemented in December 2015 is voting rights, an equal share of assets and earnings and an • Per G. Braathen, Grant Hearn, Lottie Knutson, Eva Moen approximately 2.4 years and accordingly, it does not equal share of any dividends. Of the total share capital, Adolfsson, Fredrik Wirdenius, Ingalill Berglund, Martin meet the requirement that the vesting period to the date 64.1 percent was held by Swedish investors and 35.9 perSvalstedt and Christoffer Lundström were re-elected as for the acquisition of shares be no less than three years. cent by foreign investors. The ten largest shareholders repBoard members. Frank Fiskers was elected as a new The vesting period for the incentive program impleresented 61.1 percent of the share capital and votes in the member. Per G. Braathen was elected as Chairman of mented in December 2015 ended on April 26, 2018. The Company. At year-end, Stena Sessan was the largest sharethe Board. incentive programs that were launched in 2016–2018 holder with holdings corresponding to 17.4 percent of the • PricewaterhouseCoopers was reappointed as auditor, are compliant with the Code. Company’s share capital and votes. Rolf Lundström’s holdwith Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt as auditor-in-charge for the ings through Novobis and privately totaled 16.3 percent of period until the end of the Annual General Meeting 2019. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2018 the share capital and votes at year-end. • Remuneration to the Board of Directors and the auditor. At the Annual General Meeting 2018, Per G. Braathen was • Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives in elected as Chairman of the Board due to the fact that Vagn SHAREHOLDERS’ INFLUENCE THROUGH accordance with the proposal of the Board. Sørensen had announced that he would stand down as THE GENERAL MEETING • Adoption of the Long-Term Incentive Program and Chairman and member of the Board. Frank Fiskers was The shareholders exercise influence at the general meeting, ­hedging measures for the program in accordance elected as a Board member at the Annual General Meeting which is Scandic’s highest decision-making body. The genwith the proposal of the Board. 2018 and left the Board on November 30, 2018 due to haveral meeting adopts the Articles of Association and at the ing accepted a non-executive position at another company Annual General Meeting, which is the regular general meetANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2019 that was deemed incompatible with his directorship at ing held annually, the shareholders elect the Board members, Scandic’s Annual General Meeting 2019 will be held on Scandic Hotels. the Chairman of the Board and the auditor and determine May 7, 2019 in Stockholm. For more information, see During the year, Scandic announced changes to its Exectheir fees. The Annual General Meeting further adopts the page 137. utive Committee where the responsibilities of the previous income statement and the balance sheet and decides on the Chief Commercial Officer were divided into two functions: appropriation of profits and whether to discharge the Board NOMINATION COMMITTEE a Chief Customer Officer responsible for brand strategy, members and the CEO from liability to the Company. The The Nomination Committee represents the Company’s marketing and the loyalty program among other things, Annual General Meeting also appoints the Nomination shareholders and is tasked with preparing proposals for the and a Chief Commercial Optimization Officer responsible ­Committee, determines its work and adopts principles of Annual General Meeting regarding the election of the Chairman for distribution, revenue optimization and sales. In addition, remuneration and terms of employment for the CEO and of the Annual General Meeting, Board members, the Chairthe position of Chief Information Officer was established other senior executives. Scandic’s Annual General Meeting man of the Board and the auditor, as well as proposals for with responsibility for IT operations and development, is held annually in Stockholm before the end of June. Extraorfees to the Board of Directors, fees to the auditors and, to among other things. An Investment Committee was also dinary general meetings may be held as and when needed. the extent it is considered required, proposed changes to established to follow up on the Company’s investments and the instructions to the Nomination Committee. The Nominato provide input on investment criteria. In accordance with ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 tion Committee has adopted the guidelines stipulated in the proposal of the Board, the Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting held on April 26, 2018 in section 4.1 of the Code as the diversity policy as regards resolved unanimously to adopt a long-term incentive proStockholm, resolutions were passed on the following: the composition of the Board of Directors. Proposals should gram targeting a maximum of 80 senior executives and • Adoption of the income statement and balance sheet for be justified to reflect the requirement that the Board have a key employees in the Group. 2017. composition that is appropriate based on the Company’s • Decision in accordance with the Board of Directors’ proneeds, characterized by versatility and breadth. The NomiSHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS posal that a dividend of 3.40 SEK per share for the 2017 nation Committee strives to meet the Code’s requirements The Scandic share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s financial year be paid out in two separate payments and for an even gender distribution and diversity mainly with Nordic Mid Cap list since December 2, 2015. At year-end that the rest of the free equity be carried forward. regard to age, nationality and skills. 2018, the share capital of Scandic was 25.7 MSEK divided • Discharge of the Board of Directors and the CEO from The Company shall have a Nomination Committee coninto 102,985,075 shares with all shares conferring equal liability to the Company. sisting of the Chairman of the Board and a representative of GRI: 102-10 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 83 each of the three largest shareholders based on shareholder statistics from Euroclear Sweden AB as at the last banking day in August each year. The Nomination Committee’s term of office shall run until a new Nomination Committee has been appointed. Unless otherwise agreed by the members of the Nomination Committee, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee shall be the member who represents the largest shareholders based on the number of votes. If a shareholder should cease to be one of the three largest shareholders by number of votes during the Nomination Committee’s term of office, the representative appointed by the shareholder in question shall resign, and the shareholder that has become one of the three largest shareholders by 2018 number of votes shall appoint a representative. Such a change is not necessary if the change in votes is marginal or if it occurs later than three months prior to the Annual General Meeting, unless there are special reasons for such. JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN The names of the three shareholder representatives and the names of the share1 2 3 4 5 6 holders represented by them shall be announced no later than six months prior to the JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC Annual General Meeting. 7 8 9 10 The Nomination Committee for the Annual General Meeting 2019 The Nomination Committee for the Annual General Meeting 2019 consists of four 1 5 8 members and in addition to the Chairman of the Board of Directors includes representatives from the three largest shareholders as at August 31, 2018. The work of the Profit warning Statutory Board meeting, Approval of policies, investNomination Committee was led by Joel Lindeman of Novobis AB. The composition of approval of working procement decisions, review of the Nomination Committee was published in a press release on November 6, 2018. 2 dure, CEO instruction and financial targets, review of instructions to the commitDanish operations, % of the number of votes Q4 Report, investment tees (per capsulam) ­follow-up on organizational Nomination Committee Representing as at December 31, 2018 decision, follow-up on the changes Per G. Braathen ­Restel acquisition, organi6 Joel Lindeman Novobis AB 16.3 zational changes, outcome 9 Johan Wester Stena Sessan AB 17.4 from employee survey Strategy review, Investment Committee established Q3 Report, investment Trygve Hegnar Periscopus 5.0 3 investment decisions, risk ­decisions, review of loyalty In the work on nominations for the Annual General Meeting 2019, the Nomination analysis, review of Finnish ­program, review of overall Approval of documents for recruitment plan, talent and Committee has assessed the size and composition of the current Board of Directors as operations, follow-up on annual general meeting, succession planning the Restel acquisition well as Scandic’s operations. Special consideration was given to industry-specific and investment decisions financial expertise and an even gender distribution. The Nomination Committee com7 10 plies with the guidelines in the Code regarding Board member independence. Scan4 dic’s Diversity Policy was considered chiefly as regards equal gender distribution. The Q2 Report Investment decision, Q1 Report, review of Swed­budget for 2019, review of 2019 Nomination Committee held three meetings and maintained communication in ish operations, investment between. The Nomination Committee based its work on the Chairman of the Board’s Norwegian operations decisions, follow-up on report on the work of the Board of Directors and discussions with the CEO about the investments, renumeration operations of the Company. to the Executive CommitThe proposals of the Nomination Committee will be presented at the Annual tee, ­succession plan ­General Meeting 2019 and on Scandic’s website at scandichotelsgroup.com The reasoning behind the proposals, a report on the committee’s work and a full presentation of the proposed members will also be published on the site. The Nomination Committee can be reached at nominationcommittee@ scandichotels.com. For the Nomination Committee to ­consider suggestions, ­shareholders who wish to submit proposals may do so at any time before ­December 31. More information is available at scandichotelsgroup.com 84 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Since Frank Fiskers left the Board on November 30, 2018, other Board members are considered to be independent in The Board of Directors is responsible for Scandic’s organithe Board comprises eight members and one employee ­relation to the Company and the senior executives. Six of zation and the management of the Company’s affairs. representative elected for the period up until the end of the the eight Board members, who are independent in relation According to the Articles of Association, the Board of DirecAnnual General Meeting 2019. This means that there is to the Company and the senior executives, are also indetors shall consist of no fewer than three and no more than one vacant Board position prior to the Annual General pendent in relation to the Company’s major shareholders. eleven Board members, with no more than two alternates. Meeting 2019. Two of the eight Board members are foreign Scandic thereby complies with the requirements in the In addition, trade unions are entitled to appoint two regular nationals. The CEO and the Group’s Chief Financial Officer Code regarding the Board of Directors’ independence in Board members and two alternates. Board members are participate in Board meetings as well as the Board’s secretary. relation to the Company, the senior executives and the elected annually at the Annual General Meeting for the Other employees of the Group participate in Board meetings Company’s major shareholders. period up until the end of the subsequent Annual General to report on special matters as and when necessary. Meeting. Work of the Board of Directors Independence The duties of the Board of Directors are regulated in the Composition of the Board of Directors 2018 None of the Board members are employed by the Scandic Swedish Companies Act, the Company’s Articles of AssoThe Annual General Meeting 2018 elected nine Board Group. Frank Fiskers was deemed not independent in ciation and the Code. The work and procedures of the members and appointed one employee representative. ­relation to the Company and the senior executives. All Board of Directors are established annually in written Rules of Procedure. These rules govern the distribution of work and responsibilities among the Board members, the Composition of the Board of Directors, independence, attendance, committees and remuneration Chairman of the Board and the CEO, and the routines for financial reporting. The Board of Directors also adopts Independent in Independent in Committees, instructions for the committees of the Board of Directors. ­relation to the relation to the Attendance attendance Elected, ­company and largest shareand number and number Remuneration The duties of the Board of Directors include appointing Name Position year senior executives holders of meetings1) of ­meetings1) 2018 the CEO, adopting strategies, business plans, budgets, Vagn Sørensen Former 2007 Yes Yes 4 (10) 3 (6) Remuneration 320,833 interim reports, year-end accounts and annual reports as ­Chairman ­Committee well as adopting instructions, policies and guidelines. The Per G Braathen Chairman 2007 Yes Yes 10 (10) 3 (3) Investment 762,500 Board of Directors also monitors the financial performance ­Committee of the Company, ensures the quality of financial reporting 6 (6) Remuneration and internal control and evaluates the operations in rela­Committee tion to the objectives and guidelines adopted by the Board Ingalill Berglund Member 2016 Yes Yes 9 (10) 8 (8) Audit Committee 526,667 of Directors. The Board of Directors also resolves whether Frank Fiskers1) Member, 2018 No Yes 5 (10) 0 resigned to enter into or extend leases, franchise agreements and management agreements and whether significant investGrant Hearn Member 2014 Yes Yes 9 (10) 3 (3) Investment 451,667 ­Committee ments or changes in the Group’s organization and opera5 (6) Remuneration tions should be made. ­Committee The Chairman of the Board is responsible for the work Lottie Knutson Member 2015 Yes Yes 9 (10) 364,167 of the Board of Directors, including ensuring that the work Christoffer Lundström Member 2016 Yes No 10 (10) 8 (8) Audit Committee 418,334 of the Board of Directors is conducted efficiently and that Eva Moen Adolfsson Member 2014 Yes Yes 10 (10) 6 (6) Remuneration 439,167 it fulfils its obligations in accordance with applicable laws ­Committee and regulations. The Chairman of the Board shall, in close Martin Svalstedt Member 2017 Yes No 10 (10) 7 (8) Audit Committee 418,334 cooperation with the CEO, monitor the Company’s perfor3 (3)Investment mance and prepare and lead Board meetings. The Chair­Committee man of the Board is also responsible for ensuring that Fredrik Wirdenius Member 2015 Yes Yes 10 (10) 8 (8) Audit Committee 418,334 Board members evaluate their work annually and regularly 3 (3) Investment ­Committee receive the information required to conduct their work Marianne Sundelius Employee 2017 No Yes 10 (10) 40,000 ­efficiently. The Chairman of the Board represents the rep. ­Company vis-à-vis the shareholders. Total 4,160,003 1) Total number of meetings during the year. Frank Fiskers joined the Board on April 26, 2018 and left the Board on November 30, 2018. Vagn Sørensen stood down as Chairman and member of the Board at the Annual General Meeting held on April 26, 2018. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 85 Work during the year audits. The work of the committee aims to ensure compliInvestment Committee During the year, nine regular Board meetings were held, of ance with the adopted principles for financial reporting The Investment Committee was established in 2018 and which one per capsulam, and one extraordinary meeting. and internal control and that the Company’s relationship prepares decisions on issues related to investment proThe Board dealt with issues related to investment deciwith its auditors is appropriate for the purpose. posals such as new investments and extensions as well as sions and the work of the Investment Committee, property The Audit Committee shall also evaluate the audit and extensions of lease agreements. The Investment Commitdevelopment, policies, remuneration to senior executives, provide a report to the Nomination Committee. It shall also tee shall also continually evaluate hotel investments and the integration of Restel, market analysis and organizapropose auditors to the Nomination Committee. regularly review the development of the hotel portfolio, tional changes. The Audit Committee also follows up and comments on investment criteria and the process for managing the non-auditing related services that Scandic procures from Group’s investments. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF the Company’s auditor. The Investment Committee shall consist of at least ­DIRECTORS The Audit Committee shall consist of at least three three members of the Board elected at the annual general The Board of Directors has established three committees: members. The majority of the members shall be indepenmeeting. The Investment Committee consists of Grant Hearn the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and dent in relation to the Company and the senior executives, (Chairman), Per G. Braathen, Martin Svalstedt and Fredrik the Investment Committee. None of the committees are and at least one member shall be independent in relation Wirdenius. During 2018, the Investment Committee held authorized to make decisions, but they prepare matters to the Company, the Company’s senior executives and the three meetings. and present them to the Board of Directors for decisions. ­Company’s major shareholders. He or she shall also have The work of the committees is conducted in accordance experience in auditing or accounting. EVALUATION OF THE WORK OF THE with the written procedures for each committee, as The Audit Committee consists of Ingalill Berglund BOARD OF DIRECTORS adopted by the Board of Directors and the Rules of Proce(Chairman), Christoffer Lundström, Martin Svalstedt and The Chairman of the Board is responsible for evaluating dure for the Board. Fredrik Wirdenius. The requirements of the Swedish Comthe work of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors panies Act regarding independence and accounting or evaluates its work annually. This evaluation concerns the Remuneration Committee auditing expertise are thus met. procedure and main direction for the work of the Board of The Remuneration Committee prepares resolutions in matThe Audit Committee held eight meetings during the Directors. The evaluation also focuses on access to and ters involving remuneration principles, salaries, benefits year, six of which were attended by the Company’s auditor. the need for special expertise on the Board of Directors. and remuneration to the CEO and senior executives who The evaluation in 2018 was done through an extended are subordinate to the CEO. The Remuneration Committee The following matters were addressed at the Audit process in which all Board members answered questions shall also supervise and evaluate the outcome of programs ­Committee meetings: and took part in interviews with an external party. The for variable remuneration and the Company’s compliance • Interim reports – review prior to approval by the Board results were presented and discussed by the Board of with the guidelines for remuneration adopted at a general of Directors. Directors and the Nomination Committee. The evaluation meeting. • Status of internal control and risk analysis, and evaluawas used as a tool to develop the work of the Board of The Remuneration Committee shall consist of at least tion of the structures and efficiency of internal control. Directors and also constitutes support for the work of the three Board members elected at a general meeting. The • Auditors’ reports on the review of the annual accounts, Nomination Committee. Chairman of the Board may also be the Chairman of the the interim report for the third quarter, “early warning” Remuneration Committee. The other members of the comand internal control. Auditors mittee shall be independent in relation to the Company • Audit plan and auditors’ fees as well as evaluation of PricewaterhouseCoopers has been the Company’s auditor and its senior executives. the work and independence of the auditors. since 2012. At the Annual General Meeting held on The Remuneration Committee consists of Grant Hearn • Evaluation of the requirement for an internal audit April 26, 2018, PricewaterhouseCoopers was reappointed (Chairman), Per G. Braathen and Eva Moen Adolfsson. ­function for recommendation to the Board of Directors. as auditor, with Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt as the Auditor-­inThe Remuneration Committee held six meetings during • IT Security Policy – review prior to approval by the charge, for the time until the end of the Annual General the year. The committee conducted a review of the basic Board of Directors. Meeting 2019. Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt is an authorized remuneration for senior executives, the bonus program, • Status of ongoing disputes and legal matters – standing public accountant and a member of FAR. During 2018, the other remuneration and the Long-Term Incentive Program. item at all meetings. auditor reported observations on one occasion to the • The effects of upcoming changes in accounting principles Board of Directors. No members of the Executive CommitAudit Committee related to finance leasing. tee were present. Thereafter, the auditor participated in six The Audit Committee prepares the Board of Directors’ meetings with the Audit Committee. work on matters involving risk assessments, internal The Audit Committee evaluates the auditors’ work and ­control, internal audit, accounting, financial reporting and independence annually. 86 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-18 The auditor receives a fee for its work, according to a resolution of the Annual General Meeting. Information ANNUAL CYCLE OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE on auditors’ fees is provided in Note 4 on page 106. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE IMPLEMENTATION SELF-ASSESSMENT Scandic’s Executive Committee has solid experience from OF NEW PROCESSES the hotel sector and consumer-oriented operations in various markets. During the year, Scandic announced EXTERNAL AUDIT changes to its Executive Committee where the responsibilUPDATING OF SELF-ASSESSMENT ities of the previous Chief Commercial Officer were divided CHECKLIST into two functions: a Chief Customer Officer responsible ANNUAL CYCLE for brand strategy, marketing and the loyalty program INTERNAL AUDIT among other things and a Chief Commercial Optimization Officer responsible for distribution, revenue optimization UPDATING OF GUIDELINES, PROCESSES and sales. In addition, the position of Chief Information AND ROUTINES ANALYSIS OF RESULTS Officer was created with responsibility for IT operations and development, among other things. The Executive Committee consists of the CEO and RISK MANAGEMENT EVALUATION OF 11 senior executives: the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the PROCESS Senior Vice President Human Resources & Sustainability (SVP HR & Sustainability), the Vice President Business Development (VP Business Development), the Chief Customer Officer, the Chief Commercial Optimization Officer, Sustainability ment law, diversity and equality as well as for sustainability the Chief Information Officer and the Group’s five Country Sustainability is an integrated part of Scandic’s goveras a whole within Scandic. Heads. Five nationalities are represented in the Executive nance and reporting. The understanding of and commitCommittee, which is composed of ten men and two ment to challenges such as climate change, creating ethiSIGNIFICANT EVENTS HANDLED BY women. During the year, three new members joined the cal and safe workplaces and being a responsible purchasTHE CEO AND THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Executive Committee. See pages 92–93 for more informaing party are of major importance to the Group. In all of the IN 2018 tion about the Executive Committee. countries where Scandic conducts business, the Company During the year, Scandic announced changes to its Executive The CEO’s areas of responsibility and powers are govstrives to employ people who reflect the society in which Committee. In addition, the Executive Committee erned by the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors the hotels operate and discrimination and harassment are addressed issues related to the Company’s approval of and instructions for the CEO. The CEO is responsible for prohibited. In this context, Scandic’s governance docunew lease agreements, extensions of existing lease agreecommunicating and implementing Scandic’s strategy, ments are the Code of Conduct, the Code of Conduct for ments and the integration of Restel’s Finnish hotel operabusiness plans and other decisions in the organization. Suppliers, the Anti-Corruption Policy, the Environmental tions, organizational changes and commercial initiatives The CEO is also ultimately responsible for ensuring that Policy and the Diversity & Inclusion Policy. Scandic’s Diversuch as the new loyalty program. the governance, organization, risk management, internal sity & Inclusion Policy is an underlying policy for Scandic’s processes and IT infrastructure are satisfactory. Code of Conduct. The policy sets out that diversity contribGuidelines for remuneration to the CEO and senior To achieve economies of scale and ensure a consistent utes to business success and clearly stipulates that no executives offering, Scandic has gathered a number of support funcform of discrimination is accepted. At the Annual General Meeting held on April 26, 2018, tions centrally including accounting and finance, HR, purWhen appointing Board members, the Nomination guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employchasing, IT, marketing, product development, revenue Committee strives for diversity mainly with respect to genment for senior executives, including the CEO, were management, and restaurant and conference operations. der, age, nationality and skills. The Board of Directors has adopted. These guidelines are only applicable to new Personnel in charge of the various Group functions are joint responsibility for sustainability. Within the Executive employment agreements entered into between the Comalso responsible for developing Group-wide policies, Committee, sustainability is delegated to the heads of pany and the respective senior executives, which is why guidelines and working methods and for following up on each function: the CFO is responsible for anti-corruption there are employment agreements that were entered into and ensuring that the Group’s operations are conducted in and supplier control and the SVP HR & Sustainability is before the guidelines were introduced that do not fully compliance with adopted policies and standards. responsible for reporting and ESG information, employconform to the currently applicable guidelines. Scandic’s GRI: 102-18 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 87 senior executives are the members of the E­ xecutive Remuneration Scandic’s structure for internal control is based on the ­Committee. Following a resolution passed at the Annual For information on remuneration to the CEO and senior COSO model, the framework of which is applied to ScanGeneral Meeting held on April 26, 2018, the f­ ollowing executives, see Note 6 on pages108–110. dic’s operations and conditions. According to the COSO guidelines apply: model, a review and assessment is carried out within the Scandic shall offer terms that are in line with market Long-Term Incentive Program areas of control environment, risk assessment, control conditions and that enable the Company to recruit and Since the Company was listed in 2015, a perforactivities, information and communication and monitoring retain the managers required to meet its shortand longmance-based long-term incentive program has been activities. Based on this review, certain areas of developterm targets. Remuneration to senior executives may launched on an annual basis. The most recent program, ment are identified and prioritized in the ongoing work to ­consist of a fixed salary, variable salary, pension and other which was adopted at the Annual General Meeting held on maintain internal control. benefits. The fixed salary of the CEO and the senior execuApril 26, 2018, is described in Note 6 on pages 108–110. The procedures for internal control, risk assessment, tives shall be commensurate with market conditions and The program that was launched in December 2015 control activities and monitoring of financial reporting have reflect the demands and responsibility that the position expired on the date on which Scandic’s Interim Report for been devised to ensure reliable and relevant reporting and entails as well as individual performance. The fixed salary the first quarter 2018 was published. The goals and external financial reporting in accordance with the IFRS, of the CEO and the senior executives shall be reviewed degree to which the conditions for performance shares applicable laws and regulations and other requirements of annually. The variable salary of the CEO and the senior were met can be found in Scandic’s Interim Report for the companies listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. This work executives shall be based on the Company’s fulfillment of first quarter 2018. Results and the allotment of shares are involves the Board of Directors, the senior executives and criteria set out in advance. The variable salary shall described in Note 6 on pages 108–110. Terms and condiother employees. amount to no more than 60 percent of the fixed annual tions for the program can be found in Note 6 on pages The manner in which the Board of Directors monitors salary of the CEO and 35 to 50 percent of the fixed annual 108–110. and ensures the quality of internal control is documented salary of other senior executives. Long-term incentive proin the adopted Rules of Procedure for the Board of Direcgrams may be offered as a supplement to the above to Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives tors and the instructions for the Audit Committee. The create long-term commitment. before the Annual General Meeting 2019 Audit Committee’s duties include evaluating the CompaThe pension benefits to the CEO and other senior execThe Board of Directors has proposed that the Annual ny’s structure and guidelines for internal control. utives shall mainly consist of defined contribution pension ­General Meeting 2019 adopt guidelines that in all material Financial reporting to the Board of Directors is carried schemes, but they may also be defined benefit schemes if aspects correspond to the guidelines adopted at the out on a monthly basis according to a format described in required by a collective bargaining agreement. Fixed salary Annual General Meeting 2018. the CEO’s instructions for financial reporting. The Company’s during notice periods and severance pay, including CFO also conducts a review of the financial performance ­compensation for anti-competition restrictions, shall in THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT and latest forecast for the current year at each ­regular ­aggregate not exceed an amount corresponding to the ON INTERNAL CONTROL Board meeting. Drafts of interim reports are first presented fixed s­ alary for 18 months. The total severance pay for all This description has been prepared in compliance with the to the Audit Committee for discussion and consideration at members of the Executive Committee shall not exceed the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Corporate a committee meeting before they are presented to the fixed monthly salary for the remaining years until the Governance Code (the “Code”) and is therefore limited to Board of Directors for approval. employee reaches the age of 65. Other remuneration may internal control related to financial reporting. The report The internal financial reporting complies with a standardconsist of customary benefits, such as health insurance, has not been reviewed by the Company’s auditor. ized format where a common set of definitions and key which shall not constitute a significant part of the total According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, ratios is used for all subsidiaries and hotels. Reporting is remuneration. Additional remuneration may be paid in the Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that carried out through a Group-wide reporting system that extraordinary ­circumstances, provided such remuneration internal control mechanisms are developed, communiallows a high level of transparency and comparability of is intended to recruit or retain senior executives, and is cated to and understood by the employees of Scandic financial data. Financial performance is monitored through then to be agreed upon on a case-by-case basis. Such who carry out individual control measures, and for ensurmonthly reports from the subsidiaries and quarterly reviews extraordinary arrangements may include a lump sum cash ing that such control measures are carried out, monitored, where members of the Executive Committee, the central payment or a benefit package in the form of a relocation updated and maintained. accounting department and the relevant country manageallowance, income tax support or similar. Executives at all levels are responsible for ensuring that ment team participate. Detailed follow-up of key ratios for The Board of Directors has the right to deviate from the internal control mechanisms are established in their different parts of Scandic’s hotel operations enables benchabove-mentioned guidelines in individual cases if it is of respective areas and that these controls achieve the marking between hotels and also provides information the opinion that there are special reasons to do so. desired results. Scandic’s CFO is ultimately responsible for quickly on deviations in operating margins and operating For more information, see Note 6 on pages 108–110. ensuring that the monitoring of and the work on Scandic’s profit/loss compared to the expected outcome. This detailed internal control is conducted in the format determined by follow-up procedure is an important tool for ensuring the Board of Directors. ­internal control. 88 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Scandic uses BINC (Best in Class) which involves benchControl activities may be IT based or manual. To the fullest • Internal audit visits are carried out by employees at the marking key ratios for revenues, operational efficiency and extent possible, they shall be an integrated part of defined Company’s central accounting department for a numcustomer satisfaction where key ratios per hotel are comand documented processes and procedures. ber of hotels per year. These involves a control checkpared with other comparable hotels in a “BINC group.” The A number of control activities that are common to all list, spot checks within relevant areas and a general purpose is to create a tool to identify good examples and companies within the Group have been established. Some discussion with the general manager and department to stimulate learning and continual improvement of best of these are implemented on the hotel level while others heads to ensure the understanding of and compliance practices. are implemented in the centralized accounting departwith internal control. ments in each country. Control activities are described in The results of the self-assessments and onsite audits are Control environment Group-wide instructions. reported by the local heads of finance to the management The control environment forms the basis of internal control team of the country in question. The results are reported of financial reporting. An important element of the control Information and communication by the Group’s CFO to the Audit Committee, together with environment is that channels for decision-making, authorThe part of Scandic’s governance documents in the form a report of measures undertaken to improve internal control ity and responsibility are clearly defined and communiof policies, guidelines and manuals that involve financial if the results indicate that there is a need to do so either at cated between different levels of the organization and that reporting is chiefly communicated via monthly meetings at the hotel level or in general. governance documents in the form of internal policies and which all financial managers participate and via the Group’s As part of their review, external auditors make additional guidelines are available. A good control environment is crefinance handbook. The finance handbook is published on hotel visits during which they test controls according to the ated through communication and training to ensure underthe Group’s intranet and is updated regularly based on internal checklist. The aim is that these onsite audits by standing of and compliance with policies and regulatory changes in external requirements and in Scandic’s both Scandic’s accounting department and external auditors frameworks. The control environment is strengthened by a ­operations. shall cover approximately one-third of all hotels every year. positive corporate culture and the transparent and relevant Communication with internal and external parties is monitoring of financial performance and key ratios at all levgoverned by a Communication Policy that provides guideInternal audit els in the Group. lines on how such communication should be conducted. Based on the Audit Committee’s evaluation, the Board of The purpose of the policy is to ensure compliance with all Directors has decided not to establish a separate internal Risk assessment disclosure requirements in a correct and complete manner. audit function. The decision is based on the assessment Internal control is based on a risk analysis. The risk analysis Internal communication aims to ensure that each that the existing process for internal control is well estabrelated to internal control and the risk of errors in the employee understands Scandic’s values and business lished, efficient and supported by a good control environfinancial reporting form a part of the risk analysis that the operations. To achieve the aim of informed employees, ment, a clear governance model and well-functioning regular Executive Committee performs and presents to the Audit work is carried out internally and information is communifinancial monitoring. The Board of Directors evaluates the Committee and Board of Directors annually. This analysis cated regularly via the Group’s intranet. need for a special internal audit function annually. identifies and evaluates risks based on their likelihood of occurring and the potential impact of their occurance on Monitoring Measures in 2018 the operations and financial position of the Group. ThereScandic’s accounting functions are integrated through Scandic works continously with risk mitigation to face a after, the Group’s internal controls and control environa common finance and accounting system and common changed environment. Scandic continued to focus its risk ment are evaluated and any gaps compared with the accounting instructions. The Board of Directors and the analysis to gain a better understanding of financial reportdesired level of control are identified. An action plan aimed Executive Committee regularly receive information on the ing and analysis. Special focus was put on IT security and at reducing gaps is established where the value of and Group’s performance and financial position and the developthe new GDPR regulations. The work of the Board of Direcpossibility to reduce the risk is weighed against the cost ment of its operations. The efficiency of the internal control tors and its committees focused chiefly on market analysis of establishing and maintaining internal controls. Based on is evaluated annually by the Company and the Audit and business intelligence. Self-assessment for internal the risk analysis, control activities are designed to reduce Committee. It is also reviewed by the external auditors. control was discussed regularly by the Audit Committee. risk at a reasonable cost. The activities shall also contribute The result of the evaluation forms the basis for improveto improved internal procedures and operational efficiency. ments to processes and controls for subsequent years. Internal control on the hotel and country levels is moniControl activities tored through self-assessments and onsite audits. Scandic’s internal control is based on the Company’s • All hotels conduct self-assessments at least once a established channels for decisions and the delegation year based on a Group-wide checklist with mandatory and authorization procedures documented in governing and recommended controls. policies and guidelines. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 89 BOARD OF DIRECTORS PER G. BRAATHEN EVA MOEN ADOLFSSON INGALILL BERGLUND GRANT HEARN LOTTIE KNUTSON Chairman of the Board since 2018. Member of the Board since 2014. Member of the Board since 2016. Member of the Board since 2014. Member of the Board since 2015. ­Member of the Board since 2007. ­Member of Remuneration Committee. ­Chairman of Audit Committee. ­Chairman of Remuneration Committee. Born: 1964. ­Member of Remuneration Committee. Born: 1960. Born: 1964. Chairman of Investment Committee. Swedish citizen. Member of Investment Committee. Swedish and American citizen. Swedish citizen. Born: 1958. Education: Born: 1960. Education: Education: British citizen. Bachelor from the Department of Media Norwegian citizen. Bachelor of Business Administration from Special advanced course in economics, Education: ­Studies, Stockholm University, Sweden. Education: University of Gothenburg, ­Sweden. Frans Schartau Business I­nstitute. Diploma in Hotel and Tourism M ­ anagement, ­Diplôme de l’Université Paris IV. MBA from Schiller University London, UK. Other current assignments: Other current assignments: Shannon College of Hotel Management, Other current assignments: Other current assignments: President & CEO of Resia Travel Group AB Board member of Veidekke ASA, AxFast AB, Ireland. Board member of Cloetta AB, Stena Line BV, Chairman of the Board of Braathens Regional and Board assignments in companies within Handelsbanken Regionbank Stockholm, Other current assignments: STS Alpresor AB, Swedavia AB and Talently Airlines (BRA), Bramora Ltd. Chairman of the Resia Group. Board member of Svenska Kungsleden AB (publ), Bonnier Fastigheter Chairman of the Board of Online Group AB. the Board and CEO of Braganza AB. Board Resebyråföreningens Service AB. AB and Stiftelsen Danvikshem. Member of Amaris Hospitality and Shearings Previous assignments: member of W ­ ayday Travel AS. Previous assignments: Balco Group AB, Juni Strategi and Analys AB. Holidays Ltd. Board member of H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB, Previous positions: Board member of Västsvenska Previous assignments: Previous assignments: Actic AB, Wise Group AB and TUI Nordic Chairman/CEO Tjæreborg, Always and ­Handelskammaren Service AB; Interim Managing Director AxFast AB. PresiChairman of the Board of The Hotel Collec­Holding AB. Saga Tours. Chairman of Escape Travel A/S General Manager, Scandic Rubinen; General dent & CFO at Atrium Ljungberg AB. Twenty tion; Board member of London & Partners Shareholding: 3,134 SunHotels AG. Board member at Arken Zoo Manager, Scandinavian S­ ervice Partner; years of experience from the real estate secLtd, Thame and London Ltd, TLLC Group Holding AB and Kristiansand Dyrepark AS, CFO, Radisson SAS Park Avenue Hotel and tor. Holdings Ltd and Travelodge Hotels Ltd. Independent in relation to major Ticket ­Leisure Travel AB and Ticket Biz AB. CFO, AVAB Elektronik. ­shareholders: Yes Shareholding: 3,000 Shareholding: 3,000 Shareholding: 456,781 Shareholding: 3,134 Independent in relation to the company Independent in relation to major Independent in relation to major and management: Yes (through companies) Independent in relation to major ­shareholders: Yes ­shareholders: Yes Independent in relation to major ­shareholders: Yes Independent in relation to the company Independent in relation to the company ­shareholders: Yes Independent in relation to the company and management: Yes and management: Yes Independent in relation to the company and management: Yes and management: Yes Number of shares as per December 31, 2018. 90 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CHRISTOFFER MARTIN SVALSTEDT FREDRIK WIRDENIUS MARIANNE SUNDELIUS LUNDSTRÖM Member of the Board since 2017. Member of the Board since 2015. Member of the Board since 2017. Member of the Board since 2016. Member of Audit Committee. Member ­Member of Audit Committee. Member Employee representative. ­Member of Audit Committee. of Investment Committee. of Investment Committee. Born: 1967. Born: 1973. Born: 1963. Born: 1961. Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Education: Education: Education: Education: University courses in leadership and Bachelor of Arts, Webster University and Bachelor of Science in Business AdministraMaster of Science in Engineering, KTH Royal ­psychology. Studies in economics. Hotel Management Diploma, HOSTA. tion and Law from the University of Karlstad, Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. Other current assignments: – Other current assignments: Sweden. Other current assignments: Previous assignments: Owner & President of investment company Other current assignments: CEO of Vasakronan AB. Board member of Employee representative at Sara Hotels AB RCL Holding AB. Board member of Collector CEO Stena Adactum AB and Stena Sessan RICS Sweden. and Reso Hotels AB. AB, Feelgood Svenska AB, Rasta Group AB AB, Chairman of the Board of Ballingslöv Previous assignments: (until 2018), Provobis Invest AB, Harrys Shareholdings in Scandic: – International, Gunnebo and Stena Renew­ Board member of Vasakronan AB. Pubar AB, RCL Holding AB, KL Capital AB, able. Vice chairman of the Board of Envac. Independent in relation to major Future Pawnbroker AB and Tableflip EnterBoard member of Svedbergs, Stena Sessan Shareholding: 3,134 ­shareholders: Yes tainment AB. Chairman of the Board of and Stena Adactum. Member of the Stena Independent in relation to major Independent in relation to the company AM Brands AB. Sphere Coordination Group. ­shareholders: Yes and management: No (employee Shareholdings: 230,000 Previous assignments: Independent in relation to the company ­representative). Independent in relation to major Chairman of the board of Meda, Envac, and management: Yes ­shareholders: No Mediatec Group and Blomsterlandet. (Rolf Lundström/Novobis) ­Experience from operational roles such as CFO at Capio and other senior financial Independent in relation to the company ­positions. and management: Yes Shareholdings: 60,000 (In addition, Stena Sessan Rederi AB held 17,947,735 shares) Independency in relation to major ­shareholders: No (Stena) Independency in relation to the company and management: Yes Number of shares as per December 31, 2018. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 91 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE JENS MATHIESEN NIKLAS ANGERGÅRD LENA BJURNER JESPER ENGMAN SØREN FAERBER ANN HELLENIUS President & CEO Chief Customer Officer Senior Vice President HR & Vice President Business Head of Denmark Chief Information Officer Born: 1969. Employed by the Group Born: 1971. Employed since 2018. ­Sustainability ­Development Born: 1970. Employed by the Group Born: 1974. Employed since 2018. since 2008. Member of Scandic’s Member of Scandic’s Executive Born: 1968. Employed and member Born: 1974. Employed since 2006. since 2006. Member of Scandic’s Member of Scandic’s Executive Executive Committee since 2016. ­Committee since 2018. of Scandic’s Executive Committee Member of Scandic’s Executive Executive Committee since 2019. ­Committee since 2018. Danish citizen. Swedish citizen. since 2015. ­Committee since 2014. Danish citizen. Swedish citizen. Other assignments: Chairman of Other assignments: – Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Other assignments: – Other assignments: Member of the the Board of Dansk E­ rhverv (Danish Education: Master of Science Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Education: Currently pursuing MBA board Volvo Finans Bank. Chamber of C ­ ommerce) and board in ­Business Administration from Education: Bachelor in Business Education: Masters of Science in at Edinburgh Business School. Education: Master of Science in Busimember of ­Wonderful Copenhagen. ­Stockholm School of Economics. A­ dministration, Borlänge University, Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of ­Business diploma in Finance from ness Administration from Linköping Education: Shipping Broker, Trans­ Previous experience: CMO at Tieto, Sweden. Technology, Sweden. Copenhagen Business School. University, Master School of Manageocean Shipping, Denmark. VP Brand and Marketing at Klarna, Previous experience: Head of Previous experience: Business Area Previous experience: District director ment, University of Bath, UK. Previous experience: Director of Marketing Director at Telia, VP Brand ­Commercial Card & Business Travel Director, Analyst at Pandox. Analyst at Copenhagen & Denmark East, Scandic. Previous experience: CIO Bankgirot, Sales & Marketing, Choice Hotels Scanand Global Marketing at SAS, founder Account Management Nordic, Head Hotellus. Director of Food & Beverage Denmark CIO City of Stockholm, CEO Solvitur, dinavia; CEO Fountain Scandinavia A/S Storåkers McCann, management of Human Resources, Director HR Number of shares: 8,781 and Southern Europe, Scandic. management consultant at Ernst & and Head of Sales & Marketing, Avis ­consultant at Arthur D. Little. Business Partner Customer Service ­Regional director, Hard Rock Young Management consulting, Rent a Car. Number of shares: 0 Organisation in Latin America and ­International. ­strategy consultant at Cambridge Number of shares: 22,235 Canada, VP HR, Head of Market HR Number of shares: 5,821 Strategic Management Group. for Nordics, Central Eastern Europe, Number of shares: 0 Benelux and France and HR VP ­Flexible Markets and France within American Express. Number of shares: 10,538 Number of shares as per December 31, 2018. 92 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PETER JANGBRATT JAN JOHANSSON AKI KÄYHKÖ JAN LUNDBORG MICHEL SCHUTZBACH SVEIN ARILD STEENHead of Sweden Chief Financial Officer Head of Finland Chief Commercial Optimization Head of Europe MEVOLD Born: 1967. Employed by the Group Born: 1962. Employed and member Born: 1968. Employed by the Group Officer Born: 1961. Employed by the Group Head of Norway 1995–2008 and since 2015. Member of Scandic’s Executive ­Committee since 2012. Member of Scandic’s Born: 1962. Employed by the Group since 2009. Member of Scandic’s Born: 1967. Employed by the Group of Scandic’s Executive Committee since 2016. Executive Committee since 2016. since 2009. Member of Scandic’s Executive Committee since 2016. since 2011. Member of Scandic’s since 2016. Swedish citizen. Finnish citizen. Executive C ­ ommittee since 2018. German and Swiss citizen. Executive Committee since 2016. Swedish citizen. Other positions: – Other assignments: Member of the Swedish citizen. Other assignments: – Norwegian citizen. Other assignments: Member of the Education: Bachelor of Science in Board of the Finnish Hospitality InduOther current assignments: Education: Diploma from Hotels Other assignments: Board member board of Visita; Member of the board Economics from Uppsala University, stry Association. Education: Bachelor in Business ­Management School, Glion, of Forum for Reiseliv, Guma Sport Ltd of Svenskt Näringsliv. Sweden. Education: Bachelor of Business Administration from Uppsala ­Switzerland. and Grand Hotel Driftesselskap AS. Education: Education through Scandic Previous experience: CFO Apoteket; Administration in International Busi­University, Sweden. Previous experience: Several senior Education: Bachelor in Service ManaBusiness School and Hilton. CFO Nobia AB; CFO Eniro. ness and Management, Schiller Previous assignments: Several positions within Rezidor, including Vice gement, Norwegian School of Hotel Previous experience: Several senior ­International University, London. senior management positions with President HR and Regional Director Management. Number of shares: 5,872 positions at Scandic, such as PresiPrevious experience: Several senior Scandinavian Airlines, COO of AirBaltic Poland and Ireland. Previous experience: Several senior dent Marketing & Communications positions with Procter & Gamble and & AMADEUS General Manager Number of shares: 11,194 positions within Scandic, General and Director of Operations Sweden, Reckitt Benckiser; Commercial Director Southeast Asia & Pacific. Manager Radisson SAS and Senior and CEO of Rica Hotels Sweden. at Oy Hartwall and CEO at Palace Number of shares: 7,067 Vice President Clarion Collection, Number of shares: 16,058 Kämp Group. Nordic Choice. Number of shares: 20,174 Number of shares: 12,002 Number of shares as per December 31, 2018. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 93 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT INCOME STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP GROUP MSEK Notes 2018 2017 MSEK Notes 2018 2017 INCOME 2, 3 Profit/loss for the year 678 711 Room revenue 11,721 9,464 Other comprehensive income Restaurant and conference revenue 5,862 4,853 Franchise and management fees 29 26 Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Other hotel-related revenue 395 239 Translation differences for the year 171 -56 Net sales 18,007 14,582 Changes in the value of electricity hedges, net of tax 5 Other income 0 1 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: TOTAL OPERATING INCOME 18,007 14,583 Actuarial gains/losses for the year -40 -79 OPERATING COSTS Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 136 -135 Raw materials and consumables -1,605 -1,295 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 814 576 Other external costs 4, 5 -4,062 -3,211 Personnel costs 6 -5,620 -4,738 Fixed and guaranteed rental charges 5 -2,968 -2,323 Variable rental charges 5 -1,667 -1,442 Pre-opening costs -92 -67 Non-recurring items 7 -141 -30 EBITDA 1,853 1,476 Depreciation 12,13 -870 -553 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS -17,025 -13,659 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 983 925 Financial items Financial income 8 12 9 Financial expenses 9 -185 -133 Net financial items -173 -124 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 810 800 Tax 10 -131 -90 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 678 711 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 674 707 Non-controlling interests 4 4 Profit/loss per share before dilution, attributable to: Parent Company shareholders (SEK per share) 11 6.54 6.87 Profit/loss per share after dilution, attributable to: Parent Company shareholders (SEK per share) 11 6.54 6.86 94 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI: 102-7 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET GROUP Notes Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Notes Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Fixed assets Equity Goodwill 12 6,560 6,303 Share capital 21 26 26 Trademarks 12 3,156 3,153 Other contributions 7,865 7,865 Other intangible assets 12 184 213 Translation reserve 85 -86 Land & buildings 13 1,676 1,764 Retained earnings -208 -482 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 13 4,359 3,835 Equity attributable to the Parent Company Shares in associated companies 14 22 21 ­shareholders 7,767 7,323 Financial investments 15 9 9 Non-controlling interests 38 33 Other long-term receivables 261 106 Total equity 7,805 7,356 Deferred tax assets 25 41 34 Non-current liabilities Total fixed assets 16,267 15,438 Liabilities to credit institutions 22 2,940 3,769 Current assets Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 23 627 542 Inventory 16 133 128 Other provisions 24 138 128 Accounts receivable – trade 17 689 626 Other liabilities 58 Derivative instruments 46 Finance lease liabilities 22 1,543 1,607 Other current receivables 76 161 Deferred tax liabilities 25 666 642 Assets held for sale 18 2 101 Total non-current liabilities 5,972 6,688 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 422 370 Current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 20 103 140 Advance payments from customers 206 164 Total current assets 1,470 1,526 Accounts payable – trade 791 786 Derivative instruments 5 TOTAL ASSETS 17,737 16,964 Current liabilities, commercial papers 22 1,000 Current tax liabilities 30 9 Current liabilities for finance leases 22 63 58 Liabilities held for sale 18 1 70 Other liabilities 330 367 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 26 1,538 1,461 Total current liabilities 3,959 2,920 Total liabilities 9,931 9,608 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 17,737 16,964 GRI: 102-7 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 95 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT GROUP MSEK Notes 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating profit/loss 983 925 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow, etc. 27 869 548 Income tax paid -174 -125 Cash flow before changes in working capital 1,678 1,348 Changes in working capital Inventory -2 -19 Accounts receivable – trade -50 -64 Other current receivables 39 -159 Accounts payable – trade 28 231 Other current liabilities 30 207 Cash flow from operating activities 1,723 1,544 Investing activities Acquisition of fixed tangible assets 13 -1,216 -964 Sale of associated companies 16 17 Acquisition of subsidiaries -54 -1,146 Cash flow from investing activities -1,254 -2,093 Operating cash flow 469 -549 Financing activities Dividend, share swap agreement -41 30 Borrowings, credit institutions 22 878 4,683 Amortization, credit institutions 22 -1,755 -4,674 Amortization, finance lease 22 -61 Issue of commercial papers 22 1,000 Refinancing costs 22 -6 -6 Paid interest, credit institutions -77 -80 Paid interest, finance leases -68 Dividends -352 -325 Cash flow from financing activities -482 -372 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR -13 -921 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 140 1,068 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents -24 -7 Cash flow for the year -13 -921 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 103 140 96 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CHANGES IN EQUITY GROUP Equity attributable to the Parent Company shareholders Non-controlling ­interests Share Other Translation Retained MSEK ­capital contributions reserves ­earnings Total Total equity OPENING BALANCE Jan 1, 2017 26 7,865 -29 -790 7,072 31 7,103 Profit/loss for the year 707 707 4 711 Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Currency fluctuations from translation of foreign operations -57 -57 1 -56 Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, net after tax 0 0 0 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: Actuarial gains/losses for the year, net after tax -79 -79 -79 Total other comprehensive income 0 0 -57 -79 -136 1 -135 Total comprehensive income 0 0 -57 628 571 5 576 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend -322 -322 -3 -325 Share-based payments 12 12 12 Share swap agreement to repurchase own shares -10 -10 -10 Total transactions with shareholders 0 0 0 -320 -320 -3 -323 CLOSING BALANCE Dec 31, 2017 26 7,865 -86 -482 7,323 33 7,356 Profit/loss for the year 674 674 4 678 Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss: Currency fluctuations from translation of foreign operations 166 166 5 171 Changes in the value of electricity hedges, net of tax 5 5 5 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: Actuarial gains/losses for the year, net after tax -40 -40 -40 Total other comprehensive income 171 -40 131 5 136 Total comprehensive income 171 634 805 9 814 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend -347 -347 -4 -351 Share-based payments 7 7 7 Share swap agreement to repurchase own shares -20 -20 -20 Total transactions with shareholders 0 0 0 -360 -360 -4 -364 CLOSING BALANCE Dec 31, 2018 26 7,865 85 -208 7,768 38 7,805 Change of accounting principles -1,466 -1,466 -1,466 OPENING BALANCE Jan 1, 2019 26 7,865 85 -1,674 6,302 38 6,340 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 97 INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENT OF PA R E N T CO M PA N Y COMPREHENSIVE INCOME PA R E N T CO M PA N Y MSEK Notes 2018 2017 MSEK Notes 2018 2017 Net sales 34 54 Profit/loss for the year -1 254 Operating expenses Other comprehensive income: Other external expenses 4, 5 -2 -11 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified Personnel expenses 6 -31 -60 to profit and loss Total operating expenses -33 -71 Other comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit and loss Operating profit/loss 1 -17 Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 0 0 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR -1 254 Financial items Interest income and similar items 8 247 113 Interest expenses and similar items 9 -104 -104 Net financial items 142 9 Appropriations -144 334 Profit/loss before tax -1 325 Income tax 10 0 -71 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR -1 254 98 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BALANCE SHEET PA R E N T CO M PA N Y MSEK Notes Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 MSEK Notes Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Financial assets Equity Participations in Group companies 30 5,039 5,039 Share capital 21 26 26 Receivables from Group companies 32 5,377 5,174 Total restricted equity 26 26 Other receivables 27 0 Non-restricted reserves 6,220 6,326 Total fixed assets 10,443 10,213 Net profit/loss for the year -1 254 Current assets Total non-restricted equity 6,219 6,580 Receivables from Group companies 32 3 333 Total equity 6,245 6,606 Current receivables 0 27 Liabilities Prepaid expenses and accrued income 0 1 Non-current liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 20 1 0 Liabilities to credit institutions 22 2,940 3,813 Total current assets 4 361 Other liabilities 27 Total non-current liabilities 2,967 3,813 TOTAL ASSETS 10,447 10,574 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 22 1,000 Liabilities to Group companies 32 144 Other liabilities 73 118 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 26 18 37 Total current liabilities 1,234 155 Total liabilities 4,201 3,968 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,447 10,574 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 99 CASH FLOW STATEMENT PA R E N T CO M PA N Y MSEK Notes 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating profit/loss 1 -17 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow, etc. 27 Income tax paid Cash flow before changes in working capital 1 -17 Changes in working capital Other current receivables 1 -1 Other current liabilities -29 3 Cash flow from operating activities -27 -15 Investing activities Shareholders’ contribution to subsidiaries -448 Cash flow from investing activities -448 Operating cash flow -27 -463 Financing activities Borrowings, credit institutions 22 879 4,683 Amortizations, credit institutions 22 -1,755 -4,674 Issue of commercial papers 22 1,000 Dividend -347 -322 Refinancing costs 22 -6 -6 Interest paid, credit institutions -77 -80 Loans to subsidiaries 359 69 Cash flow from financing activities 52 -330 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 25 -793 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 0 790 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents -24 3 Cash flow for the year 25 -793 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1 0 100 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CHANGES IN EQUITY PA R E N T CO M PA N Y Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Share premium Retained Total MSEK capital reserve earnings equity OPENING BALANCE Jan 1, 2017 26 1,534 5,112 6,672 Net profit/loss for the year 254 254 Other comprehensive income 0 Total comprehensive income 0 0 254 254 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend -322 -322 Share-based payments 12 12 Share swap agreement to repurchase own shares -10 -10 Total transactions with shareholders 0 0 -320 -320 CLOSING BALANCE Dec 31, 2017 26 1,534 5,046 6,606 Net profit/loss for the year -1 -1 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 0 0 -1 -1 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend -347 -347 Share-based payments 7 7 Share swap agreement to repurchase own shares -20 -20 Total transactions with shareholders 0 0 -360 -360 CLOSING BALANCE Dec 31, 2018 26 1,534 4,685 6,245 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 101 NOTES Notes common to the Group and the Parent Company. Amounts in MSEK unless otherwise stated. NOTE 01 Accounting principles Basis for presentation Translation of foreign currency The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial ReportThe consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the ing Standards (IFRS) adopted by the EU and in accordance with RFR 1 Supplementary accounting ­functional and reporting currency of the Parent Company. principles for groups of companies and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The annual accounts The results and financial position of all Group companies using a functional currency other have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for than the reporting currency are translated into the Group’s reporting currency as follows: legal entities. a) Assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets are translated at the daily closing rate; The consolidated accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the acquisition value b) Income and expenditure for each of the income statements are translated at the average method, except in respect to certain financial assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value in exchange rate; the income statement. c) All exchange rate differences that arise are reported in Other comprehensive income and Drawing up annual accounts in accordance with the IFRS requires certain important accounting ­accumulated in the translation reserve in equity. estimations. The Board of Directors and Executive Committee are also required to make assessments when implementing the company’s accounting principles. The areas that include a large Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising in the acquisition of foreign operations are treated as degree of complex assessments, or areas where assumptions and estimations are of s­ ignificant assets and liabilities of the entity and translated at the daily closing rate. importance for the consolidated accounts, are detailed in each note. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency according to the exchange rates that apply on the transaction date or the date on which the items were translated. Consolidated accounts Exchange rate gains and losses that arise when paying such transactions and in the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at the daily closing rate are reported in the The consolidated accounts cover the companies, including branches, in which the Group’s ownerincome statement. The Group applied hedge accounting for net investments in foreign subsidiaries ship is equivalent to at least one half of the votes or where the Group in another way exercises a until May 2017. Thereafter, any exchange gains and losses have been recognized in the income controlling influence over the business, these are fully consolidated into the Group. Subsidiaries are statement. entities over which the Group has a controlling interest. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or has the right to the variable returns from its stake in the company and has the opporThe below exchange rates are used in the consolidation tunity to influence the return through its influence in the company. In subsidiaries that are not wholly owned, non-controlling interest is presented as minority owner’s portion of equity. This is Exchange rates Jan–Dec 2018 Jan–Dec 2017 included as part of the Group’s equity. The income statement includes the portion attributable to the SEK = EUR non-controlling interest and information is provided in connection to the income statement. Income statement (average) 10.2567 9.6326 The acquisition of companies or businesses is accounted for using the acquisition method. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recogBalance sheet (at end of period) 10.2753 9.8497 nition are recognized at the fair value on the acquisition date. Goodwill and other intangible assets arising from an acquisition are recognized as an asset that is the excess of the cost of the business SEK = NOK combination over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Income statement (average) 1.0687 1.0330 ­recognized. If the acquisition value is less than the fair value of the purchased operation’s assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported directly in the income statement. Balance sheet (at end of period) 1.0245 1.0011 Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Associated companies are incorporated in the Group’s financial statement using the equity SEK = DKK method. Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balIncome statement (average) 1.3762 1.2949 ance sheet at cost, adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Balance sheet (at end of period) 1.3760 1.3229 Internal Group transactions, undertakings and unrealized earnings from transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Sales between Group companies are priced according to market terms. Internal profits arising in conjunction with sales within the Group are eliminated in their entirety. Pre-opening costs relate to costs associated with opening new hotels. Items affecting comparability consist of for example integration costs for acquisitions and expenses in connection with restructuring or capital gains/ losses connected to the sale of businesses. Normally, there are no items affecting comparability. 102 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 New and amended International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) the standard’s entry into force will affect the accumulated profit or loss in the opening balance as at New and amended standards adopted by the Group January 1, 2019 without restatement of comparative figures. The effect of the introduction of IFRS 16 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers only affects Scandic at the Group level and not as a legal entity, which means that the introduction IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the related SIC and IFRIC. of IFRS 16 does not affect the Parent Company’s ability to pay dividends. The standard regulates the recognition of revenue. The principles that IFRS 15 is based on shall Reporting under the new standard will first be applied in the first quarter 2019. Initially, it is estiprovide users of financial statements with more useful information on the company’s revenues. The mated that the effect will increase tangible fixed assets by 24.8 billion SEK, finance lease liabilities increased disclosure requirement means that information shall be provided on the nature of the by 26.6 billion SEK and reduce equity by 1.4 billion SEK, including the effect of deferred tax. Based revenue, the time of settlement, any uncertainties connected with revenue recognition and cash on the current lease portfolio, the net profit after tax for 2019 will be negatively affected by approxiflow linked to the company’s contracts with customers. According to IFRS 15, revenue shall be mately 200 MSEK. Further details regarding the changed accounting principle are presented in ­recognized when the customer assumes control of the sold goods or services and is able to use Note 5, Leasing agreements. and derive benefit from the goods or services – a principle that replaces the previous principle that No other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations yet to be applied are expected to have a material impact revenue is recognized when the risks and rewards have been transferred to the buyer. The Group on the Group’s financial statements. has applied this standard as of January 1, 2018, with prospective application during the transition. The introduction of IFRS 15 has had a limited effect on Scandic since only accounting related to The Parent Company’s accounting principles Scandic’s loyalty program is subject to calculations according to the new standard. The new standard Unless otherwise stated, the Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Group. states that revenue from customers will be allocated to earned points and goods on the basis of relaThe Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual tive independent sales prices rather than using the residual value method. This can affect the amounts Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. allocated to the goods sold and the date of presentation of a certain portion of the revenues. Approximately 1 percent of the Group’s revenue was affected by the new accounting standard. The effect Differences between the accounting principles of the Group and of the introduction of IFRS 15 in the Group was 1 MSEK as at December 31, 2018. the Parent Company The Parent Company applies the alternative rule for Group contributions and reports both received IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and paid Group contributions as appropriations. In this respect, the Parent Company does not This standard entails changes to the classification and measurement of financial assets, introduces ­comply with IAS 27. an impairment model for expected credit losses and changes hedge accounting principles. IFRS 9 Financial instruments in the Parent Company are not reported according to IFRS 9 in view of introduces a new model for estimating credit loss allowances based on expected credit losses. the connection between reporting and taxation. Instead, IFRS 7 is applied when applicable and Scandic is not affected by the new impairment model, as Scandic does not have any material ­disclosure requirements are applied according to chapter 5 of The Annual Accounts Act. amounts for writing off doubtful receivables, but also because only a very small portion of Scandic’s Remuneration to employees in the Parent Company is not reported according to IAS 19, as the sales are subject to invoicing. The majority of sales are paid by credit card. The effect of the introParent Company, in accordance with RFR 2, applies reporting according to the Pension Obligations duction of IFRS 9 in the Group was 0 MSEK. The Parent Company’s receivables only comprise Vesting Act. receivables from Group companies, so the effect here was 0 MSEK as well. New standards and interpretations yet to be applied by the Group The following amendments to IFRS will not enter into force until the 2019 financial year or there­ after and have not been applied in the preparation of these financial statements. IFRS 16 Leases On January 1, 2019, IFRS 16 Leases replaced IAS 17 Leases, providing a single accounting model for all lessees. The standard means that nearly all of the Group’s leases will be recognized in the balance sheet, as no distinction will be made between operating and finance leases. According to the new standard, a right-of-use asset (the right to use the leased asset) and a financial obligation to pay leasing fees will be recognized. Contracts of short duration, i.e. with a term of less than 12 months, and contracts of lesser value, i.e. below SEK 50,000, will be excluded. Scandic will apply the simplified approach using a retroactive calculation of right-of-use assets, which means that the part of the depreciation that is attributable to the time before the start date of the lease and SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 103 NOTE 02 Revenue by type of agreement Group MSEK 2018 2017 Accounting principles Lease agreements 17,933 14,507 Revenue recognition The Group has applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from January 1, 2018. Management agreements 12 11 The changed accounting standard has only had an effect on accounting for the customer loyalty Franchise and partner agreements 17 22 ­program, which is described below. Owned 45 43 Revenue consists of the value of goods and services generated in hotels under lease agreeTotal 18,007 14,583 ments, management and franchise fees and other income generated in the Group’s operations. Revenue is reported at the actual value of what has been received or will be received and correOther 34 54 sponds to the amount to claim for delivered goods and services, less any discounts given and Group eliminations -34 -54 sales-related taxes. Below is a description of the composition of the Group’s revenue: Group 18,007 14,583 Lease agreements – revenues from hotel operations, including all income from sold rooms, conferences, food and beverage sales and other services. Revenue is reported when the goods or services have been consumed, i.e. when checkout or invoicing of the services takes place. Management fees – fees from hotels managed by the Group through long-term agreements with hotel owners. Management fees usually consist of a proportion of the revenue from the hotel and/or ­profits and are recognized in the income statement at the end of the month in question and are realizable according to the terms of the agreement. Invoicing occurs monthly in arrears. Franchise fees – fees that are received in conjunction with licence fees for the Group’s trademarks, through long-term agreements with hotel owners. Franchise fees consist of a proportion of the revenue from the hotel and are reported in the income statement based on the underlying terms of the agreement. The fee is recognized in the income statement at the end of the month and invoicing occurs monthly in arrears. Customer loyalty program – The Group has a customer loyalty program where the customers are rewarded points for nights spent. Rewarded points give the customer future discounts. Revenue from bonus points is reported when they are redeemed or when they expire, which is 36 months after the points are rewarded. A liability is reported until the points are used or expire. Also see Note 24. In accordance with IFRS 15, the total remuneration has been allocated on the bonus points based on relative stand-alone sales prices. The new method means that the amount that is allocated to the bonus points is higher than the amounts that were previously allocated based on the residual value method. The liability was 0 MSEK lower on January 1, 2018 as an effect of the new accounting standard, and as of December 31, 2018, the liability was decreased by 1 MSEK. 104 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 03 Segment reporting Scandic’s main markets in which the Group operates are: Central functions – Costs for financial control, business development, investor relations, communica­ tions, technical development, human resources, branding, marketing, sales, IT and purchasing. Sweden – Swedish hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand. These central functions support all of the hotels in the Group, including those under lease agreeNorway – Norwegian hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand. ments as well as management and franchise agreements. Finland – Finnish hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand as well as the Hilton, the The split of net sales between segments is based on the location of the business activities and Crowne Plaza and the Holiday Inn brands. segment reporting is carried out after the elimination of inter-Group transactions. Net sales come from a large number of customers in all segments. Other Europe – Hotel operations under the Scandic brand in Denmark, Poland and Germany. The segments are reviewed and analyzed based on adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA is earnThe ­different countries have been aggregated to one segment based on the fact that the countries ings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and excludes effect of finance leases as involved have similar economic situations, they operate their business in similar ways and have well as items affecting comparability that are not directly related to the normal operations of the ­similar types of customers. They also have the same currency, EUR, or a currency pegged to EUR. company, for example, costs for transactions and restructuring. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes pre-opening costs that refer to expenses for contracted and new hotels before opening day. 2018 Other Central 2017 Other Central MSEK Sweden Norway Finland Europe functions Group MSEK Sweden Norway Finland Europe functions Group Room revenue 4,253 3,071 2,695 1,702 11,721 Room revenue 4,026 2,757 1,238 1,443 9,464 Restaurant and Restaurant and conference revenue 1,941 1,892 1,310 719 5,862 conference revenue 1,877 1,692 646 638 4,853 Franchise and Franchise and management fees 11 11 0 7 29 management fees 12 7 1 6 26 Other hotel-related revenue 70 142 163 20 395 Other hotel-related revenue 62 130 30 17 239 Net sales 6,275 5,116 4,168 2,448 0 18,007 Net sales 5,977 4,586 1,915 2,104 0 14,582 Other income 0 Other income 1 1 Internal transactions 34 34 Internal transactions 54 54 Group eliminations -34 -34 Group eliminations -54 -54 Total operating income 6,275 5,116 4,168 2,448 0 18,007 Total operating income 5,978 4,586 1,915 2,104 0 14,583 Expenses -5,365 -4,614 -3,578 -2,144 -349 -16,050 Expenses -5,100 -4,096 -1,576 1,837 -401 -13,010 Adjusted EBITDA 910 502 590 304 -349 1,957 Adjusted EBITDA 878 490 339 267 -401 1,573 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 14.5 9.8 14.2 12.4 10.9 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 14.7 10.7 17.7 12.7 10.8 EBITDA 1,853 EBITDA 1,473 EBITDA margin, % 10.3 EBITDA margin, % 10.1 Depreciation -870 Depreciation -548 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 983 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 925 Net financial income/expense -173 Net financial income/expense -124 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 810 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 800 Assets and investments by segment Sweden Norway Finland Other Europe Central functions Group MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fixed assets 5,761 5,582 3,766 3,577 5,584 5,423 982 771 174 85 16,267 15,438 Investments in fixed assets 341 433 317 220 255 158 226 94 92 59 1,231 964 For definitions of key ratios, see page 136. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 105 cont. Note 03 Accounting principles NOTE 04 Audit fees Segment disclosures Segments are reported in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments. Scandic operates similar Fees to audit companies Group Parent Company businesses with the same type of customers in a number of countries in Europe. After acquiring MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Restel, Finland became a new segment from January 1, 2018 compared with 2017 when Finland was included in the segment Other Nordic countries & Europe. The remaining part of this former segment has been renamed Other Europe. When moving Finland into a separate segment, compaAudit assignments rable numbers for the two segments have been recalculated for 2017. The largest markets for PwC 5 5 1 Scandic after the acquistion are Sweden, Norway and Finland. The segments have therefore been Others 0 1 identified based on a geographic base and economic importance on each s­ egment. Management follows the segments Sweden, Norway, Finland, Other Europe and Central functions. Segment information is reported according to the same model and is followed by the executive Other statutory assignments decision makers: the CEO, the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. PwC 0 Revenue and fixed assets per Revenue from Others country external customers Fixed assets MSEK 2018 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Tax consultancy services Sweden 6,275 5,978 5,761 5,582 PwC 1 1 Belgium 23 Others 1 0 Denmark 1,736 1,535 873 694 Finland 4,168 1,915 5,584 5,423 Other Norway 5,116 4,585 3,766 3,577 PwC 3 3 Poland 79 73 17 16 Others 0 Germany 633 473 92 60 Total fees to audit companies 10 10 0 1 Group assets 174 86 Total for the Group 18,007 14,583 16,267 15,438 The auditing assignment includes auditing the Annual Report and accounts as well as the administration of the company by the Board of Directors and CEO, other duties the company The allocation of income and assets is based on where the Group is domiciled, i.e. where the individual auditor must perform as well as advice and other assistance arising from the audit or in hotels are located. Scandic does not have any large customers where the revenue from the customer carrying out these duties. exceeds 10 percent of the total revenue of the Group. The Parent Company’s audit fee has been charged to the subsidiary Scandic Hotels AB. Of the fees for audit assignments, MSEK 2 relates to PwC Sweden, for other statutory assignments MSEK 0 refers to PwC Sweden, for tax consultancy services 0 MSEK refers to PwC Sweden and for other services MSEK 2 refers to PwC Sweden. Other services mainly refers to services related to the Group’s GDPR project as well as a certificate for variable rent. Tax consultancy services mainly refers to services related to compliance. 106 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 05 Leasing Operating leases Leases according to IFRS 16 from January 1, 2019 From January 1, 2019, the Group will apply IFRS 16 for lease agreements. All lease agreements which Leasing fees according 2018 2017 includes a fixed or minimum rent agreement will then be recognized as a right-of-use asset and a to operating lease Other Other ­agreements leasing leasing finance lease liability. Scandic has chosen to apply the simplified method with a retrospective Lease of agreeLease of agreeapproach to right-of-use assets. This means that future rental payments are discounted to the present MSEK premises ments Total premises ments Total value and accounted for as a finance lease liability from the point in time when the right-of-use asset is available for use by the Group. The right-of-use assets have been accounted for since the start date Leasing fees paid during the year 4,764 427 5,191 3,765 101 3,866 of the contracts, whereof the depreciation amounts from the start date to January 1, 2019 have effected equity. The accumulated effect of the transition to IFRS 16 is reported as an adjustment of the – of which minimum fees 3,097 66 3,163 2,323 57 2,380 opening balance of the retained earnings. – of which contingent rents 1,667 361 2,028 1,442 45 1,487 The same marginal interest has been used for portfolios of contracts that are in the same country. Leasing contracts of lower value, less than 50 000 SEK, are not included in the finance lease liability, Future leasing undertakings due but will be expensed on a straight-line basis over the leasing period. Leasing contracts with a term of less than 12 months are not considered to be material within the Group. Direct acquisition – within 1 year 2,974 71 3,045 2,806 80 2,886 expenses at valuation of right-of-use have also been excluded. Also see Notes 13 and 22. – in 1 to 5 years 11,584 150 11,734 11,236 176 11,412 Bridge between operating and finance leases according to IFRS 16 – in more than 5 years 18,311 3 18,314 18,318 3 18,321 Total future leasing Operating lease commitments disclosed as at December 31, 2018 33,093 undertakings 32,870 223 33,093 32,360 258 32,618 Discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate -16,090 Add: finance lease liabilities recognized as at December 31, 2018 1,606 Finance lease Less: low-value assets recognized on a straight-line basis as an expense -331 In connection with the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy, 10 lease contracts were identified for hotel Add: adjustments relating to changes in the indexes 8,312 properties as finance leases. Lease payments consist of both minimum lease payments and partly Lease liability recognized as at January 1, 2019 26,590 variable fees. Leases have a remaining maturity of up to 30 years and depreciation is calculated over the same term. Accounting is carried out in accordance with IAS 17. Finance lease Important estimations and assumptions Future minimum leasing fees, nominal and discounted Future minimum Present value of future Lease commitments relating to premises refer in all significant respects to the premises on which amounts for finance lease agreements at closing date leasing fees minimum leasing fees Scandic’s hotel operations are carried out. The amounts relating to future lease commitments refer to minimum leasing fees, i.e. fixed rental fees. In most lease agreements, the majority of the rental Due for payment: cost is dependent upon revenue from the leased premises. Revenue-related leasing costs are not – within 1 year 129 121 included in the amounts. The table, therefore, does not provide a full view of Scandic’s future leasing – between 1 and 5 years 514 438 costs. Lease agreements have a duration of between 15 and 20 years and are generally not cancellable – later than 5 years 1,889 1,047 during the time of duration. Leasing terms, index clauses and the presence of conditions to extend agreements vary. Most agreements are extended when the lease term has ended, after renegotiation Total 2, 531 1,606 with the lessors. Options to extend agreements are often regulated in the lease agreement. Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements where the property owner and Scandic Accounting principles share responsibility for investing in and maintaining the properties. Scandic’s commitment generally Operating leases relates to the maintenance and replacement of finishes, furniture, fixtures and equipment. The As of December 31, 2018, most of the Group’s leases were classified as operating leases. In these extent of the commitments is regulated by the demarcation list of the lease agreement. hotel leases, Scandic is only responsible for the risks associated with the operation of the hotel. The cost of operating leases is reported on a straight-line basis unless another systematic method better reflects how the financial resources of the leased assets are recognized. Finance lease agreements At the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy, 10 of the lease contracts were identified to be classified as finance leases. This is due to the fact that the economic advantages and risks that are connected with owning the properties in all material respects are transferred from the lessor to the lessee, and that the leasing period covers the major part of the economic life of the properties of 50 years. The effect for Scandic is the change in EBITDA, depreciations and interest costs as well as a finance lease liability, but with a limited effect on cash flow, equity and earnings per share. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 107 NOTE 06 Employees, personnel expenses and remuneration to the Board of Directors Personnel expenses Group Parent Company 2017 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Remuneration and other compensation Compensation for Other to the Board of Directors, SEK Board fees committee work compensation Total Salaries and other remuneration 4,468 3,804 21 35 Payroll overhead Vagn Sörensen, Chairman of the Board 711,667 50,000 761,667 excluding pension expenses 675 532 3 13 Ingalill Berglund 325,833 150,000 475,833 Pension costs 476 402 7 12 Per G. Braathen 425,000 29,167 454,167 Total personnel expenses 5,620 4,738 31 60 Albert Gustafsson 1) 133,333 20,833 154,166 Grant Hearn 325,833 50,000 375,833 The management of the Group is employed by the Parent Company and the subsidiaries Scandic Lottie Knutson 325,833 325,833 Hotels Holding AB, Scandic Hotels AB, Scandic Hotel A/S, Scandic Hotels AS and Scandic Hotels Deutschland GmbH. Stephan Leithner 2) 133,334 20,833 154,167 For the Group’s CEO, a mutual notice period of 9 months applies. In addition, he is entitled to Christoffer Lundström 325,833 29,167 355,000 ­severance pay corresponding to 9 months’ salary at the end of his employment in the case where Eva Moen Adolfsson 325,833 100,000 425,833 the ­company gives notice of termination, or if his duties are substantially changed after a change Niklas Sloutski 3) 133,334 20,833 154,167 of control in the company, resulting in his resignation within one year after the change of control. Martin Svalstedt 4) 192,500 29,167 221,667 When other senior executives are terminated by the company, entitlement to severance pay of 6 to12 months applies and upon termination at their own request, a notice period of 6 months applies. Fredrik Wirdenius 325,833 29,167 355,000 Marianne Sundelius, employee Remuneration and other compensation representative 5) 24,000 24,000 2018 Jan Wallmark, employee representative 5) 26,667 26,667 Remuneration and other compensation Compensation for Other Total remuneration and to the Board of Directors, SEK Board fees committee work compensation Total other compensation 3,734,833 529,167 0 4,264,000 Per G. Braathen, Chairman of the Board 708,333 54,167 762,500 1) Albert Gustafsson resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 10, 2017. 2) Stephan Leithner resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 10, 2017. Ingalill Berglund 364,167 162,500 526,667 3) Niklas Sloutski resigned from the Board at the AGM on May 10, 2017. Frank Fiskers 2) 0 4) Martin Svalstedt was elected to the Board at the AGM on May 10, 2017. 5) Jan Wallmark was replaced by Marianne Sundelius as employee representative after the AGM on May 10, 2017. Grant Hearn 364,167 87,500 451,667 2018 Lottie Knutson 364,167 364,167 Remuneration to senior Base remuVariable remuOther comPension Christoffer Lundström 364,167 54,167 418,334 managers, SEK neration neration1) pensation costs Total Eva Moen Adolfsson 364,167 75,000 439,167 Even Frydenberg, Martin Svalstedt 364,167 54,167 418,334 President & CEO 5,800,000 866,340 374,381 1,917,930 8,958,651 Fredrik Wirdenius 364,167 54,167 418,334 Other members of Executive Vagn Sörensen 1) 300,000 20,833 320,833 Committee (11 people) 19,034,015 9,620,665 3,177,715 4,044,443 35,876,838 Marianne Sundelius, employee Total remuneration and ­representative 40,000 40,000 other compensation 24,834,015 10,487,005 3,552,096 5,962,373 44,835,489 1) Variable renumeration includes share-based payments of 866,340 SEK for the CEO and 3,215,555 SEK for other Total remuneration and members of the Executive Committee. other compensation 3,597,502 562,501 0 4,160,003 The number of other senior management above is the total over the year. At year-end, other senior 1) Vagn Sörensen resigned from the Board at the AGM on April 26, 2018. 2) Frank Fiskers was elected to the Board at the AGM on April 26, 2018. management included 11 people. He resigned from the Board at the end of ­November 2018. 2017 Remuneration to senior Base remuVariable remuOther comPension managers, SEK neration neration1) pensation2) costs Total Frank Fiskers, President & CEO 4,403,002 3,396,770 9,316,469 1,519,273 18,635,514 Even Frydenberg, President & CEO 2,416,667 1,414,567 54,549 797,500 4,683,283 Other members of Executive Committee (9 people) 19,505,301 10,784,553 7,602,081 4,558,936 42,450,871 Total remuneration and other compensation 26,324,970 15,595,890 16,973,099 6,875,709 65,769,668 1) Variable renumeration includes share-based payments of 173,367 SEK for the current CEO, 973,861 SEK for the ­former CEO and 4,539,581 SEK for other members of the Executive Committee. 2) Remuneration for the former CEO and other members of the Executive Committee, 1 person, includes severance pay of 2,501,856 SEK as well as base and variable remuneration during the notice period. 108 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Remuneration to the CEO and other senior managers can consist of fixed salary, variable salary, Fair value calculations pension and other compensation. Terms and conditions for remuneration to senior management are The fair value is measured through the use of a combination of the Black-Scholes model and Monte described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 82. Carlo simulation. The following input factors have been used: LTIP 2018 LTIP 2017 LTIP 2016 LTIP 2015 Pensions The CEO is covered by a defined contribution pension plan until he reaches the age of 65. The pension Share price at grant date, SEK 85,95 109,75 62 67 premium for the Group’s CEO amounts to 33 percent of the fixed salary. The CEO has no part in the Life 2.91 years 2.62 years 2.92 years 2.45 years pension liability. Deduction of expected dividends 4% 3% 4% 3% Other members of the senior management are covered by defined contribution pension plans, and to a lesser extent defined benefit pension plans. The retirement age is in accordance with Risk-free interest not ­applicable not ­applicable not ­applicable not ­applicable applicable local laws and collective agreements. Other members of the senior managements’ Expected volatility not ­applicable not ­applicable not ­applicable not ­applicable part of the pension liability was 1 (1) MSEK. Fair value, SEK 102 190 121 N/A Long-Term Incentive Program As the exercise price (zero) is significantly lower than the share price on the grant date, the value has In December 2015, at the IPO, Scandic implemented a share-based Long-Term Incentive Program limited sensitivity to expected volatility and risk-free interest. (LTIP). Since the IPO, the Annual General Meeting has passed resolutions on an annual basis regarding the implementation of the share-based long-term incentive program (LTIP). The shareCost of share-based payments that are regulated by equity instruments based Long-Term Incentive Program that was implemented at the IPO (LTIP 2015) expired the LTIP 2018 LTIP 2017 LTIP 2016 same day that Scandic published its quarterly report for the first quarter 2018. The allotment Parent Parent Parent according to the program was 255,634 shares and the total cost was 25 MSEK. MSEK Group Company Group Company Group Company The LTIP enables participants to receive matching shares and performance shares, provided they make their own investments in shares or allocate shares already held to the program. For each Expected cost of the such savings share, the participants in LTIP 2016, LTIP 2017 and LTIP 2018 may, free of charge, be entire program 11 3 12 3 8 0 assigned matching shares, where 50 percent are subject to the meeting of a requirement related to Maximum cost the total return on the shares (TSR) and 50 percent are free of charge. In addition, the participants of the entire program 36 8 35 10 18 1 may receive a number of performance shares, free of consideration, depending on the extent to Cost in 2018 2 0 4 1 2 0 which certain performance criteria adopted by the Board of Directors are met, Directors, for which criteria are related to EBITDA, cash flow and RGI (Revenue Generation Index = RevPAR in relation Cost in 2017 1 0 2 0 to the RevPAR of the competition group) for the financial years 2016–2018 (LTIP 2016) and 2017– Cost in 2016 2 1 2019 (LTIP 2017). For LTIP 2018, the performance conditions are connected to EBITDA and cash flow. Matching shares and performance shares will be allotted after the end of a vesting period which The cost of the programs, which is included in the income statement for the Group, is calculated in runs until the date of publication of Scandic’s interim report for the first quarter of 2019, the first accordance with IFRS 2 and distributed over the vesting period. The calculation is based on the followquarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021, respectively, subject to the participant remaining ing assumptions: (i) an annual dividend yield of 4 percent for LTIP 2016, 3 percent for LTIP 2017 and 4 a permanent employee within the Group and retaining the savings shares. percent for LTIP 2018; (ii) an estimated annual turnover of personnel of 10 percent; (iii) an average fulThe expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted under LTIP 2016, LTIP 2017 fillment of each performance condition of 50–100 percent; and (iv) a maximum of 579,546 matching and LTIP 2018 and the delivery of shares to the participants has been hedged by Scandic’s ­entering shares and performance shares that may be awarded. In total, the costs for the programs are estiinto a share swap agreement with a third party on market terms. mated to a total of 31 MSEK including social security fees. The estimation is also based on the assumption of an annual share price increase of 10 percent during the program. Granted rights outstanding: Assuming that the cap is reached and that participants are entitled to allotment of the maximum 2018 2017 2016 2015 number of matching and performance shares and remain in the program until the end of the vesting As of January 1 615,602 516,610 286,945 period, the maximum cost for the programs will amount to 89 MSEK, including social security fees. Granted 236,626 188,510 295,047 286,945 The expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted under LTIP and the delivery of Allotted -246,820 shares to the participants of LTIP has been hedged through Scandic’s entering into a swap agreement with a third party on market terms, whereby the third party undertakes to, in its own name, Forfeited -25,862 -89,518 -65,382 acquire and transfer shares to the participants. Total at December 31 579,546 615,602 516,610 286,945 – of which currently exercisable The rights have no exercise price. Number of rights Grant date Due date Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 December 2, 2015 May 8, 2018 0 251,952 251,952 286,945 June 10, 2016 April/May 20191) 170,162 183,890 264,658 September 25, 2017 April/May 20201) 176,685 179,760 May 31, 2018 April/May 20211) 232,699 Total 579,546 615,602 516,610 286,945 1) The due date is after the publishing of Scandic’s interim report for the first quarter, which is still to be confirmed. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 109 cont. Note 06 2018 2017 Swap agreement for repurchase of own shares Average Average Scandic has a swap agreement with Nordea for purchasing its own shares. This swap agreement is Average number of employees number of of which number of of which reported as a financial liability for the agreed amount payable on the maturity date and as a deduction per country employees men employees men from equity. Interest costs related to the swap agreement are accounted for in the income statement Parent Company in the period they occur. When the agreement has reached the maturity date and the obligation and agreed amounts have been paid, the liability will be derecognized from the balance sheet. Sweden 10 4 4 2 Subsidiaries 07 Items affecting comparability Sweden 5,027 1,809 4,876 1,708 Belgium 14 6 NOTE Denmark 1,180 484 1,106 453 Finland 1,722 483 692 236 Items affecting comparability Group Norway 3,158 1,292 2,822 1,125 MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Poland 105 36 114 39 Transaction costs -2 -47 Germany 358 169 301 132 Integration costs -133 Total for the Group 11,560 4,277 9,929 3,701 Restructuring costs -6 Sales of operations 17 2018 2017 Total -141 -30 Gender division of the Board and Execuof which of which tive Committee on the balance sheet date Total men Total men Items affecting comparability refer to items that are not directly related to the Group’s normal activBoard of Directors 8 5 9 6 ities, such as transaction costs when buying or selling a business, integration costs, restructuring Executive Committee 11 9 9 8 costs as well as capital gains/losses from sale of operations. Total for the Group 19 14 18 14 Accounting principles Severance payments NOTE 08 Financial income Employees receive severance payments on termination before normal retirement age or when they voluntarily accept termination in exchange for such compensation. The Group recognizes severDivision by income type Group Parent Company ance payments where it is under a manifest obligation either to give notice to employees following MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 a detailed, formal plan without right to rescission or to provide compensation in the event of termiInterest income 3 2 2 0 nation as a result of an offer made as an incentive for voluntary resignation. Benefits that come Interest income from Group companies 152 112 due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to the present value. Revaluation of derivative instruments 5 6 Share-based payments Results from associated companies 1 1 The Group has a share-based incentive plan where the settlement is carried out in shares and the Exchange rate gains, net 3 93 Group is provided with services from the employees as payment for the shares. The cost of the proTotal 12 9 247 112 gram amounts to the fair value of the share on the grant date multiplied by the number of vested shares and the cost is distributed over the vesting period. At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews its assessment of the number of shares that are expected to be earned based on the non-market vesting conditions and terms of employment. Any deviations from the original assessment that the review raises are recognized in the income statement and the corresponding adjustments are made in equity. It can sometimes happen that the employees render services before the grant date, in which case an estimate of the fair value is made in order to recognize a cost to be distributed for a fee reported to be spread over the period between the time the employee begins performing services and the grant date. The social security costs that arise with the granting of equity rights are seen as an integrated part of the allotment and are treated as a cash-settled program. Pensions The Group has defined contribution pension plans as well as defined benefit pension plans. For the defined contribution plans, the Group makes payments to public or privately administered pension insurance plans. These payments can either be mandatory, according to an agreement or voluntary. The Group has no further obligations after these payments are made. The fees are accounted for as personnel costs in the period they refer to. See Note 23 for further information regarding pension plans for the Group. 110 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 09 Financial expenses Group Parent Company MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Division by type of cost Group Parent Company Total tax income/expenses -131 -90 0 -71 MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 The current tax rate, 22 percent (22 percent) has been calculated on the basis of the tax rate Interest expenses, bank -86 -79 -84 -77 applic­able to the Parent Company. Interest expenses, pension plan -14 -12 The tax rate in Sweden was changed from 22 percent in 2018 to 21.4 percent from 2019, and Interest expenses to Group companies -3 -2 will be changed further to 20.6 percent on January 1, 2020. The tax rate in Norway was changed Interest expenses, finance lease -68 from 23 percent in 2018 to 22 percent from 2019. All deferred tax relating to Sweden and Norway Exchange rate losses, net 0 -23 -24 has subsequently been recalculated depending on when temporary differences will be reversed and/or when losses carryforwards will be utilized. Share of transaction costs Deferred tax has been reported in Other comprehensive income relating to actuarial gains of expensed during the year1) -17 -19 -17 -1 9 MSEK (22) and deferred tax on hedging of net investments of foreign operations which amounts Total -185 -133 -104 -104 to -1 MSEK (0) . 1) Part of interest expenses was expensed over the duration of the borrowings, see Note 22. 11 Accounting principles Financial income and expenses NOTE Earnings per share All interest income and interest expenses are accounted for at their amortized cost. Interest derivatives are accounted for at the fair value through profit or loss. Revaluation of electricity derivatives is accounted for as other external costs. Associated companies are accounted for using the equity method. Before dilution Group 2018 2017 Profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders 10 Income tax of the Parent Company, MSEK 674 707 NOTE Average number of shares outstanding, before dilution 102,990,062 102,959,870 Earnings per share, SEK 6.54 6.87 Group Parent Company After dilution MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group 2018 2017 Tax expenses Profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders Current tax expenses -78 -8 0 of the Parent Company, MSEK 674 707 Adjustment of tax for previous year -29 -5 Average number of shares outstanding, before dilution 102,990,062 102,959,870 Deferred tax relating to temporary differences -34 28 Dilutive effect of stock purchase plans 85,914 43,134 Deferred tax relating to untaxed reserves -7 -3 Average number of shares outstanding, after dilution 103,075,976 103,003,004 Deferred tax relating to loss carried forward -23 -108 -71 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 6.54 6.86 Income due to change in tax rate 40 6 0 The calculation of earnings per share before dilution is based on the profit/loss for the year Total tax income/expenses -131 -90 0 -71 attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company divided by the weighted average numbers of Connection between tax expenses for the shares outstanding during the year. When calculating earnings per share after dilution, the average year and reported profit before tax, MSEK number of shares is adjusted to take into account the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares Tax in accordance with current rate, 22.0% originating during the reported periods from share-based payment programs that have been (22.0%) -178 -176 0 -71 offered to employees. Dilutions from share-based payment programs affect the number of shares and only occur when the strike price is less than the share price. Potential ordinary shares are not Adjustment of tax expense from previous year -29 -5 viewed as dilutive if they result in better earnings per share after dilution, which occurs when the net income is negative. Tax effect of non-deductible expenses -47 -4 0 Tax effect of non-taxable income 43 47 Adjustment for differing tax rates -1 3 Tax effect of non-offsettable losses 0 0 Loss carried forward from previous year for which deferred tax asset has not been reported 41 6 Loss carried forward from previous year for which deferred tax asset has been reported 0 33 Tax effect on changed tax rate on deferred taxes 40 6 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 111 NOTE 12 Intangible fixed assets Impairment testing 2018 2017 Impairment testing of goodwill and brands occurs annually and at any given time when indications Reported Reported of impairment are identified. Today, the Group has four cash-generating units: Sweden, Norway, AcquisiAccumulated residual AcquisiAccumulated residual Group, MSEK tion value amortization value tion value amortization value Finland and Other Europe, see also Note 3. The recoverable amount for cash-generating units is determined based on calculations of value Goodwill in use. These estimates are based on estimated future cash flows before tax based on a five-year Opening balance 6,303 6,303 5,793 5,793 period. Cash flow for 2019 is based on a budget established by the Board and for 2020 to 2021 Acquisition of businesses 17 17 530 530 based on the company’s long-term forecast. For the subsequent two years, cash flow is based on Reclassification 69 69 0 assessed market growth and estimated cost increases. Revenue forecasts are based on industry data relating to market development and historical experience regarding the development of new Exchange rate differences 182 -11 171 -20 -20 and newly renovated hotels. Cost forecasts are based on industry data regarding inflation and wage Closing balance 6,571 -11 6,560 6,303 0 6,303 development and historical experience. Trademarks After 2021, market growth has been estimated to amount to 2 (2.5) percent per year in the period 2022 to 2023. When calculating value in use, a discount rate before tax and a sustained Opening balance 3,210 -57 3,153 3,187 -42 3,145 growth rate have been used in accordance with the following table. Cash flow after the five-year Acquistion of businesses 0 49 49 period is extrapolated with a growth rate of 2 percent per year. Amortization for the year -22 -22 -15 -15 The impairment test for the year showed that there were no impairment losses for any of the Exchange rate differences 26 -1 25 -26 -26 segments, even with reasonable changes in the parameters, such as an individual change +/-1.0 percent on the discount rate before tax and on the EBITDA margin. Closing balance 3,236 -80 3,156 3,210 -57 3,153 At a discount rate before tax of 11.8 percent for Sweden, 11.5 percent for Norway, 11.9 percent Other intangible assets for Finland and 11.8 percent for Other Europe, there is a need for impairment at the retained Opening balance 422 -209 213 344 -179 165 EBITDA margin. Acquisition of businesses 0 85 -6 79 Sweden Norway Finland Other Europe Reclassifications -9 9 0 -1 1 0 Forecast period, years 5 (5) 5 (5) 5( 5) 5 (5) Purchases 3 3 1 1 WACC rate, pre tax % 9.7 (9.4) 10.5 (10.5) 9.7 (8.8) 9.3 (9.0) Amortization for the year -38 -38 -25 -25 Terminal growth rate, % 2 (2.5) 2 (2.5) 2 (2.5) 2 (2.5) Exchange rate differences 7 -2 5 -7 0 -7 Closing balance 423 -240 184 422 -209 213 Total intangible fixed assets Opening balance 9,935 -266 9,669 9,324 -221 9,103 Acquisition of businesses 17 17 664 -6 658 Reclassifications 60 9 69 -1 1 0 Purchases 3 3 1 1 Amortization for the year -60 -60 -40 -40 Exchange rate differences 215 -14 201 -53 0 -53 Closing balance 10,230 -331 9,899 9,935 -266 9,669 Goodwill Trademark Total Goodwill and trademark, MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 20181) Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Sweden 1,866 1,866 2,312 2,312 4,178 4,178 Norway 1,692 1,667 576 578 2,268 2,245 Finland 2,837 2,611 45 49 2,882 2,660 Other Europe 165 159 223 214 388 373 Total goodwill and trademark 6,560 6,303 3,156 3,153 9,716 9,456 1) The Scandic Hotels trademark, which has an indefinite useful life, has a book value as per December 31, 2018 of 3,061 MSEK. 112 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Accounting principles Important estimates and assumptions Intangible fixed assets The estimates that may have the greatest effect on the future profit and position of the Group are Goodwill the assumptions made when considering the impairment of intangible assets. Every year, the Group Goodwill represents the excess of the value of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s tests goodwill and trademarks for impairment in accordance with the accounting principle share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired operation on the date of acquisition. Goodwill described above. Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units have been determined through on acquisitions of operations is reported as an intangible asset. Goodwill accounted for is tested calculation of the value in use. Assumptions made in this calculation are described in the table in annually for impairment and is reported at the acquisition value less the accumulated impairment. the section Impairment testing, from which it emerges that revenue was expected to rise in the Goodwill is allocated across cash-generating units when an assessment of any impairment coming years. Should growth be considerably weaker, an impairment requirement that significantly requirement is made. The allocation is made to the cash-generating units or groups of cashaffects the Group’s profit and position may arise. generating units that are expected to benefit from the acquisition of an operation giving rise to the goodwill item. A contingent consideration of 17 MSEK was paid out during the first quarter 2018 for the ­acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy and has entirely affected goodwill. Trademarks Trademarks acquired are reported at the acquisition value less amortization and any impairment. The Scandic Hotels trademark with an indefinite useful life is not amortized, but instead tested annually for impairment. In the acquired companies in the Scandic Group, the Scandic Hotels trademark has existed in the market since 1984 and today constitutes the basis for the Group’s operations. The trademark is used in all markets where the companies are established. The brands Rica Hotels, which was acquired in April 2014, and Cumulus, which was acquired in December 2017, have a fixed useful life of eight years. During 2018, a reassessment was made regarding the a­ mortization period of the Cumulus brand as the brand was newly established in the market at the time of the acquisition. As a result, the amortization period will be changed to 4 years from 2019. The remaining amortization period at January 1, 2019, is therefore 3 years. Amortization takes place on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life.Trademarks that are subject to amortization are also covered by the yearly impairment test described above. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets include customer relationships, identified in connection with the acquisition of Rica Hotels and the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy. Customer relationships have a defined u­ seful life over 10 years, and amortization takes place on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. Development costs that are directly attributable to the development of identifiable systems for the ­operations are also capitalized as intangible fixed assets when the following criteria are fulfilled: • it is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used; • it is the company’s intention to complete the software and to use it; • there are prerequisites for using the software; • it can be shown how the software will generate probable future financial benefits; • adequate technical, financial and other resources exist for completing the development and for using the software; and • the expenses attributable to the software during its development can be calculated in a reliable way. During 2012, another major investment was made in a new Group reporting system. The investment was completed in December 2013 and has been amortized. In 2016, the system was upgraded. This internally developed system is capitalized under Other intangible assets and will be written off over 5 years. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 113 NOTE 13 Tangible fixed assets 2018 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Accumulated Accumulated Accumulated Acqui­ depreciation Reported Acqui­ Reported Acqui­ depreciation Reported Acqui­ depreciation Reported sition and writeresidual sition Accumulated residual sition and writeresidual sition and writeresidual Group, MSEK value down value value depreciation value Finance leased assets value down value value down value Land and buildings1) Buildings Opening balance 1,785 -22 1,764 116 -21 95 Opening balance 1,675 0 1,675 0 0 0 Acquisition of businesses 0 1,675 0 1,675 Acquisition of businesses 0 1,675 1,675 Sale/disposals -70 -70 0 Sales/scrapping -70 -70 0 Depreciation for the year -91 -91 -2 -2 Depreciation for the year -89 -89 0 Exchange rate differences 73 1 74 -6 1 -5 Exchange rate differences 72 0 72 Closing balance 1,788 -112 1,676 1,785 -22 1,764 Closing balance financial lease assets 1,677 -89 1,588 1,675 0 1,675 Equipment, fixtures and fittings Opening balance 9,371 -5,536 3,835 8,190 -5,308 2,882 Accounting principles Acquisition of businesses 0 653 -122 531 Tangible fixed assets Land and buildings comprise mainly hotel buildings. Land and buildings are reported at the Group’s Purchases 1,216 1,216 964 964 acquisition value based on an external valuation made in conjunction with the acquisition of the Sales/disposals -729 720 -9 -364 349 -15 ­operations less subsequent depreciation of buildings. Buildings are the subject of component depreciDepreciation for the year -709 -709 -495 -495 ation, where different parts of the building are depreciated based on differing useful lives. The depreWrite-down during the year -10 -10 -10 -10 ciation period for buildings is between 25 and 50 years. Land is not subject to depreciation. Reclassification -69 -69 0 Equipment, fixtures and fittings are reported at the acquisition value less depreciation and impairment. The acquisition value includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the Exchange rate differences 196 -90 105 -72 50 -22 asset. Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the calculated useful life, which varies Closing balance 10,054 -5,695 4,359 9,371 -5,536 3,835 depending on the character of the assets. Assets consist of different types of equipment, fixtures and fittings such as furniture, fixtures and fittings in hotel rooms and public areas, kitchen equipment and Total tangible fixed assets IT equipment with varying useful lives. For this reason, a number of depreciation periods are used. In Opening balance 11,156 -5,557 5,599 8,307 -5,329 2,977 general, IT equipment is depreciated over 3 years, while other fixtures and fi­ ttings, installations and Acquisition of businesses 0 2,328 -122 2,206 equipment are depreciated over 3 to 20 years. Equipment, fixtures and fittings with a useful life Purchases 1,216 1,216 964 964 shorter than 3 years are reported as expenses in the income statement. Sales/disposals -799 720 -79 -364 349 -15 Finance lease agreements Depreciation for the year -800 -800 -495 -495 At the time of the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy, 10 of the lease contracts were identified as finance Write-down during the year -10 -10 -10 -10 leases. This is due to the fact that the financial benefits and risks associated with owning the properReclassification -69 -69 0 ties in all material respects are transferred from the lessor to the lessee, and that the lease term covExchange rate differences 269 -89 179 -78 50 -28 ers the major part of the properties’ financial life of 50 years. The effect for Scandic is the change of EBITDA, depreciation and interest costs as well as a finance lease liability, however with a limited Closing balance 11,842 -5,806 6,035 11,156 -5,557 5,559 effect on cash flow, equity and earnings per share. 1) Of buildings and land, 87 (88) MSEK of the reported residual values relates to the property in Gardermoen in Oslo, Norway. Finance lease according to IFRS 16 from January 1, 2019 Inventories, installations and equipment include ongoing facilities of 275 (422) MSEK. From January 1, 2019 the Group will apply IFRS 16 to lease agreements. All lease agreements which In connection with the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy, 10 of the acquired lease contracts were include a fixed or minimum rent agreement will then be recognized as a right-of-use asset and a coridentified as finance leases. The lease payments consist of both minimum lease and variable fee responding liability on the date at which the leased asset is for use by the Group. For more information payments. The lease contracts have a remaining lease period of up to 30 years and depreciations is about lease liabilities, see Note 22. Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially m ­ easured on calculated over the same term. For future fees, see Note 5. In Land and buildings above, leasing a present value basis. assets that the Group has under finance leases are included in the following amounts: When assessing the right-of-use assets, the retrospective approach has been applied, i.e. ­depreciation has been accounted for since the contracts’ start date and depreciation amounts until ­January 1, 2019 have been affecting equity. The accumulated effect of the transition to IFRS 16 is reported as an adjustment of the opening balance of retained earnings. The same marginal interest has been used for portfolios of contracts in the same country. From January 1, 2019, an effect of IFRS 16 right-of-use assets within buildings and land will increase by 24.8 billion SEK, and within equipment, fixture and fittings by 109 MSEK. respectively. 114 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Important estimates and assumptions NOTE 15 Financial investments Additional expenditure is added to the reported value of the asset only when it is probable that the future financial benefits associated with the asset will benefit the Group and that the acquisition Changes during the year, MSEK 2018 2017 value of the asset can be measured in a reliable way. All other forms of maintenance of a tangible Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 9 8 fixed asset are reported as expenses in the income statement. If there is a need for impairment, tangible fixed assets are impaired to the lowest of the recoverAcquisitions 0 0 able amount and the reported value. Disposals 0 Reclassification1) 1 Exchange rate differences 0 0 NOTE 14 Shares in associated companies Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 1) 9 During 2017, there was a reclassification of other long-term receivables to financial investments of 1 MSEK. 9 Share Share Reported value Reported value The financial investments on the balance sheet date consist of approximately 70 (70) smaller Group, MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 investments. Gress-Gruppen AS 33% 33% 11 10 Aulangon Kylpä Oy 25% 25% 9 9 Rukan Kokouskeskus Oy Total 33% 33% 2 22 2 21 NOTE 16 Inventory The Group’s inventory consists in its entirety of raw materials, mainly for restaurant operations. Changes during the year, MSEK 2018 2017 Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 21 10 Accounting principles Acquisitions 11 Inventory Result/dividends Inventory is reported at the lower of the acquisition value or net selling price. The acquisition value Sales is determined using the first in, first out (FIFO) principle. Exchange rate differences 1 0 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 22 21 Gress-Gruppen is one of Norway’s largest purchasing companies, in which Scandic and the other NOTE 17 Accounts receivable owners and paying members combine their purchasing volumes. The purpose of the ownership is efficient purchasing and enjoying the best possible terms and conditions from suppliers. Accounts receivable, gross values, MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Aulangon Kylpylä Oy and Rukan Kokouskeskus Oy were included in the Restel acquisition that Total accounts receivable 700 638 the Group made at the end of 2017. Both companies are involved in cooperation with the Group related to spa and conference facilities at two hotels in Finland. Deducted provision for doubtful accounts -11 -12 Accounts receivable, book value 689 626 Accounting principles Change in deducted provision for doubtful accounts receivable 2018 2017 Shares in associated companies An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a January 1 -12 -13 ­subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. Significant influence is the power to participate in the Provision for doubtful accounts -3 -3 financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable -4 -4 policies. Significant influence is normally present in situations where the company has a share­ Reversed unutilized amount 8 8 holding of between 20 and 50 percent of the voting rights. Exchange rate differences 0 0 The share of income represents the company’s share in the net income (after tax) from these associates and is directly accounted for in the income statement. Transactions with associated December 31 -11 -12 companies were immaterial in 2018 and 2017. Age analysis, MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Receivables not matured 419 430 Receivables matured 1– 30 days 205 146 Receivables matured 31 – 60 days 32 44 Receivables matured 61– 90 days 13 9 Receivables matured 91– 120 days 20 3 Receivables matured more than 120 days 11 6 Accounts receivable, reported value 700 638 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 115 cont. Note 17 Accounting principles Accounting principles Loans receivable and accounts receivable Discontinued operations Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, that are not Assets classified as held for sale are valued at the lower of the book value and fair value after listed in an active market and that have fixed or determinable payments. They are part of current deducting the cost of sales. Fixed assets are classified as assets or liabilities held for sale if their assets, with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet carrying amount will be recycled at a potential sale rather than through continued usage. This is date, in which case they are classified as fixed assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable considered fulfilled when the Executive Committee and the Board have made a decision to divest are classified as accounts receivable and other receivables in the balance sheet. the business, an active sales process has been initiated, the assets are disposable for an immediLoans receivable and accounts receivable are reported at the acquisition value less any proviate sale in their present condition and it is likely that the disposal will be carried out within the sion for depreciation. According to IFRS 9, loans receivable and accounts receivable shall be valued upcoming year. at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but since accounts receivable The approval of the acquisition of Restel Hotellit Oy at the end of 2017 was conditioned by the have very short durations and the interest effects are minimal, the value reported by the Group is disposal of three hotels, of which one existing hotel and two acquired hotels, in accordance with the not deemed to diverge materially from the fair value. Loans receivable run with a variable rate of decision of the Finnish Competition Authority. The above refers to identifiable assets and liabilities interest and therefore the fair value is not deemed to diverge materially from the reported value. for these three hotels. Revenue of 35 MSEK and net income of 7 MSEK for Scandic Lahti is included in the Group’s financial statements for 2018. Important estimates and assumptions A provision for depreciation of accounts receivable is made when there is objective proof that the 19 Prepaid expenses Group will not be able to recover all of the amounts due in accordance with the original terms and conditions of the accounts receivable. The provision amount constitutes the difference between NOTE the asset’s reported value and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision amount is reported in the income statement. Division by type of expense Group Parent Company MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Prepaid rent 253 193 NOTE 18 Discontinued operations Other prepaid expenses 144 129 Accrued interest 0 1 1 MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Accrued income 25 47 Assets classified as held for sale Total 422 370 0 1 Goodwill 0 8 Buildings 70 Property, plant and equipment Accounts receivable and prepaid expenses 1 1 23 0 NOTE 20 Cash and cash equivalents Total assets of disposal group held for sale 2 101 Group Parent Company Liabilities directly associated with assets MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 classified as held for sale Cash and bank balances 103 140 1 0 Finance leases 69 Total 103 140 1 0 Accounts payable 1 1 Accrued expenses 0 0 The Parent Company does not have any balance in the bank since all excess liquidity is used for the Total liabilities of disposal group held for sale 1 70 amortization of loans. This also explains the decrease in cash for the Group compared with the previous year. Accounting principles Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank balances and other current investments with a due date within 3 months from the time of acquisition. NOTE 21 Share capital Ordinary Total number Change in share Share Quota shares of shares capital, SEK capital, SEK value, SEK Number of shares on December 31, 2017 102,985,075 102,985,075 25,746,269 0.25 Number of shares on December 31, 2018 102,985,075 102,985,075 25,746,269 0.25 116 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 22A Borrowings From January 1, 2019, the Group will apply IFRS 16 for lease agreements which will result in the major part of all lease agreements from year-end being accounted for as lease liabilities. These lease contracts have been recognized at the present value of future mimimum lease payments. Liabilities to Commercial Finance Total Changes during the year, MSEK credit institutions papers leases ­borrowings When calculating, the implicit interest of the lessee as of January 1, 2019 was used. The Group’s marginal loan interest that has been applied for these lease liabilities as of January 1, 2019 was Opening balance Jan 1, 2017 3,777 0 0 3,777 between 3.60 and 6.23 percent. Borrowings 4,667 4,667 Acquisition of businesses 1,665 1,665 22B Capitalization of transaction costs1) -6 -6 Transaction costs expensed NOTE Management of financial risks during the year1) 19 19 Amortization of loans -4,674 -4,674 Market risk – foreign exchange risk Change overdraft facilities 16 16 The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various Exchange rate differences -29 -29 currency exposures. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. Opening balance Jan 1, 2018 3,769 0 1,665 5,434 Borrowings 843 999 1,842 Risk management Capitalization of interest 1 1 Foreign exchange risk arises when future business transactions or recognized assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. The operations of the Scandic Capitalization of transaction costs1) -6 -6 Group companies are mainly local, with revenues and expenses denominated in domestic currencies, Transaction costs expensed during and the Group’s internal sales are low. This means that exchange rate exposure related to transactions the year1) 17 17 is limited. According to the Group’s Financial Policy, which requires Group companies to manage their Amortization -1,755 -62 -1,817 foreign exchange risk against their functional currency, the Group companies hedge their foreign Sale -71 -71 exchange risk in larger future business transactions via Group Finance. To manage the foreign Change overdraft facilities 36 36 exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions, the Group companies use forward ­contracts signed with Group Finance. Exchange rate differences 36 74 110 Exchange rate effects in the Group arise from the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ financial Closing balance Dec 31, 2018 2,940 1,000 1,606 5,546 statements into SEK. For 2018, 35 (41) percent of the Group’s sales were in SEK, 28 (31) percent in 1) Existing loans were renegotiated in June 2018 and resulted in transaction costs of 6 (6) MSEK. These costs have been NOK and 37 (28) percent in EUR and other currencies. Borrowings in EUR and NOK are matched by capitalized and are distributed on a straight-line basis over the borrowing period. the Parent Company’s loans to subsidiaries. The currency exposure arising from internal loans to the Group’s foreign operations is reduced by borrowing in the corresponding currencies, which is The company’s external loans were renegotiated in June 2018 with extended maturity until June referred to as a natural hedge. 2021. The loan relates to a fixed loan of MSEK 1,500 with a maturity of 3 years, with interest from The Group’s borrowings broken down by currency are shown in the table below. The Board has Stibor +1.00 to 2.00 percentage points, and a revolving lending facility in several currencies decided that other currency risks for assets and liabilities should not be hedged. of 3,500 MSEK with a maturity of 3 years, with interest at base rate +1.00 to 2.00 percentage Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 points. A temporary short-term credit of 500 MSEK was renegotiated in December 2018 as part Group borrowings by currency of the revolving facility which thereby amounts to 4,000 MSEK. With the unused part of the revolving credit facility as back-up, a program for issuing commercial papers has been established which SEK, % 64 70 amounts to 2,000 MSEK. Per December 31, 2018, 1,000 MSEK was utilized. The commercial EUR, % 21 15 papers have a term of 1 to 6 months. NOK, % 15 15 The margin within the range is for all loans dependent on the company’s indebtedness. The loan terms stipulate that the following covenants should be within certain limits: interest coverage and Sensitivity analysis net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA. At each measurement period and on the balance sheet Reported value of liabilities to credit institutions is exposed to currency risk for the part where bordate, all loan terms were met. There are no claims for amortization and no collateral has been rowing is in a foreign currency. The sensitivity analysis below presents how changes in relevant forpledged for the loans. The Board closely monitors the company’s financial position with respect to eign currency affect the book value of liabilities to credit institutions as well as net debt. the fulfillment of the loan terms. The finance lease liability consists of nine lease contracts identified as finance leases when Sensitivity analysis for currency as at Dec 31, 2018 Change, % Effect net debt, MSEK acquiring Restel Hotellit Oy. Leasing fees consist of both miminum lease payments and variable fees. The lease agreements have a remaining term of up to 30 years. Exposure credit liabilities to credit institutions at a change in: NOK/SEK +/1 +/8 MSEK Accounting principles EUR/SEK +/1 +/6 MSEK Borrowings Borrowings are financial liabilities that are initially reported at fair value, net after transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition value and any difference between proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is reported in the income statement allocated over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as liabilities to credit institutions and as internal loans in the balance sheet. B­ orrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer the payment of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. The finance lease is recognized at fair value since it was first reported on the acquisition date on December 29, 2017. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 117 cont. Note 22b Market risk – interest rate risk Liquidity risk Interest rate risk arises from changes in market interest rates that can have a negative effect on the Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient liquidity to pay its debts and meet Group’s revenue, cash flow and interest-bearing assets and liabilities. its commitments. Risk management Risk management Since the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Group’s revenues and cash flow Liquidity risk is managed by maintaining within the Group sufficient cash and cash equivalents and from operating activities are essentially independent of changes in market interest rates. short-term investments with a liquid market, available financing through agreed credit facilities and The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Loans issued at variable rates the ability to close market positions. The Group’s liquidity in the form of cash and cash equivalents expose the Group to interest rate risk in respect to cash flow. Loans issued at fixed rates expose the and short-term investments is monitored and forecast on a daily basis by Group Finance. The Group to interest rate risk in respect to fair value. The Group’s Financial Policy stipulates that 25 to Group’s liquidity reserve on December 31, 2017, consisting of cash and unutilized credit facilities, 75 percent of Scandic’s loans must be taken at fixed interest rates. Deviations from this must be amounted to 1,625 (1,322) MSEK. approved by the Board. As needed, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage this. The Group’s borrowings on the balance sheet date are shown below. Sensitivity analysis for interest swaps as at Dec 31, 2018 Change % Result effect MSEK The Group normally takes long-term loans at variable interest rates and converts them into fixed Interest expense from changed interest rates +/1 +/24 interest rates using interest rate swaps. In such transactions, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the agreed fixed and variable interest Interest expense from the change in the average level of interest rates +/1 +/39 rates, calculated based on the agreed nominal value. Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 If the variable market rate differs from the current fixed rate of derivative instruments, a theoretical overor undervaluation of the financial instrument will occur. The derivatives are recognized at the Group borrowings by fixed and variable interest fair value in the statement of financial position and the change in value, which does not impact Fixed interest, % 39 39 cash flow, is recognized in profit for the year. The sensitivity analysis is based on net debt. Variable interest, % 61 61 Electricity derivatives All external borrowings at fixed interest rates have been carried out using interest rate swaps. From July 1, 2018, cash flow hedging has been used by the Group to hedge against fluctuations in electricity prices. The electricity derivatives used by the Group have been identified as cash flow Credit risk hedges. The relationship between the derivatives and the hedged risk is documented when the Credit risk refers to the risk that counterparties cannot fulfill their obligations. Credit risk arises from cash flow hedge is set up. Efficiency controls are performed at the starting point of the hedge and cash and cash equivalents, derivative instruments and deposits with banks and financial i­nstitutions further on a monthly basis during the term of the cash flow hedge. The efficient part of the value as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and agreed transactions. change in the derivatives, which meets the requirements for cash flow hedging, is accounted for in Other comprehensive income. The inefficient part of the value change is accounted for in other Risk management external expenses. The efficient part of the hedge is accounted for in other external expenses when Credit risk is managed on the Group level. Only banks and financial institutions that have received the hedged item affects the income statement. an independent minimum rating of A-1 are accepted. In cases where no independent credit rating For 2018, the inefficient part of the value change for electricity derivatives amounted to 2 MSEK (-). exists, a risk assessment of the customer’s creditworthiness is carried out considering the customer’s financial position, previous experience and other factors. The use of credit limits is monitored regularly. Sales in the company’s operations are primarily settled by cash or credit card, although invoicing is also used. Credit losses relating to customers as per December 31, 2018 amounted to 3 (3) MSEK, see Note 17. Group, MSEK < 1 year 1– 3 years 3 – 5 years > 5 years As at December 31, 2018 Liabilities to credit institutions 1) 84 3,188 Commercial papers 1,200 Finance leases 2) 121 228 210 1,047 Derivative instruments 3) 8 Accounts payable and other liabilities 791 Group, MSEK < 1 year 1– 3 years 3 – 5 years > 5 years As at December 31, 2017 Liabilities to credit institutions 1) 67 3,986 Finance leases 2) 121 227 210 1,107 Derivative instruments 3) 5 Accounts payable and other liabilities 786 1) Liabilities to credit institutions include future cash flows regarding liabilties such as future interest payments. 2) For future minimum lease payments, see Note 13. 3) Market value on December 31. 118 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 22C Management of capital risk NOTE 23 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The Group’s goal for capital structure is to safeguard the Group’s ability to maintain its operations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations refer in their entirety to defined benefit pension so that it can continue to generate returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, plans in which the employees have the right to benefits after their employment ends, and where as well as to maintain an optimal capital structure to keep capital costs down. the level of benefits is based on final salary and length of service. Provision for such plans has The Group’s managed capital is made up of shareholders’ equity. To maintain or adjust the been made for FPG/PRI occupational pensions in Sweden (ITP 2 plan). In other countries, defined ­capital structure, the Group may change the dividend paid to shareholders return capital to contribution pension plans have been adopted. The defined benefit plan in Sweden provides ­shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce liabilities. employees with a guaranteed level of pension payouts during their lifetime. The defined benefit In the same way as other companies in the industry, the Group assesses capital on the basis plan is adjusted for annual inflation of 2 percent which corresponds to assumptions about inflation of the debt/equity ratio. This key figure is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. from the Swedish Central Bank. ­Interest-bearing net debt is calculated as total borrowing from credit institutions excluding finance leases less cash and cash equivalents. Defined benefit pension plans Group, MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Calculation of provision, MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Total borrowings 5,546 5,434 Present value of obligations 627 542 Excluding finance lease -1,606 -1,665 Actual value of plan assets Excluding cash and cash equivalents -103 -140 Total provision for defined benefit pension plans 627 542 Interest-bearing net liabilities 3,837 3,630 Changes in provision during the year, MSEK 2018 2017 Total shareholders’ equity 7,805 7,356 Net liability, opening balance 542 413 Debt/equity ratio 0.5 X 0.5 X Recalculations reported in Other comprehensive income 1) 40 82 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Net expense reported in the income statement 37 30 Liabilities Liabilities Pensions paid -5 -5 to credit Commercial Finance to credit Finance Change in special employer contribution 13 22 Due dates, MSEK institutions papers leases institutions leases Net liability, closing balance 2) 628 542 Liabilities due for payment 1) Items reported in Other comprehensive income consist of a loss in 2018 due to changes in financial assumptions – within 1 year 1,000 121 121 of -32 (-72) MSEK and a loss from experience-based adjustments of -8 (-9) MSEK. – between 1 and 5 years 2,940 438 3,769 437 2) The weighted average duration of pension obligations is 24 years. – later than 5 years 1,047 1,107 Total 2,940 1,000 1,606 3,769 1,665 Important estimates and assumptions Revolving credit facility, MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Important actuarial assumptions, % Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Amount utilized 2,478 2,318 Discount rate 2.50 2.75 Amount not utilized 1,522 1,182 Future salary increases 3.00 3.00 Total revolving credit facility granted 4,000 3,500 Future pension increases (inflation) 2.00 2.00 Employee turnover 3.00 3.00 Sensitivity analysis in actuarial assumptions Change Increase % Decrease % Discount rate +/0.5% 13.1 -11.2 Future salary increases +/0.5% -3.8 4.8 Future pension increases (inflation) +/0.5% -8.6 9.8 Life expectancy +/1 year -3.8 3.8 The above sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. The above table shows the percentage effect on the pension liability when such assumption changes occur. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognized in the balance sheet. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis were unchanged compared with the previous period. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 119 cont. Note 23 Pension expenses for defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans NOTE 24 Other provisions MSEK 2018 2017 Expenses relating to service during the current year, Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 defined benefit pension plans -23 -18 Provision Total Provision Total Changes in other provisions for loyalty Other other for loyalty Other other Expenses relating to service during the current year, during the year, MSEK program provisions provisions program provisions provisions defined contribution pension plans -453 -384 Total pension expenses included in personnel expenses -476 -402 Opening balance 127 1 128 131 2 133 Change through the income Interest expenses for defined benefit pension plans -14 -12 statement 11 -1 10 -4 -1 -5 Total expenses in the income statement -490 -414 Closing balance 138 0 138 127 1 128 Payments for 2019 are expected to be at the same level as 2018. Scandic has a loyalty program, Scandic Friends, in which members earn points for overnight stays that can then be used for free overnight stays. This loyalty program is covered by the rules in IFRS Multi-employer plans 15. The liability is valued at the market value of the anticipated free-night usage. In measuring the The company has secured the ITP plan through insurance from the insurance company Alecta. liability for the loyalty program, the first step is to calculate the liability for the number of free nights Although this plan is classified as a defined benefit plan, it is not possible to get sufficient informaexpected to be used on the basis of the level of utilization and estimated points withdrawal per free tion from Alecta to be able to report it as a defined benefit plan. Information regarding allocation night, based on the outstanding balance of points. The anticipated utilization of free nights is then between employers is missing and instead, all earnings are allocated to the previous employer. multiplied by the average market price of such free nights. That part of the liability that is expected A breakdown of Alecta’s assets and provisions for individuals is not possible, which means that to be utilized after more than one year is reported under Other provisions above, while that part that these plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. Collective consolidation is the buffer is expected to be utilized within one year is recognized as deferred income under Accrued expenses of Alecta’s insurance commitments to be able to handle fluctuations in investment returns and and deferred income (see Note 26). The total liability for the loyalty program and its allocation insurance risks, and it is calculated as the difference between investments and the insurance between current and non-current liabilities is shown in the table below. The provision is expected ­commitments. The consolidation level is calculated as Alecta’s assets in relation to the insurance to be utilized within 5 years. commitments. Alecta has a target ratio of 140 percent for the consolidation level and during 2018, 2018 2017 the consolidation level was 142 percent (154 percent). For 2019, the contribution to the plan is estimated to be at the same level as 2018, which was 75 MSEK. Total Total liability in liability in Nonrespect of Nonrespect of Accounting principles Total liability for current Current loyalty current Current loyalty loyalty program provision provision program provision provision program Pension commitments Group companies operate various pension schemes. These are usually financed through payments to Opening balance 127 85 212 131 87 218 insurance companies or managed funds where the payments are determined according to actuarial Change through the income calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribustatement 11 7 18 -4 2 -6 tion plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity. Closing balance 138 92 230 127 85 212 The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if this legal entity does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current The assessed market value of free overnight stays used during 2018 amounted to 115 (115) and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan where the contribution is not defined, but MSEK. For the current provision, see Note 26. defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. Within the Group, defined benefit Accounting principles plans exist only in Sweden. For defined contribution pension plans, the Group pays fees to publicly or privately managed Provisions pension insurance schemes on an obligatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no Provisions for environmental restoration measures, restructuring expenses and legal claims are ­further payment obligations once the fees are paid. The fees are reported as personnel expenses reported when the Group has a legal or informal obligation as a result of earlier events, when it is during the period they relate to. prob­able that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the undertaking and when the The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the amount has been calculated in a reliable manner. Provisions are valued based on the best possible present value of the defined benefit obligation on the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan estimate of expenditure that will be required to resolve the obligation in question on the balance assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the sheet date. Provisions for restructuring include costs for terminating leasing agreements and projected unit credit method. The net present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined ­severance pay. No provisions are made for future operating losses. by discounting the estimated future cash outflows. The calculation uses interest rates of first-class corporate bonds that are denominated in the same currency that the benefits will be paid in and that Important estimations and assumptions have terms of maturity approximating the terms in the related pension liability. Reporting of provisions for loyalty programs for customers Actuarial gains and losses that arise from experience-based adjustments and changes in actuarial In accordance with IFRS 15, provisions for loyalty programs for customers are reported as a reducassumptions are reported in Other comprehensive income during the period in which they arise. tion in revenue in conjunction with the earning of the right to future use. The reserve outstanding at Past-service costs are recognized immediately in the income statement. any time is divided into a long-term portion, which is reported under Other provisions, and a shortterm portion, which is reported under Accrued expenses and deferred income. 120 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 25 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported net when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred taxes are expected to be settled at the same time. No such offsetting has been carried out in these annual accounts. Dec 31, 2018 Distribution of deferred tax items on underlying balance sheet Derivative Elimination of Losses Total deferred items and their changes during the year, MSEK Pensions instruments internal goodwill carried forward tax assets Deferred tax assets Opening balance Jan 1, 2018 63 2 5 132 202 Reported in income statement 1 -1 2 -38 -36 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 11 1 12 Exchange rate differences 1 4 5 Closing balance as at Dec 31, 2018 75 2 8 98 183 – of which receivables to be utilized within 12 months 0 Intangible Land & Untaxed Accelerated Hedge Total deferred fixed assets buildings reserves depreciation accounting tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Opening balance Jan 1, 2018 -767 -11 -4 -28 0 -810 Reported in income statement 33 1 -22 9 -1 20 Reclassification -6 6 0 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income -1 -11 -12 Exchange rate differences -6 0 0 -1 -7 Closing balance as at Dec 31, 2018 -740 -10 -32 -14 -12 -808 – of which liabilities to be paid within 12 months -54 -1 -55 Deferred tax liabilities, net Net deferred tax liabilities Opening balance Jan 1, 2018 -608 Reported in income statement -16 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 0 Exchange rate differences 2 Closing balance as at Dec 31, 2018 -625 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 121 cont. Note 25 Dec 31, 2017 Distribution of deferred tax items on underlying balance sheet Derivative Elimination of Losses Total deferred items and their changes during the year, MSEK Pensions instruments internal goodwill carried forward tax assets Deferred tax assets Opening balance Jan 1, 2017 39 4 5 203 251 Reported in income statement 2 -2 -72 -72 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 22 22 Exchange rate differences 0 1 1 Closing balance as at Dec 31, 2017 63 2 5 132 202 – of which receivables to be utilized within 12 months Intangible Untaxed Accelerated Total deferred fixed assets Land & buildings reserves depreciation tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Opening balance Jan 1, 2017 -735 -13 -3 -24 -775 Reported in income statement -2 1 -1 -3 -5 Acqusition of businesses -24 -24 Exchange rate differences -6 1 -1 -6 Closing balance as at Dec 31, 2017 -767 -11 -4 -28 -810 – of which liabilities to be paid within 12 months -33 -1 -34 Deferred tax liabilities, net Net deferred tax liabilities Opening balance Jan 1, 2017 -524 Reported in income statement -77 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 22 Acquisition of businesses -24 Exchange rate differences -5 Closing balance as at Dec 31, 2017 -608 Tax losses carried forward The Group has reported loss carryforwards amounting to 458 MSEK (599) mainly in N ­ orway, Accounting principles ­Denmark and Germany. These loss carryforwards can be utilized against future taxable surpluses. Deferred income tax Recorded deferred tax assets related to reported loss carryforwards amounted to 98 (132) MSEK, Deferred income tax is reported using the liability method on all temporary differences arising the Group has assessed that it will be possible to offset these carryforwards in the future, based on between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the balance sheet. the forecasts of the Group for coming years. Non-recorded deficiencies amounted to 1,355 (882) However, deferred tax is not reported if it arises as a result of a transaction that constitutes the first MSEK and are mainly related to Finland and Denmark where it still is uncertain to what extent they reporting of an asset or liability that is not an operational acquisition and which, at the time of the can be offset towards taxable surpluses. These deficiencies amount to 274 MSEK (178). transaction, affects neither the reported nor the tax result. Deferred tax is not reported either on Tax on previous, not recognized, loss carryforwards amounted to -38 MSEK (43). None of the the first reporting of goodwill. Deferred income tax is determined using the tax rates (and laws) that deductible deficiencies are limited in time. All deferred tax on deductible deficiencies is valued on have been applied or notified by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related taxable deficiencies. deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are reported to the extent it is probable that future tax surpluses will be Deferred tax assets, Parent Company Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 ­avail­able, against which the temporary differences can be utilized. The Group accounts net for Opening balance 0 71 deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet where there is a legal right to offset. Reported in income statement -71 The Parent Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries have applied the tax consolidation ­legislation, which means that these entities are taxed as a single entity. Reported in equity Closing balance 0 0 Deferred tax assets in the Parent Company consist solely of unused deductible deficiencies that the Parent Company had on the closing date. 122 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 26 Accrued expenses and deferred income NOTE 27 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow Group Parent Company Adjustment for items not included Group Parent Company Division into type of expense, MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 in cash flow, MSEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Accrued leasing expenses 137 100 Depreciation 870 553 Accrued personnel expenses 894 829 8 17 Gain/loss on sale of tangible assets -4 Accrued interest expenses 3 0 3 0 Change in accrued expenses/income Deferred income, current portion of and provisions -1 -1 ­loyalty program 92 85 Total 869 548 0 0 Deferred income, bonus checks1) 37 66 Other items 375 380 6 20 Accounting principles Total 1,538 1,461 18 37 The cash flow analysis has been prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The cash flow 1) The bonus check liability is a payment method permitting discounted stays at all Scandic hotels. Bonus checks have a limited reported includes only transactions that involve payments in or out. period of validity. When bonus check booklets are sold, a liability is recorded. The liability is liquidated when the checks are In addition to cash and bank balances, short-term financial investments are classified as liquid ­utilized or when the customer is deemed to be no longer able to utilize or redeem the bonus check. funds since these are exposed only to an insignificant risk of value fluctuations or have a remaining term of less than 3 months from the acquisition date. NOTE 28 Statement of cash flow Non cash flow Opening balance Cash flow from Transaction Exchange Sale of Closing balance MSEK Jan 1, 2018 ­financial activities costs difference operations Interest cost Dec 31, 2018 Borrowings 3,769 117 17 37 3,940 Finance lease 1,665 -129 0 -70 1,606 Accrued interest 0 -77 -36 116 3 Subtotal 5,434 -89 17 1 -70 116 5,549 Cash and cash equivalents -140 13 24 103 Total 5,294 -76 17 25 -70 116 5,446 Non cash flow Opening balance Cash flow from Transaction Exchange Closing balance MSEK Jan 1, 2017 ­financial activities costs difference Acquisition Interest cost Dec 31, 2017 Borrowings 3,777 3 19 -30 3,769 Finance lease 0 1,665 1,665 Accrued interest 7 -80 73 0 Subtotal 3,784 -77 19 -30 1,665 73 5,434 Cash and cash equivalents -1,068 921 8 -140 Total 2,716 844 19 -23 1,665 73 5,294 The table above shows the changes in financial liabilities that affect cash flow. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 123 NOTE 29 Participations in Group companies Changes during the year Parent Company MSEK 2018 2017 Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 5,039 4,590 Given shareholders’ contribution 449 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 5,039 5,039 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Holdings on the balance sheet date Organization number Registered address Shareholding Shareholding Reported value Reported value Scandic Hotels Holding AB 556723-5725 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 5,039 5,039 • Scandic Hotels AB 556299-1009 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 • Hotell Hasselbacken AB 559177-6777 Stockholm, Sweden 100 • Scandic Hotels AS 953 149 117 Oslo, Norway 100 100 Rica Hotels AB 556520-9797 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 Scandic Hotels Gardermoen AS 880 289 772 Gardermoen, Norway 50 50 • Scandic Hotels Holding A/S 30 61 64 56 Copenhagen, Denmark 100 100 • Scandic Hotel A/S 12 59 67 74 Copenhagen, Denmark 100 100 • Scandic Polen Sp.z o. o. 288532 Warsaw, Poland 100 100 • Scandic Hotels Europe AB 556351-7373 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 • Scandic Hotels Deutschland GmbH HRB 146065 B Berlin, Germany 100 100 Scandic Berlin Kurfürstendamm GmbH HRB 158329 B Berlin, Germany 100 100 • Scandic Hotel NV 1) 462 318 529 Antwerp, Belgium 100 • Scandic Hotels Oy 1447914-7 Helsinki, Finland 100 100 • Restel Hotellit Oy 2) 0753772-4 Helsinki, Finland 100 Total 5,039 5,039 1) Scandic Hotel NV was liquidated as per December 27, 2018. 2) Restel Hotellit Oy was merged into Scandic Hotels Oy as per August 1, 2018. NOTE 30 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Group Parent Company No significant liabilities are expected to arise due to the contingent liabilities reported. Scandic is MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 involved in a small number of commercial disputes. None of these disputes is deemed to have any Pledged assets major negative impact on the company’s financial position or profit. No contingent assets have Floating charges been identified within the Group. Total pledged assets 0 0 0 0 Important estimates and assumptions Contingent liabilities On October 19, 2017, Scandic announced that the Finnish Tax Administration had decided to make Guarantee undertakings, FPG/PRI 5 5 an additional assessment for the 2008 tax year. The Finnish Tax Administration is of the opinion Lease guarantees 122 119 that Scandic’s Finnish operations should be subject to additional taxes, fees and interest totaling Tax dispute 369 404 96 MSEK as the deduction of inter-Group loans has been denied. Scandic and its tax advisors are of the opinion that the company has acted correctly and in Travel guarantees 4 6 compliance with the applicable legislation and, accordingly, believe that the Finnish Tax AdministraTotal contingent liabilities 500 534 0 0 tion’s decision is incorrect. The company will appeal the decision and request that the tax decision be rejected in its entirety. Lease guarantees relate mainly to guarantees for lease contracts for premises in the Danish and The amount for the contingent liability has been increased to 369 MSEK, which is the total Norwegian subsidiaries. These have remaining periods of contract of up to 13 years. Fixed rental exposure in the years 2008–2017 including interest. The majority of the amount has been paid fees for the whole remaining period have been accounted for above. These rental fees are included and is accounted for under Other long-term receivables. in future leasing undertakings in Note 5. 124 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 31 Financial assets and liabilities Loans receivable and Financial liabilities at Other financial Dec 31, 2018, MSEK accounts receivable fair value through profit and loss Borrowings receivables/liabilities Total value reported Financial investments 9 9 Accounts receivable 689 689 Derivative instruments – electricity derivatives 54 54 Cash equivalents 103 103 Total financial assets 792 54 0 9 855 Liabilities to credit institutions 2,940 2,940 Commercial papers 1,000 1,000 Finance lease 1,606 1,606 Advance payments from customers 206 206 Accounts payable 791 791 Derivative instruments – interest swaps 8 8 Total financial liabilities 0 8 5,546 997 6,551 Valuation and classification Accrued Fair value via Accrued Financial investments at fair value via OCI. according to IFRS 9 acquisition value income statement acquisition value Others at accrued acquisition value Loans receivable and Financial liabilities at Other financial Dec 31, 2017, MSEK accounts receivable fair value through profit and loss Borrowings receivables/liabilities Total value reported Financial investments 9 9 Accounts receivable 626 626 Cash equivalents 140 140 Total financial assets 766 0 0 9 775 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,769 3,769 Finance lease 1,665 1,665 Advance payments from customers 165 165 Accounts payable 786 786 Derivative instruments – interest swaps 5 5 Total financial liabilities 0 5 5,434 951 6,390 Valuation and classification Accrued Fair value via Accrued Financial investments at fair value via OCI. according to IFRS 9 acquisition value income statement acquisition value Others at accrued acquisition value Liabilities to credit institutions have variable interest rates and are reported at the accrued acquisiFair value tion value. A fixed rate of interest is achieved through interest rate swaps. Variable unit prices The table below shows the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities at the fair value and for electricity have been swapped to fixed prices for parts of the Group’s electricity consumption. categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The different levels are defined as follows: The Group has also entered into a share swap agreement related to the Long-Term Incentive Level 1: Quoted prices on an active market for identical assets or liabilities. ­Program, see Note 6. This is accounted for using the fair value through profit and loss and are Level 2: Observable data other than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly. reported as derivative instruments above. The fair value of other financial assets and liabilities Level 3: Data not based on observable market data. is not assessed as diverging materially from the reported value. Liabilities to credit institutions and the shareholder loan are booked at the fair value. There were no financial assets at the fair value during 2018 and 2017. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 125 cont. Note 31 Dec 31, 2018, MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total b) Loans receivable and accounts receivable Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, not listed on Derivative instruments used for hedging 46 46 an active market and that have fixed or determinable payments. They are part of the current assets, Total financial assets 0 46 0 46 with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, Liabilities to credit institutions 2,940 2,940 in which case they are classified as fixed assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are classified as accounts receivable and other receivables on the balance sheet. Commercial papers 1,000 1,000 Loans receivable and accounts receivable are reported at the acquisition value less any proviTotal financial liabilities 0 3,940 0 3,940 sion for depreciation. According to IFRS 9, loans receivable and accounts receivable shall be valued at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but as accounts receivable Dec 31, 2017, MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is Liabilities to credit institutions 3,769 3,769 not deemed to diverge materially from the fair value. Loans receivable have a variable interest rate and therefore the fair value is not deemed to diverge materially from the reported value. Derivative instruments used for hedging 5 5 A provision for depreciation of accounts receivable is made when there is objective proof that Total financial liabilities 0 3,774 0 3,774 the Group will not be able to receive all of the amounts due in accordance with the original terms and conditions of the accounts receivable. The provision amount constitutes the difference between In accordance with the Group’s Financial Policy, the Group uses derivative instruments and has the asset’s reported value and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the effective entered into an interest rate swap in order to hedge the Group against interest rate risk. These interest rate. The provision amount is reported in the income statement. interest rate swaps were valued on the reporting date at the market value declared by the issuers, which constitutes a Level 2 valuation under IFRS 7. c) Borrowings Borrowings are financial liabilities that are initially reported at fair value, net after transaction costs. Accounting principles Borrowings are subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition value and any difference between Financial assets and liabilities proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is reported in the income statement The Group classifies its significant financial assets and liabilities into the following categories: allocated over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. Borrowings are financial assets valued at fair value through the income statement, loans receivable and accounts ­classified as liabilities to credit institutions and as internal loans in the balance sheet. B­ orrowings receivable, borrowings and accounts payable. The classification depends on the purpose for which are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer the payment the financial asset or liability was acquired. The management determines the classification of the of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. financial assets and liabilities at the first time of reporting and reassesses this decision at each time of reporting. d) Accounts payable Accounts payable are financial liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in a) Financial assets/liabilities reported at fair value through the income statement an active market. They are part of current liabilities, with the exception of items with due dates Financial assets/liabilities valued at fair value through the income statement are financial assets/ more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are classified as long-term liabilities held for resale. A financial asset/liability is classified in this category if it is acquired liabilities. Accounts payable are reported at the acquisition value. mainly for the purpose of being resold shortly thereafter. Derivatives are classified as if held for According to IFRS 9, accounts payable shall be valued at the accrued acquisition value using resale unless they are identified as hedges. Assets/liabilities in this category are classified as the effective interest method, but as the Group’s accounts payable have very short durations ­current assets/liabilities. Changes in the value of these financial assets/liabilities are reported and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is not deemed to diverge as financial income/expenses in the income statement. Scandic applies hedge accounting for materially from fair value. net investments. 126 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTE 32 Transactions with related parties NOTE 33 Appropriation of profits and dividend per share The group Braganza AB is treated as a related party based on its ownership and representation on In accordance with the Board’s dividend policy adopted on September 14, 2015, Scandic aims to the Board during the year. For transactions with subsidaries, OECD’s guidelines for Transfer Pricing distribute at least 50 percent of its net profit from the financial year 2016 and onwards. are applied. The following transactions were carried out with related parties: Appropriation of profits Group Parent Company MSEK Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 The Board proposes that the following available amounts in the Parent Company’s balance sheet, KSEK: 1,534,254 Purchases of services Retained earnings 4,685,168 Braganza AB 1) 1 Net profit for the year -537 Total purchases of services 1 0 0 0 Total, KSEK 6,218,885 Sales of services Be distributed as follows: Braganza AB 2) 9 10 Dividend to be paid to the shareholders, 3.50 SEK per share, KSEK 360,448 Subsidiaries 34 54 To be carried forward 5,858,437 Total sales of services 9 10 34 54 Total, KSEK 6,218,885 Closing balances at year-end from purchases and sales of services The Board proposes that the dividend be paid out on two separate occasions with 1.75 SEK per share on each occasion. The proposed record dates for the payment of dividends are May 9, 2019 Receivables from related parties and ­October 28, 2019. Braganza AB 0 1 The Board believes that the proposed dividend is justified in relation to the requirements that Subsidiaries 3 333 come with the nature of the Group, the scope and risks of the Group’s equity, as well as the Group’s need for consolidation, liquidity and general position. The proposed dividend reduces the Group’s Total receivables from related parties 0 1 3 333 solvency from 44 to 42 percent and that of the Parent Company from 60 to 56 percent, calculated Liabilities to related parties: as per December 31, 2018. The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the consolidated financial statements have been Braganza AB prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the Subsidiaries 144 EU, and give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The Total liabilities from related parties 0 0 144 0 annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results of operations. Loans to related parties Income statements and balance sheets will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting Subsidiaries on May 7, 2019 for adoption. Opening balance 0 5,174 5,067 Transactions during the year 15 12 34 Interest 152 111 Exchange rate differences 36 -16 NOTE Events after the reporting date Closing balance 0 0 5,377 5,174 1) The purchases relate entirely to air tickets. In January, Scandic paid approximately 180 MSEK related to a decision by the Adjustment Board 2) Sales relate entirely to income from accommodations. regarding the supplementary taxation in Finland for the years 2012–2017. Scandic and its tax advisors are of the opinion that the company has complied with applicable legislation and, accordLoans to related parties in the Parent Company consist of long-term loans to Group companies, ingly, that the decision is incorrect. The company has appealed the decision and requested that the as well as receivables and liabilities within the cashpool of the Group. These are classified as long tax decision will be rejected in its entirety. The company therefore does not include any cost for the term. The current liability in the Parent Company to related parties consists of not yet paid Group taxes in the accounts. contributions. For remuneration to the Executive Committee, see the Corporate Governance Report, page 82. On January 18, Scandic announced that Jens Mathiesen would take over from Even Frydenberg as President & CEO. On February 7, Scandic signed an agreement to sell Scandic Hasselbacken in Stockholm for approximately 230 MSEK with an expected capital gain of about 180 MSEK. On March 1, the sale was executed. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 127 ADOPTION The Board of Directors and the CEO hereby certify that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Reporting Standards, IFRS, as endorsed by the European Union, and that they give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The Administration Report of the Group and Parent Company gives a true and fair view of the progress of the Group and Parent Company’s operations, financial position and results of operations, and states significant risks and uncertainty factors facing the Parent Company and Group companies. Income statements and balance sheets will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on May 7, 2019 for approval. This annual report has been prepared in accordance with generally-accepted accounting principles and gives a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results of operations. Stockholm, April 3, 2019 Per G. Braathen Chairman of the Board Ingalill Berglund Grant Hearn Lottie Knutson Board member Board member Board member Christoffer Lundström Eva Moen Adolfsson Martin Svalstedt Board member Board member Board member Fredrik Wirdenius Marianne Sundelius Board member Employee representative Jens Mathiesen President & CEO Our audit report was presented on April 4, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt Authorized Public Accountant Auditor-in-charge 128 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 129 AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of shareholders of Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556703-1702 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND bilities section. We are independent of the parent company on an ongoing basis and we have executed an assessment CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS and the group in accordance with professional ethics for and testing of key controls regarding the financial reporting. Opinions accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our For the reporting unit in Denmark, we have audited the We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requireannual book closing and have executed a review of the Sepaccounts of Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) for the year ments. This includes that, based on the best of our knowltember book closing as a part of the overall review of the 2018 with the exception of the Corporate Governance edge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the group’s interim report. We have also undertaken hotel visits, Report on pages 82–93. The annual accounts and consoliAudit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1. have been proon an ongoing basis, and have tested certain key controls. dated accounts of the company are included on pages vided to the audited company or, where applicable, its The consolidated accounts, disclosures in the notes in 72–128 in this document. ­parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. the annual report and complex transactions of a one-off In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is nature have been examined by the group team. This has in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. included impairment testing of the group’s goodwill and fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the brands which are not subject to ongoing depreciation. parent company as of December 31, 2018 and its financial Our audit activities performance and cash flow for the year then ended in The focus and scope of the audit Materiality accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consoliWe designed our audit by determining materiality and The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consolmateriality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance The Annual Accounts act and present fairly, in all material idated financial statements. In particular, we considered whether the financial statements are free from material misrespects, the financial position of the Group as of where management made subjective judgements, for statement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They 31 December 2018 and their financial performance and example, in respect of significant accounting estimates are considered material if individually, or in aggregate, they cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with Interinvolving assumptions and considering future events which could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decinational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also sions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. by the EU, and the Annual Accounts act. The statutory addressed the risk of management override of internal Based on our professional judgement, we determined administration report is consistent with the other parts of controls, including among other matters, consideration of certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. whether there is evidence of bias representing a risk of overall materiality of the financial statements as a whole. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of material misstatement due to fraud. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us shareholders adopts the income statement and balance We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing sheet for the parent company and the Group. sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate the consolidated accounts are consistent with the content account the structure of the group, the accounting processes on the financial statements as a whole. of the additional report that has been submitted to the parand controls, and the industry in which the group operates. ent company’s audit committee in accordance with the The major portion of Scandic’s operations are in SweKey audit matters Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. den, Norway and Finland and represent slightly more than Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our 86% of the group’s net sales in 2018 and slightly more professional judgment, were most significant in our audit Basis for Opinions than 84% of the group’s adjusted EBITDA. For the largest of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International reporting units in Sweden, Norway and Finland, including ­current period. These areas have been addressed within the Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditthe parent company and consolidation, we have examined framework of the audit and in in forming our opinion regarding ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those the year-end book closing, executed a review of the interim the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsireport as of September 30, we have undertaken hotel visits but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 130 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of goodwill and other acquisition-related assets We refer to Note 12 Intangible assets Goodwill and other acquisition-related assets, including brands, comprise a significant portion of the In testing the impairment requirement for goodwill, brands and other acquisition-related intangible Scandic group’s balance sheet total. As at December 31, goodwill and brands amounted to MSEK assets, we executed, the following audit activities in order to ensure, primarily, the valuation and 9,716 which is equivalent to 55% of the balance sheet total. These items are not only significant in correctness of these items: terms of their amount but also in their nature, as they are impacted by management’s estimations We have undertaken measures to substantiate the mathematical correctness of the company’s and judgements. Due to the significance of this item and its nature, this has been deemed to comimpairment testing, the correctness of the model applied, as such, and have determined if the prise a key audit area in the audit. model agrees with IFRS. We also challenged and evaluated the reasonability of significant assumpManagement and the Board of Directors annually undertake an impairment test of the value of tions made by management. In order to examine the model, itself, we have utilised PwC’s valuation goodwill and brands, and in conjunction with each occasion on which there are indications that a experts to test and evaluate the applied models and methods, as well as significant assumptions. decline in value has been identified, to assess whether there is an impairment requirement. On a random sample basis, we have tested and challenged the details applied in the calculations The estimated value is based on the Board of Director’s approved future budgets and forecasts for against the company’s budgets and financial plan and, where possible, external information. We the next five years. The cash flow for the years after the next five year period is extrapolated based have, then, focused on the assumptions regarding growth, margin development and the applied on the business plan. This assessment includes, therefore, assumptions of significant importance to discount rate per cash-generating unit. We have also followed up the correctness in forecasting the testing of an impairment requirement. This includes assumptions on sales growth, the developbusiness and financial plans through analysing historical outcome, where we compare previous ment of margins and the discount rate (WACC). years’ assumptions regarding future earnings and growth against actual outcomes. The value that is calculated in the testing is equivalent to the value of the discounted cash flows for We have implemented a sensitivity analysis of the valuation of negative changes in significant the identified cash-generating units: Sweden, Norway, Finland and Other Europe. parameters which, individually or on a collective basis, could imply that an impairment requirement exists. Even if a given unit shows no impairment requirement in a testing, future developments negatively deviating from the assumptions and judgements providing the basis of that testing can lead to an Based on our examination, we have identified no observations significant to the audit in its entirety impairment requirement. as regards Scandic’s impairment testing of goodwill and brands, which should be reported to report to the Audit Committee. Other acquisition-related intangible assets are subject to ongoing depreciation. For these assets, a testing of the valuation is undertaken if there is a suspicion that the value of the assets has decreased so that a write-down needs to be undertaken. Based on the impairment testing undertaken for goodwill and brands, which is based on best estimate and on the information available in preparing the annual testing, Scandic’s assessment is that there is no impairment requirement regarding the above-mentioned assets as at December 31, 2018. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 131 Other Information than the annual accounts and to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, Hotels Group AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the proposed consolidated accounts matters related to going concern and using the going appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. This document also contains other information than the ­concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders annual accounts, consolidated accounts and are included on accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the pages 1–71 and 134–137. The Board of Directors and the and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to ­proposal in the statutory administration report and that the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall, Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. accounts does not cover this other information and we do without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding and tasks in general, among other things oversee the Basis for Opinions this other information. ­company’s financial reporting process. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibiliconsolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the Auditor’s responsibility ties under those standards are further described in the information identified above and consider whether the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of information is materially inconsistent with the annual whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts the parent company and the Group in accordance with accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether ­professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance the audit and assess whether the information otherwise includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level with these requirements. appears to be materially misstated. of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is If we, based on the work performed concerning this ducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. information, conclude that there is a material misstatement auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material of this other information, we are required to report that fact. misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and We have nothing to report in this regard. fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or the Managing Director in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the influence the economic decisions of users taken on the appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proManaging Director basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. posal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is available which the company’s type of operations, size and risks consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentaon the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: place on the size of the parent company’s and the Groups tion in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and in www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/docuequity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of ments/rev dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part general. Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible of the auditor´s report. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s for such internal control as they determine is necessary to organization and the administration of the company’s enable the preparation of annual accounts and consoliREPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND affairs. This includes among other things continuous dated accounts that are free from material misstatement, ­REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial whether due to fraud or error. Opinions ­situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidesigned so that the accounting, management of assets accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director dated accounts, we have also audited the administration of and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled are responsible for the assessment of the company’s ability the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Scandic in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall 132 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ­ anage the ongoing administration according to the Board m The auditor’s examination of the corporate of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other ­governance statement matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle governance statement on pages 82–93 has been prepared the management of assets in a reassuring manner. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance statement Auditor’s responsibility is conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate goverand thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is nance statement. This means that our examination of the to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable corporate governance statement is different and substandegree of assurance whether any member of the Board of tially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: with International Standards on Auditing and generally • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omisaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that sion which can give rise to liability to the company, or the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for • in any other way has acted in contravention of the our opinions. ­Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles A corporate governance statement has been prepared. of Association. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed approsecond paragraph points 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act priations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of law are consistent with the other parts of the annual assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accorCompanies Act. dance with the Annual Accounts Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Stockholm, was appointed is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance auditor of Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) by the general with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will meeting of shareholders on April 26, 2018 and has been always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to the company’s auditors since May 9, 2012. ­liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with Stockholm April 4, 2019 the Companies Act. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/ Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt showdocument/documents/rev dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. Authorized Public Accountant This description is part of the auditor´s report. Auditor-in-Charge SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 133 RELATIVELY STABLE ­DEVELOPMENT AFTER WEAK START TO THE YEAR SHARE PRICE TREND CHANGES IN MAIN SHAREHOLDERS During 2018, a total of 184.2 (137.4) million Scandic Based on the closing price on the first day of trading in the In 2018, the Stena sphere increased its shareholding by shares were traded. The share was traded in more than Scandic share, December 2, 2015 (63.75), until the closing 2,920,753 shares via Stena Sessan AB. This increased its ten marketplaces. Trading on Nasdaq Stockholm price on the last day of trading in 2018 (78.10), the Scandic ownership from 15.1 percent to 17.4 percent of the capital accounted for 47.5 percent (49.6) of the total turnover. The share rose 22.5 percent. Scandic’s sector index, OMX and votes by year-end, making Stena Sessan the largest free-float amounted to 66 percent and of these shares, Stockholm Travel & Leisure, dropped 18.7 percent while shareholder. about ­two-thirds had foreign owners. the broad OMX Stockholm index went down less than AMF Försäkring och Fonder also increased its share1 percent during the same period. Including dividends holding by 6,176,120 shares to 6,460,000 giving it SHARE CAPITAL for two financial years, total return on Scandic’s shares 6.27 percent of the votes and capital and making it third The share capital amounts to 25.7 MSEK divided into amounted to 31.4 percent during the period. largest owner after Stena Sessan AB and Novobis. 102,985,075 shares conferring one vote each. During 2018, Scandic’s share decreased 33.7 percent, In February, Tryggve Hegnar acquired 5,138,955 shares from 117.75 to 78.10. Including dividends, total return through his company ­Periscopus AS, or 4.99 percent of the DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY declined 31 percent. On January 16, 2018, Scandic company. On December 31, 2018, Periscopus AS was The Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy that announced expected lower earnings for the fourth quarter fourth largest owner. aims to distribute at least 50 percent of the net profit from 2017 mainly as a result of lower profitability in the company’s the 2016 financial year. For 2018, the Board of Directors Swedish operations. As a result, the share dropped about MORE SHAREHOLDERS, HIGHER proposes a dividend of 3.50 SEK (3.40) per share paid in 20 percent during the day. ­TURNOVER two equal amounts on two occasions during the year. At year-end 2018, Scandic’s stock market value was By the end of 2018, the number of shareholders had The record dates are May 9 and October 28. just over 8 SEK billion. increased by 17.5 percent to 14,427 compared with the previous year when there were 12,274 shareholders. MARKETS WHERE SCANDIC SHARE PRICE AND TURNOVER, DEC 2, 2015 — DEC 28, 2018 SHARE WAS TRADED SEK Number of shares, 000s 135 40,000 Number of shares traded, 000s 120 35,000 200,000 105 30,000 150,000 90 25,000 75 20,000 100,000 60 15,000 45 10,000 50,000 30 5,000 0 15 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Stockholm Cboe BXE, CXE London Turquoise BOAT Scandic Scandic total return OMX Stockholm OMX Stockholm Travel & Leisure Number of shares traded, 000s Other Source: Fidessa. Source: SIX Trust and Fidessa. 134 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Share Votes, Number of Analysts following Scandic Shareholders capital % % shares DEVELOPMENT IN NUMBER ­­ Stefan Andersson SEB Dimensional Fund Advisors 1.90 1.90 1,959,131 OF SHAREHOLDERS Jamie Rollo Morgan Stanley Vanguard 1.82 1.82 1,870,573 MSEK Andreas Lundberg ABG Norges Bank 1.72 1.72 1,776,222 15,000 Karl-Johan Bonnevier DNB Baring Asset Management 1.30 1.30 1,338,587 12,000 Carina Elmgren Handelsbanken Thompson, Siegel Markus Gustafsson Kepler Cheuvreux & Walmsley LLC 1.20 1.20 1,233,400 9,000 Annabel Hay-Jahans Berenberg SEB Fonder 1.09 1.09 1,127,451 6,000 Hawk Ridge Management Share of capital LLC 0.96 0.96 989,251 Shareholder concentration and votes, % 3,000 Lombard Odier 0.84 0.84 862,000 10 largest shareholders 61.19 Total 15 largest 0 2016 2017 2018 25 largest shareholders 73.26 shareholders 66.56 66.56 68,545,832 30 largest shareholders 75.17 Other 33.44 33.44 34,439,243 Total number of shares 100 100 102,985,075 Share data Ticker symbol SHOT Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB per Dec 31, 2018 (verification dates can vary for ­foreign owners. FOREIGN SHARE OWNERSHIP 1) ISIN SE0000635401 Geographic Share Votes, Number of Trading lot 1 share distribution capital, % % shares List Nasdaq Stockholm Nordic Mid Cap list Sweden 64.10 64.10 66,015,042 Sector index OMX Stockholm Travel & Leisure USA 9.34 9.34 9,621,121 Norway 7.98 7.98 8,214,300 Share Votes, Number of Shareholders capital % % shares UK 3.10 3.10 3,196,540 Stena 17.43 17.43 17,947,735 Switzerland 1.00 1.00 1,025,339 Rolf Lundström 16.32 16.32 16,803,800 Other (including anonymous) 14.48 14.48 14,912,733 Foreign owners (estimate), 35.9 Swedish owners, 64.1 AMF Försäkring & Fonder 6.27 6.27 6,460,000 Source: Holdings of Modular Finance AB as per Dec 31, 2018. Periscopus AS 4.99 4.99 5,138,955 Handelsbanken Fonder 4.82 4.82 4,960,000 Swedbank Robur Fonder 3.95 3.95 4,069,164 1) Refers to known owners. Svolder 1.95 1.95 2,009,563 SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 135 DEFINITIONS HOTEL-RELATED KEY RATIOS FINANCIAL KEY RATIOS & ALTERNATIVE Interest-bearing net liabilities PERFORMANCE MEASURES Liabilities to credit institutions and commercial papers ARR (Average Room Rate) minus cash and cash equivalents. The average room rate is the average room revenue per Adjusted EBITDA sold room. Interest-bearing net liabilities Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Earnings before pre-opening costs, items affecting comparability and before depreciation and amortization, interest Liabilities to credit institutions 2,940 3,769 Full-time equivalents (FTEs) Commercial papers 1,000 and taxes, adjusted for the effects of the finance lease. The number of full-time employees calculated as the total Cash and cash equivalents -103 -140 number of working hours for the period divided by annual EBIT Interest-bearing net liabilities 3,837 3,629 working time. Earnings before interest and taxes. Justification: Interest-bearing net liabilities are used to LFL (Like-for-Like) calculate the company’s indebtedness, which is one of EBITDA Scandic’s financial targets. The definition chosen cor­ LFL refers to the hotels that were in operation during the Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and responds to the definition used for the calculation of entire period as well as during the corresponding period of ­amortization. indebted­ness according to Scandic’s loan agreements. the previous year. EBITDA margin Working capital OCC (Occupancy) EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. Total current assets, excluding derivative instruments and Refers to sold rooms in relation to the number of available rooms. Expressed as a percentage. cash and cash equivalents, minus total current liabilities, EBT excluding derivative instruments, the current portion of Earnings before tax. finance lease liabilities and commercial papers. Pre-opening costs Refers to costs for contracted and newly opened hotels Items affecting comparability Working capital Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 before opening day. Items that are not directly related to the normal operations Current assets, excluding cash of the company, for example, costs for transactions, and cash equivalents 1,285 929 RevPAR (Revenue Per Available Room) Current liabilities -2,786 -2,110 ­integration, restructuring and capital gains/losses from Refers to the average room revenue per available room. sale of operations. Working capital, net -1,501 -1,181 Justification: There is a need to optimize cash generation EQUITY-RELATED KEY RATIOS to create value for Scandic’s shareholders. The management team is therefore focused on working capital and Earnings per share on reducing lead times between income generation and The profit/loss during the period related to the sharehold­payments received. ers of the Parent Company divided by the average number of shares. Equity per share A more comprehensive list of definitions is available at Equity related to the shareholders of the Parent Company scandichotelsgroup.com/en/definitions divided by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the period. 136 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INFORMATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Annual General Meeting of the shareholders in Scandic Joel Lindeman Provobis through Novobis AB A N N UA L G E N E R A L Hotels Group AB (publ) will be held at 11:00 CET on (Chairman of the Nomination Committee) MEETING ­Tuesday, May 7, 2019 at Vasateatern, Scandic Grand Johan Wester Stena Sessan Investment AB ­Central, Stockholm. Registration will begin at 10:00 CET. Trygve Hegnar Periscopus AS Per G Braathen Chairman of the Board of Directors MAY 7, Participation in the Annual General Meeting Shareholders who wish to participate in the annual general Among other things, the Nomination Committee proposes meeting must be recorded in the share register kept by Board Members to the Annual General Meeting and if Euroclear Sweden AB on Tuesday, April 30, 2019, and give ­applicable, auditors and fees to the Board of Directors. 2019 notice to the company of their intent to participate not later than on Tuesday, April 30, 2019. FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2019 Shareholders may register on the Company’s website Interim Report January – March 2019 www.scandichotelsgroup.com (private individuals only), by May 7, 2019 phone to the following number: + 46 (0)8-402 92 48, or in Interim Report January – June 2019 S TO C K H O L M writing to the following address: Scandic Hotels Group AB July 19, 2019 (publ), AGM 2019, c/o Euroclear Sweden, P.O. Box 191, Interim Report January – September 2019 SE-101 23 Stockholm. October 24, 2019 Shareholders shall in their notice state their name, personal identification number or company registration numFinancial reports are available on the company’s website at ber, address, telephone number and the number of advisors www.scandichotelsgroup.com (if any). Shareholders attending by proxy or representative To subscribe for Scandic’s press releases and interim should send documents of authorization to the mail address reports, register your email address on Scandic’s website. above well before the annual general meeting. A template power of attorney in Swedish and in English is available on CONTACT DETAILS the company’s website www.scandichotelsgroup.com. For Jan Johansson, Chief Financial Officer information on how your personal data is processed, please jan.johansson@scandichotels.com visit https://www.euroclear.com/dam/ESw/Legal/Privacynotice-bolagsstammor-engelska.pdf. Henrik Vikström, Director Investor Relations henrik.vikstrom@scandichotels.com Notice convening the Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting is convened through a notice on the company’s website and an announcement in the Swedish Official Gazette (Postoch Inrikes Tidningar). Any documents that are to be presented at the Annual General Meeting will be made available on the company’s website at least three weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting Production: Scandic in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet 2018. and on the day of the Annual General Meeting. SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 • 137 SCANDICHOTELSGROUP.COM
