CSR & SDG ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CONTENT 1 CEO STATEMENT 2 INTRODUCTION 3 CSR & SDG PILLARS 4 2018 CSR & SDG REVIEW 5 2018 RESULTS IN A GLIMPSE 6 SPONSORSHIPS 7 TESTIMONIALS 8 APPENDIX: LEBANON SITUATION IN 2018 1. CEO STATEMENT December 31st 2018 To our colleagues, partners, consumers & community: I am pleased to confirm that HOLDAL reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Raymond Abou Adal CEO UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES 2. INTRODUCTION Holdal joined the United Nations Global Compact and Global Compact Lebanon in January 2018 in supporting the 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In reality however, these principles have been an intrinsic part of our Group from its very beginnings 70 years ago. Since then and no matter how rough it got and what everyone else was doing, we always chose integrity and accountability over shortsightedness and selfishness. We live in a country where many believe they are above the law, the concept of civic responsibility is quasi inexistent, and consuming less is seen as a sign of weakness. So the challenge starts with changing mindsets, beginning with each one of us: we are on the right track but were also aware that we have a long way to go. HOLDAL won the Big Corporations category award during the MultiStakeholder SDG Forum at the Grand Serail in the presence of H.R.E Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden and H.E. PM Saad El Hariri. https://www.unglobalcompact.org https://www.globalcompact-lebanon.com/ 2. INTRODUCTION Sustainability, impact, ethics are at the core of who we are and what we do: we aim at increasing the firm in sustainable value & impact in the long run. We will never jeopardize company’s reputation, DNA, values and family legacy over company’s growth agenda. In regards to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption, at HOLDAL all areas of focus are intrinsically linked to: • our corporate values and behaviors which are linked to our colleagues KPI’s & performance review • our vision, purpose & strategic goals • our investment strategy • our selection of candidates, partners, brands & consumers • our Internal & External Auditors missions • our Risk Register & Authority Matrix • our Internal Regulations • our Quality Control • our Code of Business Conduct which covers 12 principles (code was signed by every colleague) http://www.holdalgroup.com/OurGroup#business-conduct 2. INTRODUCTION • compliance with these 12 principles is an essential element in our business. • BOD, CEO & EXCOM are responsible for ensuring these principles are applied throughout Holdal. • every new employee is exposed to the code of Business Conduct whenever joining Holdal. • compliance with the Code is monitored every year by the Internal Audit Committee and is included in the Internal Audit Charter. • our various Standard Operating Policies & Procedures covering all aspects of our business service functions and lines of business i.e. recruitment, performance review, promotion, safety, first aid, sanitary, gender equality, physical/verbal harassment, conflicts, working conditions, discrimination and racism, corruption, misusage of justice and power, breach, bullying, grievance, whistle blow… • above policies ensure all employees feel supported in speaking up in confidence and reporting matters they suspect may involve anything, improper, unethical or inappropriate; encourage all improper, unethical or inappropriate behavior to be identified and challenged at all levels of the organization; provide clear procedures for the reporting of such matters; manage all disclosures in a timely, consistent and professional manner; and provide assurance that all disclosures will be taken seriously, treated as confidential and managed without fear of retaliation. • our commitment and active role in key organizations, for instance for anti-corruption: https://www.brandprotectiongroup.org/ 3. CSR & SDG PILLARS OUR CSR PILLARS Everyone at HOLDAL is committed to perpetrating family values and heritage, dedicating time and resources to the 3 pillars which have become an integral part of our company’s strategy: Empowering Sustainable Saving Lives communities Development To many, basic needs such as This pillar is as diverse as the HOLDAL is determined to Food, Water, Shelter, Security and communities around us and includes promote a greener Levant and to Health have become a luxury. initiatives that aim to improve social minimize its impact on the HOLDAL is devoted to combat care and wellbeing, fight environment by 2020, be it this paradox by partnering with discrimination, promote women & through its recycling program & various associations and NGOs children rights, and nurture awareness campaigns or through that are active in the entrepreneurship. Education is at the integration of green technologies aforementioned fields. center of this pillar. in its operations and facilities. 3. CSR & SDG PILLARS OUR SDG PILLARS For the next decade, we will be focusing on 5 SDGs which are at the core of our culture and vision, and we have set-up a task force with a clear roadmap behind each SDG to monitor and report on progress. SDG Structure SDG Owner: • Own the selected SDG at Group Level (reports back to CSR on quarterly basis and to BOD annually) • Draft and propose the SDG related Roadmap (listing the tasks/actions, timelines, status, responsibility) • Propose the selected SDG targets/goals relevant to our region & to HOLDAL • Link the selected SDG targets/goals to HOLDAL business KPI’s SDG Task Committee Force: • Is in charge of the assigned action/task implementation • Measure progress and report back to SDG owner (on a monthly basis) • Recommend solutions & initiatives to SDG owner ALL COMMITTED TO HOLDAL 5 SDGS 4. 2018 CSR & SDG REVIEW SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH SAVE A LIFE: DONATE BLOOD For the 6th consecutive year, 50 volunteers from HOLDAL and from L’Oréal participated in Donner Sang Compter (DSC) Blood Drive: 35 blood units were collected. To date, we have gathered a list of 200 volunteers and we have collected 150 blood units! http://www.dsclebanon.org/ DONATE FOR LIFE For the 5th consecutive year, HOLDAL ran the Donate for Life campaign in all our retail stores in partnership with the Children Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL). Thanks to our team’s hard work, we were able to collect $2,600 via 2 campaigns this year. To date, we were able to gather and donate a total of $16,000 to CCCL. http://www.cccl.org.lb/ FIGHT AGAINST HUNGER For the 6th consecutive year, HOLDAL thanks to our partner Food & Design offered 1,000 meals to underprivileged families and to the Lebanese Food Bank (LFB). http://lebanesefoodbank.com/en/ http://foodanddesign-lb.com/ SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH HEALTH & SAFETY AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS On October 12, HOLDAL organized a Health & Safety Awareness Day to all its colleagues. Below were the topics covered with the following NGO’s. 100 colleagues attended these important sessions. PINK RIBBON MONTH For the 6th consecutive year, in October, we have been raising awareness on breast cancer via an internal campaign. On October 1st, HOLDAL men wore a pink top to support this important cause. Key Facts & Figures: • 1 in 8 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer. • In Lebanon, Breast Cancer constitutes 35% of all women’s cancers. • Early detection greatly increases the chance of complete recovery: when caught early, breast cancer has a 98% survival rate. • In Lebanon, 49% of the cases are at an age below 50. • The average age in US, Europe, and Australia is 62 but it decreases to 52 in Lebanon. • A healthy diet & exercise routine can reduce your chance of breast cancer by nearly 40%. Breast cancer can’t be prevented, but you can take important steps to help detect it earlier. http://lbcfoundation.org/ SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH “I TOOK THE CUT” HAIR DONATION DAY On October 28th, our colleagues attended L’Oréal “I TOOK THE CUT” hair donation day in collaboration with the Lebanese Breast Cancer Foundation. Nearly 70% of women lose their hair due to the chemotherapy treatment, and often avoid being seen in public. Since 2014, L’Oréal holds a yearly hair donation campaign to support cancer patients and help them regain self-esteem, by offering them free of charge wigs made from donated hair. http://lbcfoundation.org/ MOVEMBER AWARENESS MONTH November is the time of the year where HOLDAL men grow their mustaches to raise awareness on men's health issues, such as prostate cancer, testicular cancer, and men's suicide. http://www.cancer.org.lb/ https://www.uicc.org/membership/lebanese-cancer-society http://www.idraac.org/idraac/homepage SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH COLGATE BRIGHT SMILES BRIGHT FUTURES CAMPAIGN In October, HOLDAL helped 1300 refugee children via COLGATE Bright Smiles Bright Futures program providing them with Oral Care Kits including Toothpaste and Toothbrushes. This was done in collaboration with Dr. Alqaderi from Miles for Smiles campaign. Our team visited Al Kadria Camp & Beit El Yasamin School for refugees. Miles for Smiles was led by Prof. Othman Shibly, with the collaboration of the Syrian American Medical Society and the St. Joseph University Dental School under the supervision of Prof. JeanClaude Abou Chedid, Chief of the Pediatric Dentistry Department. https://www.colgate.com/en-us/bright-smiles-bright-futures CLIMB MOUNT KILIMANJARO FOR MYSCHOOLPULSE CHILDREN In November, HOLDAL sponsored Michel Khoury to climb Mount Kilimanjaro in support of Myschoolpulse children in hospitals and raise awareness about hospital school & art therapy programs. http://www.myschoolpulse.com/ SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH DONATE! BE THE CHANGE! THE GOOD WILL BOX Since 2011, thanks to our good will box initiative, we have been able to help the following NGOs: Les Restaurants du Coeur, Saint Vincent de Paul, Arc En Ciel, Lebanese Food Bank, AFEL, Spring of Life, Bassma, Dar Al Amal, Orphan Welfare Society, Himaya, Paradis d’Enfants, Al Insan Mahabba, Ayadina, Family Care Lebanon (FCL), Amour et Partage. We were able to collect & donate 500 boxes filled with clothes, personal & household products, toys, shoes, accessories, bags, canned food & love! To donate please contact us: csr@holdalgroup.com (we welcome donations throughout the year) RUN FOR A CAUSE For the 6th consecutive year, we participated in the Beirut Marathon on November 11. 150 colleagues ran for Chance Association (Children Against Cancer) that helps kids with Cancers and blood disorders. https://www.facebook.com/ChanceAssociation/ SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH HOLDAL WINTER FUN We ended the year on a good note with Holdal employees’ children Christmas celebration. The children enjoyed face painting, DIY crafts, a show with the magician and a dance with Santa and his elves! SDG 4: QUALITY EDUCATION COOKIES FOR A GREAT CAUSE For the 2nd consecutive year, HOLDAL supported BZ KIDZ students on October 10 by selling chocolate bars across HOLDAL offices. Thanks to HOLDAL colleagues, BZ Kids were able to over 104 chocolate bars and raise 700 $ in 1 hour. BZ KIDZ helps hungry kids and provides after school programs for Lebanese kids whose families cannot support their academic success. www.bzkidz.com www.facebook.com/BZKIDZofficial HOLDAL SOCIAL COMMUNITY DAY For the 3rd consecutive year, we successfully completed HOLDAL Social Community Day, thanks to 200 colleagues and their kids who have helped us make this day come true. HOLDAL colleagues gathered on August 31 to renovate the playground and garden of the Lebanese School for the Blind and Deaf in Baabda. SDG 4: QUALITY EDUCATION HOLDAL SOCIAL COMMUNITY DAY Our team painted the walls, built birdhouses, benches and planted the garden in partnership with LiveLoveVolunteer, INJAZ Lebanon and Marie Joelle Tager. About Holdal Social Community Day: it is our annual day devoted to our corporate role as responsible citizens. Our goal is to gather a maximum of colleagues who will volunteer around 1 impactful project every year. www.lsbdbaabda.com/about.php www.injaz-lebanon.org/ www.livelove.org/volunteer NAJAH HOLDAL recently launched “NAJAH” an internal funding program focusing on education in a sustainable and responsible way. NAJAH is designed to “support” our loyal colleagues in need (who cannot sustain vs. their monthly/annual income) and who have a brilliant student/child in middle/high school/secondary/college/universities. Scholarships are granted based on a thorough application and selection process. SDG 4: QUALITY EDUCATION THOSE WHO INSPIRE LEBANON We are happy to announce the release in June of the book “Those Who Inspire LEBANON”. The book portrays 60 inspiring Lebanese role models and mentors from all walks of life. HOLDAL CEO participated to this exciting project sharing his experience, successes, failures, wisdom and advice. The purpose of “Those Who Inspire” is to empower Millennials and to boldly encourage them to pursue their dreams and, above all, believe in themselves. *Books were offered on behalf of HOLDAL to www.thosewhoinspire.com some students in public universities. https://en.annahar.com/article/824969-those-who-inspire-honoring-60-lebaneseinfluential-figures FLAGSHIP REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN LEBANON We are proud to have taken part in the Flagship Report on Corporate Governance in Lebanon: Advancing the Status Quo. This first of a kind report developed by GOVERN for IFG/ESA is based on a survey of banks, listed and unlisted companies across the country and provides recommendations for policymakers and companies seeking to improve their corporate governance practices. http://esainfo.esa.edu.lb/docs/Booklet%20Govern.pdf www.govern.center SDG 4: QUALITY EDUCATION HOLDAL GROUP & INJAZ LEBANON JOB SHADOWING PROGRAM On December 20th, we organized a Job Shadowing Program in collaboration with Injaz Lebanon and our HR Dept. for Grade 11 and 12 students of Dekwane Public High School. 30 students took a career test to identify their best major choice based on their personality and professional aspirations. We then introduced them to HOLDAL business activities, working environment and career growth opportunities. The session was concluded with a Q&A session and certificate distribution. http://www.injaz-lebanon.org/ HOLDAL TRAINING ON GOVERNANCE & SUCCESSION HOLDAL has enrolled in a 2 years’ journey with ESA & IFG to learn from best practices and ensure that the governance chosen was in line with our transformation process, growth and sustainability agenda. FAMILY BUSINESS HISTORIES We have participated in this one of a kind project developed by Tharawat Family Business Forum which captures the history and journey of family businesses from around the world. A first profile report will see the day soon: the goal is to continue with more in depth research on the unicity of each family business. www.tharawat.org SDG 5: GENDER EQUALITY WOMEN AT HOLDAL Like every year, International Women’s Day was held on March 8th to celebrate the countless achievements of women and to raise awareness on women’s rights. Women have come a long way in their struggle for justice and equality, but there is still a long way to go! This year, we focused on understanding the roles and responsibilities of HOLDAL women as seen by HOLDAL men. We will be launching the following awareness campaigns in 2019: harassments’ aspects in the work place, impact of stereotypes, pay benchmark (women vs. men), recent laws in Lebanon implemented to defend women’s right. HOLDAL is equally represented from BOD to EXCOM to non-Managerial roles with 50/50 ratio (men/women). SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION LIGHTS OUT: IT IS EARTH HOUR! Every year, HOLDAL joins the Earth Hour a global annual event where millions of people turn their lights off for 1 hour to show how concerned they are towards our planet. Lights in our premises were turned off on March 24th at 8.30pm. HOLDAL continuously encourages its colleagues to save energy throughout the year i.e. lights off, heaters, AC, printers, laptops, paperless environment… WORLD CLEAN UP DAY In partnership with ORIS brand, HOLDAL colleagues gathered on Saturday September 15 in Ramlet el Bayda to clean up the beach. https://www.worldcleanupday.org/ MAJID AL FUTTAIM GREEN STAR AWARD Menbur City Centre Beirut store has been awarded the 5 Stars “Green Star Award” which is an initiative that assesses the tenants’ sustainability policies and certain environmental and social aspects relevant to their fit-outs and operation. SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION ABTAL EL BI’A CAMPS For the 3rd consecutive year, HOLDAL Group is proud to have taken part in collaboration with Fattal Group in the Environmental Championship Program organized by the Lebanon Mountain Trail Association (LMTA) & ECO Consulting. This unique camp gathered 14 children of Holdal and Fattal employees at the end of June. A 2nd camp was also offered to 14 underprivileged children on behalf of HOLDAL & Fattal Group. http://www.lebanontrail.org/ Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8GQgjEThdi0 http://ecoconsulting.net/www/ Song: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qfz4FTEEyHY RECYCLING PROGRAM Holdal Recycling Program has been running for 8 years at Holdal. Like every year, we organized an annual awareness session with our partners (Arc en Ciel for recycling of paper, cardboard, plastic and aluminum & Beeatoona for electronic waste recycling) to enhance our recycling process. Our goal is to reduce our overall consumption rather than recycling the waste. Some of the quick wins achieved this year: To reduce paper usage, we reviewed most of our approval process and digitalized it. Same for archiving we have been moving to soft archiving. To reduce usage of plastic bottles and plastic/paper cups, we offered eco-friendly re-usable mugs and bottles and installed water fountains in our premises. In HOLD & SHOP, we are proposing reusable eco-friendly bags instead of offering plastic bags. In our cafeteria (with the support of F&D) we are moving from plastic containers to reusable eco-friendly containers. http://www.arcenciel.org/en/ http://www.beeatoona.org/ SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION PAPER RECYCLABLES 2,500 VOLUME Metal 5 PLASTIC 450 KG ALUMINUM 16 PAPER PAPER 4 2018 8.2 ELECTRONICS NYLON PLASTIC 100 Pcs. PLASTIC 0.6 1.9 0.5 ALUMINUM ALUMINUM 0.7 0.1 Ton These figures represent the volume of recyclable wastes gathered at Holdal 2017 2016 SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION INITIATIVES IN THE PIPELINE OPTIMIZE & REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION VS BASELINE • Install sub meters per floor and per high energy use. • Install Daylight & PIR Sensors regulating the lighting in shared spaces and in offices with no light switches. • Develop a better Zoning of lighting & AC’s in offices. • Explore the possibility of external Louvers to decrease thermal heat from direct beam solar radiation. • Limit AC thermostat human handling to 22C in summer, 20C in Winter. • Explore a heat recovery use at factory and measure its impact. • Explore solar water panel at factory and measure its impact. • Explore solar PV for our lighting needs and liquid or air chillers for AC. • Assess the efficiency of our generators in Fuel Use and look into alternatives or optimization. • Auto Hibernate Screens and PC after working hours. • Elevator: given their energy consumption, look into counter weight and magnetic motors. DECREASE GHG EMISSIONS RESULTING FROM TRANSPORT VS BASELINE • Reduce use of private car through a software triggered co-sharing scheme. • Look into shifting to Biodiesel or bioethanol. • Use Compost for our agriculture, trees etc. • Preferential parking spots for Hybrid cars or Low Emissions Cars to incentivize. • Explore a bus transportation to offices for 9am to 5pm people from key residential hubs. • Develop a work from home scheme (once a month) – where possible SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION DECREASE AND UPCYCLE OUTSTANDING WASTE VS BASELINE • Propagate reduce, reuse, recycle awareness schemes. • Enforce recycling with points schemes and tests. • Printing by default: double sided paper. • Use SOSD paperless technology for offices instead of printing papers. • Reduce plastic use by bringing your own mug and plate to cafeteria. • Waste water treatment at factory. • Factory: Use recyclable and light weight material • Stop using plastic bags. OPTIMIZE AND REDUCE WATER CONSUMPTION VS BASELINE • Irrigate only in the evening need be. • Shift some of the men Toilets to Urinals. • Have tap in technology or motion detector for taps (in WC). • Reinforce awareness on water in toilets. • Explore a rain water recovery. SDG 17: PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS For better cooperation between the private sector and the Chamber of Commerce (France and Lebanon) we have taken part in MEREF: https://www.meref-ccifl.org/ The community is calling for more partnership towards common projects and objectives despite the nature of business or industry. Holdal Group had participated in several community events like UNGC Stakeholders Forum, CSR Lebanon, Bank Audi roundtable and it will also be part of the jury board for the Sustainable Minds Competition 2019 competition among schools. SOME OF OUR PARTNERS: 5. 2018 RESULTS IN A GLIMPSE 1000 meals to Lebanese Food Bank 500 boxes distributed to 20 NGOs vs. 110 boxes to 16 NGO’s last year 500 Donors 150Blood Units collected 250+kids smiles 150 Runners at the Beirut Marathon 30+ NGOs supported Volunteer Program (500 hours of community service) Recyclables (205 Tons papers, 0.5 Ton plastics, 16 Kg aluminum and 5 Kg metal) $16,000 proceeds collected 6. SPONSORSHIPS HOLDAL AMONG THE SPONSORS OF ALISEP FUNDRAISING EVENT ALiSEP is a Lebanese NGO founded in 2012 to help patients with multiple sclerosis. Multiple sclerosis is an unpredictable, often disabling disease of the central nervous system, which interrupts the flow of information within the brain, and between the brain and body. Most people with MS are diagnosed between the ages of 20 and 40, with at least 2 to 3 times more women than men diagnosed with the disease. MS affects more than 2.1 million people worldwide and 2500 persons in Lebanon. Since its beginnings, ALiSEP registered 1100 patients to whom it offers moral and financial support. http://www.alisep.org/ MUSTELA & ANNUAL GNK FUND RAISING DINNER Mustela Brand and HOLDAL participated to the 6th annual gala dinner of GNK. GNK is a Lebanese NGO with the following mission: delivering free medical care to children with cancer and catastrophic blood diseases and raising public awareness about these diseases & promoting road safety and initiating a culture of safe driving amongst the Lebanese youth. Proceeds go to help sustain provision of equal medical care to 650 children with cancer and catastrophic blood diseases and to support GNK Traffic Academy aimed at stopping the tragedy of hundreds of young deaths on Lebanese roads. GNK Traffic Academy has instilled the ethics and rules of safe driving in 6000 Lebanese students and 3000 more students are expected to enroll in its program. 6. SPONSORSHIPS BNA ANNUAL GALA DINNER HOLDAL participated to the 3rd annual gala dinner of BNA (Barbara Nassar Association) for Adult Cancer Patient Support. RED CROSS SPONSORSHIP SAINT VINCENT DE PAUL Mustela Brand and HOLDAL have been supporting on a yearly basis Saint Vincent de Paul NGO. SESOBEL Mustela brand and HOLDAL have been supporting Sesobel. AUTISM AWARENESS ASSOCIATION & FAMILY SUPPORT IN LEBANON HOLDAL & Bobbi Brown sponsored the fundraising event of the Autism Awareness Association (AAA). TELEFERIQUE CELEBRATES 75TH INDEPENDENCE OF LEBANON WITH CARIOCA On November 23rd, 2018, Teleferique celebrated the 75th Independence of Lebanon with special needs children. Donner Sang Compter was present to withdraw blood for the benefit of Lebanese Armed Forces Hospitals. 7. TESTIMONIALS We are proud to be your partners in Lebanon market! Ruwayda Dham, Ph.D. Vice President Arwan Pharmaceutical Industries Lebanon Congratulations to HOLDAL on this achievement sustained over such a long period. It’s great to see that you have been recognized for all the work in making our environment and workplace a better place. To receive recognition in front of Sweden’s crown princess is of course wonderful, not least considering where Isadora is from. For Isadora it is important to know we have partners that share our values as a foundation for the future business we create together. Jesper Johansen – CEO Isadora Congratulations! I’m proud to be your partner! Diego Rossetti CEO of Fratelli Rossetti On behalf of Panchrest, I would like to send you and Holdal our heartiest congratulations. This is very impressive and comes as a result of Holdal’s commitment to excellence as well as the contribution of each team member towards this noble goal. A lot of hard work, valuable attention to details from everyone running the program; and especially the commitment from the senior management, made it possible. Fady Khayat – Panchrest 7. TESTIMONIALS On behalf of the volunteers of Family Care Lebanon, congratulations! We have often been the recipient of your generosity and have therefore witnessed firsthand the values that uphold Holdal Group and you very much deserve this award! If all the companies would be like yours, we would make a better world! André Freulon – Family Care Lebanon Congratulations!!! What a success and honor for you and every single employee of the Group! You all deserve this, you are a great, great company. Stefan Herzog GM Estée Lauder Congratulations on winning this award! There is no doubt you are a great example for our society and you are definitely creating a big impact for the next generations and for making our environment better! I wish you all the best in your journey and I am personally proud of working with you and your esteemed organization! Nada El Sayed – PWC Many congratulations for the award and best wishes for an ongoing success. Siddik Zaza – COO Bravo, reçois mes compliments et ceux de mon équipe pour ce prix illustre qui récompense 70 ans d’engagements sincères et convaincus d’une famille, d’une équipe et d’une nouvelle génération aux commandes ! Olivier de la Tournelle – Export Director 8. APPENDIX: LEBANON SITUATION IN 2018 Population: 6.082.357 in Nov. 2017 55% of the population is in NEED Source: Lebanon crisis response plan 2017-2020 (United Nations & Lebanese Gov.) 8. APPENDIX: LEBANON SITUATION IN 2018 40% of the population in need 20% of the population in need Source: Lebanon crisis response plan 2017-2020 (United Nations & Lebanese Gov.) THANK YOU! Our little Holdal community is a microcosm of our region. If we manage to succeed the SDG bet at our level then we demonstrate that, with the right governance, Lebanon and the region too stand a big chance. We owe it to our next generations to leave them with a better environment. “We don’t have to engage in grand, heroic actions to participate in the process of change. Small acts, when multiplied by millions of people, can transform the world”. Howard Zinn
