2018 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WELCOME OUR APPROACH About this report S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE This report summarises TUI Group’s progress on the fourth L E A D T H E W AY year of the Better Holidays, Better World strategy – reflecting CARE MORE on successes and challenges, and performance data for the G L O B A L C O M PA C T 2018 financial year (1st October 2017 to 30th September 2018), unless otherwise stated. The report is designed to be relevant to a wide audience, including employees, customers, and other stakeholder groups. As well as following our strategic framework for 2015 – 2020, we’ve tried to respond to emerging issues of material importance to our business and our stakeholders. This report covers data and progress on activities from businesses owned or controlled by TUI Group. Further information on our sustainability reporting methodology can be found here. TUI Group’s 2018 UN Global Compact Progress Report can also be found in this report. Go online to find out more about TUI ’s sustainability initiatives 2 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Contents S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY WELCOME L E A D T H E W AY R E P O R T N AV I G AT I O N CARE MORE To help you navigate through this report, we have 04 Welcome from Fritz Joussen 49 Strategy progress G L O B A L C O M PA C T created this PDF with links throughout. The con05 TUI at a glance 51 Innovation tents bar in the left margin allows you to see where 53 Educating the next generation you are in the report (highlighted with blue text) OUR APPROACH 54 TUI Care Foundation and allows you to move to another area. 06 Better Holidays, Better World Strategy The following icons work in a similar way to a website: CARE MORE 07 Managing Sustainability 09 Highlights for 2018 59 Strategy progress TA B L E O F C O N T E N T S 10 Sustainable Development Goals 61 Engagement 11  T UI ’s Contribution to the goals 64 Diversity SE ARCH 13 Materiality 66 People development 14 Human rights 68 Empowering colleagues 69 Security, Health & Safety The following symbol in the text takes you to addiS T E P L I G H T LY tional information outside the report: G L O B A L C O M PA C T 16 Strategy progress TEXT REFERENCE 18 Addressing climate change 71 Progress report 19 Aviation 24 Cruise 29 Ground operations MAKE A DIFFERENCE 31 Strategy progress 33 Hotels 38 Destinations 42 Reducing plastic waste 45 Customers 3 WELCOME Welcome 04 Welcome from Fritz Joussen 05 TUI at a glance Tourism has an enormous creative power that goes far beyond holidays. For travellers, holidays are the most wonderful time of the year. This is what TUI‘s 70,000 employees work for. But that‘s not all: where there is investment in tourism, income, education, infrastructure, medical care and much more are OUR APPROACH also generated. The local population benefits directly from this. In emerging S T E P L I G H T LY and developing countries in particular, I experience again and again how tourism MAKE A DIFFERENCE opens up new perspectives for the local population. L E A D T H E W AY As a leading tourism group, we want to continue to use our influence to initiate CARE MORE sustainable change. Of course, this also includes protecting the environment G L O B A L C O M PA C T and the climate. Thanks to our investments in the latest technologies, we are on the right track. Our airlines in the UK and Germany rank in 1st and 4th place worldwide for airline carbon efficiency. TUI Group already has one of the most modern cruise fleets on the seas, and we have further reduced CO 2 »Tourism is much more than holidays. emissions per cruise passenger night by around 12 percent from 2015 to 2018. Furthermore, our Mein Schiff new building ships ordered last year will be Through education and training, equipped with low-emission liquid gas engines. It is now important to expand the infrastructure needed on land, in cities and in ports to support this techwe make an active contribution to nology so that it can be used in many parts of the world in the years to come. improving the lives of people in Of the approximately 40,000 ships on the world‘s oceans, around 300 are cruise ships. I am convinced that modern cruise ships in particular are the the holiday countries in the long term.« source of innovations for the entire shipping industry that can lead to more environmental and climate protection on the oceans. We make an active contribution to the transfer of knowledge and prosperity. Environmental protection is wider than carbon reduction. For instance, we are And we promote the exchange between cultures when people meet on journeys experiencing just how great a threat plastic poses to our oceans. As a travel and thus get to know the country and its people better. The world has company we are particularly sensitive to this. We have launched multiple inichanged, in many places relationships and living together today are more tiatives in our hotels, offices, aircraft and on our cruise ships to reduce plastic. fragile and unstable. This is why the travel and tourism sector also offers To date, we have been able to remove 140 million single-use tems of plastic. unique potential here. We will continue along this path. Our goal as TUI is to continue to play a pioneering role in sustainability. We The realisation of our sustainability ambitions is more successful where we want to use tourism‘s creative power to maximise the benefits of tourism. And at succeed in engaging our customers and local communities in holiday destinathe same time we will innovate to minimise the ecological footprint of travel. tions, and to this end our TUI Care Foundation is particularly instrumental. With more than 30 live projects, it works to ensure that as many people as possible in destinations benefit from tourism – for example through involvement in nature conservation initiatives, in the education programs of the TUI Academies, or by benefitting from our support for local entrepreneurs. Education and training are the key to change and the first step towards a Fritz Joussen better life for many young people and their families. Chief Executive Officer TUI Group 4 WELCOME TUI at a glance 16 CRUISE SHIPS 04 Welcome from 380 Fritz Joussen HOTELS 05 TUI at a glance TUI is the world’s leading tourism group, comprising tour operators, five airlines with around 150 aircraft, 16 cruise liners, over 380 hotels and many destination management y companies. This integrated offering enables us to provide lida s OUR APPROACH Horience our 27 million customers with unmatched holiday experiE xpe S T E P L I G H T LY ences. Read more here MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T ts & rke s Ma irline A ~150 AIRCRAFT 27 M 115 CUSTOMERS DESTINATIONS 21 million from European source markets 5 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Better Holidays, Better World Strategy 06 Better Holidays, Better World Strategy As the world’s leading tourism business, TUI Group is comTUI VISION 07 Managing Sustainability mitted to making our sector more sustainable. Our Better Discovering the world’s diversity, exploring new horizons, experiencing 09 Highlights for 2018 Holidays, Better World strategy is built around four core pilforeign countries and cultures: travel broadens people’s minds. At TUI we 10 Sustainable Development create unforgettable moments for our customers across the world and lars. These are areas where we aim to make a positive impact Goals make their dreams come true. We are mindful of the importance of travel to create change at scale – in our own operations, through and tourism for many countries in the world and the people living there. 11  T UI ’s Contribution to the goals our value chain and customers, and across the wider industry We partner with these countries and help shape their future – in a com13 Materiality and beyond. mitted and sustainable manner. We, the 70,000 TUI employees. Think 14 Human rights Travel. Think TUI. T U I S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T R AT E G Y 2 0 15 – 2 0 2 0 S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY betterholidays CARE MORE betterworld G L O B A L C O M PA C T TUI Sustainability Strategy 2020 Reducing the environmental impact of holidays Step We will operate Europe’s most carbon-efficient airlines lightly and reduce the carbon intensity of our operations by 10 % Creating positive change for people and communities Make We will deliver 10 million ‘greener and fairer’ holidays a difference a year by 2020, enabling more people to share in the benefits of tourism Pioneering sustainable tourism across the world Lead We will invest € 10 million per year by 2020 to support the way good causes and enhance the positive impacts of tourism, using the TUI Care Foundation to support this work Building the best place to work where people are Care passionate about what they do more We will achieve a colleague engagement score of over 80 aligning us with the top 25 global companies 6 Sustainability at TUI T H O M A S E L L E RB E CK WELCOME Member of the Group Executive Committee OUR APPROACH (Group Corporate & 06 Better Holidays, External Affairs) Better World Strategy TUI Group Chairman of the Board, 07 Managing Sustainability TUI is a listed company and is committed to its shareholders. How should TUI Care Foundation 09 Highlights for 2018 there be room for social and ecological objectives? These are two sides of the same coin. I see a positive interaction, not a contradiction. 10 Sustainable Development Awareness of the environment and sustainability is growing. Let‘s think of the Goals discussions about the use of plastics or the protection of the oceans. As aware11  T UI ’s Contribution ness grows, it also has an impact on our decisions as customers. We are therefore to the goals successful if we include the expectations of all relevant stakeholder groups in our 13 Materiality decisions. These are our guests, our shareholders, our colleagues and the people in holiday destinations. Our sustainability strategy „Better Holidays, Better 14 Human rights World“ is guided by this approach. Two examples: In 2017, 53 percent of our customers demanded that tour operators invest in ecological and social initiatives. In excursions must meet sustainability criteria and, for example, protect the envi2012, the figure was 39 percent. And in Northern Europe, around a third of our ronment or benefit the local population. In 2018, these excursions were booked customers want to make their travel plans even more sustainable in the future. 1.2 million times – up 15 per cent on 2017. S T E P L I G H T LY Sustainability is therefore increasingly relevant for the strategic positioning of a MAKE A DIFFERENCE company – for customers and shareholders as well as for employees who are TUI cooperates with many hundreds of partners. What influence can you exert? interested in TUI as an employer. At TUI Group, we try to convince the partners in destinations of our approach. At L E A D T H E W AY TUI we work together with our partners on sustainable tourism. We meet regularly CARE MORE But the concept of sustainability is vague. What do customers expect in with political decision-makers in the destinations and with other stakeholders to concrete terms? discuss and jointly develop our approach to sustainability. Hotel and excursion G L O B A L C O M PA C T partners are essential to achieve our sustainability goals locally. We work continSustainability is much more clearly defined today than it was ten years ago, the standards are more precise and the results are more measurable. A group like TUI uously with them to set ambitious goals and then achieve them together. therefore has a multi-year sustainability strategy that affects all business areas. For example, when we order new aircraft or ships or build or renovate a hotel. This In addition, with the TUI Care Foundation we are involved in 30 local projects in already starts with the planning of a new hotel: can I operate solar systems like in 25 countries worldwide. Let‘s take Crete as an example. There, the Foundation the Robinson Clubs in Agadir and Apulia, how is the palm garden designed to supports around 200 small farmers in cultivating grapes and olives in a sustainable reduce water consumption etc. In addition to ecological sustainability, TUI is way. They are also networked directly with the tourism sector so that they can sell focusing strongly on social sustainability and customer demand for authenticity is their products locally. We have developed a kind of cooperative for the many also growing. Many people want to get to know local products on holiday, immerse small, local businesses. Each of them was too small to meet the needs of hotels themselves more in the culture and make contact with the local population. At the and restaurants. Now the local businesses are working together. After the positive same time, this also increases their sensitivity to local circumstances: What are experiences in Greece, similar projects are running in Spain and Turkey. This creates the training and working conditions like in tourism? Do people benefit from tourconcrete opportunities, jobs and local employment. And with the TUI Academies, ists‘ expenses? What about waste disposal, energy efficiency and environmental the Foundation offers disadvantaged young people opportunities for vocational protection at the holiday resort? We take this responsibility very seriously and are training. Education and training are the key to a better life. This is very sustainable not only business partners for the holiday countries, but also see ourselves as a for the local people in the holiday destination. real partner. In many countries TUI has been around for more than 50 years, which is an enormously strong bond. The current sustainability strategy extends to 2020. What will come next? We started further planning in 2018 with a view to 2030. We first surveyed cusCan TUI meet these expectations? tomers, employees and financial markets as well as politicians, the media, NGOs, TUI was the pioneer in the tourism industry in terms of the environment and scientists, shareholders and business partners. An initial analysis shows that sustainability. We continue to set standards today. Over 80 per cent of TUI Hotels & there are many expectations with regard to our focus on sustainability issues. In Resorts are certified to global sustainability standards. Over 9 million holidaymakers the current year, we will formulate our strategy for 2020-2030 more concretely. have already spent their holidays in a certified hotel in 2018. We are working on We want to remain the pioneer in this field for the tourism industry. This is what 7 further increasing this figure. A second example is our excursions. The TUI Collection the management and our 70,000 colleagues at TUI stand for. WELCOME M A N A G I N G S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y OUR APPROACH Across TUI Group dedicated and experienced sustainability professionals work in close collaboration with senior management at Group and at divi06 Better Holidays, sional level to help ensure that TUI ’s business and sustainability strategies Better World Strategy are aligned. Our sustainability colleagues’ role is to drive uptake of more 07 Managing Sustainability sustainable business practices across the TUI Group and along its supply 09 Highlights for 2018 chain, and to advise the TUI Care Foundation on destination project pro10 Sustainable Development posals and implementation. Goals JANE ASHTON 11  T UI ’s Contribution Director of Sustainability, to the goals TUI Group GROUP E XECUTIVE COMMIT TEE 13 Materiality Minimum twice yearly agenda slot and update report 14 Human rights » This is the 4th annual progress report against our 2015–2020 Better Holidays, Better World sustainability strategy, and it is gratifying to see how the targets we set ourselves back in 2015 continue to inspire colDIVISIONAL BOARDS S T E P L I G H T LY leagues to drive change and further embed sustainability into ‘business as Regular update presen­ MAKE A DIFFERENCE usual’, as well as to rally in support of the TUI Care Foundation. We aspire tations to Source Market, to lead the leisure travel sector in sustainability, and in 2018 TUI Group L E A D T H E W AY Tourism, Hotel & Airline G R O U P S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y was once again awarded with a long list of awards and accolades indicating CARE MORE boards NE T WORK we are on track in this respect. G L O B A L C O M PA C T Sustainability Managers However, whilst we work hard to realise our sustainability goals, the chalat head office, source lenges posed to the world by climate change and biodiversity loss grow markets and divisions: RISK OVER SIGHT clearer and greater. And whilst countries around the world clamour for the developing and ­coordinating COMMIT TEE social and economic benefits that tourism brings, there are also some dessustainability strategy and Annual update to this comtination residents who blame tourism’s success for depleting their standard specific working groups mittee and meetings with of living, the so-called ‘over-tourism’ effect. We remain live to these issues. Group Risk Department at We work closely with governments and authorities to plan our programmes, regular intervals to review making long-term commitments to their economies, developing strong rerisk register lationships and projects with suppliers and other stakeholders in destinations, and operating only with licenced accommodation and tourism service providers. We are constantly investing in new technologies, techniques and training to reduce our direct environment impacts and that of our suppliers. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N D I C E S A N D A W A R D S TUI AG is represented in the sustainability index FTSE4Good and on the At the same time as focusing efforts on our ‘Better Holidays, Better World’ Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe. In 2019 TUI was incommitments during the final two years of our strategy’s timeframe, we are cluded in the RobecoSam Sustainability Yearbook with a ‘Bronze Class’ starting to look beyond 2020 – to scope a vision of the world in 2030 and the distinction. TUI was also recognised in the leadership band by CDP in the role of tourism and TUI within it. We are already aware that to future-proof 2018 Climate Change assessment. our business and our industry, current efforts will need to be maintained and indeed increased to meet the challenges of the coming decade. « Throughout the year TUI companies have been recognized by a variety of 8 awards. Read more here. WELCOME OUR APPROACH Highlights for 2018 06 Better Holidays, Better World Strategy step make lead care 07 Managing Sustainability 09 Highlights for 2018 lightly a difference the way more 10 Sustainable Development 9.2 M 7.8 M 76 Goals 11  T UI ’s Contribution to the goals 1 4 € 13 Materiality 14 Human rights TUI Airways and TUI fly Germany S T E P L I G H T LY ranked #1 & #4 most carbon‘Greener and fairer’ TUI holidays MAKE A DIFFERENCE efficient airlines globally delivered in hotels with sustainability Invested to enhance the positive Building the best place to work with (In the 2018 atmosfair Airline Index) certifications ­impacts of tourism a colleague engagement score of 76 L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T 19 % 81 % >30 34 % TUI’s airlines are 19 % more carbon-efficient than the average Of hotels owned by TUI Group TUI Care Foundation projects Of managerial positions are held of the six largest European airlines had sustainability certifications active in 25 destinations by women 11.7 % 1,177,000 3,280 14 % Reduction in CO2 emissions Solar panels installed at Robinson Of eligible colleagues participated per cruise passenger night comTUI Collection excursions Club Apulia in Italy – one of the in our employee share programme 9 pared with 2015 with sustainability at their heart largest hotel solar systems in Europe in 2018 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Sustainable Development Goals 06 Better Holidays, Better World Strategy Launched in 2015, the UN Sustainable Development LEADERSHIP OPPORTUNIT Y 07 Managing Sustainability Goals (SDG s) provide a ‘big picture’ way to view the material TUI Group is committed to make our sector more sustainable and support 09 Highlights for 2018 impact of our activities, and a benchmark to assess the the UN Sustainable Development Goals. As a global operator and the world’s 10 Sustainable Development leading tourism business, we can drive change for the better – we also have relevance of our initiatives. The goals were a factor in the Goals a responsibility to tackle shared global challenges like climate change. development of the TUI Care Foundation – our primary 11  T UI ’s Contribution to the goals platform for funding destination initiatives – and will inform Our Better Holidays, Better World strategy aims to address key industry 13 Materiality our strategy going forwards. challenges and maximise our positive impact. It is built around four core 14 Human rights pillars where we aim to create change at scale – in our own operations, TOURISM AND THE SDGS through our value chain and customers, and across the wider industry and The tourism value chain connects closely with many sectors and through beyond. these industries we have the opportunity to accelerate progress towards all S T E P L I G H T LY 17 SDGs, however three goals focus in particular on sustainable tourism – In line with our strategy, we have chosen to focus on seven goals where we MAKE A DIFFERENCE SDG 8 on decent work and economic growth, SDG 12 on responsible feel TUI can make a meaningful contribution. ­consumption and production, and SDG 14 on life below water. L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T SDG‘S T U I ’ S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S T R AT E G Y 2 0 15 – 2 0 2 0 betterholidays betterworld TUI’s contribution TUI Sustainability Strategy 2020 to the SDGs Reducing the Step environmental impact of holidays lightly Creating positive Make Linking the SDGs and change for people and TUI‘s sustainability strategy communities a difference Pioneering sustainable Lead tourism across the world the way Building the best place to work where people are Care passionate about what more they do 10 WELCOME OUR APPROACH TUI’s Contribution to the Goals 06 Better Holidays, Better World Strategy GOAL S 07 Managing Sustainability 09 Highlights for 2018 10 Sustainable Development Goals 11  T UI ’s Contribution Ensure inclusive and equitable Ensure access to affordable, reliPromote sustained, inclusive and Ensure sustainable consumption to the goals quality education and promote able, sustainable and modern ensustainable economic growth, full and production patterns 13 Materiality lifelong learning for all ergy for all and productive employment and 14 Human rights decent work for all CONTRIBUTIONS S T E P L I G H T LY TUI Group is committed to training We aim to operate Europe’s most TUI Group employs 70,000 people We aim to deliver 10 million greener and people development with varicarbon-efficient airlines by 2020, in over 115 destinations. Our operaand fairer holidays a year by 2020, MAKE A DIFFERENCE ous programmes in place across the with TUI Airways and TUI fly in Gertions contribute to significant direct taking customers to hotels with L E A D T H E W AY Group. By 2020, TUI UK will have many ranked #1 and #4 most carand indirect job creation (p61) credible sustainability certifications CARE MORE 2000 new apprenticeships, in addibon-efficient airlines in the world by (9.2 million delivered in 2018). Over tion to 500 positions each year at the atmosfair global index (p21) The core focus of our Global 80 % of TUI’s owned hotels held G L O B A L C O M PA C T TUI Germany and over 250 in the Employment Statement is fair and sustainability certifications in 2018 Netherlands and Belgium We have carbon improvement tarrespectful treatment of employees (p33) gets in place for our airlines, cruise, We support education institutions hotels, ground transport, shops and Through our Employee Code of We are making our holiday offerings so that young people and tourism offices (p16) Conduct ( Integrity Passport) we more sustainable – we delivered students gain a real understanding uphold the principles of the UN nearly 1.2 million TUI Collection exof sustainable tourism. Our Better We are investing in new technology Global Compact cursions with sustainability at their World Detective programme, for to drive energy efficiency such as heart in 2018 (up by 15 %) (p39) example, has been rolled out to TUI Cruise’s new build ships (p24) Our Supplier Code of Conduct 60,000 students since it was develsets out the minimum standards we TUI is collaborating with UN Environoped (p53) A number of our hotels are investing expect from suppliers – including ment on the One planet travel with in renewable energy, such as Robinon modern slavery, child labour and care network (p34) TUI Care Foundation aims to emson Club Apulia installing one of Eudecent working conditions power 10,000 careers through the rope’s largest solar panel systems Through the TUI Care Foundation TUI ACADEMY programme, with for hotels in 2018 (p51) TUI Care Foundation aims to enhance we are supporting sustainable agriacademies either set up/or in the 10,000 local livelihoods through the culture projects linked to tourism in process of being set up in the DoTUI CARES programme (p57) Greece, Lanzarote, Turkey and minican Republic, Namibia, Tanzania, Mainland Spain (p57) Vietnam, Morocco and Greece (p55) 11 WELCOME OUR APPROACH 06 Better Holidays, Better World Strategy GOAL S 07 Managing Sustainability 09 Highlights for 2018 10 Sustainable Development Goals 11  T UI ’s Contribution Take urgent action to combat Conserve and sustainably use Strengthen the means of impleto the goals climate change and its impacts the oceans, seas and marine mentation and revitalize the 13 Materiality resources for sustainable develglobal partnership for sustainable 14 Human rights opment development CONTRIBUTIONS S T E P L I G H T LY As operators of aircraft, cruise ships TUI Cruise ships use exhaust gas To make ‘Better Holidays, Better and hotels, our climate impact is systems (scrubbers) to minimise World’ a reality and effect change at MAKE A DIFFERENCE significant. We mitigate this through pollution and protect the marine enscale, we collaborate with customL E A D T H E W AY efficiency and renewable energy vironment (p24) ers, suppliers, educational and trainCARE MORE measures (see SDG 7), and by suping establishments, governments porting adaptation and resilience in Over the last five years we have orand UN organisations all around G L O B A L C O M PA C T our destinations (p17) ganised over 250 beach cleans the world across 300 km of coastline with over In the Philippines we are enhancing 6,600 people participating (p68) TUI is represented on the board of climate change resilience with trainthe GSTC, Travelife, Green Star, ing on sustainable farming and fishWe are working to reduce single-use Futouris and The Travel Foundation ing for 2,200 families from two vulplastics. Through recent initiatives nerable communities. We are also over 140 million pieces of single-use TUI Care Foundation is working planting 35 tree nurseries, reforestplastic have been removed from our with a wide range of international ing mangroves, and developing adoperations and we aim to increase and local partners in destinations aptation plans with municipalities. this to 250 million by 2020 (p42) around the world such as PLAN InMore here ternational to help empower young Through the TUI Care Foundation women through the TUI ACADEMY In Mexico with Rainforest Alliance programmes, we aim to protect over programme and a partnership with we are engaging young generations 1 million turtles by 2020 (p56) UNICEF to support emergency reto protect biodiversity in the Riviera lief and education for the most vulMaya through a teacher training nerable children and their families program estimated to reach 600 when a disaster strikes in holiday teachers and 6,000 students (p55) destinations (p55) 12 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Materiality In view of the high material importance of these key aspects to our business and our stakeholders, we will be extending and expanding our commitments in these areas. 06 Better Holidays, Better World Strategy During 2018, TUI Group conducted a formal materiality The assessment findings will also be addressed by senior management 07 Managing Sustainability assessment with support from an expert third party. An and, along with the SDGs, will help to inform development of TUI ’s sus09 Highlights for 2018 analysis of TUI ’s impacts on nature and society across the tainability strategy beyond 2020. 10 Sustainable Development value chain was undertaken and a list of key sustainability Goals issues was developed. Within the framework of this impact Stakeholder Survey T UI ’s Contribution 11  to the goals analysis, the tourism value chain was examined using an 13 Materiality input-output analysis. The indicators used were external 14 Human rights costs for the environmental impacts and risk hours for the social risks. STA KE HO LDE R P E R SP E C T I VE R E LE VA NCE & IMPAC T High 1 5 2 S T E P L I G H T LY Using qualitative and quantitative methods, stakeholder groups were invited 3 4 MAKE A DIFFERENCE to prioritise these sustainability issues in an online questionnaire. Around 2,800 participants took part in the survey, from across the following 6 L E A D T H E W AY 11 stakeholder groups: 7 Medium CARE MORE 10 G L O B A L C O M PA C T • Customers • Non-Governmental • Shareholders 9 8 • Employees Organisations • Suppliers / Business • Financial markets • Politics Partners • Media • Science Low To determine the business relevance of these sustainability issues, a survey of the company’s management was also carried out. The results were used to create a materiality matrix. Low Medium High BU S I N ES S P ER S P EC T I V E R EL EVA N CE The graph shows the major areas where TUI ’s stakeholders expect to see ongoing commitment and engagement. Priority aspects of high relevance to the business and our stakeholders Resource 1  efficiency, sustainable 6  reating more sustainable C include: procurement holidays & engaging customers • resource efficiency / waste (i.e. reducing plastic waste, efficient use of 2 Child protection 7 Fair business conduct water and energy) Local value creation & communities 3  8 Customer well-being 4 Emissions & pollution 9 Crisis management • child protection (i.e. protecting vulnerable children in destinations) 5 Forced labour Colleague working environment 10  • local value creation & communities (i.e. helping communities and local 11 Animal welfare & biodiversity businesses to benefit from tourism development) 13 • emissions (i. e. strategically managing carbon footprint and implementing actions to reduce other emissions) WELCOME OUR APPROACH Human rights • The Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards we expect from suppliers. The code includes guidance on human rights and labour laws, bribery and corruption, environmental impacts and support for local 06 Better Holidays, communities. Better World Strategy TUI Group respects all internationally proclaimed human • We have incorporated environmental and social requirements into 07 Managing Sustainability rights as specified in the International Bill of Human Rights contracts for our accommodation suppliers as well as other areas of 09 Highlights for 2018 and expects the same of our suppliers and business partprocurement. 10 Sustainable Development ners. Modern slavery and its components of forced labour Goals We require our hotel suppliers to implement credible sustainability third and human trafficking are of particular concern given their party certifications recognised or accredited by the Global Sustainable 11  T UI ’s Contribution to the goals egregious nature and increasing prevalence. Tourism Council (GSTC ). Schemes accredited and / or recognised by GSTC 13 Materiality mandate the highest standards of human rights, child protection and social 14 Human rights  Modern Slavery Act Statement welfare in the tourism industry. The number of TUI customers staying in a hotel certified to a GSTC-recognised standard grew to 9.2 million and the In accordance with applicable law, conventions and regulation TUI is comnumber of hotels with certification grew to 1,520. mitted to respecting human rights throughout its worldwide operations. S T E P L I G H T LY We have a number of policies and initiatives in place to monitor, identify, A key focus is raising awareness of human rights across our business. In MAKE A DIFFERENCE mitigate and prevent human rights impacts in line with the UN Guiding 2018 we continued to roll out bespoke training sessions and material on Principles on Business and Human Rights, and will take remedial action modern slavery, including a modern slavery video. L E A D T H E W AY where necessary. CARE MORE Over 4,600 TUI Destination Experiences colleagues completed child G L O B A L C O M PA C T In September 2014, TUI signed up to the UN Global Compact, committing protection training in 2018. An e-learning module on modern slavery was the Group to 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human developed and cascaded by Destination Experiences in 2018 and over rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In 2012, TUI signed the UN 82 % of customer-facing colleagues have completed it. Airline crew in the World Tourism Organisation’s (UNWTO) Global Code of Ethics – further UK and Nordics receive Vulnerable Children & Trafficking Training during underlining our commitment to respecting human rights. their inductions, where they learn about how to spot trafficking and what to do. Other TUI airlines are in the process of rolling out similar trainings. We have a working group on human rights, drawing on senior management from major departments across our business to help with the continuous TUI Group supports a number of projects and partnerships to protect process of analysing potential human rights risks. We also sit on the human rights in our destinations. We raise awareness of modern slavery at Boards of the Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC ) and Travelife, TUI hotel partner conferences and support Travelife with road shows. We both of which are addressing these issues through sustainability certification co-organised hotelier seminars in Thailand with Travelife in April 2018 to standards. discuss modern slavery and influence more hotels to reach sustainability certification standards. TUI Group has a number of policies and procurement processes in place focused on the prevention of human rights violations and modern slavery. TUI Care Foundation supports a number of projects which protect human rights. In 2018 the Foundation expanded the TUI Academy programme by • The Employee Code of Conduct commits us to respect and observe launching one in Hue, Vietnam. The project is providing education and human rights. TUI Group employees are also encouraged to report any training to help young vulnerable street workers improve their lives, wrongdoing to the ’Speak Up’ Line. including providing 350 young people with vocational training. Some 180 street workers will take part in hospitality training in a social enterprise 14 training restaurant being set up in Hue city. WELCOME OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY 16 Strategy progress 18 Addressing climate change 19 Aviation 24 Cruise 29 Ground operations MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T step lightly Reducing the environmental impact of holidays A healthy planet and a healthy travel and tourism industry go hand-in-hand. That’s why conserving natural resources and mitigating negative environmental impacts are vital to our business. We are committed to continuously reducing the environmental impact of our holidays, with an ambition to operate Europe’s most carbon-efficient airlines and reduce the carbon intensity of our operations by 10 % by 2020. 15 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Reducing Environmental Impact S T E P L I G H T LY 16 Strategy progress AMBITION BY 2020 18 Addressing climate change 19 Aviation 24 Cruise 1 4 We will operate Europe’s most 29 Ground operations carbon-efficient airlines and reduce MAKE A DIFFERENCE the carbon intensity of our operaL E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE TUI Airways and TUI fly Germany ranked tions by 10 % by 2020 #1 & #4 most carbon-efficient airlines G L O B A L C O M PA C T globally (In the 2018 atmosfair Airline Index) As measured in terms of TUI Airlines’ average grams of carbon emitted per revenue passenger kilometre (g CO2 / rpk), benchmarked against industry data, independent rankings, and carbon intensity metrics from our cruise and ground operations ( TUI Hotels & Resorts and ground step 19 % transport). lightly PRO G R E S S I N 2018 TUI Airlines’ carbon emissions were 66.7g per revenue passenger kilometre (g CO2 / rpk) in 2018 – a 1.3 % reduction since 2014, our baseline year. In the 2018 atmosfair Airline Index, TUI Airways (in the UK ) and TUI fly Germany were independently ranked #1 and #4, respecTUI’s airlines are 19 % more tively, as the most carbon-efficient airlines globally. carbon-efficient than the average of the six largest European airlines 11.7 % TUI ’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGS Reduction in CO2 emissions per cruise passenger night compared with 2015 16 WELCOME HOW WE ARE DOING AGAINST OUR 2020 COMMITMENTS OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY 16 Strategy progress 18 Addressing climate change 19 Aviation 24 Cruise 29 Ground operations AV I AT I O N CRUISE G R O U N D O P E R AT I O N S MAKE A DIFFERENCE We will reduce TUI Airlines’ carbon We will reduce carbon emissions per We will reduce carbon emissions from L E A D T H E W AY emissions per passenger km by 10 %. cruise passenger night by 10 %. our offices, retail shops and brochures by CARE MORE In 2018 carbon emissions per passenger km In 2018, carbon emissions per cruise passenger 20 %. G L O B A L C O M PA C T were 66.7 g CO2, a decrease of 0.1 % compared night were 101 kg CO2, a 6.5 % reduction comCarbon emissions from approximately 50 major with 2017 and a reduction of 1.3 % compared pared with 2017 (108 kg) and an 11.7 % reducoffices totalled 17,113 tonnes of CO2; 1,600 rewith the 2014 baseline. tion compared to the 2015 baseline (114 kg). tail shops generated 9,082 tonnes of CO2 and 5,107 tonnes of CO2 resulted from brochure step tified. All TUI’s airlines will be ISO 14001 cerAll TUI cruise ships will be covered by ISO 14001 certification. production. This in total reflects a 9.3 % reduction compared with 2017 and a 17 % reduction lightly All five tour operator airlines maintained their In 2018, all 16 of TUI’s cruise ships were covagainst the 2015 baseline. ISO 14001 certification, now to the latest 2015 ered by ISO 14001 certification. standard. Our hotels will reduce carbon emissions Our cruise operations will make imper guest night by 10 %. Our airlines will source food, beverages provements in water consumption, waste In 2018, average carbon emissions per guest and other supplies responsibly. management, and sulphur and nitrogen night from TUI Hotels & Resorts was 9.4 kg of Following the completion of a responsible emissions. CO2, a 1.4 % increase compared with 2017 sourcing review, we are in the process of setFresh water consumption per guest night de(9.2 kg) but still a 5.8 % reduction compared to ting targets. creased by 32 % from 162 litres in 2017 to 110 the 2015 baseline (9.9 kg). litres in 2018 across the entire fleet. In addition, We will segregate cabin waste and work waste production per guest night reduced by Our ground transport fleet will reduce with destination airports to improve waste 14 % from 14.7 litres in 2017 to 12.7 litres in carbon emissions per passenger kilometre management and recycling. 2018. TUI Cruises reduced sulphur by 36.7 % by 10 %. All of our airlines continue to sort cabin waste for and nitrogen by 12.0 % on an intensity basis. In 2018, carbon emissions from our coach transrecycling. We aspire to drive best practice, the port companies were on average 24.3 g of CO2 waste segregation programme at Schiphol Airport per passenger kilometre, a 2.3 % increase comin Amsterdam, which TUI was an implementation On target pared with 2017 (23.8 g) but still an 8.8 % reducpartner, has been extended to include Eindhoven More focus needed tion compared to the 2015 baseline (26.7 g). Airport in 2018. Behind target 17 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Addressing climate A N A G R A D E C L I M AT E R E P O R T Since 2015, TUI Group has been annually awarded an A or an Agrade S T E P L I G H T LY 16 Strategy progress change from CDP Climate Change, the non-profit global environmental disclosure platform, for the quality of its disclosure and its actions taken on climate change. This annual voluntary carbon disclosure provides information on 18 Addressing climate change TUI Group’s carbon performance, management programmes, climate 19 Aviation change risks and low-carbon opportunities. T H E C L I M AT E C H A N G E C H A L L E N G E 24 Cruise In December 2018, world leaders at COP 24 in Poland agreed on rules for View our CDP reports here. 29 Ground operations implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change, which aims to limit a rise in average world temperatures to “well below” 2°C above CORSIA pre-industrial levels. TUI supports the principle of a mechanism to deliver a net reduction in MAKE A DIFFERENCE global carbon emissions from aviation. To this end the Carbon Offsetting Rising to that challenge demands unprecedented changes: the October 2018 and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) has been L E A D T H E W AY report of the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC ) found that developed, a scheme integral to the industry’s strategy to achieve carbon-­ CARE MORE limiting global warming to 1.5°C would require “rapid and far-reaching” neutral growth from 2020 onwards. From January 2019, all TUI airlines G L O B A L C O M PA C T transitions in land, energy, industry, buildings, transport and cities. must monitor and record all international flights as per their Emission Monitoring Plan, and are required to submit their first verified Emissions The private sector has a decisive role to play in this transition towards an Report covering the 2019 period by May 2020. energy-efficient, lower-carbon future and, as a sector leader, TUI has a step responsibility to play its part. C ARBON FOOTPRINT In the 2018 financial year, TUI Group’s total carbon emissions increased by lightly Tourism constitutes a growing part of the world’s greenhouse gas emis4.8 %, primarily due to growth in its Airline & Aviation sector. The increase sions. Together, travel and tourism contribute some 5 %* of global carbon in absolute carbon emissions for hotels is driven by the expansion of TUI ’s emissions, with half arising from aviation. Quality holiday experiences hotel portfolio. Carbon emissions within cruises increased by 4.3 % due to depend on beautiful, biodiverse destinations, thriving communities, stable the launch of the new Mein Schiff 1 (operated by TUI Cruises) and the first weather systems and customer comfort – all of which are at risk from full-year reporting of Mein Schiff 6. Emissions from offices and retail climate change. A reduction in global carbon emissions is therefore essenshops significantly declined, largely due to energy efficiency initiatives in tial for our industry. the UK and Germany. Emissions from ground transport increased as a result of additional utilisation of our owned fleet. TUI ’s ‘Step lightly’ strategy aims to reduce the environmental intensity of our operations and sets clear stretch targets to reduce carbon emissions across aviation, cruise, hotels, offices, retail shops and ground transport. TUI Group’s Carbon Footprint (CO2) tons 2018 2017 Var. % Across the business, TUI has deployed specific carbon reduction initiatives – from airline and cruise fuel programmes, to retail energy savings and Airlines & Aviation 6,393,342 6,115,492 + 4.5 reducing printed brochures. Managing our carbon footprint benefits the Cruises 850,335 815,582 + 4.3 bottom line; in total these initiatives have saved the Group € 78 million Hotels 554,666 507,230 + 9.4 between 2012 and 2018**. Major premises / shops 26,195 29,511 – 11.2 Ground transport 16,782 15,388 + 9.1 * Climate Change and Tourism: Responding to Global Challenges – UNEP Scope 3 (Other) 78,852 73,254 + 7.6 18 ** an approximate figure for savings that have been tracked, gross of any upfront Group 7,920,172 7,556,457 + 4.8 ­investments required, part of previously identified cost savings. WELCOME OUR APPROACH Aviation TUI Airlines – Carbon intensity 2018 2017 Var. % g CO 2e / S T E P L I G H T LY rpk* 16 Strategy progress TUI Airline fleet g CO 2 / rpk* 66.7 66.7 – 0.1 67.3 18 Addressing climate change Commitment by 2020 TUI Airways g CO 2 / rpk* 63.6 63.4 + 0.2 64.2 19 Aviation TUI fly Belgium g CO 2 / rpk* 70.0 71.5 – 2.2 70.7 24 Cruise We will drive environmental improvements across our TUI fly Germany g CO 2 / rpk* 64.7 63.5 + 1.9 65.4 29 Ground operations ­aviation operations TUI fly Netherlands g CO 2 / rpk* 64.0 65.2 – 1.8 64.7 TUI fly Nordic g CO 2 / rpk* 58.2 61.3 – 5.3 58.8 Corsair International** g CO 2 / rpk* 84.9 84.3 + 0.8 85.8 TUI Airlines comprise one of Europe’s largest fleets, with some 150 aircraft MAKE A DIFFERENCE flying 14 million customers per year (27 million sectors). We have five tour operator airlines and also operate Corsair, a scheduled airline*. With our TUI Airlines – Fuel consumption and CO2 emissions L E A D T H E W AY aircraft responsible for more than 80 % of TUI ’s carbon footprint, our 2018 2017 Var. % CARE MORE efforts to ‘Step lightly’ in this area present challenges, but are also our G L O B A L C O M PA C T biggest opportunity for positive change. Specific fuel consumption l / 100 rpk* 2.65 2.65 – 0.1 Carbon dioxide (CO 2) – total t 5,860,431 5,571,719 + 5.2 TUI Airlines are already ranked among the most carbon-efficient in the Carbon dioxide (CO 2) – specific kg / 100 rpk* 6.67 6.67 – 0.1 world** and we have reduced our carbon intensity over the past decade by step nearly 12 %. Future reductions become more challenging with each ­efficiency improvement. With efficiency measures and fleet renewal, we * rpk = revenue passenger kilometer ** Sale of Corsair announced in March 2019 lightly expect to make steady progress over the next few years but acknowledge that achieving our ambition to reduce our operational carbon intensity by 10 % by 2020 will be a challenge. A REFUELLED ENVIRONMENT TE AM In December 2018, TUI Aviation announced a new organisational model In 2018, carbon emissions per passenger kilometre were 66.7 g CO2, a designed to create stronger co-operation between TUI ’s tour operator decrease of 0.1 % from 2017 and a reduction of 1.3 % against our 2014 airlines. The ‘Fuel’ and ‘Environment’ teams work in close partnership to baseline. As a scheduled long-haul operator, Corsair International’s paydrive best practice in fuel and environmental management. These teams load consists of both passengers and cargo. Cargo transportation results drive initiatives and projects to achieve the TUI Group sustainability objecin higher fuel burn and carbon emissions, evident in Corsair’s carbon tives. The latest performance developments and updates are regularly intensity performance (Corsair airline sale announced in March 2019). presented to the TUI Aviation Board so appropriate measures can be taken. The carbon efficiency performance of TUI fly Germany also declined in 2018 partly due to the fleet expansion associated with Air Berlin’s insolvency. F U L LY C E R T I F I E D In 2018, each of our five tour operator airlines (based in the UK , Germany, Going forward we will achieve further improvements through a renewed Netherlands, Nordics and Belgium) maintained their ISO 14001 environfocus on efficiency measures, and by taking delivery of new, more efficient ment management certification and all airlines were certified to the latest aircraft such as Boeing 787 Dreamliners and 737-8 MAX aircraft. By the end version of the standard ISO 14001:2015. TUI fly Germany is also registered of FY 2020 TUI ’s airlines are scheduled to operate 19 Boeing 787 Dreamin the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). liners and 39 Boeing 737-8 MAX aircraft. 19 * Sale of Corsair announced in March 2019 ** 2018 atmosfair Airline Index WELCOME 737 MAX 8 OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY 16 Strategy progress 18 Addressing climate change 19 Aviation 24 Cruise 29 Ground operations MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY Boeing 737 MAX are CARE MORE FLE E T RE NE WAL 40 % quieter than 737 NG aircraft 737 NG G L O B A L C O M PA C T TUI Group started to take delivery of the new, more efficient Boeing 737 MAX aircraft in January 2018. The planes are 15 % more fuel-efficient than the 737 NG aircraft, outperforming the manufacturer’s expected Modern aircraft also contribute to noise reduction – for example the Boeing 14 %. The aircraft’s engine and aerodynamic design, such as advanced 737 MAX has a 40 % smaller noise footprint than previous generation aircraft. step technology winglets, are key to its superior fuel efficiency. The new Advanced ­Technology (AT ) split winglets of the 737 MAX give the aircraft improved Watch the video about the arrival of our very first 737 Max in Belgium here. lightly aerodynamic efficiencies which results in reduced overall fuel burn. TUI Airlines took delivery of five 737 MAX aircraft during FY 2018, and is scheduled to have at least 73 in the fleet by 2023 as part of our fleet renewal programme. TUI is scheduled to receive its first Boeing 737-10 MAX aircraft in December 2020. All 737 MAX and 787 Dreamliner aircraft are equipped with ozone converters, which reduce the amount of ozone in the cabin air by converting it into oxygen, therefore ensuring better air quality for passengers and crew members. TUI Group was the first tourism group to launch the Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft. The Dreamliner consumes around 20 % less jet fuel than comparable aircraft, thanks to its lightweight construction, enhanced aerodynamics and fuel-efficient engines. By the end of 2019, TUI will operate 19 Dreamliner aircraft. 20 WELCOME OPTIMISING FOR EFFICIENCY We are always looking for innovative ways to reuse rather than discard. OUR APPROACH Improving carbon efficiency is central to our strategy for TUI Airlines. Following on from TUI Airways recycling 2,000 uniforms in 2017, the focus Along with continuously renewing our aircraft fleet, efficiency measures in 2018 was to donate used aircraft pillows to several worthy causes in S T E P L I G H T LY like these are key to achieving this goal: some of TUI ’s destinations – City of Joy in Mexico, a complex of schools 16 Strategy progress and residential homes for disadvantaged children and adults; Harvest 18 Addressing climate change • P  rocess optimisation, e. g. single-engine taxiing in and out, acceleration Time International in Florida, a charity that supports low-income families 19 Aviation altitude reduction, drag reduction, mass and balance optimisation and in Sanford, and SOS Children’s Villages in Mauritius, an organisation for wind uplinks children in need. 24 Cruise • Weight reduction, e. g. introduction of carbon brakes and water uplift 29 Ground operations optimisation GLOBAL RECOGNITION • Flight planning optimisation, e. g. alternate distance optimisation, statisTUI ’s airlines again earned top ranking in the 2018 Airline Index from the tical taxi fuel, minimum fuel optimisation, and an optimised cleaning independent climate protection organisation atmosfair, which compares MAKE A DIFFERENCE schedule the carbon efficiency of the world’s 200 largest airlines. TUI Airways won • Constant refinement of the fuel management system to improve fuel first place in the atmosfair ranking for the second consecutive year. TUI fly L E A D T H E W AY analysis and pilot communication, track savings and identify further Germany netted fourth place. CARE MORE opportunities G L O B A L C O M PA C T The index also ranks airlines by their type – charter, regional and low-cost. WA STE MANAGE ME NT For the second consecutive year, TUI Airways and TUI fly Germany were All of our airlines segregate their waste and look to maximise recycling recognised as the #1 and #2 charter airlines in the ranking. Since 2015, wherever possible. Focussed on optimisation of waste segregation, TUI fly TUI Airways and TUI fly Germany have been ranked in the top 5 airlines in step Netherlands and Schiphol Airport partnered with waste management specialists to create a new on-site waste facility, which separated over the overall global rankings, and in the top 3 positions for charter airlines. lightly 18,000 tonnes of waste last year. In 2018, a similar waste segregation faOverall ranking 2018 Charter airlines ranking 2018 cility set up at Eindhoven Airport meant the airport could process the waste delivered from aircraft separately. TUI fly Netherlands, the first airline Rank Airline Country Rank Airline Country to enter into the partnership with Eindhoven Airport, has urged other airlines to collect their waste separately, to produce less waste on board 1 TUI Airways UK 1 TUI Airways UK and ensure more sustainable processing of waste. 2 LATAM Airlines Brasil Brazil 2 TUI fly Germany Germany 3 China West Air China 3 Transavia.com France France 4 TUI fly Germany Germany 4 SunExpress Turkey 5 Transavia.com France France 5 Thomas Cook Airlines UK E N V I R O N M E N TA L A W A R D S TUI fly Belgium was honoured with the Environment Award at the Brussels Airport Aviation Awards in February 2018. These awards recognise airlines and partners for distinction in areas such as environment and safety. TUI fly Belgium’s fleet renewal with the new generation Boeing 737 MAX and its significantly reduced noise footprint was singled out by the judges. At the Schiphol Aviation Awards in April 2018, TUI fly Netherlands was a runner-up in the sustainability award category. 21 WELCOME S U S TA I N A B L E AV I AT I O N OUR APPROACH As part of our industry’s efforts to lower its carbon emissions, TUI is committed to reduce fuel consumption until sustainable fuels become S T E P L I G H T LY commercially viable – both economically and in terms of supply. TUI 16 Strategy progress engages in industry initiatives and research programmes such as the 18 Addressing climate change Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group to help scale up sustainable 19 Aviation ­aviation fuels of the future. 24 Cruise TUI Aviation joined Bioport Holland, a public-private sector initiative with 29 Ground operations key stakeholders from the Dutch aviation and biofuels industry. Working towards continuous production and supply of sustainable bio jet fuel for Europe, the partners hope to scale up deployment of sustainable MAKE A DIFFERENCE aviation fuels. L E A D T H E W AY We continue to stay engaged with the AlgaePARC project (part of CARE MORE ­Wageningen University and Research Centre in the Netherlands) with the G L O B A L C O M PA C T Bonaire Authorities to facilitate development of sustainable aviation fuel “Biofuel represents a significant opporfrom algae. TUI fly Netherlands supported the first phase of this project. tunity for reducing aviation’s carbon Sustainable aviation fuel represents a significant opportunity for reducing footprint and achieving its environmen­ step aviation’s carbon footprint and achieving the industry’s environmental goals. TUI collaborates on projects and partnerships to scale up sustainable tal goals. Our collaboration with TUI lightly aviation fuels and bring price-competitive sustainable aviation fuel to market. in 2015 on the Boeing ecoDemonstrator EPIC LOWER-C ARBON JOURNE Y Program included testing of biofuel, and In early 2018, TUI started to take delivery of the new 737 MAX aircraft, an important part of TUI ’s commitment to the future of sustainable aviation. In TUI’s use of biofuel on its delivery flight January the first 737 MAX 8 was delivered to TUI Belgium in Brussels. The second delivery flight to TUI Nordic in February was flown on a 30 % blend is a further demonstration of TUI’s of sustainable aviation fuel (bio fuel) from waste feedstock. This was one of ­interest in bringing price competitive biothe most carbon-efficient flights ever accomplished by this aircraft type. fuel to market.” The fuel was supplied by EPIC Aviation from AltAir Fuels, the world’s first renewable fuels refinery with integrated jet fuel production capability, SEAN NEWS UM which achieved RSB certification in January 2018. RSB certification is a Director of environmental strategy preference for many airlines globally to guarantee sustainability and at Boeing Commercial Airplanes. traceability of fuels produced. 22 WELCOME Airline carbon efficiency IMPROVED CARBON EFFICIENCY BY OUR APPROACH Our ambition is to operate Europe’s most carbon-efficient 11.6 % 66.7 G S T E P L I G H T LY CO 2 per passenger km airlines and cut carbon emissions per passenger kilometre over the last 10 years across TUI Airlines 16 Strategy progress by 10 % by 2020. in 2018 18 Addressing climate change 19 Aviation All five tour operator airlines 24 Cruise TUI’s airlines are ISO 14001 29 Ground operations 19 % CERTIFIED MORE CARBON EFFICIENT than the average of the MODERN FLEET six largest European airlines* MAKE A DIFFERENCE with an average age of 9.6 years L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE INVESTING IN CUTTING EDGE G L O B A L C O M PA C T AVIATION TECHNOLOGY with the Boeing 787 Dreamliner (up to 20 % more fuel efficient) and 737 MAX aircraft step (up to 15 % more fuel efficient) 150 lightly than the aircraft they are replacing ~AIRCRAFT across 6 airlines Dedicated environmental and fuel teams drive best practice New split winglets on 737 MAX aircraft improves aerodynamic efficiency TUI Airways and TUI fly Germany ranked #1 and #4 most carbon-efficient airlines globally (2018 atmosfair airline index) 23 * Data from the six largest European airlines based on 2018 passenger numbers and publicly available carbon efficiency data as of January 2019 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Cruise A CL A SS AC T In May 2018, the new Mein Schiff 1 went into service for TUI Cruises as one of the most energy-efficient ships of its class. Its sister ship, the new S T E P L I G H T LY Mein Schiff 2, entered the fleet in February 2019. The original Mein Schiff 1 16 Strategy progress now sails under the Marella brand as the Marella Explorer. New-build 18 Addressing climate change Commitment by 2020 vessels launching in 2019, the Hanseatic Nature and Hanseatic Inspiration, 19 Aviation will renew the Hapag-Lloyd Cruises fleet. Two further new-build ships 24 Cruise We will drive environmental improvements across cruise using cleaner liquefied natural gas will be delivered in 2024 and 2026. 29 Ground operations ­operations F U L L S T E A M A H E A D F O R H I G H -T E C H New-build ships in the TUI Cruises fleet save fuel by utilising the latest TUI Group operates 16 cruise ships across three brands – TUI Cruises, technologies, including: MAKE A DIFFERENCE Hapag-Lloyd Cruises and Marella Cruises. • Smart energy management system L E A D T H E W AY Carbon emissions and air pollution from sulphur and nitrogen particles • Efficient air conditioning CARE MORE and other fine particulate matter pose environmental challenges for the • Innovative lighting controls G L O B A L C O M PA C T cruise industry. We are constantly improving the environmental perfor• Use of engine waste heat mance of our fleet by investing in new, more fuel-efficient ships. • Hydrodynamic hull shape • Comprehensive LED concept In the past year we achieved a further 6.5 % carbon efficiency improvement • Environmentally friendly underwater silicone painting step across our cruise operations. That’s an overall 11.7 % reduction in CO2 emissions per passenger night compared to our 2015 baseline. Our ongoing The energy-efficient new-builds Mein Schiff 1 and Mein Schiff 2 consume lightly programme of refits to existing ships and investment in new-build vessels around 40 % less fuel than ships of comparable size. that deploy the latest environmental technologies helped achieve this. The new-builds also have up to 99 % lower sulphur emissions due to Improvements in waste and fresh water per cruise passenger night were scrubber technology that treats exhaust fumes before they are released. achieved as part of the fleet renewal process and use of enhanced water These advanced emission purification systems are deployed on all TUI desalination facilities across the cruise businesses. Cruises’ routes. TUI Cruise' new build ships can operate in a completely closed-loop system, Cruise Environmental KPIs with zero discharge into the sea. This means that the scrubbers from the 2018 2017 Var. % exhaust gas treatment system do not discharge any used scrubber wash water at sea but instead dispose of it exclusively on shore. TUI Cruises CO 2 [kg] per Cruise passenger night 101 108 – 6.5 applies this self-imposed policy to all ports worldwide, in coastal areas up Fresh water [L] per to a distance of three miles from the shore, as well as in the entire Baltic Cruise passenger night 110 162 – 31.9 Sea region, the Norwegian Fjords, and the North Sea Canal. Waste [L] per Cruise passenger night 12.7 14.7 – 13.6 Watch TUI Cruises video here. 24 WELCOME E N V I R O N M E N TA L S T R AT E G Y F O R M A R E L L A OUR APPROACH A revised sustainability strategy was launched in 2018 as part of the rebranding of Thomson Cruises to Marella Cruises. Emissions and enviS T E P L I G H T LY ronmental management, water and waste reduction initiatives and bio16 Strategy progress diversity and community programs are key focus areas. Measures such as 18 Addressing climate change the installation of new air conditioning equipment, operating with a single 19 Aviation engine running, or drifting on passage all help Marella Cruises run at an efficient speed, cutting energy demand. 24 Cruise 29 Ground operations Strengthened environmental data management systems and processes are also part of the new strategy, helping to drive continued improvement in carbon, fresh water consumption and waste production per passenger MAKE A DIFFERENCE cruise night. L E A D T H E W AY A POLAR FIRST CARE MORE In 2017, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises expedition ship, MS Bremen, became the G L O B A L C O M PA C T first passenger ship in the world to receive the Polar Ship Certificate, joined in 2018 by the MS Europa 2. The International Code for Ships Operating in Polar Waters (Polar Code) – adopted by the International Maritime Organisation – contains regulations concerning construction, step equipment and training of crews that intend to operate in the polar regions in order to increase ship safety and ensure environmental proteclightly tion. The remaining ship in the Hapag-Lloyd Cruises fleet, the MS Europa, will undergo certification in 2019, set for completion by the summer. CLEANER CRUISING In January 2019, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises announced that it will use low-sulphur In December 2018, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises achieved the Environmental Marine Gas Oil (MGO) on all routes operated by Hanseatic Nature, Hanseatic Passport Operation Certificate for all vessels in the fleet – an independent Inspiration and MS Bremen from July 2020 and on the Hanseatic Spirit verification of the operator’s commitment to achieving a sustainable ship when it joins the fleet in 2021. operation. In particularly sensitive areas such as the Arctic and Antarctica, Hapag-­ Lloyd Cruises has long used MGO, ahead of legal requirements. The low-emission fuel has a sulphur content of only 0.1 %. The new expedition ships are also equipped with SCR catalysts, reducing nitrogen oxide emissions by almost 95 %, and connectors to power the ship from shore electricity when in port. An eco-efficient average speed for route planning and management cuts fuel consumption by a third. Hapag-Lloyd Cruises’ fleet has seawater desalination systems to produce clean water and biological sewage treatment systems for wastewater. Environmentally acceptable biological 25 lubricants are used for the bow thrusters and stabilisers. WELCOME CRUISES GET THE GREEN LIGHT G I V I N G B A C K T O D E S T I N AT I O N S OUR APPROACH Recognising an ongoing commitment to sustainability, TUI ’s cruise busiTUI Cruises actively supports species and nature conservation projects in nesses garnered awards in 2018. This included the myclimate 2018 award the destinations it visits. Since 2017 just under a quarter of a million euros S T E P L I G H T LY for TUI Cruises for measures taken to reduce CO2 emissions both on ships (€ 236,295) has been donated via its Green & Fair donation programme, 16 Strategy progress and on land. TUI Cruises also received the Readers Award from National whereby TUI Cruises donates five euros to local environmental protection 18 Addressing climate change Geographic Traveller in the Eco Travel Green Light category. projects per booked excursion. 19 Aviation Hapag-Lloyd Cruises were also presented with the Venice Blue Flag award In 2018 the money was divided among the SECORE International, for a 24 Cruise for its commitment to reducing emissions in the popular tourist port, coral protection project in Curaçao; the German marine protection organ29 Ground operations helping to safeguard the city’s environment. isation MEER e.V. and Pottwale e.V, for whale conservation and sustainable whale-watching in Dominica, and the TUI Care Foundation, TUI ’s independent charitable foundation, which supports sustainability programmes in MAKE A DIFFERENCE destinations including protecting the natural environment and endangered animal species. Marella Cruises also supports the TUI Care Foundation, L E A D T H E W AY with customer donations totalling over 150,000 Euros in 2018. CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T Hapag-Lloyd Cruises often travel to remote, seldom-visited regions, many with low levels of economic development. This entails a significant responsibility to provide support for local people. For example, onboard doctors treat people free-of-charge in places where there is no medical care step available. Also, portable water-filter units and much needed educational materials are donated. lightly S U S TA I N A B L E M AT E R I A L S O N B O A R D TUI Cruises prioritises use of sustainable materials for new-builds, for example using wood from responsibly managed forests for all installations in the cabins as well as numerous natural materials such as wool and cork for interior fittings. In the new Mein Schiff 1 ( MS1) and Mein Schiff 2 ( MS2), TUI Cruises took this a step further, changing all textiles in the guest cabins – ranging from the bedlinen and towels to the bathrobes – to organic cotton produced in accordance with the Global Organic Textile Standard with respect to cultivation and processing. The bedlinen cotton for MS1 and all prior mentioned textiles on MS2 are additionally Fairtrade certified which helps cotton producers invest in a sustainable future. A fleetwide concept for changing bedlinen enables guests to use it for a longer period and save water and energy by avoiding unnecessary laundry. 26 WELCOME Innovations included using recyclable elements for restaurant decoration, OUR APPROACH rather than food, and optimising the arrangement and quantities of food at the buffet, such as smaller buffet inserts at the end of the buffet time – S T E P L I G H T LY avoiding unnecessary waste while keeping the food supply diverse. The 16 Strategy progress measures have now been rolled out to the entire Mein Schiff fleet. 18 Addressing climate change 19 Aviation In 2019, crew members will be trained to continuously carry out their own waste analyses. A final report will be published and made available for the 24 Cruise entire cruise industry. 29 Ground operations L E S S I S M O R E F O R P L A S T I C F R E E H O L I D AY S In 2018 TUI Cruises launched a plastic reduction program WASTELESS as MAKE A DIFFERENCE part of its vision of plastic-free holidays on the Mein Schiff fleet. By end2020, plastic products and unnecessary disposables are set to be elimiL E A D T H E W AY nated onboard all ships as well as on land, replaced with renewable and CARE MORE natural raw materials. G L O B A L C O M PA C T Responsible management of waste on board the cruise ships The program takes waste management to the next level, requiring ­partners and suppliers, headquarters staff, crew members and guests to TIGHT SHIP ME ANS LE SS WA STE contribute to meeting the 2020 goal. Initially, the focus will be on implestep Reducing onboard waste is imperative for TUI Cruises, using measures such as reusable systems, bulk packaging, and dosage and refill systems. menting measures in the hotel, restaurant and bar areas. lightly Managing waste on vessels is strictly governed by national and internaReducing plastic waste is not new for TUI Cruises. Cabins are already tional regulations. Environmental officers on board must plan, implement, equipped with glass water jugs, which guests can fill at corridor water control and document proper waste disposal according to the International dispensers, eliminating the need for disposable plastic bottles. On all new Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. Waste is separated TUI Cruises ships, cabin showers are equipped with a refillable shampoo by type: recyclables such as glass, paper / cardboard, plastics and metal and shower gel dispenser, saving 370,000 throw-away packs per year are sorted and partly shredded or compacted onboard. All collected recyfleet-wide. clables and hazardous or special waste (paint residues, medical waste, etc.) are landed ashore. Among new measures are placing terry-cloth slippers in bathrobe pockets rather than packed individually in plastic, eliminating 250,000 plastic Read the latest TUI Cruises Environmental Report here. wrappings per year. In future, laundry bags made of bio-based plastic will replace 270,000 plastic bags. NO APPE TITE FOR FOOD WA STE Food waste is a central concern for sustainable tourism, but little research In the restaurant, bar and crew areas, the inner lining and lids of takeaway has been done to date on reducing food waste on cruise liners. In 2017, coffee cups are made of bio-based – not oil-based – plastic. Converting TUI Cruises explored how to cut food waste with the travel industry initifrom plastic to wood stirrers saves 1.5 million plastic stirrers and next ative Futouris e.V. and non-profit organisation United Against Waste e.V. steps will be reducing over five million plastic cocktail sticks. Plastic straws Initial analysis onboard Mein Schiff 4 aimed to reduce resource consumption are issued to guests only upon request, thereby saving annually approxiand encourage crew and guests to avoid food waste. Using a waste analysis mately three million straws. tool and applying various measures onboard led to a 17 % reduction in 27 food waste. Watch TUI Cruises WASTELESS video here (in German). WELCOME Cruising ahead with 101 KG OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY sustainability Emissions purification CO 2 PER PASSENGER CRUISE NIGHT – systems REDUCE SULPHUR a reduction of 11.7 % since 2015 16 Strategy progress More fuel-efficient ships, the latest technologies and a range EMISSIONS by up to 99 % 18 Addressing climate change of environmental improvements help to make our cruise on TUI Cruise ships 19 Aviation operations more sustainable. 24 Cruise 29 Ground operations 16 CRUISE SHIPS across 3 cruise companies All of TUI’s Shore excursions MAKE A DIFFERENCE (TUI Cruises, Hapag-Lloyd Cruises cruise ships are covered by SUPPORT CONSERVATION L E A D T H E W AY and Marella Cruises) ISO 14001 PROJECTS CARE MORE CERTIFICATION G L O B A L C O M PA C T WASTE SEPARATED for processing, recycling DEDICATED or proper disposal ENVIRONMENT OFFICER onboard all TUI Cruises’ ships step lightly Hapag-Lloyd Cruises operates INDUSTRYLE ADING RE SE ARCH electric Zodiac expedition resulted in 17 % LESS FOOD WASTE – ships in remote areas – REDUCING measures now rolled out across AIR AND NOISE EMISSIONS TUI Cruises TUI Cruises hybrid technology allows for a closed-loop system, meaning ZERO EFFLUENT or RESIDUE DISCHARGED ENERGYEFFICIENT technology installations, such as lighting systems, air-conditioning 28 and heat recovery WELCOME OUR APPROACH Ground operations S T E P L I G H T LY 16 Strategy progress 18 Addressing climate change Commitment by 2020 19 Aviation 24 Cruise We will drive environmental improvements across our 29 Ground operations ground operations TUI ’s ground operations consist of major premises, retail shops, brochures MAKE A DIFFERENCE and transport vehicles. We have approximately 50 major offices and a retail portfolio consisting of around 1,600 shops throughout Europe. Our L E A D T H E W AY Sustainable materials were used throughout the refurbishment of TUI Netherland’s ground transport operations sit within Destination Experiences and Rijswijk office, including a moss wall. CARE MORE ­operate around 300 vehicles. G L O B A L C O M PA C T In 2018 absolute emissions from our ground operations (offices, retails & preservation. TUI Business Services, which manage facilities in the head brochures) were 9.3 % lower compared to 2017, a 17 % reduction from our offices in Hannover, are also ISO 14001 certified. With a focus on energy 2015 baseline. Relative emissions from our transport vehicles slightly reduction, TUI Germany have reduced the electricity consumption in their step rose by 2.3 %, but have still shown an overall reduction of 8.8 % from the 2015 baseline. retail stores by over 19 % between 2015 and 2018. lightly CHARGING AHE AD WITH E VS In 2018, over 55 % of TUI Group’s energy for major premises and retail Since 2015, TUI fly Belgium have used electric cars for ground-based stores was purchased on a green tariff – up from 35 % in 2017. colleagues at Brussels Airport to transport ground support agents and technicians to aircraft before departure and on arrival. These cars offer From sustainable building design and electric vehicle charging to more energy savings of 70 %. TUI fly Netherlands also use electric vehicles airefficient coaches and reduced use of paper, TUI Group is working to reduce side for maintenance and engineering. TUI fly Germany have now installed the environmental impact of its ground operations. charging stations for electric vehicles at the employees’ car park at the head office in Hannover, and are exploring the use of electric vehicles for GREEN FROM THE GROUND UP aircraft maintenance at the airport. Sustainability was at the forefront of the design of TUI Netherland’s Rijswijk office, completed in December 2018. Sustainable materials were used FLE E T RE NE WAL throughout the building, including floors and stairs made of bamboo and TUI ’s owned coach fleet in Cyprus underwent a complete renewal during a moss wall. Plans are being made to fit the roof with solar panels. The 2018. As a result, the carbon efficiency improved by 15 % year-on-year, from green roof helps prevent flooding as roots retain water and will also 20.5g CO2 per passenger kilometre to 17.5g CO2 per passenger kilometre. stimulate biodiversity. The parking area now includes 13 charging stations for electric and plug-in hybrid cars and electric bikes. STOP PRE SS In 2018 TUI Group further reduced its printed brochures by 9 % compared TUI Germany and TUI AG have been ISO 14001 certified since 2003 and to 2017, a 23 % reduction again the 2015 baseline. Since TUI ’s brochure 2005 respectively. These certifications cover a range of environmental reduction programme began in 2012, the business has reduced brochure 29 aspects including emissions reductions, water management and biodiversity manufacture by over two thirds. WELCOME OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE 31 Strategy progress 33 Hotels 38 Destinations 42 Reducing plastic waste 45 Customers L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T make a difference Creating positive change for people and communities Local communities should share the benefits of tourism and the environment and human rights should be protected. Our ‘Make a difference’ pillar aims to ensure that tourism is a powerful force for good – boosting economies, creating jobs, protecting wildlife and enhancing cultural understanding and tolerance along our value chain. By showing customers how more sustainable holiday products equal a better holiday experience, we want to boost demand for sustainable tourism. 30 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Creating positive change S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE AMBITION BY 2020 31 Strategy progress 33 Hotels 38 Destinations 9.2 M We will deliver 10 million ‘greener 42 Reducing plastic waste 45 Customers and fairer’ holidays a year by 2020, enabling more local people to share L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE ‘Greener and fairer’ TUI holidays delivered in hotels with sustainability in the benefits of tourism certifications G L O B A L C O M PA C T We measure our progress by the annual number of customers we take to hotels with credible sustainability certifications (sustainability certifications recognised by the Global Sustainable 81 % Tourism Council). make PRO G R E S S I N 2018 a difference In 2018, we took over 9.2 million customers to certified hotels. Of hotels owned by TUI Group had sustainability certifications 1,177,000 TUI ’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGS TUI Collection excursions with sustainability at their heart 31 WELCOME HOW WE ARE DOING AGAINST OUR 2020 COMMITMENTS OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE 31 Strategy progress 33 Hotels 38 Destinations 42 Reducing plastic waste 45 Customers HOTEL S CUSTOMER S Hotels in our tourism business portfovocational training and there were 6,011 apWe will communicate about sustainaL E A D T H E W AY lio will achieve credible sustainability certiprenticeships in place; 88 % of employees bility throughout the customer journey. CARE MORE fications. were nationals of the country and 79 % of TUI UK and TUI Nordic conducted consumer G L O B A L C O M PA C T We have delivered 9.2 million ‘greener and food and beverage was sourced from within research on sustainability and tourism which fairer’ holidays (up by 11.9 % y-o-y) through the country. Average carbon emissions per further highlighted the importance of this top1,520 hotels (up by 12.1 %) that were certified guest night at TUI Hotels & Resorts and Interic to customers. The TUI Marketing Guidelines to a standard recognised by the Global Susnational Concepts was 9.5 kg of CO2, energy for Sustainability were cascaded across the make tainable Tourism Council. TUI has also included a sustainability component in contracts with consumption per guest night was 26.0 kWh and total water use 556 litres per guest night. business and piloted in several markets. TUI UK & Ireland won a gold award at the 2018 a difference accommodation suppliers setting out minimum World Responsible Tourism Awards in the standards and the requirement to work to‘Best for communicating responsible tourism’ wards credible sustainable certification. D E S T I N AT I O N S category. We will make sure our hotels can acOur destination management compacess the right tools, learning and expertise nies and excursions will meet sustainability to lead the industry. standards. We help hotels through sustainability workIn 2018, we sold 1,177,000 TUI Collection exshops at local and international conferences, cursions (up by 15 % from 2017) – 286 ‘unique, Travelife roadshows and through consultancy authentic and responsible’ excursions in 66 support. destinations. These excursions are based on local and sustainability elements. TUI has also Our TUI hotels will include innovative included a sustainability component in our exenvironmental features, invest in skills cursion contracts based on TUI’s minimum training for staff, develop local skills and standards. On target favour local sustainable procurement. More focus needed In 2018, 66 % of employees in our owned and Behind target International Concept hotels were receiving 32 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Hotels our contracts and they are also required to work towards credible GSTC-recognised sustainability certification. S T E P L I G H T LY In 2018 as a result of these efforts, the number of customers staying in MAKE A DIFFERENCE hotels certified to a GSTC standard rose by 11.9 % to 9.2 million across 31 Strategy progress Commitment by 2020 1,520 hotels (up by 12.1 %), and 81 % of TUI Hotels & Resorts held sustainability certifications. Critical to this success is the guidance TUI provides 33 Hotels We will work with hotel suppliers to increase their positive imits hotel partners to help them prepare for certification, as well as 38 Destinations pact on the local community and to protect the environment ­improved and adjusted reporting processes*. 42 Reducing plastic waste 45 Customers * Methodology document More info here Our hotels play a key role in raising the bar in sustainability performance at our destinations. By carefully managing their impacts on local people, economies and habitats, each hotel is uniquely positioned to make a posGrowth of ‘greener and fairer’ holidays L E A D T H E W AY itive difference for the whole community. Our most sustainably-managed (million customers) CARE MORE hotels also consistently deliver higher quality and customer satisfaction. G L O B A L C O M PA C T 2015 5.6 m TUI Group owns and operates 380 hotels in more than 30 destinations. The core TUI Hotels & Resorts brands are Robinson Club, Riu, TUI Magic Life and TUI Blue*. We also work closely with partners on International 2016 6.3 m make Concepts hotels (approximately 200 properties). These include TUI Sensatori, TUI Sensimar and TUI Family Life, each designed for specific cusa difference tomer segments. Many of our markets have ‘local concepts’ such as the 2017 8.3 m Dutch ‘ TIME TO SMILE ’ holiday apartments and the Nordic ‘Blue Star’ hotels. TUI ’s growth plans include expanding our portfolio of owned and operated hotels and International Concepts, and continuing to collab2018 9.2 m orate with thousands of accommodation suppliers around the world. More information on our hotel portfolio can be found here. Greener and fairer holidays 2018 2017 2016 2015 % Var. V S E T T I N G T H E S TA N D A R D Baseline Our own hotels and hotel partners are expected to achieve credible, independent sustainability certifications to demonstrate social and enviNumber of customers ronmental good practice. By 2020, our ambition is to extend the number (millions) staying at of hotels with sustainability certifications to accommodate 10 million certified hotels* 9.2 8.3 6.3 5.6 + 64 customers annually. Number of contracted hotels with certifications* 1,520 1,356 1,170 950 + 60 We encourage all our hotels to obtain certification that meets the % of TUI Hotels with Global Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC) standard. Minimum expeccertifications** 78 76 74 68 + 10 tations for accommodation suppliers are set out in a mandatory clause in * Hotels that are certified to a GSTC-recognised certification 33 * T UI Blue to become TUI Group‘s global flagship hotel brand from Summer 2020. More info ** TUI Hotels – TUI Hotels & Resorts plus International Concepts WELCOME Sustainability & satisfaction go hand-in-hand OUR APPROACH Our hotels with sustainability certifications deliver better environS T E P L I G H T LY mental performance and higher customer satisfaction compared MAKE A DIFFERENCE to non-certified hotels, according to our analysis of 330 hotels*. 31 Strategy progress 33 Hotels Positive trend data 38 Destinations for hotels with sustainability certifications 42 Reducing plastic waste 45 Customers • 10 % lower CO 2 emissions per guest night • 24 % lower waste volume per guest night • 19 % less fresh water use per guest night Read an article here about a Travelife audit of the Robinson Club • 15 % less total water use per guest night L E A D T H E W AY Soma Bay in Egypt. • 23 % higher use of green energy CARE MORE • 9 % higher employment rate of national employees G L O B A L C O M PA C T S P R E A D I N G T H E W O R D O N C E R T I F I C AT I O N • Higher customer satisfaction scores for accommodation overall To ensure high standards, TUI prioritises certifications aligned with the Global Sustainable Tourism Criteria. Currently over 30 standards have * analysis of 2017 performance data in which 75 % of hotels surveyed held achieved GSTC recognition or accreditation status (see examples below). ­sustainability certifications make We strongly support the Travelife sustainability certification scheme a difference and are actively engaged on the Travelife Board and Steering Committee. “Our data analysis shows that sustainability certifications for hotels, such as In partnership with the Travelife team, we continue to encourage more hotels to embrace certification. In 2018, we supported road shows in Travelife, help to drive sustainability perMauritius, the US and Thailand, attended by over 210 hoteliers, to explain formance and continuous environmental the benefits of sustainability certification. and socio-economic improvements. We encourage hotels to aim for certification that is recognised by the Global GSTC recognised labels include: Sustainable Tourism Council (GSTC).” • B  iosphere Responsible • G  reen Key Global Tourism • G  reen Star Hotel JANE A S H TO N • E arthCheck • R  ainforest Alliance standard Director of Sustainability • G  reen Globe for tourism operations • Green Key • T  ravelife Read more here in a case study published by the One planet Full list here travel with care network for the 4th United Nations Environment Assembly. 34 WELCOME H O W O U R H O T E L S S TA C K E D U P remaining two years of the strategy to meet our commitment to reduce OUR APPROACH Improving the sustainability performance of our hotels and hotel partners TUI Hotels & Resorts carbon emissions per guest night by 10 %. Energy is an ongoing focus. reduction workshops will be held in areas where they are most needed. S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE Since the launch of our Better Holidays, Better World strategy, we have Hotels have a unique opportunity to make a positive socio-economic con31 Strategy progress seen overall reductions in energy, carbon dioxide and waste. In 2018, detribution in the communities where they operate. Our TUI Hotels & Resorts spite dedicated projects to reduce energy, carbon and water, these metrics and International Concept hotels are asked to provide information on local 33 Hotels remained relatively constant (and water increased). This was partly due to employment, investment in training and support for the local economy so 38 Destinations increased customer volumes to North Africa compared to the previous year, that we can monitor and help them improve performance in this area. 42 Reducing plastic waste as well as a changing hotel portfolio. More focus is needed over the 45 Customers Hotel Environmental KPIs Hotel Socio-Economic KPIs L E A D T H E W AY 2018 2017 2016 2015 % Var. V 2018 per Guest / Night Baseline CARE MORE % of food that is country-sourced 79 G L O B A L C O M PA C T Energy [kWh] 25.7 (26.0) 25.8 (26.3) 26.6 (27.9) 27.2 (27.8) – 5.4 (– 6.2) % of food that is sourced from CO 2 [kg] 9.4 (9.5) 9.2 (9.4) 9.5 (10.1) 9.9 (10.1) – 5.8 (– 6.9) the local region 47 Water [L]* 549 (556) 520 (531) 514 (544) 509 (529) + 7.8 (+ 5.0) % of employees who are nationals 88 Waste [kg] 2.1 (2.2) 2.2 (2.3) n / a n / a – 4.1 (– 4.3) % of employees from the local region 61 make * Includes water for domestic, pool and irrigation purposes % of employees who receieved vocational training 66 a difference Bold figures indicate performance by TUI Hotels & Resorts. Figures in brackets also include International Concept hotels. Number of apprenticeships in place 6,011 TUI Future Hotel Days to be inspired by best practices in operational efficiencies, including sustainability initiatives. Tourism is a dynamic, evolving industry, so we have to continually innovate to differentiate our brand. TUI is attuned to the trends shaping Watch a video here. the future of tourism and applies this insight to develop new product features and services that improve the product experience for our guests and raise profitability. In 2018 a suite of creative workshops, the TUI Future Hotel Days, was launched to strengthen networking and collaboration between our hotel and cruise brands and tackle the innovation challenge together. Since the inaugural workshop in April 2018, sustainability has been a topic at every workshop. At the February 2019 event in London, attendees grappled with issues such as how digitalisation drives guests’ holiday experience and how to avoid food waste and manage increasing resource scarcity. Colleagues also toured various city hotels in London 35 WELCOME SUPPORTING THE JOURNEY produce a comprehensive manual for hotels and cruise ships to increase OUR APPROACH To help our hotels achieve our BHBW targets and pursue certification, a the range of sustainably produced food and drinks. A second phase of the core part of our commitment to offer ‘greener and fairer’ holidays includes project tackles food waste, developing a waste-analysis-tool to survey the S T E P L I G H T LY supporting them on that journey. In 2018 two additional sustainable waste problem in partner hotels, followed by recommendations for action. MAKE A DIFFERENCE accommodation specialists were hired to engage our hotel partners on In another step, relevant hotel staff will be trained to understand the 31 Strategy progress the benefits of sustainability certification, and support them through the potential for reducing food waste in their own hotels. process. We also held face-to-face meetings with hotel partners in Spain, 33 Hotels Thailand and Curaçao to provide further guidance on implementing S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N T H E S P O T L I G H T 38 Destinations sustainability practices. TUI rewards and celebrates those hotels across our markets that are making 42 Reducing plastic waste notable progress in sustainability. In Germany, the long-established TUI 45 Customers In other initiatives, our International Concept hotel conferences included Umwelt Champion ( TUI Environmental Champion) programme recognised a sustainability session focused on their specific sustainability targets, 192 hotels in 2018 for achieving both certification to a recognised sustainwith sustainability certifications and single-use plastic reduction highability standard and earning high customer satisfaction scores on environlighted as top priorities, and the annual TUI Group Purchasing conference mental performance. In early 2019, TUI Germany awarded TUI Magic Life L E A D T H E W AY included a market stand and colleague engagement activity on sustainability. in Sarigerme the Premium TUI Umwelt Champion award for its continuous CARE MORE efforts to improve social and environmental processes and performance. G L O B A L C O M PA C T S M A R T E R W I T H D ATA TUI Group created a programme to identify potential cost savings for energy The annual Northern Region Awards from TUI UK and TUI Nordic showcase and water. An intensive analysis of consumption data and an onsite visit the work of their hoteliers, including a sustainability category. This year’s with experts in Portugal, on Lanzarote and Menorca, highlighted potential winning entry was the Castelli Hotel in Zakynthos for sourcing their restaumake savings of more than 1,700 MWh in three TUI Hotels. Recommended measures such as presetting the air conditioning system in rooms and rant food from an adjacent farm, informing guests about local cuisine and composting food waste. For over 20 years, the hotel has educated guests a difference testing light motion sensors are now being implemented. about the National Marine Park, and its endangered loggerhead sea turtles. It also uses environmentally sound and natural materials during renovaBRICKS AND MORE tions and maximises use of renewable energy. Sustainable hotel construction and refurbishment is a cornerstone of sustainability. In 2018 we continued work with our construction consultancy partner MACE to develop a framework for improvements in this area, including a set of KPIs to help build more sustainable hotels and help them improve their sustainability performance. The project focuses on energy, Riu publishes sustainability water, materials and waste management as well as helping hotels with report general sustainability practices, such as certification, communications and local community engagement. The KPIs are being trialled by selected hotel partners. In 2018, our joint venture partner Riu Hotels & Resorts published their TA S T E W I T H O U T W A S T E first sustainability report describing The opportunity to enjoy different types of food is one of the most cherthe company’s 2017 environmental ished holiday experiences. At the same time, food production, processing and social performance. and disposal is linked with many sustainability challenges such as excessive energy and water use and food waste. TUI Group is working with View here. Futouris, an industry organisation dedicated to sustainable tourism, to 36 WELCOME We aim to deliver 10 million Offer LOCAL PRODUCTS and dishes in the restaurant OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY ‘greener and fairer’ holidays a MAKE A DIFFERENCE year by 2020 9.2 M ‘GREENER AND FAIRER’ HOLIDAYS 31 Strategy progress delivered in hotels with sustainability Every hotel plays a role in managing our impacts on the 33 Hotels certi­fications in 2018 local community, economy and environment. We have 38 Destinations (29 million over the last four years) found that our most sustainably-managed hotels deliver 42 Reducing plastic waste higher quality and customer satisfaction. 45 Customers 81 % 1,520 HOTELS of TUI HOTELS & RESORTS certified to GSTC L E A D T H E W AY had sustainability recognised standard certifications CARE MORE Work to REDUCE FOOD G L O B A L C O M PA C T WASTE make a difference REDUCE WASTE and recycle SAVE WATER REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION Inform guests about the LOCAL AREA and SUSTAINABILITY TREAT STAFF FAIRLY SUPPORT THE LOCAL 37 COMMUNITY WELCOME OUR APPROACH Destinations S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE 31 Strategy progress Commitment by 2020 33 Hotels 38 Destinations Our destination management companies and excursions will 42 Reducing plastic waste meet our sustainability standards 45 Customers Our goal is to make every TUI holiday more sustainable, by benefiting more local people and making sure environmental considerations are a L E A D T H E W AY top priority. CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T EXPERIENCE THE DIFFERENCE Our TUI Destination Experiences business grew significantly last year. By the end of 2018, we had acquired Hotelbeds Destination Management business and the technology platform specialist Musement. TUI Destinamake tion Experiences now has 9,000 employees across 49 countries, offering 14 million customers a broad product portfolio of high-quality destination Since October 2018, a dedicated resource in the TUI Tours team has been integrating sustainability processes into the programme. All guides must a difference experiences such as excursions, activities, tours, transfers and guest service. complete the TUI Tours academy through e-learning and face-to-face training. The modules incorporate a number of sustainability elements Our Make a Difference commitment means we want to make sure that including animal welfare, human rights, child protection, the TUI Care growth is responsible. Sustainability has been at the forefront of our desFoundation, an understanding of why guests value sustainability and its tination services business and we’ve made significant progress, including importance to tourism, and how to encourage practical measures like offering more sustainable excursions, conducting animal welfare audits reducing plastic. and engaging colleagues on sustainability (see p68). In 2019, we will work with the newly acquired businesses to align standards and processes with TUI Tours will need to follow a checklist of sustainability criteria. Each one TUI Group’s sustainability approach. will feature an interactive and engaging customer highlight, such as a home-stay, language exchange or workshop. In partnership with the TUI TA K I N G Y O U G L O C A L Care Foundation, tours will visit projects like the Pikala biking project TUI Tours are part of a new concept that puts sustainability front and in Marrakesh, which empowers young females and offers employment for centre of the visitor experience. TUI Tours are multiday tours that include young Moroccans. TUI Tours will include a donation to the TUI Care flights, hotels, experiences and a tour guide to experience different counFoundation, helping to support local projects around the world. tries and really connect with the area and people. From spring 2019, cultural roundtrips in Italy, safaris in South Africa, trekking in Peru, and tours of the American West Coast will be conducted by “glocal guides” – global locals with in-depth knowledge of the area and who speak the customers’ language. 38 WELCOME CL AUSE FOR A C AUSE BERBER TR AIL , MOROCCO OUR APPROACH Thriving destinations benefit customers and local communities alike. On this excursion guests visit a traditional pottery house in rural Morocco, Through excursions, our customers discover new places and contribute to a local argan oil producer and a Berber market. Guests may buy locally S T E P L I G H T LY the local economy. Sustainability clauses must be part of excursion conproduced goods before being hosted by a local family for tea. MAKE A DIFFERENCE cepts and are part of all excursion contracts. 31 Strategy progress OU T BACK & BE YOND, DOMINIC A N REPUBL IC Since 2014, TUI Collection excursions have promoted unique, authentic Guests visit a typical Dominican country home, meet a local family and 33 Hotels and responsible activities, now offered by most of our tour operators. learn about local customs and traditions. They can see local goods like 38 Destinations rum and chocolate being made, buy samples, and enjoy local cuisine at a 42 Reducing plastic waste Each TUI Collection excursion must be exclusive to TUI and meet specific traditional ranch. 45 Customers criteria for sustainability, demonstrating that it benefits local people and minimises environmental impact (see p41 for an overview). In 2018, our cusAGRO VILL AGE TOUR , SRI L ANK A tomers went on 1,177,000 TUI Collection excursions – up by 15 % from A tour of rural Sri Lanka includes visiting a Buddhist temple, a village 2017 – and 286 excursions were offered in 66 destinations. Since 2015, TUI and surrounding farms, tasting local tea and observing how traditional L E A D T H E W AY Collection has grown by 135 % and over 3.5 million excursions have been products like cinnamon and coconut oil are made. CARE MORE delivered. G L O B A L C O M PA C T V O L C A N G R I L L E X C E L L E N C E , S PA I N Watch the TUI Collection video here. Within the lunar landscapes of the Timanfaya National Park – a UNESCO Biosphere reserve – visitors can sample local wines at a historic winery and Growth of TUI Collection Excusions dine at a locally owned restaurant where dinner is cooked on geothermal make (in million) grills powered by the volcano. a difference 2015 0.5 m E AST E XPERIENCE, PORTUGAL In the forested interior of Madeira, customers take a Levada walk to learn about the local area, catch their own lunch from the lake, eat alfresco and 2016 0.8 m contribute to environmental protection by planting a tree. 2017 1.0 m 2018 1.2 m TUI COLLEC TION E X AMPLES C O B A M AYA N T R A D I T I O N S , M E X I C O Developed with the Mayan community, guests visit the historic Mayan site of Coba, a Mayan village, shop for local handmade products, and dine at a local restaurant, bringing benefits to 130 families. K AYA D I S C O V E R Y, T U R K E Y Customers can explore the ruins of a historic village and visit a local farm 39 – part of the TUI Taste of Fethiye project which links farmers with hotels. Guests can buy local produce at the farm. WELCOME • We direct significant funding to the TUI Care Foundation to help support OUR APPROACH their animal protection initiatives. • We seek to increase the number of animal-friendly excursions offered S T E P L I G H T LY to customers where animals can be seen in their natural environments. MAKE A DIFFERENCE • We train our colleagues in destination on animal welfare in excursions. 31 Strategy progress • We support ending the capture of animals from the wild for shows or entertainment. 33 Hotels 38 Destinations A SSURING COMPLIANCE 42 Reducing plastic waste All TUI excursion suppliers featuring animals must comply with the Global 45 Customers Welfare Guidance for Animals in Tourism sector guidelines. Many of these suppliers are long-term partners who share our commitment to continuous improvement and higher welfare standards. L E A D T H E W AY Our rolling programme of audits is the most extensive among tour operaCARE MORE A N I M A L W E L FA R E tors, with over 150 independent audits carried out since 2016 and a G L O B A L C O M PA C T TUI takes an active approach to animal welfare. In 2013 we collaborated further 50 planned for 2019. By the end of 2018, 76 % of our animal with ABTA , the leading association of travel agents and tour operators, to welfare excursion suppliers had been audited on-site by a 3rd party launch the first “Global Welfare Guidance for Animals in Tourism’’ and auditor. We believe that auditing, combined with a close supplier working engaged with suppliers of all our animal excursions to publicise the guiderelationship, enables us to meet customer expectations on animal welfare make lines. TUI was the first tourism company to conduct animal welfare audits. standards in excursions. Wherever possible we prefer to engage with our suppliers on improvement plans, but we also remove venues from the a difference In 2016 we removed all excursions involving elephant rides or shows and programme if standards are not met. So far, more than 60 % of the now offer elephant-­friendly excursions where our customers can instead suppliers audited, have made improvements in terms of animal welfare. see and learn about elephants in their natural habitat. S TAY S F O R S T R AY S OUR POSITION TUI operates in many destinations where animals live on the streets. The Excursions involving animals remain very popular with our customers. protection of stray animals in holiday destinations is important for TUI, There are also significant socio-economic benefits for destinations from our partners and customers. Hotel operations are often affected as stray animal-related excursions, particularly in developing countries. Our maranimals live nearby or try to get food from the grounds. In 2019 we will be ket research shows that the protection of wild animals is important to the rolling out the new and improved ‘ TUI stray animal award’ for hotels that majority of holidaymakers, who also believe that animal-related excurprotect stray animals by establishing feeding sites with appropriate food, sions should meet global welfare standards. TUI ’s position on the issue is organising veterinary visits and participating in neutering programmes. as follows: W I L D L I F E D E C L A R AT I O N • Adherence to the Global Welfare Guidance for Animals in Tourism is a The illegal trade of wild animals and wildlife products remains a serious component of all our supplier contracts. ethical issue and a great danger to species populations. In April 2018, TUI • An independent audit against the Global Welfare Guidance for Animals Group signed the World Travel & Tourism Council ( WTTC ) Travel and in Tourism is a prerequisite for continuing to be a supplier of animal Tourism Declaration on Illegal Trade in Wildlife, recognising the positive excursions for TUI Group. role our sector can play in tackling this problem on the ground. 40 Watch W TTC ’s video on Illegal Wildlife Trafficking here. WELCOME TUI Collection excursions with 286 1,177,000 UNIQUE TUI COLLEC TION TUI COLLEC TION E XCURSIONS OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY sustainability at their heart E XCURSIONS in 66 destinations delivered in 2018 (3.5 m in the last 4 years) MAKE A DIFFERENCE TUI Collection excursions showcase the value of excursi31 Strategy progress ons that are unique, authentic and responsible. They are ­exclusive to TUI and meet specific criteria for sustainability. 33 Hotels Include visits to protected 38 Destinations areas, cultural attractions 42 Reducing plastic waste and historical sites Manage 45 Customers AUTHENTIC environmental impacts Enjoy the local touches of a destination and gain an insight Meet animal welfare into local cultures and traditions guidelines L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE RE SPONSIBLE G L O B A L C O M PA C T Explore whilst benefitting the local community and minimising environmental impact UNIQUE Experience the destination’s make ‘must see’ highlights in a unique and differentiated way a difference Dine in local eateries, offer local cuisine Contribute to local projects and the Ensure fair TUI Care Foundation employment practices 41 Opportunities to buy Protect local children local products and those we take on holiday WELCOME OUR APPROACH Reducing HOTELS STR AW S NO MORE S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE plastic waste In 2018, plastic straws were the item most commonly removed or replaced with a non-plastic alternative in our own hotels, with around 60 % reporting that they no longer provide plastic straws. Hotels also implemented 31 Strategy progress measures to reduce or replace plastic cups, cutlery, stirrers, bottles, bags, bathroom amenities and packaging, contributing to the removal of 112 mil33 Hotels By the end of 2018 TUI Group had removed 140 million lion pieces of single-use plastic. 38 Destinations pieces of single-use plastic. As part of our contribution to 42 Reducing plastic waste KICKING THE PL ASTIC HABIT the global fight against plastic waste, we aim to raise this 45 Customers TUI has developed guidelines to help to 250 million by the end of 2020. h­oteliers implement plastic reduction programmes. Based on the ‘4 Rs’ principle The alarming rise in plastic waste, particularly in the oceans, is one of our (reduce, reuse, replace, recycle) they L E A D T H E W AY most serious global environmental threats. Worldwide, only 15 % of plas­include practical advice, suggested alterCARE MORE tics are currently recycled* and around eight million tons of plastic waste natives to single-use items and advice on G L O B A L C O M PA C T enters our oceans each year** – the equivalent of one garbage truck per communication with staff, guests and minute***. By 2050, it is predicted there will be more plastic waste than suppliers. fish in our oceans****. Launched in early 2019, the guidelines are make Growing plastic pollution negatively impacts travel and tourism, particularly near the beaches and oceans so important to our destinations. publicly available here. a difference Recognising the industry’s role, our focus is on preventing waste in the first place by reducing single-use plastic from our operations. To date, a L E A D I N G T H E W AY O N W A S T E total of 140 million pieces were removed – and our aim is to raise this to The following initiatives demonstrate best practice among our hotels in 250 million pieces by 2020 through concerted efforts across our hotels, combatting plastics waste. cruise ships, airlines, destinations and offices. Installing water fountains for refilling reusable polycarbonate glasses or This approach aligns with broader trends: in 2018 the European Parliapaper cups helped the Atlantica Hotel Sancta Napa in Cyprus reduce use ment voted for a blanket ban on a range of single-use plastics including of single-­use plastic bottles. Customers can buy a reusable plastic bottle, plastic straws, drink stirrers, plates, cutlery, cotton buds and balloon with 20 % of the cost donated to charity. sticks, with proposed reductions for other plastic items such as food packaging and drink containers. This is expected to come into effect by 2021 On the Maldives our two Robinson Clubs produce their drinking water by but TUI is acting now. desalination of salt water. Soda water is created by adding minerals and carbonic acid. The soda water is decanted into glass bottles which are In 2018, TUI established a Group-wide plastic waste reduction workstream cleaned locally, eliminating transport and disposal of around 800,000 plastic covering our airlines, cruise operations, hotels, destinations and markets. bottles annually. The aim is to accelerate progress by identifying, monitoring and reducing plastic waste and sharing best practice. Here are some highlights to date. Since 2016, TUI Sensatori Barut Fethiye in Turkey has reduced 4,450 kg of plastic waste, thanks to a comprehensive plastic reduction strategy. * OECD *** World Economic Forum Guests and staff are part of the effort. The hotel won a 2018 Travelife 42 ** UNEP **** The Ellen MacArthur Foundation Waste Champions Award in the plastic waste management category. WELCOME D E S T I N AT I O N S OUR APPROACH The TUI Clean & Green programme is a TUI Care Foundation initiative targeting waste in coastal areas through technical advice, training, capacity-­ S T E P L I G H T LY building and awareness-raising to help change behaviours. MAKE A DIFFERENCE 31 Strategy progress A new programme is being initiated on Cyprus, TUI Care Foundation is partnering with The Travel Foundation to help hotels, bars and restaurants 33 Hotels reduce single-use plastics by 70 % in Ayia Napa. In Curaçao, over 2,000 38 Destinations schoolchildren and teachers will be educated about plastic waste. 42 Reducing plastic waste 45 Customers P R A C T I C E W H AT W E P R E A C H Across our activities we are replacing single-use plastics where possible. For example, at the 2018 TUI Destination Experiences Leadership Conference, over 550 colleagues were gifted with a TUI-branded reusable stainL E A D T H E W AY less steel bottles to use at five refill stations, avoiding over 5,000 plastic CARE MORE bottles. Across our Destination Experiences division we rolled out a camG L O B A L C O M PA C T paign to engage colleagues in offices around the world to reduce plastics. Key measures include: installation of osmosis water filters; provision of From 2018 the Riu hotels in Spain, Portugal and Cape Verde have offered reusable water bottles; use of bamboo cups; awareness-raising sessions, guests compostable straws. Riu, TUI Group’s largest hotel brand, will additional recycling bins at onsite cafés, options for reusable take-away make incorporate the straws into its hotels in the Americas in 2019. TUI Blue, TUI Magic Life and Robinson also offer environmentally sound alternatives cups and containers; and preference for catering companies that do not use single-use plastic. a difference to single-use plastic straws. CRUISE By the end of 2020, TUI Cruises aims to eliminate all unnecessary plastic products and disposables and replace with renewable and natural raw materials. More info on p27. Watch our animation here (German) and video here (German) A plastic straw ban on all Marella Cruises ships keeps 1.8 m straws per year out of the waste stream. Other measures include removing cocktail stirrers, using cardboard packaging for grab-and-go foods and replacing individual plastic shampoo bottles with wall-mounted bathroom dispensers. AIRLINES We replaced single-use plastic stirrers with wooden alternatives on our airlines which will save 12 m pieces of plastic per year. Other initiatives include reducing the plastic cable length on headsets and eliminating plastic packaging for blankets. Since summer 2018, TUI fly Germany no longer 43 provides plastic straws or plastic bags for in-flight duty-free purchases. WELCOME BY 2020 OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE 140 m 250 m 31 Strategy progress 33 Hotels 38 Destinations 42 Reducing plastic waste PIECE S OF SINGLE-USE PL A STIC 45 Customers REMOVED FROM OUR OPER ATIONS WE AIM TO INCRE A SE THIS TO L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T make a difference HOTEL S CRUISE AVIATION OFFICE S DE STINATIONS 112 M WASTELESS 12 M FIRSTE VER TUI Care Foundation PL A STIC REDUC TION SINGLE USE PLASTIC PLASTIC REDUCTION PLASTIC STIRRERS SINGLE USE ITEMS removed across PROGRAM launched by replaced with wooden PL A STIC S FREE PROJEC T IN C YPRUS TUI’s hotels TUI Cruises alternatives TE AM CONFERENCE 2,000 60 % 13 M PLASTIC BAGS AWARENESS CHILDREN AND OF TUI’S HOTELS PLASTIC ITEMS for duty free items CAMPAIGN TEACHERS will be have removed or removed including sauce and BL ANKE T to engage colleagues ­educated on plastic replaced plastic straws sachets and toiletries PACK AGING removed and customers waste Launch of NO STRAWS POLICY REDUCTION IN 5 TUI tours aligned to TUI’S PLASTIC on all TUI Cruises and PLASTIC CABLE OF TUI’S OFFICES PLASTIC FREE REDUCTION GUIDEMarella Cruises ships LENGTH became single-use STRATEGY 44 LINES for Hotels on headphones plastic-free WELCOME OUR APPROACH Customers GIVING BACK IS BIG IN UK Nearly 50 % of UK holidaymakers say ‘giving back’ to a holiday destination is important to them, according to a survey by the research company S T E P L I G H T LY Opinion Matters commissioned by TUI UK & Ireland in 2018. MAKE A DIFFERENCE 31 Strategy progress Commitment by 2020 The issues most likely to attract support from British tourists are eliminating hunger (27 %), animal welfare (26 %), cultural heritage conservation 33 Hotels We will help customers to create positive change (22 %), education and lifelong learning opportunities (18 %). 38 Destinations 42 Reducing plastic waste UK holidaymakers agree travel companies’ commitment to support local 45 Customers Around the world people increasingly expect sustainability to be a primary communities impacts their booking decisions, according to the survey. ingredient in their travel and tourism experiences. ‘Responsible tourism’ is becoming intertwined with mainstream holidaymaking rather than a ‘nice Engagement with local culture and people is particularly important to to have’ or niche travel concept. Consumer research conducted by TUI holidaymakers, with some 62 % of UK holidaymakers agreeing it makes L E A D T H E W AY Group shows growing customer demand for holiday companies to manage them feel better when they know their holiday was organised with respect CARE MORE their sustainability impacts and to provide more sustainable holiday prodfor nature and the local community. For 82 %, that means sampling local G L O B A L C O M PA C T ucts. Over half (53 %) of the holidaymakers we surveyed in 2017 have a cuisine, 68 % mentioned shopping for souvenirs and 48 % highlighted better image of holiday companies that actively invest in environmental visiting local markets and neighbourhoods. Taking a tour with a local guide and social initiatives (39 % in 2012). Some 68 % are prepared to make was valued by half of those surveyed. lifestyle changes to benefit the environment (60 % in 2012). Regional make surveys we conducted in 2018 and early 2019 further highlight the importance of sustainable tourism to holidaymakers. “It’s great news that British holidaymakers are increasingly more concerned about the welfare of the places they visit,” said Xavier Font, Professor of a difference Sustainability Marketing at the University of Surrey, UK , who helped N O R D I C T R AV E L L E R S G O I N G G R E E N develop the study. “On an individual level, the notion of ‘giving back’ is A survey* of travel preferences among our Nordic customers showed becoming the norm and people want to engage with local cultures on strong willingness to change current travel behaviour to adapt to sustainholiday. There’s also a very clear message for the travel industry with the ability priorities. majority of TUI customers expecting the companies they book with to demonstrate care and responsibility towards the destinations they operate • 95 % of customers think taking sustainability measures is important. in to show how they ‘give back’ too.” • More than half say it is equally important to engage in sustainability measures on holiday as well as at home. E N V I R O N M E N TA L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y • 32 % said they will change their travel based on sustainability concerns The regional survey findings dovetail with our Group research, which in in the next two years. Key actions travellers said they were prepared to 2017 showed that 57 % of travellers would book more environmentally take less luggage, eat less meat, and choose sustainably-managed hotels. responsible holidays if they were more readily available (compared to • The survey showed travel brands face high expectations in several 40 % in 2012). This aligns with our Better Holidays, Better World strategy areas, particularly safeguarding human and animal rights and ensuring and spurs on efforts to communicate proactively with customers on local people benefit from tourism. sustainability throughout the holiday journey. * S urvey of TUI customers and consumers in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, and Finland in Read the full findings from the 2017 survey here. January 2019 with 6,394 respondents. 45 WELCOME Sustainability is core to our brand and a core part of our commitment to OUR APPROACH customers. Our customers increasingly want more sustainable holidays – World responsible tourism award winner and our aim is to demonstrate that a holiday with a positive impact on the S T E P L I G H T LY environment, local communities and cultures is an altogether better holiday MAKE A DIFFERENCE experience. 31 Strategy progress GE T TING THE WORD OUT 33 Hotels We are working hard to communicate with our customers on sustainability. 38 Destinations The oneBrand campaign in 2017 brought our major European tour operator 42 Reducing plastic waste brands under one TUI umbrella. In 2018, we rolled out ‘Marketing Guide45 Customers lines for Sustainability’ to further embed sustainability storytelling and experiences into our brand. TUI UK & Ireland piloted the guidelines and their work was recognised at the World Responsible Tourism Awards. L E A D T H E W AY One way we’re getting the word out is by highlighting ‘greener and fairer’ CARE MORE hotels (properties with independent sustainability certifications), using an G L O B A L C O M PA C T icon in brochures and online, as well as enabling consumers to filter for these hotels. In 2018, we published hotel sustainability stories on our websites and brochures to inform our customers and used social media TUI UK and Ireland’s commitment to sustainable tourism was and blogs to tell our sustainability story. Customers in the UK , Germany, recognised at the World Responsible Tourism Awards in Novemmake Belgium and the Netherlands can all choose to donate to the TUI Care Foundation when booking their holiday. ber 2018, as the company won the gold award in the Best for Communicating Responsible Tourism category. a difference The accolade acknowledges a communications campaign devised and delivered by TUI UK and Ireland’s sustainability and marketing teams to raise consumer awareness and promote better understanding and advocacy for responsible tourism issues. The ‘Better Holidays, Better World’ campaign ran across all TUI Learn more Read about sustainability UK-owned marketing channels over the last year, reaching 4.5 m on our TUI holiday webholidaymakers, and created a framework for ongoing communicasites tions, which is now also being used in TUI ’s other main European markets. Germany UK The judges said, “ TUI UK & Ireland have given the same marketing Netherlands weight to TUI ’s ‘Better Holidays, Better World’ as their other five Belgium key messages. They have embedded better business’ storytelling and experiences into the core brand and by doing so, have put Nordics responsible tourism at the heart of their offer.” View our customer-facing video on sustain­ ability across the holiday journey here. More information 46 WELCOME To ensure smooth transfers for customers with limited mobility, particularly OUR APPROACH those needing a wheelchair-accessible vehicle, a new transfers process has S T E P L I G H T LY 15 % of worldwide population been implemented which allows contact centre agents in all source markets to have instant visibility of the vehicles available in each destination. MAKE A DIFFERENCE (1 billion people) lives with some form 31 Strategy progress of disability. Expected to reach 1.2 billion by 2020 Across our cruise operations, we offer special cabins with a wider entrance as well as more space. Almost all areas of the ships are step-free and accessible 33 Hotels by elevator. TUI Cruises website shares extensive information on accessibil38 Destinations Source: A madeus Report. Voyage of Discovery, working towards inclusive and accessible ity. Our airlines provide onboard assistance, free transportation of mobility 42 Reducing plastic waste travel for all. (2017) equipment and use of an onboard wheelchair, among other services. 45 Customers One example of our specialised customer accessibility support is the dediACCE SS FOR ALL cated team at TUI Germany (in place since 1981), which organises arrivals Travel should be enjoyed by all. We want to provide as many people as and departures, accommodation, transfers and excursions for customers L E A D T H E W AY possible with accessible holidays. We are constantly innovating to develop with reduced mobility. CARE MORE new products and processes that make travel easier and more comfortable G L O B A L C O M PA C T for everyone. More broadly, we are also engaging with the wider travel industry to advance access for the mobility-limited, including speaking at seminars In 2018, we took measures to provide clearer information to our customers and conferences to share our approach. about accessibility. We invited hotel partners to complete a 70-point survey to make provide specific accessibility information, which is shared with holidaymakers to inform their choices. We continue to explore ways to include more ina difference formation on the website, to enable informed customer decisions. We also DISABILIT Y SNOWSPORTS UK undertake accessibility training – for instance, Paralympian athlete Pippa Crystal Ski, our ski holiday specialist business, has supported Britton delivered a disability awareness session for our TUI UK colleagues. Disability Snowsport UK (DSUK ) since 2009. DSUK is the UK’s leading charity providing access to adaptive skiing and snowboarding for people with disabilities. Crystal has raised over £ 240,000 for the charity through numerous events, including annual Santa Runs, taking part in the annual National Skiathon as well as organised events overseas in resorts by our teams. The DSUK activity weeks, available throughout winter, provide a great opportunity for disabled skiers who are looking for a group skiing holiday. Every year 30 TUI and Crystal colleagues are ­encouraged to volunteer as helpers, offering their time and skills during the whole week and ensuring skiers get the most of their holiday. 47 WELCOME OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY 49 Strategy progress 51 Innovation 53 Educating the next ­generation 54 TUI Care Foundation CARE MORE G L O B A L C O M PA C T lead the way Pioneering sustainable tourism across the world As the world’s leading tourism business, TUI Group has a valuable opportunity and unique responsibility within our industry to encourage uptake of sustainable tourism. Our scale gives us the resources, reach and credibility to strengthen the positive impacts travel and tourism can have. 48 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Pioneering sustainable tourism S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE AMBITION BY 2020 7.8 M L E A D T H E W AY 49 Strategy progress € We will invest € 10 million per year by 51 Innovation 53 Educating the next ­generation 2020, to support good causes and 54 TUI Care Foundation enhance the positive impacts of tourCARE MORE Invested to enhance the positive ism, using the TUI Care Foundation ­impacts of tourism G L O B A L C O M PA C T to support this work. >30 We will measure this by the amount invested in charity, projects, and initiatives as well as lead memberships that support good causes and enhance the positive impacts of tourism. the way PRO G R E S S I N 2018 Our businesses, colleagues and customers raised € 7.8 million to support good causes and enhance the positive impacts of tourism. TUI Care Foundation projects active in 25 destinations 3,280 TUI ’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGS Solar panels installed at Robinson Club Apulia in Italy – one of the largest hotel solar systems in Europe 49 WELCOME HOW WE ARE DOING AGAINST OUR 2020 COMMITMENTS OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY 49 Strategy progress 51 Innovation 53 Educating the next ­generation 54 TUI Care Foundation We will improve our understanding of We will collaborate on initiatives to We will invest in protecting the natural the impacts of holidays scale up sustainable aviation fuels environment TUI Care Foundation partnered with the Travel In February 2018, we took delivery of the first By 2020, TUI Care Foundation aims to protect Foundation on a pilot project in Jamaica to 737 MAX aircraft for our Nordic airline on a the welfare of over 1 million animals and parCARE MORE understand how to increase the impact of 30 % blend of sustainable aviation fuel resultticipate in projects to save resources. Project G L O B A L C O M PA C T tourist spend in the Montego Bay area. Project ing in one of the most carbon-efficient flights examples: protecting marine turtles and helpactivities included the development of a pocket achieved by that aircraft type. We continued ing to build turtle friendly environments in map ‘insider guide’ and its distribution to to play a key role in organisations such as the holiday destinations (Worldwide); protecting 40,000 tourists, 138 front-line hotel staff and Bioport Holland initiative and Sustainable elephants in the wild (Kenya) and improving lead tourist police trained and equipped with ‘Warm Welcome’ ambassador packs and 200 Aviation Fuels User Group. More info on p22. the welfare of elephants kept in captivity for tourism entertainment (Thailand); and the way craft traders trained on business skills. AnalyWe will invest in empowering young people working with hotels to reduce use of natural sis from the Harbour Street Craft Market area By 2020, TUI Care Foundation aims to improve resources (Cape Verde). More info on p56. showed that tourist footfall had more than the life chances of over 100,000 children and doubled and tourist spend increased by 50 % youth. Project examples: protecting youngWe will invest in projects that support since the start of the project. sters from exploitation by building their life thriving communities skills and providing vocational training in tourBy 2020, TUI Care Foundation aims to help Our airlines, cruise operations and ism (Dominican Republic); opening up new enhance 10,000 local livelihoods in destinahotels will deploy new technologies and perspectives for youth through the establishtions through tourism. Project examples: crepractices ment of a social enterprise training restaurant ating new opportunities for wine and olive TUI Cruise’s new build ships use the latest (Vietnam); and safeguarding a sustainable fufarmers on Crete to offer their produce and closed-loop technology, so that waste wash ture for the next generation by educating local experiences to holidaymakers (Greece); supwater disposal only occurs onshore (p24). Our children (Mexico). More info on p55. porting women to develop food-related busihotels also continued to invest in innovative nesses for tourists in the traditional areas of technology. Robinson Club Apulia, for example, Malaga (Spain); and connecting local farmers installed one of the largest hotel solar panel with holiday destination supply chains in Ansystems in Europe, and Robinson Club Jandia dalucía (Spain). More info on p57. in Fuerteventura was the first international On target hotel to achieve platinum certification by the More focus needed German Sustainable Business Council. Behind target 50 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Innovation F I R S T P L AT I N U M C E R T I F I C AT E In January 2019, Robinson Club Jandia Playa became the first international hotel outside of Germany to earn the German Sustainable Business S T E P L I G H T LY Council (DGNB) platinum certification. The new building of the Robinson MAKE A DIFFERENCE Club on Fuerteventura in Spain’s Canary Islands incorporates state-ofL E A D T H E W AY Commitment by 2020 the-art standards and is a prime example of sustainable construction in tourism, achieving a DGNB total performance index of 82.5 %, the third 49 Strategy progress We will innovate for a more sustainable future for tourism, highest ranking among hotels worldwide. The DGNB system considers all 51 Innovation and share our findings with the industry aspects of sustainable construction: ecology, economy, socio-cultural and 53 Educating the next functional aspects, technology, processes and location. The criteria also ­generation include lifecycle assessments and link each criterion to the UN SDGs. 54 TUI Care Foundation HERE COMES THE SUN Sunshine is a must-have holiday ingredient for many tourists, but harnessing the sun’s power as a source of energy for hotels is also increasingly important. Many TUI hotels have already switched to generating their own CARE MORE renewable energy from solar and photovoltaic systems. Robinson Club G L O B A L C O M PA C T Apulia in southern Italy launched one of Europe’s largest solar panel systems for hotels in summer 2018. The installation of 3,280 solar panels covers a total area of 5,500 square metres – three quarters of a football pitch. The system generates 1,438 megawatt hours of electricity per lead year, the average power requirement for approximately 450 private households in Germany. Some 71 % of the power generated is used to the way meet the hotel’s needs, with the remainder fed into the local power grid. The Robinson Club Agadir in Morocco, situated on a long sandy beach, has installed the largest solar system operated by a hotel in Morocco. The power generated is used to produce hot water and heat the pool landscape. TUI also uses solar power in its Italian resort in Castelfalfi in Tuscany. The solar power system on the 1,100 hectare-estate generates energy for the holiday properties outside the village centre. The new building features sustainable technologies such as a thermal ceiling system to provide silent, non-draught cooling or heating for rooms and insulated window glazing creates a balance between light transmission and sun protection – also preventing heat loss in winter. A hydrothermal system based on high-performance water-source heat pumps, ensures the combined generation of hot water with a temperature of up to 90 degrees, and sufficient residual cold, to cover the cooling requirements for the kitchen, cooling chambers and rooms. These measures and others contribute to significant savings compared to standard consumption, for example 45 % less water consumption, 69 % 51 less waste water and 27 % less energy for room air conditioning. WELCOME on a small scale in Egypt to prove the concepts. For example, an integrated OUR APPROACH training system for upper and middle management in hard and soft skills, with a mentoring program that transforms experienced managers S T E P L I G H T LY in their last years of their professional career into mentors for trainees. MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY More information here 49 Strategy progress 51 Innovation 53 Educating the next H A C K T H AT H O L I D AY ­generation Hacking is creative problem-solving and hackathons often focus on 54 TUI Care Foundation collaborative computer programming – but they don’t have to involve technology. At multi-day hackathon events in Belgium and Sweden, TUI turned innovators’ minds to sustainable tourism; at Hack Belgium a group of people examined how sustainability can contribute to better CARE MORE holiday experiences and how holiday experiences can contribute to G L O B A L C O M PA C T more sustainable destinations. As a result, several ideas generated around digitalization are being considered over the next year. P OOLING RE SOURCE S FOR YOU TH UNE MPLOY ME NT Lack of skilled personnel, limited vocational training opportunities and In Stockholm, sustainability was one of three core areas in a two-day lead low participation of women in the labour force pose real obstacles for Egypt’s tourism industry. Through the lab of tomorrow – an initiative of fun internal #Innovation hackathon involving 80 participants from cross-functional teams applying a test & learn mentality and innovating the way German development organisation GIZ – TUI is tackling these challenges together. With the aim of delivering customer value sustainably while with the support of the TUI Care Foundation and Jaz Hotel Group (our growing the business, a multitude of ideas emerged with year 2050 in joint venture partner in Egypt). mind to trigger the creative spirit of participants. Three category winners are developing their ideas with a professional development coach, with The lab of tomorrow is designed to inspire companies large and small to the ambition for these to become future TUI-products, creating a more use their creativity to solve specific problems through collaboration. Curdigital TUI customer experience. rently, seven of these labs are successfully functioning around the world. TUI and GIZ joined a range of local stakeholders over three days in February 2018 at the TUI Magic Life Resort Kalawy in Egypt to pool their resources and develop a sustainable business-driven strategy aimed at creating better opportunities for young people in the Egyptian tourism industry. Local representatives included training companies and consultancies, hotel and tourism schools, IT companies, social entrepreneurs, and regional governments. During 2018 public and private partners examined ways to develop hotel management skills and improve technical and vocational education for young people in the tourism sector to improve quality standards. New 52 business models were then researched, co-created and are being piloted WELCOME OUR APPROACH Educating the next S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE generation L E A D T H E W AY 49 Strategy progress The next generation will play a crucial role in shaping the 51 Innovation future of sustainable tourism. To empower them as change 53 Educating the next ­generation agents, we work with young people and tourism students at 54 TUI Care Foundation schools, colleges and universities to raise awareness about sustainable tourism. E M P O W E R I N G C H A N G E A G E N T S AT U N I V E R S I T I E S CARE MORE Across Europe, we support learning institutions and students by sharing G L O B A L C O M PA C T expertise on sustainable tourism topics, offering internships and recognising excellence. In 2018 this included guest lectures at institutions across the UK , in Belgium, in the Netherlands and the Nordics. In July 2018, the University of Bedfordshire in the UK awarded Jane Ashton, TUI Group’s Director lead of Sustainability, an Honorary Doctor of Science for her outstanding contribution to sustainable tourism. 60,0 0 0 PUPIL S BECOME BE T TER WORLD DE TEC TIVES the way Since 2016, over 60,000 pupils in the UK have benefited from TUI UK’s TUI Netherlands presents a Sustainable Tourism Thesis award to the best Better World Detectives sustainable tourism education programme. Master’s thesis from a selection of universities across the Netherlands and Developed in partnership with the Geographical Association and closely Belgium. The 2018 winner was from Breda university of Applied Sciences aligned with the UK national curriculum, the programme engages pupils for her thesis contributing to the European Smart City Hospitality project. aged 7 to 11 around sustainability and responsible tourism topics. TUI Austria’s 2018 ‘ TUI Sustainability award for scientific research’ was granted to a student from Salzburg University of Applied Sciences for a Created in partnership with teachers, free, ready-to-use teaching resources climate-related research project. and cross-curricular lesson plans are made available. These include multi-­ sensory resources like video content, Skype calls and WhatsApp messages TUI UK & Ireland has partnered with Hertfordshire University in the UK to alongside traditional worksheets to tap into different curriculum learning develop a Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship. The programme objectives on how to live and travel sustainably. Students gain knowledge started in September 2018 with 18 apprentices. Candidates will work fullabout sustainability and are actively encouraged to consider how they can time for TUI in a variety of roles while completing a tailor-made degree help protect the environment. that includes sustainable tourism. Lesson topics range from plastics, carbon and energy to local sourcing, over-tourism, and health and wellbeing. In 2018, existing primary school resources were updated and improved, and brand-new secondary school resources were added to the portfolio. 53 More information here WELCOME OUR APPROACH TUI Care Foundation Helen Caron joins TUI Care Foundation Board S T E P L I G H T LY of Trustees MAKE A DIFFERENCE The TUI Care Foundation exemplifies our mission to L E A D T H E W AY ‘Lead the way’ by supporting good causes and enhancing 49 Strategy progress the ­positive impacts of tourism. 51 Innovation HELEN C ARON 53 Educating the next TUI Care Foundation, an independent charitable foundation with a majorGroup Purchasing Director ­generation ity of non-TUI trustees, has been in operation as our Group corporate 54 TUI Care Foundation foundation since 2016. The Foundation builds on the potential of tourism as a force for good by supporting and initiating partnerships and projects Why are you involved with the TUI Care Foundation? that contribute to thriving destinations worldwide and creating new opporI’ve seen first-hand the difference sustainable tourism can bring to tunities for younger generations. a destination when I visited Zambia ten years ago on one of TUI ’s CARE MORE very early sustainable tourism projects. The trip left a lasting imG L O B A L C O M PA C T The Foundation’s strategic plan, ‘Caring for a Better World’ sets out ambipression on me as I saw the positive impact we can make in local tions and objectives for 2017 – 2020, around three fields of engagement, communities. It’s a great privilege to be asked to sit on the Board of aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (p10). trustees for TUI Care Foundation and I’m looking forward to being more involved, getting closer to the detail and helping support the lead More information here great projects it undertakes. the way How can holidaymakers contribute to the TUI Care Foundation? Our customers have an opportunity to support the foundation and learn more about the projects during their holiday, for example through many of our TUI excursions and fundraising activities in resort, on cruise ships and onboard our aircraft. We are so grateful for all the generous donations from our customers and would E MPOWE R IN G P ROTEC TING THE THRIVING YO UN G PEO PLE NATU RAL COMMU NITIES ask them to please continue supporting the work of the TUI Care ENVIRONMENT Foundation so we can keep making a positive difference. What experience do you bring to the Foundation’s work? Read more about these fields of engagement, programmes and projects in I’ve worked for TUI for over 18 years and as Group Purchasing the following pages. Director I work with hoteliers, partners and tourist boards very closely. I hope to bring my understanding of destinations and hotelIn 2018, TUI Care Foundation was running 30 projects in 25 destinations. iers to the table, to help support the TUI Care Foundation and its projects. I’m looking forward to taking an active role, using my Visit the TUI Care Foundation website here experience and knowledge of TUI and the travel industry to help continue raising funds, to ensure there is a good pipeline of projects. The charitable foundation values transparency and the efficient use of funds. Therefore 100 % of donations go to destination programmes with 54 all administration costs of the foundation covered by TUI. WELCOME Empowering young people In Mexico, TUI Care Foundation partners with the NGO Rainforest Alliance OUR APPROACH to teach the next generation about the importance of sustainability. A AMBITION teacher training programme to build expertise in sustainable tourism and S T E P L I G H T LY environmental issues started to train community teachers, benefiting over MAKE A DIFFERENCE We will improve the life chances of over 100,000 2,500 school children in 2018. L E A D T H E W AY children and youth by 2020. In Mexico (Cancun) and Thailand (Phuket), DCI-ECPAT and TUI Care Foun49 Strategy progress Disadvantaged children and youth living in or around our holiday destidation have initiated multi-stakeholder taskforces projects to improve the 51 Innovation nations and in countries where TUI operates have a right to safe living protection of children from commercial sexual exploitation in the tourism 53 Educating the next environments and access to education and job opportunities. To help industry, in collaboration with private tourism businesses, NGOs, local com­generation empower them to reach their full potential, we invest in education and life munities and governments. The project also empowers children and adoles54 TUI Care Foundation skills for young people. cents in the local communities to speak out and act as agents of change. PROGR AMME AND PROJEC T E X AMPLES TUI FUTURE FUND works with pre-selected partners to provide rapid TUI ACADEMY creates new opportunities for disadvantaged youth living in h­ umanitarian response and emergency relief for children and youth in CARE MORE and around holiday destinations by means of professional education and need when a disaster strikes. In 2018 the TUI Care Foundation established G L O B A L C O M PA C T training. Our objective is to empower 10,000 youngsters through vocaa four-year partnership with UNICEF to support UNICEF ’s emergency relief tional training, life skills, teaching work placements and online courses. and education program for the most vulnerable children and their families in holiday destinations. In partnership with Plan International, the TUI Care Foundation focuses lead on female empowerment and skills development for youth in local communities in the Dominican Republic. In 2018, the second TUI Academy In South Africa, the Foundation also supports UNICEF in providing vocational education in technology and guidance in life skills to disadvantaged the way group started, providing 60 new students, of which approximately 80 % teenage girls. This includes a new classroom-based coaching programme are young women, a training programme ranging from kitchen assistant, that aims to reach 5,000 girls, addressing their performance in science, bartender to hotel receptionist. New life and vocational skills, plus a technology, engineering and maths (STEM). 3-month internship, help protect the youth from commercial sexual ­exploitation, and will kick-off their careers in the tourism sector. From the first group of 45 graduates, 26 entered into employment in 2018 in one of the hotels of Blue Diamond Resorts or Riu. In 2018 the TUI Academy programme was launched together with Plan International in Hue, Vietnam offering disadvantaged youth career opportunities. The project provides 350 young people with vocational training and / or loan support for setting up a business, of which 180 youth will take part in hospitality training in a social enterprise training restaurant called TRE (bamboo) which has opened its doors in July 2018 in Hue city. TUI JUNIOR ACADEMY gives children better opportunities in life by getting involved in important sustainability issues such as biodiversity, climate change, animal welfare, waste management and human rights. Our objective is for 100,000 children to benefit from these enrichment opportunities. In Vietnam, youth receive practical training in food, beverages, sales and marketing 55 as part of the TUI AC ADEMY project. WELCOME Protecting the natural environment OUR APPROACH AMBITION S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE By 2020, we will protect the welfare of over L E A D T H E W AY 1 million animals and participate in projects to 49 Strategy progress save resources. 51 Innovation Biodiverse destinations are important for tourism and play a vital role for 53 Educating the next ecosystems, in community livelihoods and as cultural icons. Unfortunately, ­generation elephants and marine species are among those most threatened by people, 54 TUI Care Foundation unsustainable development and climate change. After the 2018 Cape Verde turtle hatching season, Project Biodiversity Tourism can put pressure on waste, water and energy in destination counregistered 15,000 new hatchings on Sal – four times as many as in 2016 – tries so efficient use of natural resources helps to safeguard holiday destiand BIOS.CV on Boa Vista registered 14,600 nests – three times as many CARE MORE nations. TUI Care Foundation supports sustainable management of waste, as in 2017. G L O B A L C O M PA C T water and energy by participating in resource-saving destination projects. TUI ELEPHANT AID exists to safeguard elephant populations in Africa and PROGR AMME AND PROJEC T E X AMPLES Asia. The programme contributes to protecting elephants in the wild and TUI TURTLE AID supports protection projects to safeguard turtle nesting improving the welfare of elephants kept in captivity for tourism entertainlead areas and protect newly born turtles. We work with partners to create awareness among holidaymakers, children and coastal communities about ment. The objective is to protect 15,000 elephants. the way turtle protection and the need for climate change adaptation. Our objective In Thailand, TUI Care Foundation is working with World Animal Protection is to protect 1 million turtles by 2020. to improve conditions for Asian elephants in captivity. In Kenya, the Foundation is collaborating with the International Fund for Animal Welfare to Our partners include local organisations such as Project Biodiversity and combat poaching and human-elephant conflict. Through an innovative BIOS.CV on the Cape Verdean islands of Sal and Boa Vista, Archelon in wildlife security strategy called ‘tenBoma,’ government and community Greece and DEKAMER in Turkey. rangers are trained to better predict threats and protect both elephants and communities in the Tsavo Conservation Area. TUI CLEAN & GREEN prioritises environmental initiatives that raise awareness amongst holidaymakers, the tourism industry and local communities by tackling food waste, plastic recycling and the circular economy. In Cape Verde, TUI Care Foundation worked with the Travel Foundation and local organisations to reduce the environmental impact of solid waste generation while maximising associated livelihoods opportunities. Some 20 hotels on the islands of Sal and Boa Vista have changed practices to reduce their water and energy use and waste. As a result, energy consumption has fallen by 17 % and water consumption by 16 %. The hotels also reduced food waste – the biggest contributor to the hotel waste 56 stream – by 22 % of total volume of waste produced. WELCOME Thriving communities OUR APPROACH AMBITION S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE We will help enhance 10,000 local livelihoods in L E A D T H E W AY destinations through tourism by 2020. 49 Strategy progress Tourism can play a vital role in enhancing livelihoods in destinations 51 Innovation through the economic benefits it brings. To do so, local populations and 53 Educating the next locally sourced, responsible products and services need greater access to ­generation the tourism industry and holidaymakers. 54 TUI Care Foundation PROGR AMME AND PROJEC T E X AMPLES Two projects were launched in 2018 in Spain. The first is a culinary experiTUI CARES ensures that local communities benefit from tourism. It focuses ence involving women in the traditional corralones (semi-roofed shelters) on professional education, business skills training, financial support for of Malaga. Around 70 underprivileged women are being supported to deCARE MORE enterprise development and employment creation for people living in and velop food-related businesses for tourists, including cookery workshops, G L O B A L C O M PA C T around holiday destinations. The objective is to drive local sourcing, create trips to markets and guided tours. The aim is to empower local businesscultural experiences for holidaymakers and enhance entrepreneurship women by using cooking as a means for tourists to experience the city’s opportunities. rich cultural heritage. lead In Crete, the Foundation is helping some 200 smallholder farmers to protect their livelihoods and preserve their sustainable agriculture methods The second, in Andalucía, is a collaboration with Association AlVelAl to connect local farmers with holiday destination supply chains. Some 130 the way by enabling direct access to the tourist market so they can sell their wines farmers and 60 chefs will receive direct training and technical support, and olive oils. applying regenerative food production practices and diversified and organic farming methods to help raise incomes. The aim is for 2,150 people working on farms, in hotels or restaurants, to benefit from the programme, with the ultimate goal of boosting standards of living for local farmers and their families, and creating new horizons for future generations. As well as securing rural livelihoods, this holistic approach also fosters land restoration and promotes Andalucía as a travel destination. Learn more In 2018, holidaymakers were able to experience a variety of sustainable wines from the Crete 57 project at their hotels. WELCOME OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE 59 Strategy progress 61 Engagement 64 Diversity 66 People development 68 Empowering colleagues 69 Security, Health & Safety G L O B A L C O M PA C T care more Building the best place to work TUI employees are the ambassadors of our strategy, so we want our company to be the best place to work and our people to be passionate about what they do. That’s why a key goal of ‘Care More,’ the fourth pillar of our Better Holidays, Better World strategy, is to reach a colleague engagement score of more than 80 by 2020. 58 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Building the best place to work S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE AMBITION BY 2020 76 L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE We will achieve a colleague engagement score of over 80 – aligning 59 Strategy progress 61 Engagement 64 Diversity 66 People development 68 Empowering colleagues us with the top 25 global companies – 69 Security, Health & Safety Building the best place to work with a by 2020 colleague engagement score of 76 34 % G L O B A L C O M PA C T PRO G R E S S I N 2018 In 2018 the TUIgether employee engagement score was 76 points, in line with our target to achieve a score of 80 or more by 2020. care more Of managerial positions are held by women 14 % TUI ’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGS Of eligible colleagues participated in our employee share programme in 2018 59 WELCOME HOW WE ARE DOING AGAINST OUR 2020 COMMITMENTS OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE 59 Strategy progress 61 Engagement 64 Diversity 66 People development Align our employee engagement score Create a leadership team reflective of Our colleagues will be ambassadors 68 Empowering colleagues with high performers the diverse nature of our business of sustainability Following on from three annual cycles of our In 2018, the proportion of women in leaderSustainability champion networks were re-es69 Security, Health & Safety full employee survey, a more condensed version ship positions increased slightly to 34.4 % from tablished in several of our markets, such as of the survey was conducted in 2018 called 34.1 %, the proportion of women overall was Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. DurTUIgether Pulse. In total 75 % of employees 56 %. The largest group of employees is being 2018, our markets rolled out a campaign to G L O B A L C O M PA C T participated and the engagement index retween the ages of 21 and 30 and 15.5 % are raise awareness of and support for the TUI mained relatively stable at 76 (one percentage over 50 years of age. Care Foundation. The ‘TUI Care Foundation point lower than 2017). The score of 76 is 2 month’ campaign saw high participation levels care percentage points above our research institute’s global standard. The overall value for the Roll out people development opportunities and a total of 95,000 euros raised. Colleagues in our Destination Experiences division organmore VIBE leadership model remained stable at 72 Through the Global 360 programme, TUI proised their 5th annual beach clean campaign – (73 in 2017). motes international careers within the organiwith 52 beach cleans completed. sation and increases employee mobility. Participants gain international work experience and get to know other parts of TUI Group. The Global 360 Team offers comprehensive support to participants moving onto a career step abroad. On target More focus needed Behind target 60 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Engagement Personnel by segment 30 Sep 2018 30 Sep 2017 Var. % S T E P L I G H T LY restated MAKE A DIFFERENCE BUILDING BE T TER WORKPL ACE S Hotels & Resorts 27,643 26,313 5.1 L E A D T H E W AY In tourism, direct contact between employees and travellers plays an imCruises* 328 316 3.8 CARE MORE portant role. This applies in particular to TUI. Our people make TUI the Destination Experiences 8,469 5,412 56.5 number one tourism business. Our success depends on their satisfaction, Holiday Experiences 36,440 32,041 13.7 59 Strategy progress engagement and personal development. That’s why we aspire to be a great Northern Region 12,513 14,196 – 11.9 61 Engagement employer whose people are passionate about what they do. This imporCentral Region 10,389 10,276 1.1 64 Diversity tance increases with digitalization. We understand digitalization as a techniWestern Region 6,595 6,523 1.1 66 People development cal, cultural and organizational process, and challenge. Our employees are Markets 29,497 30,995 – 4.8 68 Empowering colleagues an essential success factor, to successfully shape the future. That’s why we All other segments 3,609 3,541 1.9 rethink work: individual, digital, modern. TUI Group 69,546 66,577 4.5 69 Security, Health & Safety We are convinced that from the satisfaction of our employees much grows. * E xcludes TUI Cruises (JV ) employees. We track employee satisfaction through the engagement score in our Cruises employees are primarily hired by external crew management agencies. G L O B A L C O M PA C T annual employee survey TUIgether. In 2018 that score was 76, in line with our target to achieve a score of 80 or more by 2020. Most of our employees (79 %) work in Europe. In the UK , headcount care TUIGETHER TUI Group has conducted an employee survey for the past three years dropped to 17 % due to an organisational change in Destination Experiences. Around 15 % of the overall workforce were employed in Germany, more together with an independent market research institute. This survey profollowed by Spain with around 14 %. vides valuable feedback, helping us develop new programmes or projects. The TUIgether Pulse, a compact version of the survey, was conducted in 2018 – a ‘health check’ until the next full survey in 2019. TUIgether Pulse captures employees’ level of engagement, their views on TUI ’s leadership Personnel by region* model VIBE (Vision, Inspire, Build Teams, Execute) and on the follow-up 30 Sep 2018 30 Sep 2017 Var. % process. It also provides an opportunity to further implement the team changes launched in 2017. Germany 10,345 10,274 0.7 Great Britain 11,770 13,354 – 11.9 In 2018 TUI Group’s engagement index of 76 is two percentage points Spain 9,952 9,607 3.6 above our market research institute’s global standard. The score fell by Other EU 22,594 20,911 8.0 one percentage point in 2018 compared to 2017 (77). The overall value for North and South America 5,005 4,535 10.4 the VIBE leadership model remained stable at 72 (73 in 2017). The 75 % Other regions 9,880 7,896 25.1 response rate indicates that our employees take the survey seriously. TUI Group 69,546 66,577 4.5 Survey results are discussed within the teams. The overall results are * By domicile of company published on smile, the TUI Group’s Intranet platform. 61 WELCOME SHARING IN TUI’S SUCCESS OUR APPROACH The oneShare employee share programme offers another opportunity for colleagues to participate in TUI ’s success. It strengthens their commitS T E P L I G H T LY ment to TUI and contributes to making them feel a more integral part of MAKE A DIFFERENCE the TUI Group. L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE Employees from participating companies can subscribe to TUI shares at preferential terms and conditions. They receive a discount of 20 % on the 59 Strategy progress share price and a free share for every three shares acquired. In 2018, spe61 Engagement cial Golden Shares were issued for all participants for the first time, with 64 Diversity each participant receiving twelve additional shares, regardless of the 66 People development amount invested. 68 Empowering colleagues In 2018, colleagues from 24 countries took part in the scheme. With 14.1 % 69 Security, Health & Safety of all eligible employees participating, the oneShare scheme has been extremely popular. G L O B A L C O M PA C T The Global Equity Organization (GEO), the leading global body promoting the employee share culture, presented an award to oneShare in 2018. At its annual members’ conference, an expert jury awarded a prize to the care programme in the category “Best Use of a Share Plan in a Corporate Action”. The jury acknowledged the importance of the share programme more TUI PEOPLE for TUI Group’s integration and commended the effective communications We continually look for ways to enhance our employees’ personal develstrategy for the programme launch. opment as a key contributor to our competitiveness. TUI People is a new, user-friendly software. This online software is designed to support ­employees’ loyalty, performance assessment and development as well as recruitment of new talent. TUI People also standardises Group processes to support employees’ personal development, ease the next career step and provide executives and HR managers with better control, for instance, in managing global teams. TUI People will be launched with five modules: Performance and Talent Management, Reward, Data & Analytics, Learning, and Recruitment. The Performance and Talent Management module was piloted in 2017 in seven German Group companies. At the beginning of the new financial year, the module was rolled out throughout the Group. The other modules will follow in 2019. 62 2018 GEO Award for oneShare WELCOME N E W W O R K @T U I : T H E F U T U R E O F W O R K I S D I G I TA L A D I G I TA L T U I T O W N H A L L OUR APPROACH Digitalisation is rapidly transforming business and the workplace. While To make sure we capture employees’ thoughts and concerns about the exciting, it also presents technological, cultural and organisational chalfuture of work, the Digital Roadshow: New Work, was hosted by TUI Group S T E P L I G H T LY lenges. As part of our project newWork@TUI, we are actively looking at the HR Director Dr Elke Eller. During the roadshow at TUI offices in various MAKE A DIFFERENCE future of work at TUI and exploring what this means for both our custommarkets (and livestreamed for all Group colleagues), employees were given L E A D T H E W AY ers and employees. For instance, we will look at the implications of working a platform to discuss the specific changes they see in the world of work, CARE MORE remotely and how digitalisation affects work / life balance. and how well TUI is responding to these changes. The online audience of some 500 to 700 employees also had a chance to ask questions of Elke Eller 59 Strategy progress As a first step, we issued a policy paper in March 2018, signed by repreand other discussion participants. 61 Engagement sentatives of the Group Works Council and TUI Group’s Executive Board. 64 Diversity An initiative of the Group Works Council, the newWork@TUI paper sets In 2018, the roadshow was held in Hanover and Rijswijk. In 2019, it contin66 People development out guiding principles for the future of work and defines a joint underued in Luton, Palma and Stockholm. Each webcast focused on a specific 68 Empowering colleagues standing of the opportunities and challenges of digital transformation for topic: collaboration / Office 365 (Hanover), agile work (Luton), test & learn employees. The paper identifies a range of initiatives that will fundamentally (Stockholm), digital culture (Palma), and work environments and new 69 Security, Health & Safety change the way we work at TUI. leadership culture (Rijswijk). In addition, Elke Eller took part in local discussions and one-on-one meetings to gain a fuller picture of each TUI division’s views on New Work. G L O B A L C O M PA C T CONVERTS TO NE W WORK TUI Netherlands’ new office space is emblematic of the future of work. As care part of a 14-month building conversion project, our tour operator and airline colleagues now share the same building in Rijswijk. The office is more designed to encourage exchange and dialogue between different functions and to break down silos. It features open-plan offices, spaces for breakout and retreat, state-of-the-art meeting rooms (equipped with video conference facilities) and lounge seating areas, as well as coffee bars on each floor to foster informal exchange. Read about the environmental aspects of the building here (p29). At TUI AG’s head office in Hanover, another building conversion in 2018 supports agile team processes and interdivisional cooperation, strengthens team communication and simplifies processes. The new work environment aims to motivate employees and reflect TUI ’s values: ‘unique’ and ‘inspiring’. Colleagues moved to the redesigned spaces in December 2018. Employees were deeply involved in each project and their ideas were taken account in the new design. 63 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Diversity S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE At TUI, people are encouraged to bring their whole selves to work, irreA key focus is gaining more women in management; in 2018 the number of L E A D T H E W AY spective of gender, age, sexual orientation or origin. Diversity is something women in leadership positions rose from 34.1 % (in 2017) to 34.5 %. The CARE MORE we value. percentage of women in the overall workforce declined slightly by around one percentage point from 56.6 % to 55.7 %. See table below. 59 Strategy progress As an organisation with a high proportion of female employees, TUI prior61 Engagement itises work / life balance. More flexibility not only helps employees with In Germany, voluntary targets were initiated in 2015 for TUI AG , TUI 64 Diversity children but benefits everyone. TUI offers a variety of approaches, such as Deutschland and TUI fly, reflecting legal requirements. Nearly all targets 66 People development flexible working hours and options to work part-time, remotely or take were achieved in 2018. We have defined new targets for 2020 for these 68 Empowering colleagues sabbaticals. In Germany, we support employees with childcare and nursing companies on the basis of this voluntary commitment. care for relatives. 69 Security, Health & Safety G L O B A L C O M PA C T Proportion of Woman Ø German Supervisory­ Executive Board Group Executive Managerial Positions Employees care Boards TUI AG Committee Group Group more 42 (40) 29 (17) 23 (17) 35 (34) 56 (57) % % % % % 58 (60) 71 (83) 77 (83) 65 (66) 44 (43) In brackets: previous year 64 WELCOME no bias in style, tone and language. We are also implementing unconscious OUR APPROACH bias training for our hiring managers. This will not only help us address gender bias in recruitment, but any other bias that impacts diversity and S T E P L I G H T LY inclusion in the broadest sense. We aim to reduce occupational segregation MAKE A DIFFERENCE and encourage a more even gender split across the organisation. We will L E A D T H E W AY review our organisational design, including the fulland part-time role CARE MORE balance, and continue our efforts to increase our female pilot population. 59 Strategy progress The TUI UK & Ireland Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 / 18 can be accessed here. 61 Engagement 64 Diversity 66 People development Other staff indicators 68 Empowering colleagues 69 Security, Health & Safety TUI Group in % 30 Sep 2018 30 Sep 2017 G L O B A L C O M PA C T Employment structure Number of employees 69,546 66,577 Employees, female 55.7 56.6 care TA C K L I N G T H E G E N D E R PAY G A P Reward and remuneration are part of our overall approach to diversity and Females in managerial positions Employees in part-time, total 34.5 16.4 34.1 17.3 more developing a more diverse leadership team. We are compliant with the UK Employees in part-time, female 25.6 26.2 gender pay regulations, which require businesses with at least 250 employEmployees, fixed-term employment contract 28.4 30.0 ees to calculate and publish their gender pay gap on an annual basis. Age structure Employees up to 20 years 4.8 5.1 To ensure full compliance with the regulations, we collected broader data Employees 21 – 30 years 29.3 30.1 sets which showed that all three TUI businesses evaluated ( TUI Airways, Employees 31 – 40 years 26.6 26.4 TUI Retail, and TUI UK ) revealed significant differentials between female Employees 41 – 50 years 23.8 23.7 and male hourly rates of pay and bonuses. This understanding will inform Employees more than 50 years 15.5 14.7 our human resources approach to diversity and inclusion going forward as Average company affiliation we tackle these discrepancies. up to 5 years 55.7 54.0 6 – 10 years 13.9 14.9 Making a significant change in our gender pay gap will take time. We are 11 – 20 years 20.4 20.8 committed to increasing the number of females holding senior roles by 21 – 30 years 8.0 8.3 reviewing and ensuring our methods for attracting new employees contain more than 30 years 2.0 2.0 65 WELCOME OUR APPROACH People development S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE DE VELOPING TOMORROW ’S LE ADER S L E A D T H E W AY To attract junior technical and executive staff for the future, TUI engages CARE MORE in forward-based succession planning and carries out a number of international development programmes. The Group-wide International 59 Strategy progress Graduate Leadership programme and global programmes such as Global 61 Engagement High Performance Leadership, Perspectives and Horizons are aimed at 64 Diversity identifying and retaining qualified employees. We also offer additional 66 People development local programmes providing development and continuous training for 68 Empowering colleagues technical and executive staff. Perspectives and Horizons were nominated for the Excellence in Learning & Development Award at the Personnel 69 Security, Health & Safety Today Awards 2018 in London. To ensure that business-critical functions and key positions can be filled G L O B A L C O M PA C T with candidates meeting all requirements, a specific succession plan for the senior management levels was adopted in the financial year under review. It lists short, medium and long-term successors so that the Group In workshops employees get fresh insights care is operational and has appropriate HR resources at any time. more I N T E R N AT I O N A L G R A D U AT E S 2 0 1 8 G R E AT P L A C E T O G R O W TUI Group’s International Graduate Leadership Programme offers targeted A key step forward in People Development is the establishment of Great training for top graduates to become junior executives. The 18-month Place to Grow, the Group’s global approach to performance and talent programme was extended to 20 months at the launch of its new phase in management. Its core element is a three-step structured dialogue process September 2018. It entails five assignments in different sites and departbetween executives and employees. The approach ensures that every emments, each lasting three to five months in different functions across TUI ployee receives honest feedback on their performance and potential. The Group to offer participants the best possible insights into the Group, and dialogue also focuses on TUI ’s values Trusted. Unique. Inspiring, which provide them with strategic and operational knowhow. Trainees can set reflect the way we work and are to be even more firmly anchored in our individual priorities, but undergo a mandatory assignment in Finance. New employees’ activities. A dedicated digital platform supports executives participants start in March and September each year. In 2018, 35 trainees and employees throughout the process. from 16 countries took part in the programme. From 2019, TUI will offer an International Aviation Programme. It will last 20 months and include five assignments, four of which will be carried out in aviation (e. g. a local carrier) while one assignment will take place in a different sector to enable participants to gain broader experience in the integrated tourism group. The programme will also include an aviation project which participants will manage themselves. 66 WELCOME L E A R N I N G @T U I Employees working for TUI Destination Experiences had the chance to OUR APPROACH The world of work is constantly changing and TUI is becoming increasingly test a new learning format: the TUI DX Digital Garage was being held for digital. We want our employees, who combine so many different talents, the first time. More than 100 courses relating to digitalisation were S T E P L I G H T LY to recognise their potential and skills as well as master new ones. TUI offers ­offered over two days in Palma and transmitted to TUI DX offices around MAKE A DIFFERENCE numerous learning and development opportunities to support employees the world via live stream. The concept also includes a digital quiz to test L E A D T H E W AY in their current roles, develop their future careers and equip them for the knowledge acquired. The Digital Garage received very positive feedCARE MORE digital transformation. This includes the provision of numerous e-learning back. It proved to be the right format to inspire employees in Palma and programmes and online trainings in specialised TUI Academies, which offer in the destinations around digital topics. 59 Strategy progress further training programmes in selected areas (e. g. Finance or IT ). Individual 61 Engagement digital learning opportunities such as online libraries and digital Learning GLOBAL 360 64 Diversity Hubs are also provided at the local level. Through the Global 360 programme, TUI promotes international careers 66 People development within the organisation and increases employee mobility. Participants gain 68 Empowering colleagues In 2018 we held Learning Days and Learning Weeks in the Netherlands, international work experience and get to know other parts of TUI Group. Belgium, the UK and Germany. The programme enables employees to find The Global 360 Team offers comprehensive support to participants moving 69 Security, Health & Safety out more about new topics and gain fresh insights. onto a career step abroad. For an integrated company such as TUI, it is really important for employees to gain experience around the world and In Germany nearly 3,000 colleagues took part in three Learning Weeks get to know different parts of the organisation. Global 360 makes an imG L O B A L C O M PA C T and two Learning Days in 2018. The motto of the first cross-company portant contribution towards this goal. It also helps to raise awareness Learning Week at Hanover was ‘newWork@TUI − TUI as a Learning Organamong executives and encourages them to look beyond the borders of isation’. It was attended by 1,000 employees and executives, who could their own market when scouting for talent. care choose from more than 50 sessions on topics such as Cloud, Office 365, Blockchain and leadership in changing organisational structures. Many of The career programme was launched under the name Global 60 in 2017. more the speakers during the Learning Week were TUI colleagues. In this way, At the first Global 60 Conference in December 2017, when the first particthe Learning Weeks also strengthen dialogue and cooperation between ipants discussed their experience, it was suggested to change the name to our divisions and companies. Global 360. The new name reflects the comprehensive impact of the programme – on culture, working methods and the exchange of experience between source markets – and its role as a driver of cultural change within TUI towards a digital, networked platform organisation. G L O B A L E M P L O Y M E N T S TAT E M E N T As a global player, TUI Group supports fair and respectful treatment of employees at all levels and compliance with applicable laws and industry standards. The TUI Global Employment Statement published in 2018 sets out TUI ’s values and commitments to its employees and those working for our contract partners. The TUI Global Employment Statement defines specific guidelines on human rights, anti-discrimination, protection from forced labour, banning child labour, pay, the right of association, health and safety, diversity, HR development and feedback culture. 67 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Empowering colleagues S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE Our Better Holidays, Better World strategy is most effective L E A D T H E W AY when our people are empowered to become ambassadors CARE MORE for sustainability. TUI provides opportunities for colleagues 59 Strategy progress to engage through champion networks, sustainability-themed 61 Engagement training, and supporting the work of the TUI Care Foundation. 64 Diversity 66 People development WE ARE THE CHAMPIONS 68 Empowering colleagues The best sustainability change agents are our own employees. Our TUI champion networks exist to engage colleagues on sustainability, support our MAKING A CLEAN SWEEP 69 Security, Health & Safety strategy and expand charitable activities. For the fifth consecutive year, our Destination Experience colleagues held a Big Holiday Beach Clean campaign, asking teams to organise a TUI BENELUX: To boost involvement, the sustainability department posted beach clean in their local areas. It supports the ABTA -led ‘Make Holidays G L O B A L C O M PA C T innovative job vacancies for sustainability champions, advertising for 50 new Greener’ campaign to keep destinations clean for future guests. In 2018, CEOs – or Chief Environmental Officers. Colleagues had to explain why they over 1,400 colleagues and customers collected almost 4,500 kg of rubbish, wanted these positions from a sustainability perspective. The successful covering more than 90 km of beach. In total, 52 beaches in 17 countries care champions meet quarterly for updates from the sustainability team, then cascade this information within their own departments. benefited from the effort. more In the past five years, over 250 beach cleans have been held, engaging TUI GERMANY: Some 20 core champions meet bi-monthly and were over 6,600 people and covering over 300 km of coast line. Over 25,000 kg active in the TUI Care Foundation campaign month. A current focus is to of rubbish have been removed. boost biodiversity around the TUI Germany office precinct. M A S T E R I N G S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y TUI UK & IREL AND: Waste was a key priority for the office based chamSustainability is embedded in training across TUI, from inductions and pions in 2018. This included improving signage and communication to manuals to management development programmes. Raising awareness encourage more recycling at the Luton office and community litter pickabout sustainability is the first step. From intranets, newsletters and videos, up events. to blogs, townhalls and dedicated initiatives, TUI works to get the word out to colleagues across the organisation. A W H O L E M O N T H O F S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y In 2018 our champion networks supported TUI Care Foundation month to Every TUI colleague in the Nordics has 40 hours of worktime a year to raise awareness of and support for the Foundation. Activities ranged from attend professional development of their own choice. Through its Master zero waste events to 500 turtle adoptions to fundraising initiatives that Classes program, it is taking advantage of internal experts to share knowlraised a total of 95,000 euros. The concept was carried out at different edge and expertise within their field to colleagues across the business. times in all markets. Auctions “from colleagues for colleagues” ranged from Five Master Classes on sustainability have been held since October 2018 numerous different sports activities to photo shoots, drawing events, lantaught by Anna Kiefer, Sustainability Lead for TUI in Sweden, and Jane guage courses through to music events. The TUI Care Foundation month Ashton, Director of Sustainable Development at TUI. The master class created true engagement across the business and will come back in 2019. focused on key sustainability challenges and opportunities and TUI ’s 68 strong commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. WELCOME OUR APPROACH Security, Health & CRI SI S RE A DY Our professional crisis management system draws on international standS T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE Safety ards, best practice from other industries and processes and reaction mechanisms used by government agencies. Our objective is to ensure we can respond rapidly to unexpected and sudden events – as we did, for L E A D T H E W AY instance, during an earthquake in Indonesia or tropical storms in the CARE MORE Caribbean. TUI Group operations span holiday destinations from Europe to the 59 Strategy progress Caribbean and South-East Asia. That means events around the world can In addition to aggregating data and analysing the local situation, our event 61 Engagement directly impact our customers, employees and business processes. In management frameworks track how guests and employees may be affected, 64 Diversity 2018, this included social unrest in Sri Lanka, an earthquake in Indonesia what support they need, and coordinate with local public agencies, European 66 People development and wildfires in Southern Europe. bodies and other partners to ensure their safety and wellbeing. Control 68 Empowering colleagues centres operate 24 / 7 for rapid, tailored responses to critical events, while TUI takes an integrated approach to Security, Health & Safety across the reporting ensures that management is kept informed and continually 69 Security, Health & Safety Group, with prevention measures in place to manage crisis situations and updated on key developments. extreme events quickly and effectively, minimise negative effects, and respond professionally when the need arises. Our approach is rooted in G L O B A L C O M PA C T our corporate values – Trusted, Unique, Inspiring. PREVENTION IS OUR PRIORIT Y care As well as continuously monitoring global trends and developments to identify potential risks and assessing social, environmental and governmore ance-related events in the regions where we operate, we prepare response measures to manage exceptional situations. Prevention is our priority, with the goal of avoiding potential risks so that damage or loss can be minimised and customers, employees, and company reputation and assets protected. Across TUI Group we take a systematic, integrated approach to Security, Health & Safety (SHS). Our Group-wide framework of guidelines, operational instructions and processes covers security and safety measures within Hotels & Resorts, business travel and event and crisis management. Group SHS coordinates a network of security and safety functions across the Group, with regular site visits made to destinations and to our Hotels & Resorts to ensure our security and safety standards are being met. Our holistic risk analysis includes natural hazards, social and political events and developments in destinations, health-related information and security and safety-relevant briefings from government agencies. As well as regular reporting to management, we use accredited external auditors to evaluate compliance through Group-wide interlinked reviews. 69 WELCOME QUALIT Y I S E VE RYONE ’ S CONCE RN In Germany, TUI AG is active in the Corporate Health Network and has OUR APPROACH We continually assess and enhance our security, health & safety processes achieved ratings in the external independent Corporate Health Award to ensure high quality standards are maintained. In addition to manageAudit in the excellent category every year since 2009. TUI AG won the S T E P L I G H T LY ment systems and training exercises for employees and partners, we work Corporate Health Award in 2010 and more recently in 2017. This success MAKE A DIFFERENCE closely with others in destinations and source markets, such as security and is due in part to TUI AG’s occupational health management’s systematic L E A D T H E W AY disaster management authorities. This can include foreign ministries, police, and strategic approach. Preventive health measures for different target CARE MORE medical facilities and research institutions involved in crisis prevention. groups also played a role, including preventive healthcare, company sport, wellbeing, inclusion and family welfare offers such as organisational 59 Strategy progress Regular dialogue with our subsidiaries and Group departments helps to support for small children and care for the elderly. In line with Healthy 61 Engagement ensure that security, health and safety management is fully in line with Leadership essentials, managers are also informed about TUI ’s basic 64 Diversity needs and requirements. We also use follow-up measures like lessons health requirements at management training seminars held every two 66 People development learnt and process adjustments to ensure continuous improvement and years. Seminars feature topics like self-awareness and responding to the 68 Empowering colleagues quality management. needs of employees whose health is impaired. 69 Security, Health & Safety H E A LT H AT W O R K Inspired by the experience of occupational health management in Germany, For TUI, employee health and wellbeing is a core priority. Our Corporate TUI formed a Group-wide Corporate Occupational Health Committee. Occupational Health Management (COHM) system takes a two-pronged Structures are currently being put in place to provide optimal occupational G L O B A L C O M PA C T approach: health and to learn from each other through best-practice exchange across the Group. care 1. Ongoing compliance with prevailing statutory regulations, in order to offer healthy and safe workplaces to our employees. more 2. V  oluntary commitments that exceed the standards required by law – for example by signing the Luxembourg Declaration on Workplace Health Promotion. 70 WELCOME OUR APPROACH Progress report S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE PRINCIPLE RULE / AC TION OUTCOME S L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE 1 and 2 TUI Code of Conduct updated in 2019. Training The whistleblower system called ‘Speak Up’ impleSupport for human and worldwide whistleblower system is in place mented in 2013 was extended to all TUI jurisdictions G L O B A L C O M PA C T for reporting violations. (AR p127) in 2016. In 2018, 70 reports were received via the rights and prevention ‘Speak Up’ system and investigated. 71 Progress report of human rights violations TUI pledges to uphold all internationally proclaimed Modern Slavery / Human Rights working group meets human rights as specified in the UN Guiding Prinregularly to assess risks, assign tasks and monitor ciples on Business and Human Rights. progress of measures. TUI became a signatory to the UNWTO Global Code of Ethics in 2012. Statement on Modern Slavery published online here. 3 to 6 Signatories to The Code of Conduct for the ProIn 2016 TUI Joined the Board of The Code, taking the Freedom of tection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in role of Chairperson. Travel and Tourism (“The Code”). association, abolition of forced and child labour, elimination of Our hotels and those of our hotel partners are 9.2 million ‘Greener and Fairer’ holidays in 2018 discrimination required to align to a GSTC-recognised sustaina(holidays in sustainability-certified hotels), up by bility certification process, which includes Human 12 % versus 2017. Rights components, as part of the contractual relationship (BHBW p14) Signatory to the German Diversity Charter. Diver34.5 % women in managerial positions. 42 % of sity at TUI approach to increase the proportion of ­supervisory Board is female. women in managerial functions (AR p95) 55.7 % of the employees at TUI Group are women. 16.4 % of the employees at TUI Group work part-time. TUI Europe Forum: In 201845 employee representatives from 14 countries were delegated to the Forum 71 WELCOME OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE PRINCIPLE RULE / AC TION OUTCOME S L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE 7 Expansion of cruise environmental reporting to 12.7 litres of waste produced and 110 litres of fresh A precautionary monitor water consumption and waste. water per guest night across TUI’s cruise businesses. G L O B A L C O M PA C T approach to 71 Progress report environmental Working on biofuels. TUI engages in industry initiatives and research prochallenges grammes such as the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group to help scale up sustainable aviation fuels of the future. TUI Group took delivery of the first 737 MAX aircraft for our Nordic airline on a 30 % blend of sustainable aviation fuel in February 2018. Phasing out of brochure printing and replacing In 2018 TUI Group further reduced its printed browith improved digital infrastructure. chures by 9 % compared to 2017. Since 2012, TUI has reduced brochure production by over two thirds. 8 Showcasing environmental initiatives in TUI Investment in technology and renewable energy; Promote greater Hotels & Resorts. food waste reduction, plastic reduction, nature conservation and local products (BHBW p32 – 37, 42, 51) environmental responsibility Promotion of environmentally responsible hotels Highlighting sustainably-certified hotels to customand excursions. ers and delivery of almost 1.2 million TUI Collection excursions in 2018. Beach cleaning as part of ‘Make Holidays Greener’ In 2018, over 1,400 employees and customers campaign. cleaned a coastline of 90 km on 52 beaches collecting 4,500 kg of waste. 72 WELCOME OUR APPROACH S T E P L I G H T LY MAKE A DIFFERENCE PRINCIPLE RULE / AC TION OUTCOME S L E A D T H E W AY CARE MORE 9 Modernisation of the aircraft fleet and continual In January 2018, TUI Group started to take delivery Development commitment to new technologies and processes. of the first of at least 72 highly efficient Boeing 737 G L O B A L C O M PA C T MAX aircraft by 2023, which are 15 % more efficient and diffusion of than previous generation aircraft. 71 Progress report environmentally friendly technologies New cruise ships with industry leading technology. In 2018 airline intensity emissions improved by 0.1 % and overall have improved by 1.3 % against our 2014 baseline. Use of renewable energy TUI Cruises’ new build ships’ combined exhaust gas treatment systems deliver up to 99 % lower sulphur emissions, 75 % lower nitrogen oxide emissions and 60 % lower particulate emissions. Solar panels installed at Robinson Club Apulia in Italy – one of the largest hotel solar systems in Europe. 10 Code of Conduct / Supplier Code addresses In 2018 our due diligence approach was expanded Anti corruption ethical, social and legal expectations of business to more indirect procurement categories and partners. (AR p91 & 126) around 12,075 third-party suppliers were checked against a third party due diligence programme. 73 F O R M O R E I N F O R M AT I O N A B O U T C O N TA C T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y AT T U I G R O U P, V I S I T: G R O U P C O R P O R AT E & TUI CARE E X T E R N A L A F FA IR S F O U N D AT I O N www.tui-sustainability.com Thomas Ellerbeck Elise Allart Member of the Group Executive Director Programmes Executive Committee and Operations Group Corporate & elise.allart@tuicarefoundation.com External Affairs Director thomas.ellerbeck@tui.com Alexander Panczuk Executive Director External Affairs Jane Ashton and Development Director of Sustainability alexander.panczuk@tui.com TUI Group jane.ashton@tui.com Christian Rapp Group Corporate & External Affairs Head of Sustainability Communications christian.rapp@tui.com
