Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents 2 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Contents 4-5 Letter from the CEO 6-7 Who We Are 8 Siteimprove and the Sustainable Development Goals 10-11 Goal 4: Quality Education 12-13 Goal 10: Reducing Inequalities 14-15 Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals 16-17 Accessibility State of the Globe 18 Human Rights 20 Creating Much-Needed Awareness and Providing Quality Education 25 Influencing Others to Embrace Accessibility 26 Our Key Accessibility Partnerships 28 Siteimprove’s Accessibility Testing Continues to Improve 28 Protecting Personal Data 30 Building the Next Generation of Accessibility Testing and Reporting 32 Goals 33 Labor Rights 34 Our Employees Are Our Greatest Asset 35 Employee Satisfaction – A Key Priority 37 Diversity 39 Goals 40 Environment 42 Siteimprove’s Environmental Policy 42 Minimizing Our Carbon Footprint 43 Minimizing the Environmental Impact of Our Hardware 43 Upping Our Recycling Efforts 45 Goals 46 Anti-corruption 49 Goals 50 Local Initiatives 50 Amsterdam 50 Minneapolis 51 Sydney 51 Toronto 3 Letter from the CEO It’s with great pleasure I again introduce Siteimprove’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report, reaffirming our support of the United Nations Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As we approach 2030 the SDGs are gaining global momentum, and in 2018 we further outlined and solidified our contributions to the global goals. Since committing to the Global Compact back in 2010 our customer base has continued to grow, and we welcome more and more new colleagues. To me that’s a clear sign that we’re doing something right and that people from around the world want to join us in making the web better for all. We hit some impressive milestones in 2018 when our Siteimprove family reached 500 employees and more than 7,000 customers worldwide. Our new colleagues and customers help us continue to drive innovation and contribute to a better digital experience for everyone. I was also proud to see us open offices in Singapore, Stockholm, and Zurich. With our newly added locations, and the successful strengthening of our existing offices, we are now closer to our customers than ever before, and able to provide an even better customer experience. On the CSR front we continue to be a global digital accessibility advocate. Our expertise within the field puts us in a unique position to help other organizations become more inclusive online. Siteimprove is a strong partner for like-minded organizations and in 2018 we made great progress with our partners. We are already seeing results of the WAI-Tools project and have established a new powerful partnership with the European Disability Forum. 4 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Also worth mentioning is the Accessibility World Map I hope you’ll join us on this journey toward a sustainable project with which we are taking significant steps toward and inclusive future, and that this report inspires reliable, automated large-scale monitoring. We aim to you to take action and contribute to the Sustainable show how accessible websites around the world are and Development Goals. provide visitors with easily actionable data that will help them champion for a more digital world. Employee satisfaction remains one of our highest priorities at Siteimprove. We believe it’s a measure of success and strive to be inclusive of people of all abilities and backgrounds. As we continue to grow we work hard to make everyone feel welcome and happy to go to work every day which is why we ran the Great Place to Work® survey in all our locations in 2018 and continue to keep a Morten Ersbøll Ebbesen, finger on the pulse going forward. Chief Executive Officer & Founder Finally, it’s encouraging to witness the passion and engagement among our employees. In 2018 we introduced new frameworks for volunteering and community engagement, with many Siteimprove employees supporting various local causes. It’s something that really characterizes Siteimprovers: not only are they passionate about being successful, they also act as inclusion ambassadors in their local communities showing great passion for reducing inequalities. 5 Who We Are Founded in 2003 13 locations worldwide: 510 employees Amsterdam 43 nationalities Berlin Copenhagen We Are London Our Products Siteimprove Minneapolis At Siteimprove, we collaborate across departments We are a people-centric and borders to improve our platform and experiment Oslo company driven by with new processes to make our products, services, the desire to help Singapore and customer support even stronger. customers make the Stockholm most of their digital Our primary product is the Siteimprove Intelligence presence. We provide Sydney Platform, which provides solutions for SEO, analytics, the knowledge and Tokyo data privacy, quality assurance, and accessibility. The tools they need to eye-opening insights our platform provides enable help make the internet Toronto our customers to optimize performance, drive traffic, better and more Vienna improve accessibility, and perfect the quality of their inclusive for all. content, all while protecting the personal data of Zurich their visitors. Along with our product, we provide As the digital world organizations with access to experts, a vast library of becomes more educational resources, and multiple training courses complex, it’s crucial for in Siteimprove Academy. organizations to maintain an error-free, consistent, upto-date, and accessible digital presence. Our intelligent Our Customers automation software and best-in-class customer Our customer base is made up or more than 7,000 support have helped more than 7,000 organizations organizations across the globe in a wide variety of worldwide improve their digital presence. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 The Siteimprove Intelligence Platform Quality Assurance identifies spelling mistakes, broken links, content issues, and more. SEO finds issues that impact performance industries, including higher education, in search results. Keyword insights, search finance, government, healthcare, retail, nonengine analytics, activity plans, and backlink profit, and more. overviews make SEO tasks transparent and easy to correct. The Siteimprove Intelligence Platform Analytics measures and tracks visitor behavior. and our support services are adaptable to Organizations can define their KPIs, identify organizations big and small. We work with which pieces of their content perform the best, organizations of all sizes, from start-ups to and watch over everything with live analytics. Fortune 500 corporations, and everyone in Data Privacy gives customers an overview of between. the personal data that exists on their website. It includes an IP and Domain Map, a Cookie Tracker, and a Personal Data Inventory. Accessibility enables customers to keep their website up-to-date with global web accessibility standards. We use the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.1) as our guide. 7 Siteimprove and the Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, the United Nations agreed to 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of their ambitious 2030 agenda. The overall objective is a better, more sustainable future. The 17 SDGs (and the 169 targets that go with them) address the global challenges we need to overcome within the next 11 years. We are strong supporters of the SDGs and their goal to leave no one behind. Siteimprove encourages others to take part and join us on the path toward a sustainable future. Siteimprove is uniquely positioned to contribute to the SDGs, especially those regarding digital human rights. We’ve identified the goals that align best with our core business and areas of expertise and considered where we can make the biggest impact. This means that we’re now focusing on three specific goals that we view as great shared value opportunities. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Siteimprove’s impact on the SDGs While Siteimprove could have a positive impact Focused positive impact on SDGs 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, and 12, and will actively work toward reducing the potential negative impact on SDG 13, we have chosen to focus our efforts on SDGs 4, 10, and 17. Potential direct or indirect positive impact Potential negative impact 9 Goal 4: Quality Education Our Focus We want to ensure inclusive, equitable, and quality education by educating our stakeholders about accessibility and inclusion. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Why Quality Education Is a Priority accessibility courses, some related to practical topics, like creating accessible documents and emails, and We are committed to providing equitable, quality others that are more general, like our Web Accessibility education for all, which is why it’s a key area of focus Fundamentals course. In 2018, we made some key parts as we work toward a more inclusive world. As web of Siteimprove Academy free to access, which was a accessibility is still seen largely as a niche topic, our major milestone on the way toward a more inclusive goal is to make people aware of the issues created by web. inaccessible technology, and to educate them on how to solve these issues. With our expertise, we are able We also educate customers, partners, employees, and the to provide the skills and tools people need to improve general public through activities like events, blog posts, the accessibility of their websites and live up to global social media campaigns, and webinars. Our accessibility accessibility standards. experts speak regularly at both external conferences and Siteimprove-hosted events, like our big Web Accessibility Our Targets Live events around Europe. They are also often featured 4.3 Equal access to affordable technical, in accessibility webinars we organize over the course of vocational, and higher education the year. 4.5 Eliminate all On our website, we offer a substantial number of discrimination in resources and pieces of content to help organizations education become more accessible — and we are always sharing valuable insights with the world on our social media channels. Our Contribution Furthermore, one of Siteimprove’s main customer segments is the education sector. By providing them We spread awareness about accessibility and inclusion with the software tools they need, we empower schools, in everything we do. For those who are willing to learn colleges, and universities to make their information and more, we can educate them about the topic in a number services available to users of all abilities. When barriers of ways. on websites are eliminated, we can ensure that quality education is accessible for a larger part of society. In Siteimprove Academy, we have a number of Key Highlights from 2018 oo Roughly 10% of our customers are within the education sector, meaning we currently support approximately 700 educational institutions around the world with our software. oo We added 16 posts about accessibility to our blog, bringing it to a total of 64 educational blog posts about the topic. oo Siteimprove Academy now offers 20 courses on digital accessibility. oo In 2018 7,205 Siteimprove users and 189 Siteimprove employees completed an accessibility course in Siteimprove Academy. 11 Goal 10: Reducing Inequalities Our Focus We focus on promoting and contributing to the social, economic, and political inclusion of everyone, regardless of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, economic, or other status. We do this through our software solutions and public advocacy for accessibility and inclusion, and by sharing our knowledge and expertise. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Why Reducing Inequalities Is a Priority The expertise of our employees is another asset in our efforts to create awareness and provide education about We believe that accessing and utilizing websites is a accessibility and inclusion. With our resources and fundamental right. Our objective is to use our technology knowledge, we can influence people and organizations to make a genuine difference, and to give everyone all around the world, whether through the content we the tools they need to contribute to the change. This create and the events we host and take part in, or through doesn’t just apply to those with disabilities—as the our interactions with customers and partners. world population ages, the need for accessible websites continues to increase. As we believe equal access to information and services on the web is a fundamental right, our contributions to Our Targets this cause are described further in the section Human 10.2 Promote universal social, economic, Rights. and political inclusion 10.3 Ensure equal opportunities and end discrimination Our Contribution We developed our Siteimprove Accessibility software tool more than 10 years ago and have continued improving it since to better help organizations remove digital barriers from their websites. We also provide a number of free resources to contribute to reducing inequalities on the web, including the Siteimprove Accessibility Checker for Google Chrome that we released in 2017. Key Highlights from 2018 oo The number of users of our free Google Chrome extension increased by 80%. oo 97% of our revenue comes from customers with our Accessibility product as part of their Siteimprove suite. oo Our Stories from the Digital Divide campaign videos have more than 17,000 views on YouTube and Vimeo and reached more than 21,000 people on social media. 13 Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals Our Focus We focus on encouraging and promoting effective public, public-private, and civil society partnerships. This helps put accessibility on the global agenda and extend our reach so we can have a positive impact on even more people around the world. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Why Partnerships for the Goals Is a Priority We believe that reducing the digital divide can only be achieved by the joint efforts of multiple stakeholders. Strategies and policies jointly defined by governments, industry, and civil society have far-reaching effects on closing the digital gap. We are committed to bringing together key stakeholders to understand the issues, find solutions, and collaborate to deliver change. Our Targets 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development 17.17 Encourage effective partnerships 17.19 Further develop measurements of progress Our Contribution Siteimprove partners with public and private entities worldwide to leverage our accessibility knowledge and solutions. In 2018 we established new key partnerships and continued to engage with policy makers, civil society, and standards organizations by participating in conferences and panel discussions. Our goal with every collaboration is to use our knowledge and resources to contribute to more people-centric accessibility guidelines, legislation, and solutions. One of the partnership highlights of the year was when we formalized our sponsorship agreement with the European Disability Forum (EDF) and partnered with them on an event to accompany the Conference of State Parties (COSP) to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD). In 2018, we also made great strides in our WAI-Tools project, on which we collaborate with a consortium of key players in the accessibility industry, national authorities, and the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). The WAI-Tools project is part of the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 Programme and you can read more about it on page 30. Key Highlights from 2018 oo We successfully established a partnership with the European Disability Forum (EDF) and participated together in the UN’s Conference of State Parties (COSP) to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD). oo We made great progress in the WAI-Tools project, which is part of the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 Programme. 15 Accessibility State of the Globe Building on the foundation of the Accessibility State of the Globe, which we published for the first time in last year’s report, we have developed the Accessibility World Map, an interactive map that compares the accessibility of websites around the world. A free resource, the Accessibility World Map presents the worldwide accessibility levels in an easy-to-understand, accessible, and interactive dashboard. With this website we aim to empower visitors to advocate for a more accessible online world. Please see how the different countries score in the table to the right. The higher the score, the more accessible the websites in the country are. Find out more about how accessibility levels in countries and specific industries compare on: www.accessibilityworldmap.org where you will also find an Accessibility Statement Generator, a free Real-time Accessibility Page Checker, and links to Siteimprove’s Accessibility Chrome Extension and the Siteimprove Academy. We hope this data will allow you to better understand the web accessibility landscape and advocate for accessible websites worldwide. World class: 97-100 Very good: 91-96 Good: 81-90 Medium 71-80 Poor 51-70 Very poor 0-50 Average score: 63 Top score: 67 Lowest score: 59 16 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Country Score Methodology Australia 67 The results are based upon Siteimprove’s Accessibility Digital Certainty Index™ (DCI). The accessibility DCI is a metric developed Austria 66 by Siteimprove to indicate the level of a website’s accessibility. Japan 65 Netherlands 65 Siteimprove’s automated accessibility checks are based on techniques used to evaluate conformance to the Web Content Norway 65 Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) success criteria. Portugal 65 The DCI Accessibility Score is a quantitative ratio value based on a United States 65 combination of automatically tested properties that indicates the Denmark 64 level of accessibility barriers identified for a given website, and therefore, is not a conformance level score. Iceland 64 Sweden 64 To generate a balanced metric, and to control sensitivity, Siteimprove designed an algorithm that weights several qualities of the pages Switzerland 64 across a website. The result is a singular score between one and 100. United Kingdom 64 The higher the score the fewer accessibility barriers are identified. Canada 63 All sites included in this project were collected from publicly Estonia 63 available databases. New Zealand 63 The overall accessibility score of each country is calculated by Spain 63 combining the overall accessibility scores of seven industries within Belgium 62 the country: Finland 62 oo Education oo Financial Services Germany 62 oo Government Italy 62 oo Healthcare Mexico 62 oo Manufacturing Brazil 61 oo Retail France 61 oo Tourism and Hospitality India 61 For each industry, 100 websites (specific to the industry and based Chile 60 in that country) were randomly selected. The first 500 pages of each website were crawled. The data presented in this report was Russia 60 collected in April 2019. South Africa 59 United Arab Emirates 59 17 Human Rights 18 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 19 Global Compact Principles 1-2 The company should 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. At Siteimprove, we believe that accessing the internet is a human right. No one should be excluded online regardless of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, economic, or other status. That’s why Siteimprove actively works to put digital accessibility on the public, and private, agenda. Our efforts to make digital information and services accessible and remove technological barriers are our key contribution to human rights, and to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. In this section, you can read more about what we do to promote digital human rights and inclusion. Creating Much-Needed Awareness and Providing Quality Education 9965 = The number of downloads of accessibility content from Siteimprove’s website in 2018 2734 = The number of readers of accessibility blog posts on Siteimprove’s website in 2018 The Most Popular Accessibility Blog Posts in 2018: oo How to Be More Accessible on Social Media oo Why Web Accessibility Should be a Priority Now: 3 Stats to Prove It oo Creating a Development Culture That Prioritizes Software Accessibility Siteimprove Breaks the Internet On the 3 December 2018, Siteimprove turned off style sheets, images, and JavaScript across our websites in support of “International Day of Persons with Disabilities” (IDPD). The purpose was to give website visitors and customers a powerful, effective view of how a website “looks” to screen reader users. A screen reader is a form of assistive technology that uses software applications to convey what is on a screen. The software application renders the page content using non-visual means, such as text-to-speech, sound icons, or Braille. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 We employ a number of people who use screen-readers to navigate the web and we want to open the eyes of others to The decision to effectively strip our their experiences. websites of their design for a day was an easy one for our CEO Morten – Morten Ebbesen, CEO Ebbesen who said: “Actions speak louder than words, which is why I fully support the idea to use our biggest business component – our website – to demonstrate the importance of accessibility elements such as alt texts for images. We employ a number of people who use screen-readers to navigate the web and we want to open the eyes of others to their experiences.” An Open Letter to LinkedIn On September 28, we published an open letter to the social media platform LinkedIn, encouraging them to implement more accessibility features. LinkedIn is a popular platform for professionals and has more than 500 million users. Still, users with visual disabilities have been excluded from using the platform on equal terms with sighted users due to missing accessibility features, including the ability to add alt text to images. After we began adding alt text descriptions at the end of our text posts as a workaround, we asked LinkedIn to make alt text a standard, mandatory field for images to make visual content on the platform accessible for everyone. When we posted the letter on our global LinkedIn page in September, it was shown more than 11,000 times in users’ feeds. In December of 2018, three months after our open letter was published, LinkedIn introduced alt text on images! 21 Siteimprove Academy In 2018, we also announced that Siteimprove Academy now offers free access to accessibility courses. Now, people can get quality education about accessibility and learn how to contribute to an inclusive internet. Web Fundamentals: Accessibility, Analytics, and SEO is available for free for everyone, and Siteimprove customers get free access to the following course tracks: oo Accessibility for Content Contributors and Designers oo Accessibility for Web Developers oo Accessibility for Leadership oo Accessibility for Microsoft Office oo Mastering Web Optimization with Siteimprove Web Accessibility Live After our successful Web Accessibility Live event in 2017, we followed it up with two similar events in 2018, one in Amsterdam and one in London. Web Accessibility Live is an exclusive event with which we aim to educate, inspire, and instill a new perspective on accessibility and inclusion. We provide hands-on knowledge about web accessibility and the impact of EU regulations, and guide attendees on how they can be more inclusive in their own work. For our London event, we collaborated with Open Inclusion, an accessibility research and solutions consultancy that strives to create a more open world. In Amsterdam, we teamed up with our partner Stichting Accessibility and donated the total proceeds from ticket sales to HandicapNL, a charity committed to promoting accessibility. On September 25, managing director of Siteimprove Benelux, Auke Grondsma, had the pleasure of handing over a check of €10,000 to Jeroen van de Koppel, Head of Fundraising of HandicapNL. Webinar: Bridging the Gaps in Web Accessibility & Inclusion In October, we organized a free webinar aimed at marketers, web designers, UX professionals, web accessibility and inclusion managers, and anyone with an active interest in creating a more accessible web presence. Teaming up with the Centre for Inclusive Design we showcased the importance of combining inclusive design principles with manual and automated accessibility solutions. On the webinar, we covered how to establish an accessible web presence, along with the business case behind accessibility. We especially highlighted how accessibility can generate higher customer satisfaction, higher conversion rates, better Search Engine Optimization, and an improved experience for all users. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Global Accessibility Awareness Day For the 7th annual celebration of Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) we celebrated by organizing web accessibility lessons for students and by launching our “Stories From the Digital Divide” videos, while also providing treats for some of our customers who are helping to make the web better for all. Finally, we created some internal awareness and engagement by celebrating the day with cake in all our offices. Stories From the Digital Divide In honor of Global Accessibility Awareness Day, we teamed up with three inspiring people who each live with a different disability. In the videos, the protagonists show that their disability does not hold them back from following their passions, but technology sometimes does. In addition to the three personal stories, we also created an animated movie explaining what accessibility means and why it is important. Our first video features U.S. MasterChef winner, Christine Há, who shares her point of view on making websites more helpful to all users. Making websites more accessible As a blind cook, she gives a perspective that to everyone means designing with makes us all think about inclusive technology. simplicity. Christine was the first blind contestant of MasterChef and the winner of its third season Christine Há in 2012. She relies strongly on websites being accessible every day and calls for simplicity when designing websites. Our second video features Marc de Hond, who’s a Dutch TV presenter, professional basketball player, and actor. Relying on a wheelchair to get around has never stopped him from accomplishing great things in life. That said, overcoming accessibility issues is a daily task. Marc draws parallels between physical and digital accessibility, saying that just like people with physical disabilities need ramps to access buildings and get around, people with other disabilities need “ramps” in the digital world to access websites and get information. In our third and final story from the digital divide we meet Kirsten Skov, who’s a Danish Tai Chi To be a part of society today, you instructor. While Kirsten’s age and hearing disability don’t prevent her from practicing and teaching her need to be able to use the internet. passion, Tai Chi, she finds it difficult to navigate the -Kirsten Skov internet. When there’s too many moving elements or too much information presented at once on websites, it confuses her. Kirsten explains that simplicity is important if you want the older generation to be able to use your website. Watch the full videos to learn more. 23 The Improvers Project In celebration of Global Accessibility Awareness Day, we organized “The Improvers Project” in collaboration with Groves Academy, a school for students with learning disabilities and attention disorders. Groves works to transform lives through education and help struggling students achieve success, confidence, and purpose through transformative learning experiences. On GAAD approximately 20 Groves upper school students participated in The Improvers Project, getting a hands-on lesson about the importance of web accessibility. The interactive event was led by Keith Bundy, Siteimprove’s Digital Accessibility Consultant and Trainer, who highlighted some of the issues people with disabilities face. Keith demonstrated the technology he uses in his everyday life to navigate the web and his surroundings. 2012: Internal Awareness Campaign and Donations: We Siteimprove has actively experienced how it was to work on our PCs relying on been marking and assistive technologies, the same way as users with different celebrating Global impairments might. We donated money to Junior Blind of Accessibility Awareness Day America, Action for Blind People, Dansk Blindesamfunds Ungdom, and Synskadades Riksförbund. since its initiation in 2012. 2013: Customer Awareness Campaign and Donations: We asked our customers to perform website accessibility tasks. We donated money to Dansk Blindesamfunds Ungdom. 2014: Free Course and Donations: We released our free website accessibility training course and donated money to Dansk Blindesamfunds Ungdom for each person who listened to our interview with our accessibility experts. 2015: Denmark’s largest ever tandem bike ride: In collaboration with the Danish Association of the Blind we arranged a tandem bike ride event with 100 bikes. After the event, the bikes were donated to blind associations and individuals. 2016: We produced a number of free educational materials on accessibility, including a video, an eBook, and a blog post. 2017: Biggest Global Accessibility Awareness Day in Copenhagen: We organized an event in Copenhagen that was free to attend for the public. Alongside respected accessibility experts from around the world, inventor of the World Wide Web Sir Tim Berners-Lee hosted a talk about an open and inclusive World Wide Web. 2018: The Improvers Project & Stories from the Digital Divide. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Influencing Others to Articulate, like Siteimprove, is provided Articulate with detailed, Embrace Accessibility committed to ensuring that its actionable information on how to software is compliant with the increase their products’ conformance It can be difficult to make sure internationally recognized Web with accessibility standards. This products and software purchased Content Accessibility Guidelines way, they can continue to develop from a third-party vendor comply (WCAG). However, compliance isn’t world-class software that not only with your organization’s accessibility always a quick fix, as we’ve discussed serves the needs of their customers, policy. Many software products aren’t in our blog “Creating a Development but is accessible to users of all inherently accessible straight out of Culture That Prioritizes Software abilities. the box, which can make choosing Accessibility.” a provider more difficult, especially Working with Pendo Interacting with customers within Siteimprove’s platform is an essential part of strengthening the customer experience and supporting marketing activities. For the Release Management team, it was vital that the tool they chose to support this action was accessible. Having previously used software that posed accessibility issues for users, the team decided to change the way they work and look for a solution more in line with Siteimprove’s greater accessibility goals. for companies like Siteimprove that As part of the ongoing champion web accessibility. relationship between us and Articulate, we have As we believe accessibility is an provided Articulate with ongoing process, rather than a onedetailed, actionable off project, we work hard to give our information on how to users the support they need to work increase their products’ around issues they encounter. We conformance with also use our expertise to assist thirdaccessibility standards. party vendors as they work through This way, they can web accessibility issues. continue to develop world-class software Working with Articulate that not only serves Siteimprove uses several products the needs of their customers, but is As part of the vendor management from Articulate to provide accessible to users of all abilities. process the Release Management customers and prospects with team first prioritized what they access to Siteimprove Academy, our As part of the ongoing relationship needed from a potential software comprehensive e-learning hub. between us and Articulate, we have solution. Among their requirements 25 was access to the code and backend so they could work W3C with developers to make things accessible. Additionally, Siteimprove is part of the World Wide Web Consortium the process included educating potential vendors about (W3C), the leading group of organizations, thought the importance of accessibility and searching through leaders, and community members that develop vendors’ help centers and documentation to see whether international web standards. As the organizing body they had knowledge about accessibility. behind the global Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, W3C focuses heavily on digital accessibility. These It was at this time that Siteimprove first met Pendo, a guidelines have become the baseline for internet software solution that helps product teams understand regulations around the world, including in the European and guide users to create a better overall customer Union, the United States, and Australia. experience. Pendo demonstrated their solutions and the release team enlisted two of Siteimprove’s internal EDF accessibility advocates to review the software to see how it interacted with their assistive technologies. Siteimprove has a corporate sponsorship agreement with the European Disability Forum (EDF), an independent While Pendo wasn’t fully accessible right away, they did non-governmental organization (NGO) that defends the offer options and, unlike others, were open to learning interests of 80 million Europeans with disabilities. Having about accessibility and making changes. As such, we previously cooperated on web accessibility initiatives chose Pendo. Since then, Siteimprove has used this throughout the years, Siteimprove and EDF decided opportunity to share their expertise in accessibility with to formalize and strengthen our efforts by signing the Pendo, which Pendo has called “an insightful and eyecommitment statement. This corporate sponsorship opening experience.” agreement is the first of this nature for the EDF. Our Key Accessibility Partnerships For Siteimprove’s Global Head of Accessibility Relations, Stein-Erik Skotkjerra, the partnership with EDF is a chance Partnering with other organizations is crucial to to make meaningful changes to the web accessibility achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals—in world: “EDF is such an important organization in the fact, goal number 17 specifically calls for partnerships accessibility field. They’re real go-getters that actually get across sectors. To strengthen our partnership focus and things done, which is a value we share at Siteimprove. I’m provide a better partner experience, we established our confident that together we can make positive advances.” accessibility relations group in September 2018. As part of the agreement, EDF and Siteimprove organize The group is headed by Stein Erik Skotkjerra, who’s an events on web accessibility and standardization. EDF international digital accessibility specialist and public also provides technical input to Siteimprove related to speaker with more than a decade of experience in the the work perspectives of persons with disabilities. Each universal design of information and communication year, Siteimprove and EDF co-participate in a roundtable technologies (ICT). The group focuses on championing at the United Nations’ Conference of States Parties global inclusion and on the provision of large-scale Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in automated accessibility testing and monitoring. New York. Siteimprove is proud to lead the charge toward a more accessible internet by building on our commitment to partnerships, community, and thought leadership. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Conference of State Parties to the CRPD In 2018, the United Nations’ Conference of States Parties (COSP) to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) took place in June at the UN headquarters in New York. During the conference, our partners at EDF organized the event “International Developments Toward Accessibility Standards Coherence: Let’s Implement!”. The EDF invited us to join them to talk about international accessibility standards, tools currently available, and how they can be used to underpin the implementation of the UN CRPD. As part of the event, Stein Erik Skotkjerra, Global Head of Accessibility Relations at Siteimprove, participated in a panel discussion and shared his expertise with the international audience. Additional Siteimprove Partnerships On our quest to make the web better for all, Siteimprove is a member of the International Association of Accessibility Professionals and Denmark’s Design for Alle, a branch of Design for All Europe, an organization working toward a more inclusive Europe. Siteimprove also participates in the Danish Standards IT Accessibility Committee and UNINFO’s eAccessibility Commission for the development of standards that are instrumental in facilitating access to the web. 27 Siteimprove’s Accessibility Testing In 2018, our customers benefited from improved Continues to Improve accessibility page reports and more fine-tuned accessibility checks. The team working on the The Siteimprove Accessibility tool provides customers accessibility software even made the page reports and with a thorough audit of accessibility issues, tracks our in-tool dashboards accessible in the process. improvement and progress, and allows them to dig deeper into accessibility issues on a page-by-page basis. To complement our automatic accessibility testing In order to keep delivering best-in-class accessibility software, we also offer manual testing for customers in testing services we continue to improve our software and the United States who are interested in user testing their the services we deliver. websites and ensuring that they live up to all accessibility standards. We expanded the manual testing team in One of our key focus areas is building the next generation 2018 to provide an even higher level of service and make of our Accessibility software, which will combine W3C us capable of assisting customers in all aspects of digital Accessibility Conformance Testing rules and accessibility accessibility. recommendations to help organizations achieve a higher accessibility level and improve user experience. After its launch in February 2017, the Siteimprove Accessibility Checker, a free extension for Google Chrome, has continued to increase in popularity. The free extension is available for everyone in the Chrome Web Store and saw the total number of users rise to more than 45,000 in 2018. That’s an 80% increase since 2017! Protecting Personal Data At Siteimprove we believe people have the right to privacy online and that your data is yours. Siteimprove takes privacy very seriously and has a reputation for safeguarding our customers’ data. Own Your Own Data Siteimprove processes data for all our clients through the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. In addition to complying with data privacy regulations, it’s Siteimprove policy not to sell or otherwise share our clients’ data to third-parties. Our clients own their data and we ensure that their data is kept safe and not shared with other entities, commercial or otherwise. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 GDPR Compliance Siteimprove processes personal data when a customer signs up and uses the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. Siteimprove is committed to GDPR compliance in both To be transparent and assist prospective and current its own internal processing of personal data as well as customers in understanding how Siteimprove addresses customer use of the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. GDPR obligations, we developed an FAQ, which can be These compliance efforts have direct executive-team found on our website. oversight and are implemented by the Siteimprove Legal, Information Security, and IT departments. Siteimprove’s Data Privacy Tool Siteimprove’s approach to GDPR compliance includes, With Siteimprove Data Privacy, we help our customers but is not limited to, the technical and organizational locate the personal data that they handle online, measures below: including ID numbers, cookies, and more. We empower our customers to find and remove personal data across their website and in turn help them adopt better data oo Transparency in the processing of data and the privacy practices. Together, we minimize the risk of their sub-processors used user and customer data being abused. oo Offering customers a Data Processing Agreement to assist them in meeting their GDPR obligations Protect Your Personal Data with oo Implementing principles of privacy by default Siteimprove’s Share Feature and privacy by design into the development The Siteimprove Share Widget offers social engagement process while protecting personal data. oo Enhancing our infrastructure to implement encryption of data-at-rest and increased access The Share Widget does not collect data from users or controls visitors and does not sell visitor data to third parties. oo Conducting awareness sessions on what personal This distinguishes us from other content-sharing widget data is and how it should be treated services, which add cookies to collect data to re-sell to oo Regularly auditing individual departments to advertisers. verify adherence to personal data business processes and identify any new procedures or Recently, alarms have been raised, particularly in the personal data flows public sector, that content-sharing services sell data oo Increasing vendor security requirements in both to or share data with third parties. With our product, vetting processes and contracts customers can safely implement a share widget that respects privacy. oo Annual ISAE3400 audits performed by external auditor (PwC) 29 Building the Next Generation of Accessibility Testing and Reporting By Stein Erik Skotkjerra, Head of Accessibility Relations In November 2017 Siteimprove started working on the three-year Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) Tools project. We cooperate with other key players to build high-quality, standardized, and opensource checks for accessibility conformance testing to support the implementation of the EU Web Accessibility Directive. The project will enable Siteimprove to provide large-scale monitoring and maintain our position as industry leaders and providers of bestin-class, innovative tools for accessibility testing. 2018 Results During the first year, the project saw ground breaking results. One outcome is a guide on Developing an Accessibility Statement for websites, apps, and other digital content. As an additional resource, the work group also created a free, open-source accessibility statement generator tool. We have also created, validated, and implemented 30 Accessibility Conformance Testing Rules— with 25 more to come in 2019. These rules ensure consistency in the way we test accessibility requirements. This means the same check will always return the same result in all tools that have implemented those rules. An Open Format for Accessibility Test Results has also been developed to ensure interoperability and consistency in accessibility test reporting. All this is implemented in Siteimprove’s open-source testing engine Alfa. WAI-Tools: The Go-To Solution for Public Sector Bodies in the EU The EU Web Accessibility Directive will require Member States to monitor and report compliance progress to the EU commission beginning in December 2019. Member States and public-sector bodies will need accurate, automated tools that can process large amounts of content and assist in repairing web accessibility problems. WAI-Tools aims to be their go-to solution. 30 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 WAI-Tools drives web accessibility evaluation and repair by: oo Building on ongoing WCAG Accessibility Conformance Testing efforts by the W3C oo Ensuring consistency and accuracy across automated, semi-automated, and manual testing oo Pursuing leading-edge testing technologies, including dynamic and mobile applications oo Leveraging the existing market of commercial, free, and open-source evaluation tools oo Demonstrating large-scale accessibility monitoring built on open standards and tools WAI-Tools achieves this by carrying out key efforts in the vendor-neutral environment of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). WAI-Tools draws together key expertise from industry, public bodies, and research to develop a common understanding of web accessibility requirements. Part of the EU’s Horizon 2020 Program WAI-Tools is an Innovation Action project, co-funded by the European Commission under the Horizon 2020 program, Europe’s largest research and innovation program. The project was established as a response to the Horizon 2020 program’s call for innovation in the area of accessibility compliance assessment. In addition to Siteimprove, the WAI-Tools consortium consists of the W3C, Norwegian Agency for Public Management and eGovernment (Difi), Portuguese Ministry for Science and Technology, University of Lisbon, Deque Systems, and Accessibility Foundation. 31 Goals Siteimprove’s Human Rights Goals Goals achieved 2018 Goals for 2019 The number of users of our free Google We will continue developing and improving Contribute to making the web better and Chrome Accessibility Checker increased by our accessibility software to provide other more inclusive for all 80%. organizations with the best possible tools to improve their accessibility. We organized, hosted, and participated in numerous events and webinars with We will continue to support Global the purpose of spreading awareness and Accessibility Awareness Day and organize knowledge about digital inclusion and events to create awareness about digital accessibility. inclusion. We want to launch a website for large-scale monitoring of accessibility levels across the world. Provide quality consulting and education 7,205 customers and non-customers and We will continue to offer expert consultancy 189 Siteimprove employees completed one and education on accessibility to Siteimprove or more of our accessibility courses in the customers, partners, employees, and the Siteimprove Academy. general public. We provide free accessibility courses in Siteimprove Academy. Approx. 10,000 pieces of accessibility content were downloaded from the Siteimprove website. We continued to add educational content to our blog. It now contains 64 posts about accessibility. Form effective accessibility partnerships We successfully established a partnership We will continue to look for partnerships with the European Disability Forum (EDF), in the public as well as private sector that alongside whom we participated in the 11th can help us toward a sustainable future and Session of the UN Convention for the Rights digital equality. of People with Disabilities. We saw great progress in the WAI-Tools project, of which we are a member alongside W3C, public entities, and research institutions. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Labor Rights 33 Global Compact Principles 3-6 The company should Our Employees Are Our Greatest Asset 3. Uphold the freedom of association and At Siteimprove, our employees are our greatest resource. the effective recognition of the right to Without them there would be no innovative software, no collective bargaining. happy customers, no Siteimprove. That’s why we continue 4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of to work hard to create a safe, healthy, and inclusive forced and compulsory labor. workplace and aim for the highest possible level of 5. Uphold the effective abolition of child employee satisfaction. labor. 6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination The Siteimprove Workforce in respect of employment and occupaSiteimprove has offices and employees around the world. tion. Specifically, Siteimprove employs people in Australia, Austria, Canada, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Denmark, where Siteimprove’s headquarters are located. Siteimprove adheres to local labor laws in all countries in which the company is represented. Siteimprove does not use child labor or forced labor, a commitment stated in our Code of Conduct. Child labor is defined as employing any person younger than the minimum age allowed by law in the jurisdiction in question. However, in no event will we knowingly employ anyone younger than sixteen years of age. Health and Safety As a SaaS company our product is software, and all production of the Siteimprove software is conducted by highly skilled IT professionals under safe conditions in our headquarters in Denmark. The main initiatives for ensuring that our workplaces provide a safe work environment are our company-wide Code of Conduct and our work environment organization that operates in Denmark and the Netherlands. The Code of Conduct is a comprehensive company policy to which every Siteimprove employee must adhere. The document also describes Siteimprove’s commitment to its employees and in terms of employee safety, Siteimprove is committed to the following: oo Siteimprove strives to eliminate potential hazards from the workplace and to comply with all applicable occupational safety and health laws and standards. oo Siteimprove helps maintain a safe, healthy, and productive work environment for all Siteimprove employees by: •• prohibiting the possession, use, sale, or transfer of illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia on Siteimprove property or time; •• prohibiting the conduct of Siteimprove business while under the influence of alcohol; •• prohibiting any acts that could be perceived as violent, threatening, degrading or intimidating; and •• requiring that any instance of drug or alcohol abuse, violence, or unlawful weapons possession be reported to management immediately. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 To further ensure that Siteimprove is a safe and healthy Looking at our highest scoring statements globally from workplace, a working environment organization has the Great Place to Work®, our employees express that been established. This group is based in Copenhagen the following statements characterize Siteimprove as a and consists of four employee representatives elected by workplace: their colleagues. The working environment organization takes mandatory courses and monitors the work oo This is a physically safe place to work. environment in the office based on a list of parameters, oo People here are treated fairly, regardless of their including room temperature, sound, air quality, and race/disability/sex/age/sexual orientation. ergonomic conditions. In 2018 they organized first aid oo When you join the organization, you are made to courses for the Copenhagen-based employees and were feel welcome. successful in getting two defibrillators for the office so that we, or anyone close to the office, can quickly assist if oo I am able to take time off from work when I think someone suffers a heart attack. it’s necessary. oo I’m proud to tell others I work here. Employee Satisfaction – A Key Priority For a fourth consecutive year Siteimprove was named At Siteimprove the happiness and well-being of our one of the top workplaces in Minnesota by Star Tribune. employees is a top priority and we work hard to maintain The award recognizes the most progressive companies a safe and healthy workplace that nurtures professional in Minnesota based on a third-party employee survey growth. Every year we run employee satisfaction surveys measuring engagement, organizational health, and in collaboration with external experts to keep track of satisfaction. Over 2,400 companies were invited to how our employees are doing and to identify areas where participate and the analysis included responses from we need to up our game. over 71,000 employees at public, private, and nonprofit organizations in Minnesota. Rankings were composite A Great Place to Work scores calculated purely based on employee responses. Great Place to Work® is a global research and consulting At Siteimprove, we’re proud to rank among the top firm that we’ve collaborated with for the past four years. companies once again in 2018. We ran their employee satisfaction survey for a fourth time in September 2018. For the first time in Siteimprove history, all our locations participated in the survey. Although we’ve seen impressive progress over the past years, we did not see the trend continue in 2018 as some of the results decreased slightly. At Siteimprove we take the Great Place to Work® survey results very seriously. Even though we continue to score highly compared to industry averages, we never rest on our laurels when it comes to employee satisfaction. After this year’s survey, we’re increasing our focus and intend to track the satisfaction levels of our employees more regularly. 35 Employee Involvement and Volunteering While our employees are our greatest asset, they are also great inclusion ambassadors. At Siteimprove, we have a lot of passionate people who want to engage with the community and promote inclusion. To facilitate employee involvement, we have some formalized processes and initiatives for employees who are willing to spend working hours engaging in meaningful activities that promote inclusion and help others. Give Back Days In 2018 we launched the initiative “Giving Back at Siteimprove” in our Minneapolis office. The initiative gives all eligible employees the opportunity to contribute their time, talent, and passion for good causes by volunteering Erika Borgos volunteered for Manna Market for organizations or events. Each employee receives two days, or 16 hours, to use during regularly scheduled work awareness about, promotes, or educates others about to spend on these activities. digital accessibility and inclusion. During the year Siteimprovers donated more than 400 The program especially focuses on educational hours of their regularly scheduled work days to a wide institutions as we want to reach the developers, range of charitable causes in the local area. designers, and decision makers of tomorrow to make sure they think about inclusion from the beginning of their careers. By telling stories of people that experience exclusion and engaging with students about tools and strategies they can use to remove accessibility barriers, we hope they will go on to develop new solutions that make inclusion an uncomplicated, commonplace standard. The program is still in its infancy but we hope to see more and more Siteimprovers taking initiative to be inclusion ambassadors in the future. Sarah Herold, Nick Dalman, Luke Jerviss, Shannon Storbeck, and Adam White volunteered for 2nd Harvest Heartland Act to Include In 2018, we also launched our latest volunteering initiative: Act to Include. It’s a volunteering program for all Siteimprove employees and it is centered around digital accessibility. Every employee can spend one Andrew Norbin, Phil Simondet, and Tyler Zipperer working day, or 8 hours, doing an activity that creates volunteered for Habitat for Humanity 36 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 CSR & Inclusion Group At the start of the year, we combined two employee groups in our Minneapolis office into one. Our CSR group and our Diversity & Inclusion group joined forces, creating our CSR & Inclusion Group, which is an employee-run group that organizes activities for employees that focus on inclusion, diversity, volunteering, and charity. The group has an internal and external scope when planning their activities and they aspire to establish four events a year. In the final section of this report called Local Initiatives you can read more about the events that the CSR & Inclusion Group organized during 2018. Diversity At Siteimprove, we aspire to be an inclusive company. We take pride in having a diverse workforce and we see it as one of our core strengths. Our employees hail from 43 countries and all of them bring different backgrounds, abilities, and valuable knowledge and experiences to the table, contributing to Siteimprover Facts – 2018 our inclusive company culture and great business results. Number of Siteimprovers: 510 Average age: 33 years Equal Average time of employment: 2 years Opportunities Total nationalities: 43 Gender split (Female/Male): 37/63 Siteimprove is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We preach inclusion externally in our efforts to make the web better for all, and we find it only natural not to discriminate in our hiring process or in the way we treat employees. We’re very focused on fostering a workplace culture where everyone is included and treated fairly and equally. We take pride in being a workplace for people of all abilities. We encourage minorities, women, disabled people, and veterans to apply for our jobs worldwide. Siteimprove’s commitment to offering equal opportunities is also stated in our Code of Conduct as a constant reminder to all employees: oo It is the policy, practice, and desire of Siteimprove to provide employment opportunities to all qualified persons on an equal basis. Siteimprove will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, national origin, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law in any of the terms or conditions of employment. Pride: Celebrating Diversity In 2018 we saw more of our offices celebrating LGBT Pride than ever before. For instance, our teams in Minneapolis and Toronto celebrated Pride Month by sharing some beautiful rainbow-themed cakes, and during Pride Week in Copenhagen we proudly flew the rainbow pride flag at the top of our headquarters. We also ran a social media campaign focusing on LGBT inclusion in companies during Pride Week. For us, supporting LGBT Pride is a way to show that we are 37 against discrimination and violence of anyone because of their sexual orientation. We’re a company that preaches Women in Tech inclusion and it’s important for us to promote inclusion Of our total workforce of 510 people, 37% are women, of all people, both externally and internally to make sure which is above average for the IT industry according to everyone can feel like they belong at Siteimprove. statistics from IT-Branchen (The Danish ICT Industry Association). However, as a company we have higher HackYourFuture ambitions for gender diversity and that’s why, in August HackYourFuture is a coding school that teaches 2017, we initiated our partnership with the community computer programming to refugees. After starting out Women in Tech and extended our sponsorship in 2018. in the Netherlands in 2016 they are now active in four Women in Tech organize activities to help and inspire countries, including Denmark. women to pursue a career in tech, a cause that we support. Siteimprove operates in an industry that has historically been dominated by men. We know that diversity is good for the business, so we and other players in the IT and technology industry need to be better at attracting female employees and developing them professionally. Together with Women in Tech we aim to show that technology is a great industry for everyone and, hopefully, encourage more women to pursue a career in IT. In November 2018 we hosted HackYourFuture and a group of aspiring software developers in our HQ in Copenhagen, where we’d organized for them to meet some of the people behind the Siteimprove Intelligence Platform. After showing the group around the office, the Siteimprove developers shared some insights about life as a software developer at Siteimprove. We also prepared a coding challenge, which they solved successfully to great excitement for both the students and the Siteimprovers! HackYourFuture’s goal is to teach their students how to code in order to boost their chances of gaining long-term employment, while increasing the number of talented developers on the job market—a goal we happily support at Siteimprove. 38 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Goals Siteimprove’s Labor Rights Goals Goals achieved 2018 Goals for 2019 We will continue to focus on maintaining a Ensure a healthy work environment for all We re-introduced Fitimprove, which is a safe and healthy work environment for all Siteimprove employees month of fun competitions and exercise to Siteimprove employees. get healthier and improve team spirit. The work environment organization ran first aid courses in Copenhagen. Ensure that employees, and applicants, have We continue to be an equal opportunity We will continue to provide and promote equal opportunities employer and not discriminate in our hiring equal rights to employees, applicants, and process. the public. We extended our partnership with Women We want to establish a diversity policy that in Tech. includes tangible goals for gender diversity. We continue to promote equality and We want to contribute to more diversity in the inclusion internally and externally. IT and tech industry. Continue our focus on the well-being and For the fourth consecutive year Siteimprove We want to continue tracking employee satisfaction of our employees was officially recognized as a great workplace satisfaction through the Great Place to Work® in Minnesota by Star Tribune. survey, and by introducing more frequent surveys. All Siteimprove locations were included in our annual employee satisfaction survey, Great We will continue to improve the opportunities Place to Work®, for the first time. and transparency in regards to professional development of our employees. We introduced more transparency and communication internally through the new Siteimprove app, Q&A sessions with top management, and increased employee involvement in decisions. We introduced systematic onboarding to track satisfaction and onboarding levels of new Siteimprovers. 39 Environment 40 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 41 Global Compact Principles 7-9 The company should 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As an IT company, Siteimprove’s environmental impact in the production and distribution processes is significantly lower than in other industries. At Siteimprove we want to positively contribute to a better environment and a greener future, which is why we have high environmental expectations for our employees, our providers, and our suppliers. Siteimprove’s Environmental Policy The Environmental Policy applies to all Siteimprove branch offices and Minimizing Our Carbon defines the overall environmental work within the company. The policy is Footprint directly related to the principles of the Global Compact. To live up to the As a Software-as-a-Service company, principles, we take the following actions: the biggest carbon footprint in our production and distribution comes We exercise caution in relation to oo Ensuring that our facilities from the big amounts of data we environmental challenges by: comply with the highest process, more specifically from the oo Striving to be among the environmental standards energy used in our data centers. most environmentally We are aware of the environmental conscious businesses in our We support the development impact of that energy consumption, industry and growth of environmentally which is why we have chosen a data friendly initiatives by: oo Ensuring that all our center that meets our demands providers and suppliers oo Ensuring that materials regarding sustainable energy demonstrate environmental from end-of-life products consumption and optimal data consciousness to an increasing extent security. can be recycled, or that oo Ensuring that our they can be disposed in an Our data center, Interxion, has internal processes are environmentally safe manner received multiple environmental environmentally compatible oo Cooperating with authorities awards and they support and We take steps to promote on the establishment/ consume energy from sustainable environmental responsibility by: operation of facilities when and low-carbon sources. 100% of new legislation takes effect or their power comes from sustainable oo Increasing the engagement better technology becomes sources, including water, solar, and and environmental available wind, which is a 10% improvement consciousness among employees from the past years. Interxion 42 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 also uses a unique cooling system county, we purchased individual improved our recycling significantly. that uses water from reservoirs 70 recycling containers for every desk We also have dedicated recycling meters below ground, which enables in our office in Minneapolis. With heroes that remind employees what them to exploit the natural cooling these individual containers, we were can and cannot be recycled, and our potential of the water to reduce the able to increase our recycling efforts office manager sends out reminders load on their chillers. significantly in 2018. to the staff. Prior to receiving the grant, our 3-yard recycling dumpster While Interxion is our main data center, we also use Amazon Web Services (AWS) for some of our data processes. AWS are committed to their goal of using 100% renewable energy for their global infrastructure footprint in the future and we’re happy to see them making progress. In January 2018 they reported a 50% renewable energy usage and have several ongoing renewable energy projects that will help them achieve their goal. Minimizing the Environmental Impact of Our Hardware As an IT company we use a lot of hardware equipment across all our offices. To ensure that the hardware we use has been produced and distributed in accordance with environmental standards, we use a fellow Global Compact Signatory, Atea, as our global IT hardware provider. From an environmental standpoint Atea is the right provider for Siteimprove because they are ISO 14001 certified, they screen their manufacturing suppliers using specific environmental criteria, and they have ambitious sustainability As a company we provide canned was picked up twice a week at goals. water, soda and other beverages approximately 75% full, today it to employees. We go through is picked up five times a week and Upping Our Recycling approximately 1000 aluminum cans is 100% full. That’s an increase in Efforts a week in Minneapolis. By making recycling of more than 330%! it easier for employees to recycle, After having our application for a and labelling all bins to identify In our Copenhagen office where recycling grant approved by the local which items are recyclable, we’ve employees are offered breakfast, 43 lunch, and take-away, we focus on take-away boxes with biodegradable With all these initiatives we have reducing the use of plastic containers boxes, and have moved away from significantly reduced the amount with the goal of eliminating it using plastic cutlery and plates. of plastic used in the Siteimprove entirely. In 2018 we successfully When single-use cutlery is needed we canteen in Copenhagen. eliminated the use of single-serving ensure that what we use is made from butter packs, replaced our plastic recycled and degradable materials. 44 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Goals Siteimprove’s Environment Goals Goals achieved 2018 Goals for 2019 Use environmentally responsible suppliers We continued our collaboration with We will continue our collaboration with green environmentally responsible data centers, primary suppliers. who also increased their use of power from sustainable sources. Encourage and practice environmental We improved recycling rates in our offices. We will continue to encourage employees consciousness internally For instance, we saw an increase of 330% in and external stakeholders to consider the Minneapolis and significantly reduced the use environment in their activities and use of of plastic in Copenhagen. resources. We will continue to look for opportunities to recycle more and produce less waste in our offices. 45 Anticorruption 46 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 47 Global Compact Principle 10 The company should 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. While Siteimprove operates in a low-risk market and solely in countries perceived as “less corrupt” by Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index, we take additional measures to work against corruption. Our company-wide Code of Conduct, which is mandatory for all Siteimprove employees to read and comply with, addresses the issues of bribery and corruption. In the corporate Code of Conduct, the section “Building As a global company, Siteimprove follows the strictest Business Relationships” states that “Honest dealing with ethical and business standards of behavior, regardless of customers and suppliers is essential to Siteimprove’s the leniency of local standards. Complying with the Code relationships. Giving or receiving any kickbacks, of Conduct is based on the use of good judgment and bribes, or similar payments of any sort is prohibited.” seeking guidance when questions arise. If employees Furthermore, it informs employees of their responsibility are in doubt about anything related to corruption in their dealings with government employees, to whom and bribery, they are encouraged to contact the Legal they are not allowed to offer any gifts, gratuity, or things Department, who can advise on the correct course of of value, unless pre-approved by the Legal Department. action. If employees witness any breaches or suspect violations of the company-wide Code of Conduct, they It is policy that employees at Siteimprove cannot keep must contact the legal department or reach out to gifts from providers, customers, vendors, and other Human Resources. The consequence of violating the partners. Instead all personal gifts that have been Code of Conduct can be a warning, or termination. received during the year are thrown into one pile for our annual employee bingo, where employees then Finally, Siteimprove always advises vendors of the randomly win gifts as bingo prizes. That way we avoid requirement to adhere to the Code of Conduct when conflicts of interest caused by gifts to Siteimprove working with us. If vendors fail to comply, they face employees from external providers, customers, vendors, the possibility of losing our business. Siteimprove also and other partners. respects and adheres to customer and supplier policies to the extent that they do not contradict our own policies. 48 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 Goals Anti-corruption Goals achieved 2018 Goals for 2019 Prevent all forms of bribery and corruption in Our Code of Conduct is now fully integrated We will continue doing business free of the company in the company. corruption. We had no cases or allegations related to bribery or corruption at Siteimprove in 2018. 49 Local Initiatives Every year our local teams take some time off from their usual responsibilities to engage with the local community and promote equality and inclusion. This is a collection of local initiatives and causes that we supported in 2018. Amsterdam users of the day care center went for a walk in the lovely, Dutch summer weather and shared some tasty ice cream. Blind for 1 Day In June, our Benelux team participated in an initiative Volunteering with Cordaan from the Dutch Eye Foundation called ‘Blind for 1 Day’. On In October, our Benelux team did some more volunteering the longest day of the year, the team experienced what it work, this time with the organization Cordaan in is like to be visually impaired, walking around Amsterdam Amsterdam. As one of the largest care organizations in and attempting to work wearing simulation glasses. The Amsterdam Coordan provides care and assistance for purpose of the initiative is to create more awareness and people that need it. The team of Siteimprovers spent understanding around people with visual disabilities and a morning with some of the elderly people who go to to raise money for essential eye examinations. Cordaan daily, organized activities for them, and took them for a walk in the park. Minneapolis Community Day June 15th was Community Day in our Minneapolis office. The CSR & Inclusion group organized a blood drive, where Memorial Blood Centers set up a mobile blood donation center so that volunteers could donate blood. 24 Siteimprovers made donations, which will help Memorial Blood Centers provide life-saving blood products for patients in need. Volunteering at an Amsterdam Day Care Center In July, the Benelux team spent a morning at a specialized day care center for people with multiple disabilities in Amsterdam. Together, the team of Siteimprovers and the 50 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 In addition to the blood drive, Siteimprovers participated Sydney in a clothing drive with Disabled American Veterans of Graduation Day for Assistance Dogs Australia Minnesota, a pet supplies drive with the animal rescue Wags & Whiskers, and a food drive with Volunteers In September, our team in Sydney attended the Enlisted to Assist People (VEAP). graduation day for Assistance Dogs Australia, who train and place service dogs with Australians in need. The Toys for Fraser Clients organization trains dogs that specialize in supporting In September, 40 U.S. Siteimprove volunteers made people with a physical disability, autism, or PTSD. 168 beaded fidget toys for clients of Fraser, Minnesota’s Graduation Day is the day where these hard-working largest provider of autism and early childhood mental dogs are officially handed over to their new owners and health services. The beaded fidget toys will be given is a celebration of all the hard work and training that to adolescent, teen, and young adult clients who can goes on behind the scenes. benefit from having a hand fidget toy. These toys help ease anxieties, give clients an acceptable outlet for excess energy, and are provided freely. Cereal for Open Arms During the month of November, our U.S. team set out to collect 500 boxes of cereal for Open Arms, a nonprofit that cooks and delivers free, nutritious meals to people living with life-threatening illnesses in the Twin Cities. The whole office chipped in and donated cereal boxes which meant that the team reached their goal before the end of November! Toronto The 17th Annual Meagan’s Walk and Hug A group of Siteimprovers from our Canada office participated in the 17th Annual Meagan’s Walk and Hug on May 12th, 2018. Meagan’s Walk is a community event that directs 100% of donations to SickKids to support pediatric brain tumor research. The team donated their personal time and money to take part in the walk and contribute to funding ground breaking research that improves treatments and outcomes for young brain tumor patients. 51 To find this and previous Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Reports, please visit https://siteimprove.com/en/company/csr/ 52 Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 CSR Report 2018 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
