2018 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Resurs Holding in brief ”Resurs ended 2018 with continued Resurs Holding (Resurs), which operates through its subsidiaries Resurs Bank and Solid Försäkring AB, is a leader in retail finance in the Nordic region, offering profitable growth and strong performance payment solutions, consumer loans and niche insurance products. At the end of 2018, the Group had 765 employees and a loan portfolio of SEK 28 billion. of the under­­lying earnings. All in all we can present our best ever full-year earnings and 5.9 we delivered on or over all financial targets.” 5.9 MILLION CUSTOMERS Resurs helps companies and private individuals with lending, Kenneth Nilsson, CEO Resurs Holding AB saving and payments. With more than 40 years of experience in the retail sector, Resurs makes shopping online and in stores quick, million customers easy and secure. Resurs focuses on the customer experience and makes good things happen and the hard feel easier. The Group 765 has thus built a customer base of more than 5.9 million private customers in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland. LISTED ON NASDAQ STOCKHOLM LARGE CAP Resurs has been listed on NASDAQ Stockholm Large Cap since employees April 2016. Resurs Bank was granted a banking licence in 2001 and is supervised by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. SEK RESURS HOLDING IN BRIEF CONTENTS 28 THREE BUSINESS SEGMENTS WITH IMPORTANT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 24 CONTENTS SYNERGIES EMPLOYEES, DIVERSITY Resurs’ operations are divided into three business AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 26 segments, based on the products and services offered. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 30 billion RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING 32 in lending CUSTOMER PRIVACY 34 RESURS HOLDING IN BRIEF 3 ANTI-CORRUPTION 35 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2018 4 CHAIRMAN STATEMENT 6 THE SHARE 36 CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT STATEMENT 7 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 38 PAYMENT SOLUTIONS CONSUMER LOANS INSURANCE INVESTMENT CASE 10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 49 Payment Solutions comprises Retail Consumer Loans customers are offered The Insurance business segment offers FINANCIAL TARGETS AND OUTCOMES 12 Finance, Credit Cards and Factoring. consumer loans, i.e. unsecured loans. non-life insurance through the company BOARD OF DIRECTORS 54 In retail finance, Resurs is the leading Consumer loans are normally used to Solid Försäkring AB. With the Nordic COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE AND TRENDS 14 GROUP MANAGEMENT 55 Nordic partner for sales-driving finance, finance larger purchases, extend existing region as its main market, Solid works RESURS MARKET 16 STATEMENTS AND NOTES 56 payment and loyalty solutions to chain loans or to finance general consumption. with leading retail chains in various STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL 18 stores and e-commerce companies. Consumer Loans also helps consumers sectors, and offers coverage in four AUDITOR’S REPORT 113 Credit Cards comprises Resurs’s proto consolidate their loans with other groups: Product, Security, Motor and THREE BUSINESS SEGMENTS 20 prietary credit cards and co-branded banks. At the end of 2018, lending to the Travel. The segment has approximately PAYMENT SOLUTIONS 21 ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 118 credit cards for retail finance partners. public amounted to SEK 17.4 billion (14.7). 2.3 million customers across the CONSUMER LOANS 22 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 120 The Factoring area primarily focuses Nordic region. INSURANCE 23 on invoice factoring and invoice disGRI CONTENT INDEX 122 counting for small and mid-sized companies. At the end of 2018, lending to the public amounted to SEK 10.5 billion (9.4). Our consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as adopted by the EU. Resurs also applies the relevant sections of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations and general guidelines on Annual Reports in Credit Institutions and Securities Companies (FFFS 2008:25 and all applicable amendments), and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups. The Swedish Anti-corruption Institute’s (IMM) Code on Code on Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits. Solid: IFRS and Solvency II standards, ISO. 2 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6 RESURS HOLDING 3 Significant events in 2018 Merger with yA Bank completed The merger with Norwegian yA Bank was completed as of 30 November 2018. The merger Entered into forward flow strengthened the bank’s capital agreements position by lowing its regulatory In November 2018 Resurs capital requirement, and the entered into forward flow Launch of Click and Collect Board therefore adjusted Resurs Resurs Women Potential agreements with three credit Introduction of The omni-channel solution Holding’s financial capital targets Program introduced management companies Launch of credit engine volunteer work Click & Collect was launched accordingly. In October 2018 Resurs enabling them to recover in Sweden In August 2018 Resurs inin September 2018. This introduced the Resurs some of the company’s delinThe credit engine was troduced the opportunity solution allows a manuWomen Potential Program, quent receivables in Sweden launched in the Swedish for employees to volunteer facturer, supplier, franchise a forum for professional and Norway. The first transfer market, for internal channels as part of the non-profit group or groups of individual development for women took place after the end of in April 2018 and agents in organisation Drivkraft retailers to easily offer a at the Resurs Group. the financial year, in June 2018, achieving a Helsingborg, which offers central e-commerce checkJanuary 2019. streamlined application promentoring to young people out combined with local cess that provides a rapid and their parents, as well management of inventories Intention to merge response to customer applias tutoring at schools in and store checkout. yA Bank cations. Since the launch, the the region. In February 2018, Resurs percentage of automatic announced its intention Resurs Bank app launched responses from the credit to begin the procedure The Resurs Bank app was engine in Sweden has risen of merging Resurs Bank Deposit offering in launched beginning with the from 50 to 97 per cent. with its wholly owned Germany launched Swedish market in November Norwegian subsidiary AI launched in the business A deposit offering was 2018. The app makes it easier yA Bank. In September 2018 artificial launched in Germany in for customers to manage their intelligence (AI) was launched, November 2018. By adding banking services through its beginning in Supreme Card. a complement to our de­posit user-friendly interface. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2018 Distinction as an Algorithms are used to business in Sweden and equal company achieve a faster process for Norway, we took a further Joined the UN Global In August 2018, Resurs appeared identifying existing customstep towards more diversified Compact on AllBright’s green list, which ers’ behaviours with high and strengthened financing. In May 2018 Resurs Holding ranks Swedish listed companies precision. This in turn generResurs Checkout launched joined the UN Global Compact, with an even gender distribution in physical stores ates activities and offerings thereby taking a firm position in their management. It was also that are customised and The Resurs Checkout payon issues concerning human recognised by the Indecap Q30 ment solution was launched better suited to specific rights, social conditions, the fund as one of 30 Swedish listed customer needs. for physical stores in March environment, labour and companies with the highest pro2018. This solution helps anti-corruption. portion ofwomen in manageconsumers move seamment positions. lessly between physical and e-commerce stores for their purchases. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 Lending 2018 Annual lending growth 2018 Net profit for the year after tax Return on equity 2018 (RoTE)* Dividend 2018 SEK SEK SEK 27,957 million +16% 1,143 million 33.9% 3.60 per share *Adjusted for the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio according to the Board’s target and dividends deducted from the capital base for the current year. 4 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-10 GRI 102-10 RESURS HOLDING 5 CHAIRMAN STATEMENT CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT STATEMENT Strong business model The best full-year continuing to deliver earnings ever In 2018, Resurs once again demonstrated its ability to deliver at the financial The strong beginning of 2018 set the tone for the year as a whole. As a result, financial targets and could therefore present the best earnings after tax in made the application process easier for customers and helped Resurs to make its level we have established since our IPO. Resurs delivered at and above its we can report that Resurs continues to our 40-year history. credit lending more efficient while maingrow faster than the Nordic consumer taining credit risk and credit levels. established financial targets, and this success will benefit our shareholders credit market and that it is gradually RAPID, ROBUST TECHNICAL ADVANCES To continue to develop the business capturing market shares. Lending THAT MEET NEW NEEDS model, we are working under the framethrough continued healthy dividends. Based on our unique business model, amounted to SEK 27,957 million, which I am sure that this success is above all work of four strategic focus areas. Read is equivalent to 16 per cent annualised more on pages 18-19. we will now continue our efforts to future-proof our business by making use growth. Moreover this is profitable growth due to our daring to be true to our business model. Resurs was founded by retailof opportunities offered by digitisation to create both business and sharebased on responsible credit lending where cost controls remain strong. In ers for retailers. From this starting point, PROUD OF RECOGNITION FOR OUR we concentrate on what we are best at, EQUAL ORGANISATION holder value. total, we delivered on or over all of our and continue to refine and improve new Our efforts to make our organisation innovative solution that strengthen our and management as equal as possible offering to our retail finance partners and received positive attention during the customers. For example our omni-channel year. In 2018 we were given a spot on We can look back at yet another extremely joint responsibility along with companies platform, which is the bridge between AllBright’s green list, which is a ranking successful year — in fact, the best full-year and organisations around the world to physical stores and e-commerce, is partly of Swedish listed companies with even CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT STATEMENT earnings ever for Resurs. This strong perdrive progress in a more sustainable responsible for the fact that over 35 per gender distribution. We were furthermore formance is demonstrated by several perdirection. Our social commitment can cent of our retail finance sales now take recognised by the Indecap Q30 fund, CHAIRMAN STATEMENT formance measures such as the strong oralso be seen locally, where we serve as a place via ecommerce. which also chose to invest in us, as one ganic growth in lending and a stable rise in partner to the A Sustainable Tomorrow We are also making rapid digital progof 30 Swedish listed companies with earnings per share, which have risen by 45 conference in Helsingborg, which creates ress, and the company is at the forefront the highest proportion of women in per cent since our IPO. Return on tangible partnerships and networks where people when it comes to implementing and taking management positions. equity (RoTE) continued to rise, reaching join forces to work for a sustainable fuadvantage of all of the opportunities 2018 was another year of hard work 33.9 per cent. One important message in ture. This is important work, and Resurs provided by technology, so that over 95 and multiple exciting launches of new this context is that during the past year is now taking a more active role by per cent of all credit applications via the offerings, which my colleagues in the we also set our already ambitious financial serving as the main partner in 2019. credit engine in Sweden receive an automanagement team summarise below. targets even higher, but despite this we matic response. In addition, the develophave lived up to this promise and delivered ment of the credit engine in 2018 has CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE THE PEOPLE BEHIND THE SUCCESS on or over our targets quarter after quarter. Today Resurs is a well-managed listed This financial success will now also benefit company that delivers stable perforour shareholders faster through half-year mance. It has been unbelievably inspiring dividend payments. For 2018 specifically, to have had the chance to be part of this meant that shareholders received a Resurs’ amazing journey. First there was dividend of SEK 1.65 per share in October. the intense growth phase with Nordic as This means the annual dividend has been the principal owner, followed by the IPO raised to SEK 3.60 per share, or an increase of 9 per cent compared with the 2017 dividend. in 2016 and since the Group’s continued “I am sure that this success is above all due to stable organic growth with double-digit It is my decided opinion that Resurs’s percentages in lending, income and our daring to be true to our business model. successes are based on a clear business earnings. I will be passing on the Chairconcept and the courage to stick to its man’s gavel in 2019 and I’d like to take Resurs was founded by retailers for retailers. business model, which has matured along with technological advances and the new the opportunity to express my heartfelt thanks to the company’s Board, manageFrom this starting point, we concentrate on customer needs that have arisen. The business model has proven to be resilient and ment and employees. The Group’s excelwhat we are best at, and continue to refine lent performance is a direct result of your stable over many years during economic commitment, spirit of innovation and and improve new innovative solution that downturns, while having the ability to capin-depth expertise. Moreover I am sure ture growth when the economy is doing well. that we’ve only seen the beginning of strengthen our offering to our retail CONTINUED TARGETED the Resurs success story thanks to the finance partners and customers.” passion that you all share! SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS Resurs joined the UN Global Compact and Helsingborg, March 2019 Kenneth Nilsson, CEO, Resurs Holding a signatory to its ten principles during the Jan Samuelson year. This means that we continue to take Chairman of the Board, Resurs Holding 6 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-14 GRI 102-14 RESURS HOLDING 7 PETER ROSÉN ERIK FRICK ANNA NAUCLÉR ANETTE KONAR RIPLE SEBASTIAN GREEN EVA BRIKE Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Chief Operating Officer (COO) Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) Chief IT Officer (CIO) Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) Resurs achieved its best full-year earnings The development of our omni-channel In 2018 we continued to develop innoDuring the year we further strengthened In addition to completing new technical Our most important task as an employer ever for 2018. Growth was both strong solution and mobile platforms are espevative products and solutions that meet Resurs’ brand and developed a new comsolutions that develop our business activis to offer a healthy work environment, and profitable in all Nordic markets. At cially important to the work of changing the needs of both our retail finance partmunication platform. We intend to raise ities, we were able to complete a comgood opportunities for professional year-end lending amounted to nearly and refining our digital presence. In 2018 ners and our customers. During the year awareness about Resurs and what we prehensive work on the two regulatory growth and effective leadership. During SEK 28 billion. This is a 16 per cent annual we launched Resurs Checkout in physical we launched Click & Collect, an omni-chanstand for. The first campaign kicked off projects GDPR and PSD2 during the year. the year we implemented a digital tool increase, which exceeded our financial stores as well, which means that connel solution that allows a manufacturer, after the summer, and it will be followed Our operations are completely adapted that measures employees’ perceptions of target of over 10 per cent lending growth sumers can now move seamlessly from a supplier, franchise group or groups of by more campaigns intended to clarify to the new legislation, which strengthens well-being, job satisfaction and commitby a wide margin. The Group also delivered retail finance partner’s e-commerce store individual retailers to quickly and easily the purpose of our business and our consumer protection and privacy. ment throughout the Group in real time. on or over its other financial targets, and to the physical store and vice versa. Our offer a central e-commerce checkout offering, ‘to make good things happen Now that these projects have been This alerts us to situations where these is raised its dividend by 9 per cent compared retailers immediately showed widespread combined with local management of and the hard feel easier’. completed, additional resources have a risk of ill health. During the year we also with 2017. interest in the solution. inventories and sales. One important element of our brandbeen freed up for the development of introduced the next phase of our Let’s CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT STATEMENT During the year, we worked on a number For many of our customers, the mobile Development of AI and predictive ing efforts is to be more accessible and innovative products and services. In Change leadership training course, with of strategic initiatives to optimise our has become the most important digital models, which we previously applied to improve the customer experience in all of our development work we strive for the objective of developing management capital and liquidity situation. Impleplatform. Through the launch of the credit lending, continued during the year. our channels. The first tangible result was close cooperation between IT and opthat is responsive during times of change. menting the merger with yA Bank Resurs Bank app we are making everyday One new development for 2018 is that we our updated website that were launched erations in order to develop innovative Diversity and equal opportunity are strengthened our capital position since life easier for our customers, by making it are also using this technology for busiin Sweden during the second quarter and products and services together that central sustainability topics, and the job our regulatory capital requirements were easy to pay invoices for example. ness-driven campaigns for Supreme in Norway during the fourth quarter. The create value for our retail finance of shaping an organisation that reflects reduced by about one percentage point. We have a clear vision of what we Card, and we are seeing very promising new website is faster and simpler, and it is partners and customers. society at large continues. We are enWe also signed forward flow agreements want to achieve and a focus for how we results initially. In 2019 we will implement continually developed to meet the needs of deavouring to broaden our recruitment with three credit management companies, transform these possibilities operationally AI in other parts of the business. our customers and retail finance partners. search radius, and we do so with the enabling them to recover some of our in everyday life. Continued digitisation In the Consumer Loans area, the rollWe will launch new websites in Denmark conviction that a diverse workplace delinquent receivables. We also launched allows us to improve customer satisout of the credit engine in Sweden, Norway and Finland in early 2019 as well. makes us both a better workplace and a a deposit offering in Germany in the fourth faction and cost efficiency. It also makes and Finland lived up to our expectations more attractive employer. quarter, which provides us with stronger the workday easier and more efficient for for efficient credit decisions support and and even more diversified financing. our employees. higher growth. The credit engine helps us All in all Resurs showed very strong get to know the customer better, allowing performance, which generated profits us to raise the level of lending without both for shareholders and for investtaking higher risks. We will launch the ments in continued profitable growth. credit engine in Denmark as well at the beginning of 2019. 2018 can be summarised as yet another extremely successful year in Resurs’ history. “Our efforts to make our organisation and management as equal as But none of this would be possible without our wonderful employees, whose cutting-edge skills and vast commitment contribute to our success every day. possible received positive attention during the year. In 2018 we were In other words, Resurs is standing strong as we face a new year because we are true given a spot on AllBright’s green list, which is a ranking of Swedish to our business model, and our exciting journey continues with value creation for our retail finance partners and customers foremost. listed companies with even gender distribution. We were furthermore recognised by the Indecap Q30 fund, which also chose to invest in us, Helsingborg, March 2019 as one of 30 Swedish listed companies with the highest proportion Kenneth Nilsson CEO, Resurs Holding of women in management positions.” Kenneth Nilsson, CEO, Resurs Holding 8 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-14 GRI 102-14 RESURS HOLDING 9 Three compelling reasons to invest in Resurs #1 A STRONG BUSINESS MODEL WITH A NORDIC FOCUS AND A RETAILING LEGACY Resurs was founded by retailers for retailers. Its business model is therefore based on retailing experience. The founders of Resurs realised the benefits of retail finance solutions and flexible payment for increasing customer purchasing power and consumption, attracting customers to stores or e-commerce and strengthening customer loyalty. Today Resurs is a leader in the growing Nordic consumer credit market, with approximately 5.9 million customers in its customer database. There are important synergies between the three business segments, and the customer database serves as a hub generating significant opportunities for cross-selling offerings such as credit cards, consumer loans and insurance products. Based on its successful business model, Resurs continues to run an operation that will continue in the future to exhibit strong profitable growth, a growing base of retail finance partners, new products, growing cross-selling and strategic acquisitions. #2 UNIQUE SOLUTIONS FOR THE OMNI-RETAIL OF THE FUTURE INVESTMENT CASE Innovation plays a vital role in Resurs’s competitiveness. The Group is continuously adding new products and services to its product portfolio to support our retail finance partners and benefit our customers. The Group is also focused on digitising its processes in order to make things simpler and more efficient for customers and employees. Resurs’s omni-channel strategy has evolved in recent years to mean that the Group offers efficient payment solutions regardless of the sales channel. Some examples from 2018 were the launch of Resurs’s Checkout payment solution for physical stores, which helps consumers move seamlessly between physical and e-commerce stores, and Click & Collect, a central e-commerce checkout combined with local management of inventories and store checkout. The Group expanded the development of AI, which it had already employed in credit lending, into other parts of the business during the year. Algorithms are used to achieve a faster process for identifying existing customers’ behaviours with high precision. This in turn generates activities and offerings that are customised and better suited to specific customer needs. #3 HEALTHY PROFITABLE GROWTH AND AN ATTRACTIVE DIRECT YIELD We make good things happen Resurs’s stable returns are driven by the Group’s range of small and medium-sized loans with relatively short maturities, low customer acquisition costs and effective marketing. Small and medium-sized loans with short maturities offer attractive pricing and lower risk. and the hard feel easier Resurs has successfully developed and expanded its loan portfolio, which has been the main contributor to growth in total operating income. In 2018, loans to the public rose 16 per cent, amounting to a total of SEK 28 billion. This growth is taking place with good control of credit losses, which remain at a low and stable level. Resurs also further improved its profitability in 2018 and its investment return (RoTE) was 33.9 per cent, adjusted for the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio given the Board’s target. The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 3.60 per share for full-year 2018, of which SEK 1.65 was paid in October 2018. This is a 9 per cent increase compared with 2017. The Board intends to continue paying semi-annual dividends. 10 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 11 Resurs’ financial targets and outcomes Resurs reported its best ever earnings for 2018. This also means that Resurs once again delivered on or over all of its financial targets. Strong profitable growth and continued good control of credit losses are some of the primary reasons. ANNUAL LENDING GROWTH COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 RATIO OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS 16% >10% 13.4% >11.5% 16% 13.4% >10% >11.5% OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS Resurs’s target for total lending is annual organic growth of over 10 per the year. Percentage growth was strongest in Finland, while Sweden in Resurs’s target is that the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio will exceed 11.5 per total capital ratio for 2018 was 14.7 per cent, which was well above cent. Lending grew by 16 per cent in 2018. Growth remained strong in turn showed the highest growth in absolute terms. cent and that the total capital ratio will exceed 14 per cent. The Common both the target and the regulatory total capital ratio requirement of both banking segments and in all four geographic markets. Payment Solutions increased lending by 12 per cent, growth that was Equity Tier 1 ratio for 2018 was 13.4 per cent, which was well above both 13.0 per cent. FINANCIAL TARGETS AND OUTCOMES Consumer Loans increased loans to the public by 19 per cent during primarily driven by higher volumes from existing retail finance partners. the target and the regulatory capital ratio requirement of 9.3 per cent. The RISK-ADJUSTED NBI MARGIN, EXCLUDING INSURANCE RETURN ON TANGIBLE EQUITY (ROTE) OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS 33.9% 10.6% 10-12% 33.9% 30% 30% 10.6% 10–12% OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS Resurs’s target for the risk-adjusted NBI margin, excluding Insurance, is to due to the extremely turbulent capital markets at the end of 2018 and Resurs’s target return on equity (RoTE) excluding intangible assets is approxconsidered a consequence of other targets. The RoTE for 2018 amounted be 10-12 per cent. In 2018 the risk-adjusted NBI margin was 10.6 per cent. a lower NBI margin in Consumer Loans. imately 30 per cent, given a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio according to the to 33.9 per cent, given a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio according to the The decline was mainly due to the net expense from financial transactions Board’s target, adjusted for nonrecurring costs. This target should be Board’s target and dividends deducted from the capital base. C/I RATIO DIVIDENDS 40.5% <40% 63% OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS 50% 40.5% OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS <40% 63% OUTCOME 2018 MID-TERM TARGETS 50% Resurs’s target is to lower the cost/income ratio, excluding Insurance, The scalability of Resurs’s business model made a large contribution to Resurs’s target is to distribute at least 50 per cent of profit for the year to year’s dividend amounts to SEK 3.60. This is equivalent to a 9 per cent adjusted for nonrecurring costs, to under 40 per cent. For 2018 the the continued improvement of the cost/income ratio, despite increased shareholders. The Board proposes that the AGM adopt a dividend of SEK 1.95 increase compared with 2017 and amounts to 63 per cent of earnings per cost/income ratio including merger costs was 40.5 per cent. Merger investments in marketing and IT. per share. Including the dividend of SEK 1.65 paid on 12 October 2018, this share. The Board intends to continue paying semi-annual dividends. costs for yA Bank in Norway amounted to approximately SEK 10 million. 12 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 13 Five strong trends that set the agenda Digitisation, AI, omni-channel, new regulations and market consolidation are the primary external trends that challenge Resurs and the financial market as a whole, while they also create several new business opportunities. For Resurs, it’s important to remain at the forefront in order to respond to and deliver against new and changing needs of its retail finance partners and customers. DIGITISATION NEW REGULATIONS OF PAYMENTS PSD2 and GDPR are examples of new regulations that have entailed major changes and a great deal of work for the financial sector as a whole. The new legislation imCOMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE AND TRENDS The management of payments is changing rapidly. For example it’s probable that poses strong consumer protection and increases privacy. In addition to these Europhysical cards will be phased out in the long term as mobiles take over more and pean regulations, there are also several national regulations that will affect Resurs’s more payments. A fundamental element of Resurs’s offering is that the customer’s operations in the Nordic countries. It is critical for Resurs to be proactive as well as relationship with the retailer is packaged in a way that creates loyalty. Therefore to incorporate business solutions into its adjustments to the new regulations. digital application and signature flows have been created in order to remove the physical infrastructure from the process, along with mobile platforms that help consumers with purchases and loan payments. Within the company, examples of digitisation include using the credit engine to streamline the application flow and developing robots for various processes to improve the interaction between the OMNI-CHANNEL customer, processor and systems on customer calls. Omni-channel is about improving the customer experience by creating common interfaces for physical and digital retail where all payment methods and returns can be made independent of the sales channel. Resurs Checkout in physical stores, which was launched in 2018, is an example of an interface where the customer and retail finance partner have the same experience regardless of whether a purchase is ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) made in a store or via e-commerce. The company also launched the Click & Collect service, which offers a central e-commerce checkout combined with local manageAI is a broad concept that in Resurs’s case refers primarily to the ability to use ment of inventories and sales. large quantities of data to performed adaptive and predictive analyses of issues such as customer behaviours. In 2018 Resurs applied AI development, which it had previously used in credit lending, to business-driven Supreme Card initiatives, allowing the company to perform a new customer segmentation that identified specific behaviours of existing customers with a high degree of precision. This INDUSTRY led in turn to the development of tailored activities and offers that were better suited to customers’ needs. This initiative generated excellent results, and in CONSOLIDATION 2019 we will implement AI in other parts of the business. For Resurs, as well as for other companies in the Nordic financial market, the consolidation of the industry needs that everyone must respond to do and act according to a trend where banks acquire banks, banks acquire credit market companies and new players enter the financial sector. 14 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 15 A unique position in the Nordic MARKET SIZE 2018 BY CATEGORY consumer credit market Resurs operates in the Nordic consumer credit market, which can be broken down into three main categories: Retail Finance, Credit Cards and Consumer Loans. Resurs’s offering to the market stands out as a variation on standardised, customer-centric solutions that focuses on driving customer loyalty as well as sales. At the end of 2018, the Nordic consumer credit market accounted for total outstanding loans of approximately SEK 832 billion1. NORWAY FINLAND SEK billion SEK billion 200 200 RESURS’S SHARE OF THE NORDIC CONSUMER DISTRIBUTION OF THE NORDIC 150 150 128 CREDIT MARKET, 2018 CONSUMER CREDIT MARKET, 2018 97 82 100 RESURS MARKET 100 35 50 50 Consumer Credit Retail 24 12 Denmark 14% Loans Cards Finance SWEDEN Sweden 41% SEK billion Sweden 3% 3% 11% ns ns s s ce rd ce rd Lo an Lo a Ca an 253 a Ca in Norway 6% 1% 6% er it lF in er Cr it lF Finland 17% um Cred ai 200 um ed Re ai Denmark 2% <1% 25% ns Re t ns Co t Co 150 Finland 2% <1% 9% 100 50 47 38 Norway 28% OVERVIEW OF THE THREE MAIN CATEGORIES er s Ca ds nce Lo r in a an Cr ai ed lF RETAIL FINANCE: A financing solution (in a physical store um ns it Re or e-commerce) that is usually used for larger purchases. t NORDIC CONSUMER MARKET 2018 DENMARK Co When the customer chooses the retail finance solution to SEK billion finance a purchase, the bank pays the store immediately and the customer has the opportunity to make a partial Total lending SEK 832 billion payment to the bank. For Resurs the average loan is 200 approximately SEK 1,500. 150 Retail Finance Consumer Loans 100 86 CREDIT CARDS: Credit cards that are used to defer paySEK 82 billion SEK 564 billion 50 ments. The total credit card balance includes both the 22 8 interest-bearing and the non-interest-bearing balance. Credit Cards SEK 186 billion Lo rd nc an s e CONSUMER LOANS: An unsecured loan is ordinarily for s it Ca na Fi er amounts from SEK 10,000 to 500,000. Consumer loans are um Cred ai l normally used to finance larger purchases, extend existing ns Re t Co loans, consolidate small unsecured loans or to finance general consumption. For Resurs the average loan is approximately SEK 90,000. 1) Sources: Bank of Finland, Statistics Sweden, Statistics Norway, Association of Norwegian Finance Houses, Statistics Denmark 16 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-6, 102-7 GRI 102-6, 102-7 RESURS HOLDING 17 Business model and strategy CONSUMER LOANS Resurs’s operations are divided into three Attractive financing solutions in both online EMPLOYEES ARE CRITICAL TO RESURS’S business segments, based on the products and offline stores build customer loyalty SUCCESS and services offered: Payment Solutions and increase the repurchase rate. Added Since Resurs is a service provider, motivated (comprising Retail Finance, Credit Cards and value is created for the consumer through employees are crucial. Their skills, service Factoring), Consumer Loans and Insurance. higher purchasing power and opportunities ethic and commitment are the backbone of Significant synergies are created between for flexible repayment options. daily procedures, and enable continuous the three business segments, through Today Resurs’s customer database evolvement of the business model. targeted supplementary offerings to the contains over 5.9 million customers, the consumers in Resurs’s database. majority of whom first encountered Resurs The core of Resurs’s business model is via retail finance. The large customer dataCREDIT RETAIL the services offered to retail finance partbase provides opportunities for cross-sellCARDS FINANCE ners who operate in the retail sector. ing the Group’s other offerings. INSURANCE BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY Resurs has adopted the following four strategic focus areas that successfully drive the business model. DEVELOPMENT OF RETAIL A CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AN EVER IN-DEPTH CUSTOMER FINANCE PARTNERS BEYOND THE ORDINARY STRONGER BRAND KNOWLEDGE IS THE KEY Resurs’s unique expertise on the retail sector and its Customers must always have a positive experience Resurs’s need to form closer relationships with customers The customer database is the foundation for a large part customers are the foundation of the close partnership when they use any of Resurs’s products or services. along with its retail finance partners is growing stronger. of customer communication, both providing customer between Resurs and its retail finance partners. Resurs is Regardless of whether the customer wishes to save, The company also intends to increase awareness of its information and enabling cross-selling of other products responsive to every retailer’s needs, tailors solutions borrow or make a payment, the experience should be own brand and strengthen the brand in the long term and services. The database collects information about and continually refines these solutions with a goal that easy, secure and uncomplicated. In brief, Resurs should by putting Resurs Bank on the map as a customerthe customers’ credit card usage, payment patterns they share with their partners: to convert visiting conalways be easy to deal with. The company’s offerings oriented niche bank with a strong focus on the customer and credit history, thus facilitating the assessment of sumers to purchasing customers. Resurs creates value generate more loyal and returning customers for retailexperience. With a new communication platform as a potential interest in various products, services and the for retailers by driving sales and loyalty, and providing ers through its flexible terms and high level of service. foundation, the journey of clarifying the purpose of the current risk level. Cross-selling also has a positive effect payment solutions that allow customers to move seamA support process that focuses on simplicity and digibusiness, what Resurs Bank stands for, and clarifying on acquisition costs. For example in 2018 about half of lessly between the physical store and the e-commerce tal interfaces achieves not only a better level of service the flexible payment solution offering continues. all Supreme Cards were sold through inbound calls, and site to make their purchases and returns. and shorter lead times, but better reliability as well with over 80 per cent of sales of consumer loans were made Resurs will remain an innovative player, and it intends the reduction of manual processing. Digitisation also to existing customers in the database. Of the 5.9 million to continually expand its product portfolio by adding makes it possible to form an overview of the customer’s customers in Resurs’s database, approximately 2.4 new products and services to support retailers’ business relationship with Resurs and follow the customer million were active during the year. and increase consumer value. journey in order to identify any barriers that prevent customers from easily and securely using Resurs’s services for saving, borrowing or payment, for example. 18 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-9 GRI 102-9 RESURS HOLDING 19 Annual Accounts Act: Business model Annual Accounts Act: Business model Three business PAYMENT PERCENTAGE OF OPERATING INCOME 2018 segments that Resurs is built on SOLUTIONS 41% Resurs’s operation is divided into three business segments: Payment Solutions, STABLE MARGINS AND HEALTHY GROWTH Consumer Loans and Insurance. With the customer database as a common denominator, each segment develops innovative products and services that Payment Solutions saw strong growth with stable margins in 2018. Lending meet specific customer needs and market conditions. to the public increased by 12 per cent, amounting to SEK 10,508 million at year-end. Growth was mainly driven by higher volumes from existing retail finance partners. PAYMENT Payment Solutions comprises Retail Finance, Credit Cards Retail Finance works closely with retailers offer a central e-commerce checkout increasingly choose to sell or borrow and Factoring. Within retail finance, Resurs is a leading in order to drive sales, profitability and combined with local management of against their invoices. For example a compartner for sales-driving finance, payment and loyalty solucustomer loyalty in both physical and inventories and sales. pany can improve its liquidity and reduce tions in the Nordic region. Credit cards includes the Resurs e-commerce stores. It is mainly focused Use of digital credit applications in its credit risk by selling its invoices. During SOLUTIONS credit cards (with Supreme Card being the foremost) as well as cards that enable retail finance partners to promote their on sales of durable goods, in which consumers are interested in paying, or need physical stores increased in all of the Nordic countries during the year, and in the year Payment Solutions increased its focus on factoring and reinforced its THREE BUSINESS SEGMENTS own brands. The Factoring area primarily focuses on invoice to pay, in instalments. At year-end sales Sweden for example the share of digital organisation with new factoring salesPAYMENT SOLUTIONS factoring and invoice discounting for small and mid-sized from e-commerce represented 35 per credit applications was 80 per cent at people in the Swedish market. In 2019 companies, which is a fast and easy way for companies to cent of sales. year-end. the focus is on further streamlining increase their liquidity and reduce credit risk. processing via digital flows along with LAUNCHES OF INNOVATIVE, A SALES STRATEGY THAT PRODUCES launches of more liquidity strengthening FLEXIBLE PAYMENT METHODS HIGHER PROFITABILITY IN CREDIT services. In 2018 partnerships with existing retail CARDS finance partners performed well, which Sales in the credit card area continued to PAYMENT SOLUTIONS FINANCIAL was an important reason for the comperform well as a result of effective sales PERFORMANCE IN BRIEF pany’s strong growth. Meanwhile partnerto existing customers via inbound calls, At 31 December 2018, lending to the CONSUMER Consumer Loans offers consumer loans, i.e. unsecured ships with a large number of new retail which also provided the benefit of lower public increased 12 per cent to SEK loans. Consumer loans are normally used to finance larger finance partners were initiated. The acquisition costs. In 2018 half of all 10,508 million (9,419), a 10 per cent inpurchases, extend existing loans or to finance general development of Resurs’s omni-channel Supreme Cards were sold via customer crease in constant currencies. Operating consumption. Consumer Loans also helps consumers to platform resulted in several launches. service compared with a third in 2017. income amounted to SEK 1,425 million LOANS consolidate their loans with other banks, in order to reduce Resurs Checkout for physical stores The application of AI in the Supreme Card (1,268), an increase of 12 per cent comtheir monthly payments or interest expense. combines greater customer conversion area, which was launched in the autumn, pared with 2017. Operating income less potential with a broader array of relevant increased opportunities to tailor activities credit losses amounted to SEK 1,239 payment methods that allow customers and offerings based on customer needs, million (1,115). Both growth and higher to move seamlessly between the retailer’s which quickly generated positive results. income during the year are primarily an physical store and the e-commerce site effect of higher business volumes from to make their purchases. The Click & EXCITING BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES existing retail finance partners. Collect service allows a manufacturer, The risk-adjusted NBI margin was 12.5 INCREASE THE FOCUS ON FACTORING supplier, franchise group or groups of per cent (12.2 per cent). The credit loss An increasingly important factoring individual retailers to quickly and easily ratio rose to 1.9 per cent (1.7 per cent) INSURANCE Insurance offers non-life insurance through the company market is emerging as companies and was mainly the result of the introSolid Försäkrings AB. The focus is on niche coverage, with duction of the reporting standard IFRS 9. the Nordic region as the main market. The non-life insurance operation is divided into four business lines: Product, SOME OF RESURS’S RETAIL FINANCE PARTNERS: Security, Motor and Travel. The company partners with leading retail chains in various sectors, and has about 2.3 million customers across the Nordic region. 20 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-2 GRI 102-2, 102-10 RESURS HOLDING 21 CONSUMER LOANS INSURANCE PERCENTAGE OF OPERATING INCOME 2018 PERCENTAGE OF OPERATING INCOME 2018 54% 5% ALL OF THE NORDIC COUNTRIES STABLE PERFORMANCE AND STRONG DELIVERED GROWTH GROWTH IN TECHNICAL RESULT Lending to the public by Consumer Loans saw strong growth in 2018, primarily Insurance can look back at a year when its existing business performed due to the launch of the credit engine. The Swedish market was responsible well along with strong growth in the technical result. It also worked hard to for the strongest performance in absolute terms, while the Finnish market develop existing partnerships to raise the conversion level both online and had the strongest increase in percentage terms. in physical stores. Resurs’s consumer loans are normally Norway Insurance offers non-life insurance in the Insurance compensation, net declined to The technical result increased 20 per used to finance larger purchases, extend Lending growth took off again during the Nordic market under the Solid Försäkring SEK -226 million (-249). cent to SEK 88 million (74), mainly due existing loans or to finance general conyear after a temporary slowdown at the brand. Its primary strategy is to strengthen Operating income increased 2 per cent to increased profitability in the Travel sumption. Consumer Loans’ offering also end of 2017 that occurred in connection its presence in the Nordic countries by to SEK 178 million (174). Net expense from and Security business lines and good includes consolidation of consumers’ with adaptation to new regulations. The forming new partnerships with strategic financial transactions amounted t­ o SEK cost control. loans with other banks, in order to reduce credit engine also contributed to a positive partners and developing its many existing -8 million (8) due to lower market values Operating profit for the year CONSUMER LOANS their monthly payments and/or interest performance and healthy growth for the partnerships. Valuable business opporfor both the equities and bond portfolio, amounted to SEK 83 million (83) and INSURANCE expense. At the end of 2018, Resurs’s business segment in the Norwegian market. tunities also arise when the potential of which was affected by the general decline the combined ratio improved to 90.2 lending to the public amounted to SEK the aftermarket is realised by focusing in the financial market during the year. per cent (91.8 per cent). 17,449 million (14,650). Denmark more intently on the renewal of non-life Efforts to target offerings to customers insurance and more efficient cross-selling. A NORDIC MARKET WITH outside Resurs’s own database, i.e. One important step for Insurance during STRONG LENDING GROWTH through agents and local marketing, the year was the development of the generated healthy earnings during the digital customer interface, which included Sweden year. In 2019 the credit engine will be the launch of a digital marketing tool The credit engine was launched in the implemented and launched in the Danish that enables cost-effective automated second quarter. This rapidly increased market as well. customer communication. volume and allowed the credit limit to be raised from SEK 300,000 to 400,000. The Finland MANY NEW AND EXPANDED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN BRIEF pricing in the credit engine was corrected The credit engine, along with an upward At 31 December 2018, lending to the PARTNERSHIPS during the third quarter, resulting in rising adjustment of the limits to consumer public increased 19 per cent to SEK During the year Insurance continued to margins on new lending. More and more loan credit levels from EUR 30,000 to 17,449 million (14,650), a 17 per cent indevelop existing partnerships to raise customers also utilised the “My Credit 40,000, made a large contribution to crease in constant currencies. Operating the conversion level both online and in Rating” service to raise their existing positive growth in the Finnish market. income increased 13 per cent to SEK physical stores. The operations, which loans digitally, which generated strong 1,864 million (1,656). Operating income are divided into four business lines sales growth. less credit losses rose 8 per cent to SEK (Product, Security, Motor and Travel), 1,515 million (1397), and the risk-adjusted performed well with the addition of NBI margin amounted to 9.5 per cent multiple new partnerships during the (10.3 per cent). The risk-adjusted NBI year, primarily in Product and Travel. margin declined as a result of mix Insurance’s leading position in the Nordic ABOUT THE CREDIT ENGINE changes and a higher credit loss ratio. bicycle industry was strengthened even The credit engine is a digital tool that offers a simpler and more automated The credit loss ratio was 2.2 per cent further, and sales rose by 9 per cent application process for customers and provides us with better conditions for (1.9 per cent) and was mainly the result year-on-year. Resurs to analyse and enhance the efficiency of credit lending while preserving of the new reporting standard IFRS 9. credit risk and credit levels. It also improves internal efficiency since we can INSURANCE FINANCIAL handle a higher number of applications without needing to increase staffing PERFORMANCE IN BRIEF levels. The credit engine has been implemented in Finland, Norway and Sweden, Premium earned, net, increased 4 per and in 2019 it will be introduced in Denmark as well. cent to SEK 829 million (800) for 2018. This increase was attributable to the ­Security and Motor business lines. 22 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-2, 102-10 GRI 102-2, 102-10 RESURS HOLDING 23 Sustainability efforts that TARGETS FOR SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS create value and contribute to RESURS WANTS TO: 1. Inspire others to make sustainable choices new business opportunities We must encourage a sustainable lifestyle and enable people to make decisions to promote a higher level of sustainability. 2. Be a responsible company that supports customers, partners and the society in which we operate. Resurs’s vision for its sustainability efforts is to give people the conditions to live We take our commitment extremely seriously, and we wish to have a positive impact on our customers, partners and the society in which we operate. the life they want to lead. A life that is sustainable today and in the longer term. This means that Resurs’s operations must be run in a way that is sustainable in terms of society, business ethics and the environment, with the objective of maximising the HOW RESURS TAKES RESPONSIBILITY: positive values created for retail finance partners, customers, employees and owners. It also means taking responsibility for minimising risks through proactive work, robust processes, regulatory compliance and transparency. AN ANALYSIS THAT ADDRESSES stakeholders’ decision making and their for Resurs to work on and report were THE MOST IMPORTANT ISSUES perception of Resurs. added during the year: Social ResponThe materiality analysis performed in sibility ­and Environment. See pages 118RESURS AS The materiality analysis balances the AN EMPLOYER RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2017 identified Resurs’s most important 119 for a more in-depth view of stake­issues that are relevant to the Group issues: Employees, Diversity and Equal holder engagement and the materiality ­given its operation: i.e. its impact on the Resurs supports equal opportunity, Opportunity, Customer Privacy, Anti-Coranalysis. economy, society, people and the environequal treatment, diversity, a good ruption and Responsible Credit Lending. Two ment, as well as the aspects that ­affect work environment, development additional issues considered important ­opportunities, involvement and ­ a meaningful work life. GLOBAL UN SUSTAINABLE RESURS AS A COMPANY IN THE REGION COMPACT DEVELOPMENT GOALS Resurs is devoted to an inclusive society where every­one should have the opportunity to realise their Resurs has been a signatory of the UN During the year the Sustainability Development Goals in potential. Resurs wishes to contribute to health a ­ nd Global Compact since 2018. The Global Agenda 2030 were analysed as they pertain to Resurs’s active participation, and ­focuses on supporting Compact has ten general principles for operations. The following goals were identified as being young people and new entrants to the ­ a business’s responsibility concerning possible for Resurs to affect and contribute to. labour market. human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. RESURS AS A COMPANY IN THE INDUSTRY Resurs adopts a long-term approach and works responsible, focusing on the customer. The environment and human rights are important and considered in all decisions. 24 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-12, 102-18, 102-48 RESURS HOLDING 25 EMPLOYEES / DIVERSITY / EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Employees are our most important resource Resurs’s employees’ skills, responsiveness and high level of service in customer LET’S GROW LET’S CHANGE relationships are important prerequisites for reaching the company’s strategic and financial targets. One crucial aspect of the employer’s responsibility is to take a targeted approach to developing and managing an operation characterized by professionalism, good opportunities for professional development, effective leadership, healthy work environment and conduct according to business ethics. DEVELOPMENT AND ENSURING ­ positions were filled by internal resources. time. Thanks to the tool’s ability to conin coaching and communication. A total change. Therefore Let’s CHANGE, the long time, since employees with diverse A SKILLED WORKFORCE ACCORDING One project linked to this effort is the tinually gauge morale, thereby drawing of over 120 managers have now comnext stage of leadership development, backgrounds and experiences enrich TO NEEDS Resurs Women Potential Program, which attention to times or situations when pleted the six-month programme, and was introduced in May 2018. This proResurs in every way, making it a more As a successful company that continues was introduced during the year. This is there is a risk of ill-health, resources can new courses are continually starting. gramme aims to provide managers with creative, profitable and efficient organiEMPLOYEES / DIVERSITY / EQUAL OPPORTUNITY to grow organically, a comprehensive a programme for professional developbe chosen better and proactive measures During the programme, participants must the fundamental knowledge and skills to sation. It is also expected that multiple long-term approach is needed to ensure ment for female employees. It is ten can be taken. gradually apply their newly won knowldrive an effective change process while positive effects can be achieved if the a skilled workforce according to the need months long and meets ten times. The For Resurs it is a matter of course to edge to their daily work, which they then motivating employees. diversity of society is reflected in the for resources and competence. It is imapplicants who were accepted all aimed offer a healthy work life that contributes evaluate and modify. The effects so far composition of the workforce. One exportant to motivate and involve current to grow within the Group, and each parto a high level of attendance. In cases of can be summarised as positive feedback ample is higher customer satisfaction ticipant was assigned a female mentor reduced fitness for work or a return to from the participants, which is also shown DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY because employees’ combined experiemployees while continuing to reinforce with a managerial position to provide work after a long sickness absence, there in employees’ assessment of manageCONTRIBUTE TO INNOVATION AND ences contribute to greater responsivethe operation with new business-critical guidance on individual goals and the is an active rehabilitation program to ment which is at a high and stable level. INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS ness to customers’ various needs and know-how that most importantly matches choice of a potential career path. minimise sick leave. Employees must Resurs operations are continually Diversity and equal opportunity have wishes. Offering a diverse workplace the rapid pace of IT development and receive assistance and support through evolving and must continually adapt to been high on the Group’s agenda for a where equal opportunity is a matter of digitisation. Today Resurs and its 765 employees are well organised in terms of A PROACTIVE EFFORT TO CREATE A early, coordinated rehabilitation measures skills and resources. However, knowledge HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT in order to regain their fitness for work CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE often has a short lifespan, which is why Preventive efforts to quickly perceive and be able to return fully or partially opportunities for continued learning and signs of stress and ill-health among to work. development are a strategically importemployees are a priority. The digital ant priority for the Group. The Resurs tool implemented during the year enable TWO-STAGE LEADERSHIP EMPLOYEES IN FIGURES Academy Online Training internal training a new and more effective approach DEVELOPMENT At year-end Resurs employed a total of 765 (763) people in the four Nordic countries. programme is growing steadily, and today where employees can report their expeThe Group-wide leadership programme A majority of them worked at the head office in Helsingborg. During the financial year, the portal offers over 60 courses, covering riences of their work situation, stress, Let’s GROW aims to give Resurs’s man56 per cent (57 per cent) of employees were women. The average age was 36 (37) in 2018. everything from mandatory and banking job satisfaction and commitment in real agers fundamental skills and proficiency regulation courses that pertain to all 765 56% roles within the organisation to courses on the work environment, ergonomics and the environment. The portal also provides managers, HR and course owners with a statistical basis to ensure that all employees have taken part in the Total number of employees in the Group Share of women in the Group training courses. In 2018 an average of 200 people/week took part in one of the courses. GREAT PROSPECTS TO GROW THROUGH JOB DUTIES Resurs encourages internal mobility and encourages its employees to apply for new positions and job duties within the 36 Average age of employees in the Group 44% Share of men in the Group Group. Therefore internal mobility is high, and in 2018 21 per cent of advertised 26 RESURS HOLDING Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions GRI 102-8, 405-1 RESURS HOLDING 27 Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions course makes Resurs a more attractive SIGNIFICANT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH RESURS’S employer. In addition, aiming to use a broader search radius to recruit a diverse DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EFFORTS workforce increases the chances of discovering talent in new places and new “In 2018 Resurs was given a spot on Identified risk Consequence for Management of risks contexts. Allbright’s green list, which is a ranking of  nfair allocation of U • E mployee commitment  R Specialist Sustainability, H WORK THAT CAN NEVER STOP salaries and benefits. and willingness to develop. Diversity and Health. Resurs’s diversity plan, which is clearly Swedish listed companies with even gender • The Group’s work environment. • Resurs’s brand and trustworthiC  ompensation and Benefit integrated with internal targets, provides Manager the guidelines for a proactive approach distribution in company management. Resurs ness as an employer and a bank. Employee surveys. focusing on the roles and departments traditionally dominated by either men or Group Management is now made up of three  hortcomings in diversity and S • E mployee commitment and G  uidelines for diversity women. Targeted efforts to achieve a more even gender distribution are continwomen and four men including the CEO.” equal opportunity. willingness to develop. • The Group’s work environment. and equal treatment. ually being made in departments such as • Resurs’s brand and trustworthicustomer service and IT, concerning both ness as an employer recruitment and existing employees. In and a bank. order to strengthen the recruitment process, and effort to develop a policy that I njustices that affect daily • E mployee commitment  ork environment training for W more clearly incorporates diversity, operations, financial situations, and willingness to develop. managers. equal treatment and fair recruitment is HIGHLIGHTING AN EQUAL more recognised by the Indecap Q30 the Group’s reputation. • The Group’s work environment. fund as one of 30 Swedish listed comThe Group’s Code of Conduct. in progress. ORGANISATION • Resurs’s brand and trustworthiGroup-wide work environment training Resurs’s efforts to make its organisation panies with the highest proportion of ness as an employer P  olicy against victimisation was also rolled out during the year. The and management as equal as possible women in management positions. and a bank. in the workplace training, which began with the Swedish received positive attention during the The annual salary survey carried out Whistle-blower function. operation, concerns all managers with year. In 2018 Resurs was given a spot on within the Group is intended to identify  isk database for risk reporting R personnel responsibility. Of course Resurs Allbright’s green list, which is a ranking and establish that salaries are deterthat available has zero tolerance for discrimination and of Swedish listed companies with even mined on objective grounds. The survey online to all employees. EMPLOYEES / DIVERSITY / EQUAL OPPORTUNITY sexual harassment. Therefore countergender distribution in company managedid not show any non-objective salary acting them and supporting an inclusive ment. Resurs Group Management is now differences between men and women for workplace in every way are important made up of three women and four men comparable professional groups in 2018. parts of this training. including the CEO. Resurs was furtherGENDER AND AGE DISTRIBUTION OF GENERAL GENDER AND AGE BOARD MEMBERS AND MANAGERS DISTRIBUTION IN THE GROUP N  umber of Board members Percentage of and senior executives Gender distribution “Communication that employees 31 Dec 2018 Number Men Men 44% Board members 9 78% helps us grow together” Women 56% C  EO and other senior executives 7 57% Percentage of “Let’s GROW has given me invaluable insights and knowledge of how I can Age distribution employees develop my ability to communicate with my employees”, says Marketing Manager Jenny Svensson. The educational and operational design of the Age distribution on the Board Percentage <30 36% training alternates theoretical models of communication and leadership <30 0% 30–50 52% with practical tasks. Pupils apply their new knowledge with the ongoing dialogue with their employees between classes. 30–50 44% >50 12% “One important skill that I’ve developed is providing more constructive >50 56% Total 100%1 feedback by not just saying ‘good job’, but always adding the reason for Total 100% the task and what the results were.” The training also provides tools for guiding employees in how to set their objectives. It’s important to ask the right questions so that the GRI 102-41 employees themselves have the opportunity to provide the answers to CEO and management Percentage A total of 87 per cent (87 per cent) what is required to take the next step themselves. of the Group’s employees had a “Let’s GROW is an incredibly important initiative. Laying the ground<30 0% collective agreement in 2018. All work for a good relationship between manager and employee is the 30–50 86% employees have the right to decide foundation of a healthy workplace where people can grow. And creating whether they want to be repre>50 14% good relationships requires an open and respectful dialogue – we simply sented by a trade union. have to be good at communicating!” Total 100% 1) Refers to total number of employees in the Group, full-time, part-time and temporary employees at 31 December 2018. 28 RESURS HOLDING Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions GRI 102-8, 102-15, 102-41, 405-1 RESURS HOLDING 29 Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions 61% SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT extent possible, choose renewable elecyear. 48 per cent of all post in the Nordic tricity. Other measures are to make conregion was sent via digital channels in A long tradition of scious environment choices in procure2018. Resurs Academy Online Training ment and continue investing in digital has offered an environmental course services that reduce paper consumption. since the end of 2018 in order to increase Some small but important steps are a awareness of how everyone can help to social commitment gradual reduction in paper consumption make a difference through small actions. of Swedish employees took the environ­ by printing on both sides of the paper A survey showed that 61 per cent of mental course, exceeding the target and Swedish customers who use the Swedish employees took the environof at least 50 per cent participation. Kivra digital mailbox service receiving mental course during the month of their post digitally. According to Kivra December, exceeding the target of at this helps save around 400 trees per least 50 per cent participation. Social commitment is important to Resurs, which is devoted to an inclusive PARTNERSHIP FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE society where everyone should have the opportunity to realise their potential. During the autumn Resurs participated This sense of commitment focuses on issues including supporting young “The business’s direct impact on the as a partner in the A Sustainable Tomorrow conference in Helsingborg. The speakers people and new entrants to the labour market. In addition, Resurs has a environment is primarily related to its premises’ included former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt and Jakob Trollbäck – the man long tradition of involvement as a sponsor in local communities, such as energy consumption and emissions created by who created the graphic design of the UN’s 17 SDGs. the Helsingborg Football Club. the small amount of business travel that occurs. Representatives from the business community, academia, associations and Measures to reduce this are to use the available the public sector participated, and one of the purposes of the conference was to NEW INITIATIVES DURING THE consumers to make a difference with their everyday purchases. Resurs donated one national conventions. Therefore Resurs’s exposure to risks associated with human energy mix in each country and, to the extent create partnerships and networks that YEAR THAT EXPANDED RESURS’S can drive efforts for a sustainable future. COMMITMENT krona to cancer research for every purchase made using the Supreme Card rights is considered low. The Group’s ability to take responsibility and make a differpossible, choose renewable electricity.” This is important work, and Resurs is now SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT During the year Resurs introduced voluntaking a more active role as the main teer work as part of the non-profit organWoman car during the last three months ence is primarily a matter of engaging in partner in 2019. isation Drivkraft Helsingborg, which offers of the year. responsible credit lending and safementoring to young people and their Resurs partnered with the local initiaguarding customers’ privacy, along with parents, as well as tutoring at schools in tive Fristaden Helsingborg before the social commitment based on the needs the region. Drivkraft’s vision of creating autumn election for Parliament, municiin the local community. a better future for both individual pupils palities and county councils. Fristaden During the year Resurs joined the “A way to make a difference” and inhabitants of the city is fully in line Helsingborg held activities in areas with Global Compact, whose ten principles with the Group’s social commitment. The low voter turnout by providing informainclude human rights and working condihope is that taking a clear position will tion on how to vote and why free elections tions. A new version of Resurs’s Code of further inspire employees to become are fundamental to democracy. Conduct was published during the spring. The Code went into more depth on the “I knew that I wanted to contribute but I didn’t know more involved in their communities. The FUNDAMENTAL RESPECT FOR Group’s positions on issues such as anti-­ how to go about it. When the opportunity to get inobjective is for at least 20 employees to discrimination, working conditions, forced volved as a mentor via Drivkraft turned out, I didn’t do volunteer work during paid working HUMAN RIGHTS labour, child labour, political activities, hesitate for a second. As a result I’ve gotten to hours up to eight hours per year. In auResurs operates in a well-regulated the environment and trade unions. know a wonderful young woman, 16-year-old Lotus tumn 2018 22 of the employees in Helsingmarket that is governed by a number of from Syria. It was harrowing to hear her story about borg chose to volunteer. laws and regulations that take human SMALL BUT IMPORTANT STEPS FOR escaping across the Mediterranean and onward Resurs participated in painting Sweden rights into account in many ways. Since across Europe to finally arrive in Sweden, and it really pink, and the concept A Good Thing was operations are concentrated in the Nordic REDUCED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT gives you perspective on what it means to live in developed for the years Pink Ribbon countries, there is also clear national The materiality analysis identified that peace and freedom. Meanwhile she is in many ways campaign. A Good Thing aimed to inspire legislation based on European and interthe Group’s primary impact relates to a living example of how far strong individual moti­ sustainability topics concerning social vation and will can take you,” says Sara Andersson, and business ethics, while it has less of Program Manager in charge of developing the an impact related to issues such as clicustomer experience. mate impact, energy consumption, pro“During the year Resurs introduced curement and material use. Since the The non-profit organisation Drivkraft Helsingborg is ­environmental impact of the business volunteer work as part of the non-profit can be viewed as relatively low, Resurs’s a partnership between the City of Helsingborg, the Eskilsminne Football Club and the local business view is that there are no significant risks organisation Drivkraft Helsingborg, which in this area at present. community. It provides volunteers who serve as mentors for tutors, which Resurs employees may do The business’s direct impact on the offers mentoring to young people and environment is primarily related to its during paid work hours up to eight hours per year. premises’ energy consumption and their parents, as well as tutoring emissions created by the small amount “In my experience the initiative is truly appreciated here at the company, and my colleagues really want of business travel that occurs. Measures at schools in the region.” to reduce this are to use the available to make a difference. Helping give someone a belief in their future must be one of the best things you energy mix in each country and, to the can do, and at the same time you make a new friend, says Sara Andersson. 30 RESURS HOLDING Annual Accounts Act: Respect for human rights, Environment Annual Accounts Act: Respect for human rights, Environment RESURS HOLDING 31 RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING Responsible credit lending builds customer loyalty Operating in a regulated and licensed industry requires proper order and clear processes. This is fundamental to operating a business, as well as a requirement for the trust of customers and others. For Resurs this means being easy to deal with, transparent and open concerning terms and products, as well as conducting sales, marketing and credit checks in a responsible manner. Resurs’s offering provides higher purchasing power and enables customers to plan their purchases in the way that suits them best, where flexible repayment options are part of the solution. KNOWING THE CUSTOMER A PROACTIVE EFFORT TO FIND the individual, who suffers from negative RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING IS FUNDAMENTAL CUSTOMISED SOLUTIONS consequences for their personal finances; When credit is granted, this has a direct A basic principle of responsible credit Resurs, since every cancelled loan has a impact on an individual’s finances. Credit lending is ensuring that the borrower is negative impact on profitability; the lending is also a crucial part of Resurs’s aware of the financial consequences of brand, since a lower degree of trust in the credit lending business as a whole is the likelihood of payment problems. In COMMENTS ON RESPONSIBLE CREDIT helping customers with payment diffibusiness and is crucial to the Group’s total the agreement they sign. Therefore transsomething that could damage Resurs’s cases where the customer’s ability to pay LENDING PERFORMANCE INDICATORS culties. Resurs measures and regularly profitability. Therefore responsible credit parent and easily accessible information brand in the long term. changes, the aim is to support the cusOne important issue for Resurs is how its follows up on the number of cases that lending is a matter of carefully balancing about Resurs’s agreements is a top priResurs’s ability to track changes in a tomer in every way in order to find a business affects customers and society. go to external debt collection companies. these perspectives and ensuring that the ority for credit lending. The philosophy customer’s risk profile from month to solution. Therefore the customer service GRI’s recommended indicator is not This outcome is subsequently used as a necessary evidence is available for is that everyone loses when a case is month also increases its ability to predict function has several dedicated debt deemed to be sufficient in this regard, as basis to continually improve credit lending. making well-informed decisions on the fitransferred to a ­collection company: ­collection teams tasked with taking measurement of credit losses primarily Even if this information would be able to nancial circumstances of every customer. ­proactive measures. As a first step, the expresses the effect on the consolidated provide relevant information on how the In order to correctly assess the credit reasons for the customer’s payment diffiincome statement. A more relevant indiGroup conducts responsible credit lending, risk, the customer’s future ability to pay culties are investigated. Next a customcator is the portion of the portfolio subit is deemed to be confidential concerning is analysed with the help of systematic ised solution is proposed, such as a lower mitted to debt collection companies for the Group’s operations. processes and scoring models to assess monthly amount for a certain period. external recovery instead. This indicator Therefore the Group chooses not to credit risk. The customer’s information is supplemented by external information, can also be used to monitor how effective report any performance indicator for ­this primarily from Upplysningscentralen SKILLED EMPLOYEES WHO the bank’s debt collection team is at area this year. (UC), as well as customer information BUILD TRUST collected in Resurs’s database. Taken Alongside robust systems and processes, together, this provides good documentaresponsible credit lending depends on Identified risk Consequence for Management of risks tion for assessing a customer’s potential Resurs’s employees having the right C  ustomer has insufficient • T  he customer’s case D  edicated debt collection to meet their commitments. Credit appliskills and training. Their ability to grant repayment capacity. is transferred to an teams tasked with preventing cations are rejected when there is a recredit is regulated at five authorisation external debt collection a case from being transferred cord of non-payment. The dialogue with levels linked to different amount limits, company. to debt collection companies the customer continues when there are according to the logic that the higher at an early stage. • Lost revenue. other doubts about the customer’s repaythe authorisation level, the higher the training requirement. The internal train• D  amage to Resurs’s ment capacity. In 2018 more than 80 per ing takes place on a continual basis. It is brand. cent of the sales of consumer loans consisted of loans to customers already in based on the Group’s credit policy, current Resurs’s database. legislation, Swedish Financial Supervi esurs contributes to R • Reduced customer base.  nalysis of the customer’s A This approach reduces the risk of the sory Authority regulations and guideincreased indebtedness • Damage to ­future payment ability and customer suffering from financial problines, and instructions and criteria for in society. Resurs’s brand. current loan situation. Credit lems and the Group in turn contributing credit lending. is only granted if customers, on good grounds, can be exto over-indebtedness in society. pected to fulfil their commitments. 32 RESURS HOLDING Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions GRI 102-15, Own RESURS HOLDING 33 Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions CUSTOMER PRIVACY ANTI-CORRUPTION Privacy is a natural part of a A focus on business good customer relationship ethics and responsibility As a banking and insurance group, Resurs at an early stage in each new process RESPONSIVE DIALOGUE BUILDS Resurs opposes all forms of corruption. The Code is then supplemented by severparticular part of the operation is the has a great responsibility to protect cusand new offer to endure compliance with VALUABLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS The Group’s position is based on the al internal policy documents that provide basis for engaging in proactive efforts. tomers’ personal data and safeguard the data protection legislation. Resurs is dedicated to constantly inphilosophy that corruption undermines clear, detailed guidelines for how work Continual anti-corruption training courses their privacy. In order to earn customers’ creasing customer satisfaction throughdemocracy, warps competition, makes a should be performed to actively oppose for all employees are a priority. The purtrust, it is important to comply with all PROPER MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL out the operation. Customers’ views and level playing field for business more difficorruption throughout the operation, for poses of these courses is to provide a parts of applicable laws and internal MINIMISES VULNERABILITY feedback are a powerful source of moticult and benefits organised crime. Corrupexample1. Each policy has clear ownerbasic understanding of anti-corruption regulations that specify authorisations All business entails risks, and for Resurs vation and provide help in improving even tion results in serious legal and reputaship and there are several control funcissues and develop expertise that makes and safeguard how customer data is this primarily concerns operational informore. Along with the rapid development tional risks. Proper conduct from a tions to ensure internal compliance. In it easier to perceive warning signs where used in the Group’s operations. Moreover, mation risks, along with changes to the of robots, new tools are being developed business ethics standpoint throughout addition, the internal audit function is there is a risk of any type of corruption. maintaining a constant focus on cusorganisation or products could potentially that now enable repetitive administrative the operation is required to deserve performed by an external resource. These are supplemented with target tomer privacy is an excellent way to affect information security. The Group tasks to be increasingly automated. This continued trust. training efforts to meet specific needs build an ethical business while making engages in proactive risk and incident gives the customer service function a AN ANONYMOUS CHANNEL FOR and challenging situations, for example Resurs even more competitive. management in order to ensure a satisgreater chance to spend more time on PROACTIVE ANTI-CORRUPTION WHISTLE-BLOWERS in the Group’s sales departments, such factory level of protection of information customer dialogue, thus delivering the EFFORTS Resurs has an internal procedure for as educational tracks that focus on bank CUSTOMERS’ RIGHT TO THEIR OWN best possible service. Resurs’s operation is primarily exposed whistle-­blowing. Employees can turn to it regulatory training that includes money and assets throughout the operation. In 2018 three incidents related to custo corruption in the form of fraud, money anonymously and raise the alarm if they laundering. The courses can all be found DATA IS FURTHER STRENGTHENED This includes employing systems that tomer privacy occurred, and they were laundering and financing of terrorism as see something improper occurring that at Resurs Academy Online Training, The new European General Data Protection can flag abnormal transactions and cash reported as personal data breaches to well as bribery. The risks are similar in the deviates from internal or external regulawhich also has support and guidance Regulation (GDPR) came into force during flows, and ensuring proper management the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Nordic countries where Resurs operates, tions. The recipients of whistle-­blower for how employees should act if risks of the year. Our operations are completely and control of internal authorisation levThe incidents involved the improper with certain exceptions for potential cases are the Legal Counsel and the CHRO, corruption arise in a customer relationadapted to the new legislation, which els for managing information and perdistribution of personal data due to variations in trends and patterns for who are notified as soon as a case is subship or business situation. strengthens consumer protection and forming services. All reported incidents technical error. However the damage is fraud, for example. mitted. Management of submitted cases All employees have access to the Code CUSTOMER PRIVACY privacy in a thorough and robust manner. and risks, regardless of their extent are ANTI-CORRUPTION considered to be limited, since actions For a banking and insurance group, trust can be tracked, which ensures that no one of Conduct and its associated policies A great deal of work has been done addressed by Resurs’s risk committees., were immediately taken to stop the is of the utmost importance. Resurs does can erase a case. An initial assessment is and guidelines via the intranet. The Group’s to implement the PSD2 directive, which Policies and guidelines are always pubimproper processing of personal data. not accept offers or the acceptance of performed as to whether the case meets employees are considered to have good came into force during the year. One of lished on the intranet in order to ensure bribes or other similar improper benefits the criteria to be handled as a whistle-­ knowledge of applicable policies and are PSD2’s stipulations is that a financial access to current versions. under any circumstances. The Group blower case and then subsequently escacompleting the courses, which helps en­entity is now obligated to provide account takes a preventive approach to money lated internally or possibly externally sure that attention can be drawn to susinformation to another financial entity. laundering and financing of terrorism depending on the type of case. picious behaviours. During the year a total This means that the customer has the SIGNIFICANT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH RESURS’S CUSTOMER PRIVACY where the task is to prevent the exploitaIn order to increase knowledge of the of 662 employees, corresponding to 85.6 right to receive their personal data from tion of the business for these purposes, whistle-blower function, an internal per cent of the workforce, completed ontheir bank in a format that is easy for Identified risk Consequence for Management of risks and it reports suspicious patterns and training course was designed at Resurs line courses focusing on anti-corruption. another financial entity to input and transactions when they occur. For more Academy Online Training in 2018. RollAll senior executives were informed of or process. In Resurs’s view, strengthened Operational information  rocessing of customers’ P T  he Group’s policies and information on applicable control levels, out of the course began towards the completed online courses focusing on consumer protection adds important risks and shortcomings in personal information. guidelines for information IT systems. security in line with extensee page 43. end of the year, initially in Sweden. anti-corruption. Fundamental requirecustomer value to the market since General information security. sive industry requirements. ments for compliance with applicable the directive gives the customer more  esurs’s reputation as a R CONDUCT ACCORDING TO BUSINESS TARGETED TRAINING EFFORTS anti-­corruption legislation in each power over their own data. banking operation. D  ata security under the new European GDPR legislation. ETHICS Employees’ knowledge and insight into country are stipulated in relationships Resurs’s starting point is the anti-corthe nature of risk exposure for their with retail finance partners. DATA PROTECTION OFFICER  mployees’ ability to report E ruption legislation and practice in the through the Group’s proactive RESPONSIBLE FOR PERSONAL DATA countries where it operates, as well as in risk database. The new function of Data Protection the Group’s Code of Conduct. This applies SIGNIFICANT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH RESURS’S ANTI-CORRUPTION EFFORTS ­Officer (DPO) was set up in accordance C  hanges in the organisaC  ustomer relationships and Each Group company’s to all employees, people with senior posiwith GDPR. This is a Data Protection tion or products and their the trustworthiness of the Compliance and Risk Control tions and Board members. Resurs’s manIdentified risk Consequence for Management of risks ­Officer tasked with ensuring that personal impact on information offering. function. agers have a particular responsibility to data are processed with respect and in security. always serve as good examples, encourReceiving an  oss of corporate and L A  nti-bribery policy. Resurs’s three I nternal work procedures  he Risk Committee takes a T accordance with the data protection age an ethical approach and take the improper bribe. social gain. control bodies for risk management and division of responsiproactive approach to idenlegislation. The DPO must inform, provide Code of Conduct into consideration when and independent review. bilities. tifying risks in the business. guidance, verify and document under rocedure for approving P planning their work. The updated version  mbiguity in the A Uncertainty among Group-wide anti-corruption standing of and compliance with every significant changes in of the Code introduced during the year meaning of the terms employees about right training through Resurs Academy. item of the legislation. The DPO is involved existing products, services, clarifies that Resurs must uphold several corruption and vs. wrong actions. Resurs’s Code of Ethics and Code markets or the business fundamental guidelines concerning human anti-corruption. of Conduct. operations. rights, working conditions, the environment and anti-corruption according to  bservation of imO Damage to Resurs’s L  egal and Anti-Corruption the principles of the UN Global Compact. proper action that is brand. Compliance Officer. The Code is available on the intranet in not addressed.  oss of corporate and L Resurs’s three control bodies social gain. for risk management and Swedish, English and Finnish. Induction independent review. training for all new employees includes ­ Whistle-blower function. a review of the Code. GRI 102-15, 205-2 1) Management of Resurs’s sustainability efforts, see pages 120-121. 34 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15, 418-1 RESURS HOLDING 35 Annual Accounts Act: Respect for human rights Annual Accounts Act: Anti-corruption The share THE TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS WITH DIRECT OWNERSHIP ON 31 DECEMBER 2018 WERE: Resurs Holding’s share was listed on 29 April 2016, and is traded on the Large Waldakt AB (Bengtsson family) PERCENTAGE OF SHARE CAPITAL 28.9% 122.1 million shares in total Cidron Semper S.A.R.L (Nordic Capital) 17.4% Cap segment of Nasdaq Stockholm. The year-end market capitalisation was Swedbank Robur Fonder 8.3% were traded in 2018 SEK 10.9 billion. Second AP Fund 2.4% SEB Fonder 2.0% TURNOVER AND TRADING SHARE CAPITAL AND CAPITAL all of the shares in the company. This Handelsbanken fonder 1.9% SEK 7.2 The ticker symbol is RESURS and the STRUCTURE mandate was not utilised in 2018. Vanguard 1.4% ISIN code is SE0007665823. A total of At 31 December 2018, Resurs Holding’s 122.1 million shares (114.2) were traded share capital amounted to SEK 1,000,000. DIVIDENDS Catea Group AB 1.2% on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2018, with an The number of shares was 200,000,000 According to the dividend policy adopted AFA Försäkring 1.2% billion in share value approximate value of SEK 7.2 billion ordinary shares. According to the Articles by the Board, Resurs is to distribute at Norges Bank 1.1% were traded in 2018 (6.4). An average of 488,222 shares of Association, the share capital should least 50 per cent of annual consolidated (455,147) were traded per trading day, range between a minimum of SEK 500,000 net profit over the mid-term. The Board Total 65.8% representing an approximate value and maximum of SEK 2,000,000, distribproposes that the AGM adopt a dividend 18,436 of SEK 29 million (25). uted between a minimum of 100,000,000 of SEK 1.95 per share. Including the diviAt 31 December 2018, Resurs Holding and maximum of 400,000,000 shares. dend of SEK 1.65 paid on 12 October had 18,436 shareholders (19,070), accordResurs Holding’s Articles of Association 2018, this year’s dividend amounts to ing to Euroclear, of whom 618 (652) were contain a record day provision and the SEK 3.60. This is a 9 per cent increase NUMBER OF OWNERS Swedish financial and institutional invescompany’s shares are registered with year-on-year and amounts to 63 per Total 18,436 shareholders tors, 17,360 (18,103) were private individEuroclear Sweden AB, which means that cent of earnings per share. The Board on 31 Dec 2018 Foreign owners: uals and 458 (315) were foreign owners. Euroclear Sweden AB manages the comintends to continue paying semi-annual Swedish 458 (2.5%) The ten largest owners accounted for pany’s shareholder register and records dividends, and plans to convene an financial and 65.8 per cent (75.1 per cent) of the votes every shareholder. All shares carry equal Extraordinary General Meeting in the institutional and capital. rights to the company’s profit and to any autumn of 2019. investors: The highest price paid in 2018 was SEK surplus arising from possible liquidation. 618 (3.3%) SEK 69.50 69.50 (64.00), and the lowest was SEK INSTITUTIONS AND ANALYSTS 53.65 (50.7) The closing price for Resurs SHARE BUYBACK FOLLOWING RESURS THE SHARE Holding’s share as at 28 December was The Annual General Meeting in April 2018 ABG, Carnegie, Morgan Stanley and SEB SEK 54.70, corresponding to a market resolved to authorise the Board to acquire follow the Resurs Holdings share on an capitalisation of approximately SEK Private individuals: highest price paid own shares on the stock exchange for ongoing basis. At the end of 2018, three 10.9 billion. the period until the next Annual General 17,360 (94.2%) in 2018 institutions had a buy recommendation Meeting. The authorisation to buy back and one institution had a neutral recomshares encompasses up to 5 per cent of mendation for the Resurs Holding share. SHARE CAPITAL RESURS SHARE PERFORMANCE 2018 Foreign owners 9.2% SEK Share volume on 14 Feb 2018: 1,272,204,616 NUMBER OF SHARES Swedish owners 90.8% Institutions Unit trusts 66.2% 14.4% 53.65 SEK 120,000,000 Private individuals lowest price 10.2% paid in 2018 70 100,000,000 60 50 40 80,000,000 60,000,000 GEOGRAPHICAL ALLOCATION Other 3.4% 3.60 per share in dividends Canada 0.4% 30 Luxembourg 0.6% 40,000,000 Norway 1.2% Sweden 90.8% 9% USA 3.6% 20 20,000,000 10 increase in dividend value compared with 2017 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 36 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 37 CONTENTS Board of Directors’ Report 40 Corporate Governance Report 49 Board of Directors 54 Group Management 55 Statements and notes Group 56 Consolidated income statement 56 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 56 Consolidated statement Board of Directors’ Report of financial position 57 and financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity 58 Consolidated statement of cash flows 59 Notes 60 Statements and notes – Parent Company 104 Auditor’s report 113 About the Sustainability Report 118 Management Approach 120 GRI content index 122 38 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 39 The decline was mainly due to the net exi­ncome less credit losses rose 8 per Premium earned, net, increased 4 per cent Board of Directors’ Report pense from financial transactions and lower NBI margin in Consumer Loans. cent to SEK 1,515 million (1,397). The risk-adjusted NBI margin was 9.5 to SEK 829 million (800) during the year. This increase was attributable to the Security The risk-adjusted NBI margin is calculatper cent (10.3). The decline was mainly and Motor business lines. Technical result The Board of Directors and CEO hereby present the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for Resurs ed in the same way as the NBI margin, due to the mix changes in the portfolio for the insurance operations increased to Holding AB (publ), Corporate Identity Number 556898-2291, for the financial year 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. except that credit losses are also deand the credit loss ratio increasing to SEK 88 million (74) year-on-year, mainly ducted from operating income excluding 2.2 per cent (1.9). The increase was pridue to increased profitability in the Travel the Insurance segment. marily attributable to the new reporting and Security business lines and good cost standard IFRS 9. control. The total combined ratio improved to 90.2 per cent (91.8 per cent), primarily Company overview Performance measures Target 2018 PROFIT attributable to the positive trend in the Operating profit increased 6 per cent to INSURANCE Resurs Holding, which operates through SEK 1,487 million (1,397). Net profit for Non-life insurance is offered within the claims ratio in the Travel and Motor Annual lending growth more than 10% 16% the year amounted to SEK 1,143 million Insurance segment under the Solid business lines. its subsidiaries Resurs Bank Aktiebolag with its subsidiaries, and Solid Försäkrings (1,080). Tax expense for the year Försäkring brand. The focus is on niche Net expense from financial transactions Risk-adjusted NBI margin about 10-12% 10.6% amounted to SEK -8 million (8) due to Aktiebolag, is a leader in the consumer amounted to SEK -343 million (-317), coverage, with the Nordic region as the credit market in the Nordic region, offering corresponding to 23.1 per cent (22.7 per main market. Insurance products are lower market values for both the equities  /I before credit losses (excl. Insurance and C payment solutions, consumer loans and cent) in relation to operating profit. divided into four business lines: Travel, and bond portfolio, which was affected by adjusted for nonrecurring costs under 40% 40.5% niche insurance products. Resurs has Security, Motor and Product. The company the general decline in the financial market established itself as a leading partner Common Equity Tier 1 ratio more than 11.5% 13.4% partners with leading retail chains in varduring the year. for sales-driven payment and loyalty Segment reporting ious sectors, and has about 2.3 million Operating profit amounted to SEK 83 solutions in retail and e-commerce, and Total capital ratio more than 14% 14.7% customers across the Nordic region. million (83). Resurs has thereby built a customer base PAYMENT SOLUTIONS of approximately 5.9 million private cusR  eturn on equity The Payment Solutions segment is tomers in the Nordics. Resurs Bank has excl. Intangible assets, % (RoTE) 1) about 30% 33.9% comprised of retail finance, factoring had a banking licence since 2001 and is Dividend 2) at least 50% of and credit cards. In retail finance, Resurs Payment Solutions under the supervision of the Swedish is the leading partner for sales-driving profit for the year 63% Financial Supervisory Authority. Resurs f­inance, payment and loyalty solutions SEKm Jan–Dec 2018 Jan–Dec 2017 Change Group primarily operates in Sweden, 1) Excluding nonrecurring costs, adjusted for Common Equity Tier 1 capital of 11.5% (12.5), the approved dividends in to chain stores and e-commerce comL  ending to the public at 10,508 9,419 12% Norway, Denmark and Finland. the preceding year and dividends deducted for the current year. panies across the Nordic region. Credit end of the period Resurs has divided its operations into 2) T he Board proposes that the Annual General Meeting adopt a dividend of SEK 1.95 per share. Including the dividend cards includes Resurs’s own credit card, three business segments, based on the of SEK 1.65 resolved at the Extraordinary General Meeting in October 2018, the total dividend (SEK 3.60) as a Supreme Card. Operating income 1,425 1,268 12% products and services offered: Payment percentage of earnings share amounts to 63 per cent. Lending to the public at 31 December Solutions, Consumer Loans and Insurance. 2018 totalled SEK 10,508 million (9,419), Operating income 1,239 1,115 11% The three segments differ in nature. corresponding to a 12-per-cent yearless credit losses Payment Solutions delivers finance, These targets are presented in their enrelates to value fluctuations in investon-year increase, or 10 per cent in conpayment and loyalty solutions that drive tirety below, together with the outcomes ments in interest-bearing securities and Risk-adjusted NBI margin, % 12.5 12.2 stant currencies. Growth was mainly retail sales, as well as credit cards to the for 2018: shares as well as exchange-rate differdriven­by higher volumes from existing NBI margin, % 14.4 13.9 public. Consumer Loans focuses primarily ences in assets, liabilities and derivatives retail fi ­ nance partners. on lending to private individuals. InsurINCOME in foreign currencies. A deviation of SEK Operating income for the year Credit loss ratio, % 1.9 1.7 ance includes the wholly owned subsidiary The Group’s operating income increased -39 million was primarily attributable to amounted to SEK 1,425 million (1,268), Solid Försäkrings Aktiebolag, active within 11 per cent to SEK 3,437 million (3,091), the general turmoil in the capital market, up 12 per cent year-on-year, with the consumer insurance. primarily due to growth in lending. The which entailed a negative trend in the Consumer Loans ­increase primarily related to higher NBI margin in the banking operations Group’s investments in interest-­bearing business volumes. Operating income less amounted to 12.6 per cent (12.9), with securities and equities, especially at the SEKm Jan–Dec 2018 Jan–Dec 2017 Change STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES credit losses amounted to SEK 1,239 the decline due to higher volumes with a end of the year. Other operating income C ontinue to transfer Resurs’s Swedish million (1,115), up 11 per cent year-onL  ending to the public 17,449 14,650 19% slightly lower NBI margin. The NBI margin amounted to SEK 206 million (188). business model to the other Nordic year. The risk-adjusted NBI margin rose at end of the period markets is calculated as operating income exto 12.5 per cent (12.2 per cent) due to a cluding the Insurance segment in relation EXPENSES higher NBI margin. The credit loss ratio Operating income 1,864 1,656 13% B e the leading retail finance supplier to the average balance of lending to the The Group’s expenses before credit losses for retail partners in the Nordics was 1.9 per cent (1.7 per cent) and was public. Net interest income increased 13 increased 11 per cent to SEK -1,416 million mainly the result of the introduction of Operating income 1,515 1,397 8% E nhance innovation and continue to per cent to SEK 2,739 million (2,419), with (-1,281). Year-on-year expenses increased less credit losses the new reporting standard IFRS 9. drive omni-channel growth (possibility interest income amounting to SEK 3,063 in absolute terms as a result of intensiRisk-adjusted NBI margin, % 9.5 10.3 for retail finance partners to offer their million (2,687) and interest expense to fied marketing activities and investments CONSUMER LOANS customers flexible online and in-store SEK -324 (-268) Fee & commission income in IT. The Group was charged with costs NBI margin, % Customers in the Consumer Loans seg11.7 12.2 payment alternatives) amounted to SEK 218 million (234) and of approximately SEK 10 million as a direct ment are offered unsecured loans, also fee & commission expense to SEK -57 result of the merger between its subCredit loss ratio, % 2.2 1.9 E xpand the base of retail finance partknown as consumer loans. Consumer million (-63), resulting in a total net sidiary Resurs Bank AB and the latter’s ners and increase the credit share levels loans are normally used to finance larger commission for the banking operations subsidiary Resurs yA Bank AS. Viewed in of our existing retail finance partners purchases, extend existing loans or to Insurance of SEK 161 million (171). relation to the operations’ income, the finance general consumption. Consumer Continue to cultivate our customer base Premium earned, net, increased 3 per cost level including merger costs (excludLoans also helps consumers to consoliSEKm Jan–Dec 2018 Jan–Dec 2017 Change cent and amounted to SEK 826 million ing Insurance) continued to improve and Increase awareness of Resurs’s brand date their loans with other banks, in order (798). Net insurance compensation deamounted to 40.5 per cent (40.8 per cent). Premiums earned, net 829 800 4% C ontinue profitable organic growth and to reduce their monthly payments or creased to SEK -226 million (-249) and Credit losses totalled SEK -535 million carry out selective acquisitions interest expense. fee & commission expense in the insur(-413) and the credit loss ratio was 2.1 Operating income 178 174 2% At 31 December 2018, lending to the ance operations declined to SEK -220 per cent (1.8 per cent). The increase was public increased 19 per cent to SEK FINANCIAL TARGETS million (-226). All in all, net insurance-­ primarily because provisions for all new Technical result* 88 74 20% 17,449 million (14,650). In constant currenIn November 2018, the Resurs Holding related income increased 17 per cent to lending have been made since year-end cies the increase was 17 per cent. PerOperating profit 83 83 Board decided upon updated financial SEK 379 million (323). This increase is according to the new reporting standard centage growth was strongest in Finland, targets for the Group in connection with primarily attributable to the business IFRS 9 and lending growth has remained while Sweden increased the most in Combined ratio, % 90.2 91.8 the completion of the merger between lines Security, Motor and Travel. high throughout the year. The risk-adjust­absolute terms. its subsidiary Resurs Bank AB and its Net income from financial transactions ed NBI margin was 10.6 per cent (11.1). Operating income increased 13 per cent subsidiary Resurs yA Bank AS. was SEK -48 million (-9). The change * Further information on technical results can be found in to SEK 1,864 million (1,656). Operating Solid Försäkring’s Annual Report published on 19 March 2019. 40 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-45 RESURS HOLDING 41 Balance sheet could be used more efficiently and the assessment, the level of risk applied environmentally sustainable way by, for requirements, and have access to Significant events during liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) was 146 per must be well in proportion to the Group’s sufficient capital and liquidity. and cash flow cent (201 per cent) in the consolidated earnings capacity. The Group annually example, enhancing efficiency and investThe Group monitors changes related the year ing in sustainable products and services. situation after changes were completed. conducts an analysis aimed at identifying to capital and liquidity requirements and RESURS BANK EXPANDED AND FINANCIAL POSITION The minimum statutory LCR ratio is 100 employees whose duties have a significant takes these into consideration regarding On 1 January 2018 the Group made adSUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCORDING EXTENDED ABS FINANCING per cent. Lending to credit institutions at influence on the company’s risk profile. TO THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ACT the Group’s financial targets. The ABS financing was expanded in justments according to IFRS 9, the new In 2018, variable remuneration was The risk-based Solvency II regulatory 31 December 2018 amounted to SEK 3,704 In accordance with Chapter 6 Section January 2018. For Resurs Bank, this means accounting standard for financial instrupaid in excess of SEK 0.1 million to emframework has governed insurance operamillion (2,794). Holdings of treasury and 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, Resurs that external financing will be extended ments. The new impairment requirements ployees in companies acquired at the tions and their reporting since 2016. other bills eligible for refinancing, as well has chosen to establish the Sustainability from SEK 2.1 billion to SEK 2.9 billion. The according to IFRS 9 entail a nonrecurring end of 2015 who can influence the bank’s During the past year, insurance operaas bonds and other interest-bearing secuReport as a report separated from the extension means that a new 18-month effect of SEK 439 million regarding total risk level. Accordingly, the Group needs to tions published its Solvency and Financial rities, totalled SEK 2,272 million (2,578). Annual Report. The description of Resurs’s revolving period has now commenced. reserves and provisions for items in and make deferred payments for variable reCondition Report (SFCR), and submitted Intangible assets amounted to SEK business model is on pages 18-19; sigoff the balance sheet. Equity declined by muneration that are spread evenly over its Regular Supervisory Report (RSR) to 1,974 million (1,877), and primarily comnificant sustainability areas (including RESOLUTION ON DIVIDENDS IN SEK 339 million after consideration of 3 years, with the last payment in 2020. the regulatory authority. prise the goodwill that arose in the the environment, social conditions, emtax. Resurs has applied the transition RESURS HOLDING AND BUYBACK ­acquisition of Finaref and Danaktiv in ployees, respect for human rights and rules published by the EU that permit AUTHORISATION the phase-in of the effect on the capital 2014 and yA Bank in 2015. Remuneration of Resurs’s combating corruption) as well as risk and RISK MANAGEMENT The Annual General Meeting held on 27 adequacy ratios. senior executives performance indicators can be found on The Group is exposed to a number of risks April 2018 resolved on a dividend of SEK STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS pages 24-35; and the management and that are typical for companies within the At 31 December 2018, the Group’s The Board has established a remunera1.80 per share, totalling SEK 360 million. Cash flow from operating activities selection of policies can be found on industry that are of a similar size and ­financial position was strong, with a tion policy in accordance with Swedish Including the dividend of SEK 1.50 paid amounted to SEK -450 million (-2,081) pages 120-121. that operate within the same geo­capital base of SEK 4,281 million (3,905) Financial Supervisory Authority’s FFFS on 3 November 2017, the 2017 dividend for the year. Cash flow from deposits graphical markets. The Group companies in the consolidated situation, comprising 2011:1 Regulations regarding remuneration amounts to SEK 3.30, which amounts to the Parent Company, Resurs Holding AB, amounted to SEK 2,457 million (-316) structures in credit institutions, investment Risks and have a low risk tolerance and employ a 61 per cent of earnings per share, a total and the Resurs Bank AB Group. Taking and the net change in investment assets firms and fund management companies uncertainties cautious approach concerning the risks of SEK 660 million. The Resurs share was totalled SEK 331 million (152). Cash flow that arise in their operations. into account the transitional rules for IFRS licensed to conduct discretionary portDifferent types of risks arise in the traded ex rights from 30 April 2018. The from investing activities for the year The Group companies manage risks 9, the total capital ratio was 14.7 per cent folio management, recently updated Group’s business operations. The risks record date was 2 May 2018 and the divitotalled SEK -134 million (-85) and cash through such methods as issuing policies (15.5 per cent) and the Common Equity Tier through FFFS 2014:22. can be actualised in different ways for dend was paid on 7 May 2018. flow from financing activities was SEK under a hierarchy comprising three levels. 1 ratio was 13.4 per cent (13.6 per cent). The Board has instituted a Remuneraeach Group company. The Meeting also resolved to authorise 1,470 million (1,702). Since year-end, The Board of each company within the At 31 December 2018, lending to the tion Committee, which is responsible for The following main risk categories the Board to acquire own shares on the outstanding bonds issued under Resurs Group has adopted a number of policies public increased 16 per cent to SEK preparing significant remuneration have been identified: stock exchange for the period until the Bank’s MTN programme have been exthat, along with the external regulatory 27,957 million (24,069). The restated comdecisions, and the bank has a control framework, comprise the basis for the next Annual General Meeting. The authoripanded by SEK 1,400 million and ABS function which, when appropriate and c redit risks (including those attributparative figure for the one-time adjustGroup’s control environment and managesation to buy back shares encompasses ­financing expanded by SEK 800 million. at least annually, independently reviews able to the credit portfolio, credit-­ ment according to IFRS 9 on 1 January ment of a host of risks that arise in its up to 5 per cent of the shares in the 2018 was SEK 23,648 million, which how the bank’s management of remurelated concentration risks and operations. The policies also outline the company. This authorisation to buy back entails an increase of 18 per cent for the Seasonal effects neration matters corresponds to the counterparty risks) delegation of authorities within specific shares was not utilised in 2018. period and 17 per cent excluding currency Resurs’s operations are somewhat influregulatory framework. M arket risks (interest rate, currency areas of risk. Someone is appointed in effects. This strong growth was driven by enced by seasonal variations since the The Chairman and members of the and other exchange risks) each organisation to take responsibility RESOLUTION ON HALF-YEAR both banking segments and all geographic propensity to borrow increases ahead of Board are paid the fees resolved by the Liquidity risks for each policy and monitor compliance, DIVIDENDS IN RESURS HOLDING markets and is well in line with the Group’s the summer holidays and the Christmas Annual General Meeting. Remuneration manage reporting and propose necessary The Extraordinary General Meeting held financial target of lending growth of shopping period. of the CEO and Deputy CEO and the O perational risks (including process adjustments to the policies. on 5 October 2018 resolved to pay a cash more than 10 per cent. There were some Heads of the bank’s control functions ­ risks, personnel risks, IT and system Guidelines comprising the level under dividend of SEK 1.65 per share to shareis determined by the Board. smaller divestments of debt collection Employees Remuneration comprises a basic salary, risks and external risks) policies are determined by the CEO or the holders, totalling SEK 330 million. The portfolios during the year. A couple of In 2018, the average number of employees O ther business risks (including strategic person responsible for the specific risk other benefits and pension. Senior execrecord date was 9 October 2018 and the portfolios were divested in December in the Nordic region was 774 (730). Most risks, business risks, cyclical risks and area in each Group company. In general, utives are not paid a bonus or variable dividend was paid on 12 October 2018. 2018 for total value of approximately of Resurs’s business activities are conreputational risks) these guidelines include relevant inforremuneration. SEK 150 million. At 31 December 2018 a ducted by employees at Resurs Bank’s mation to help employees manage and The proposal to the Annual General I nsurance risks (only for the RESURS BANK PLANNING TO SELL receivable of SEK 97 million was rechead office, which includes centralised identify solutions for issues that arise. On Meeting on 25 April 2019 concerning guideinsurance operations) DELINQUENT RECEIVABLES ognised under other assets; this referred accounting, legal, risk management, marthe operational level, company managers lines for remuneration to senior executives In November 2018, Resurs Bank entered to the proceeds of the sale of one of keting, HR and IT functions. In addition to establish the procedures that apply for is unchanged from the previous year. The Group estimates credit risks, liquidity into forward flow agreements with credit these portfolios. This receivable was the aforementioned centralised functions, specific groups of employees. The procerisks and operational risks as the most management companies Alektum, Axactor settled at the beginning of January. Resurs has employees who address cusdures are more detailed and intended for PENSIONS significant risks that arise within the and Lowell enabling them to recover some In addition to capital from shareholders, tomer and business-related matters at a risk management in the daily operations. The bank’s pension obligations for the framework of its banking operations. of Resurs Bank’s non-performing receivthe operations are financed by deposits national level. The company employs the The Group’s approach to corporate CEO and other senior executives are Insurance risks are the most significant ables in Sweden and Norway that are more from the public, the issued MTN bonds services of external suppliers for certain governance and internal control is deprimarily covered by defined contribution risks in the insurance operations. For than 120 days overdue. The first transfer and the securitisation of certain loan support functions, including marketing scribed in greater detail in the following pension plans. further information on the Group’s risks, took place at the beginning of 2019. receivables (ABS financing). The Group’s and IT/operations. In terms of IT/operaCorporate Governance Report. see Note G3 Risk management. strategy is to actively work with various tions, the external supplier manages IT TERMINATION CONDITIONS The Group’s banking operations are NEW FINANCIAL CAPITAL TARGETS sources of financing in order to use the services including storage/data centres, AND BENEFITS subject to extensive regulations conParent Company’s most suitable source of financing at support services and telecommunication. In the event of termination of employcerning capital adequacy and liquidity operations FOR RESURS HOLDING AFTER MERGER any given time. A deposit offering was Variable remuneration earned in 2018 COMPLETED BETWEEN RESURS BANK ment by the Bank, the CEO and Deputy requirements, which are primarily govResurs Holding AB (publ) is the Parent launched in Germany during the year. is linked to quantitative goals. The Group AND ITS WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY CEO are entitled to salary during the erned by the regulatory package that Company of the Group that comprises With deposits in EUR, the Group took a has ensured that all goals related to notice period, which is 18 months for the comprises CRD IV and CRR, which jointly the operating companies Resurs Holding YA BANK further step towards even more variable remuneration for 2018 can be CEO and 12 months for the Deputy CEO. implement the Basel III agreement within AB and its subsidiaries Resurs Bank AB, In November 2018, the merger between diversified financing. reliably measured. In the interest of preThe notice period for other senior executhe European Union (collectively known Solid Försäkrings AB and Resurs Förvaltning Resurs Holding’s wholly owned subsidiary Deposits from the public on 31 December venting employees with authority over tives is 6-8 months. No termination as the “Basel III regulatory framework”). Norden AB. In 2018, the Parent Company’s Resurs Bank AB and Resurs Bank’s Nor2018 rose 14 per cent to SEK 20,578 million credit decisions from exercising influence benefits are paid. The Basel III regulatory framework innet sales amounted to SEK 26 million (20) wegian wholly owned subsidiary yA Bank (18,033). Financing through issued secuon the Group’s risk level, the Group has cludes certain capital requirements that and operating loss to SEK -20 million AS was completed. The completion of the rities totalled SEK 7,832 million (5,597). noted that employees who can indeEnvironment are intended to be adjustable over time (-30). The Parent Company’s task is to merger means that Resurs Bank’s regulaLiquidity remains healthy, although somependently make decisions in credit Environmental resources are used reand that are dependent on such factors serve as a central management function tory capital requirement is lowered by what reduced. Due to the merger commatters cannot have targets linked exsponsibly and conservatively through as the presence of cyclical and structural for the Group and to manage large owner-­ approximately 1 percentage point due pleted between Resurs Bank AB and its clusively to sales that they can influence the Group’s entire operations. The Group systemic risks. At all times, the Group must ­run issues concerning major acquisitions to lower buffer requirements and Pillar II subsidiary yA Bank AS, the Group’s liquidity through credit decisions. In the Group’s strives to conduct its operations in an fulfil the specified capital and liquidity and divestments. 42 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 43 GRI 102-15 requirements. For this reason, the Board RESURS BANK ISSUED SUBORDINATED Ownership structure Five-year summary, Group of Resurs Holding decided to adjust Resurs TIER 2 BONDS OF SEK 300 MILLION Holding’s financial capital targets and the In march 2019, Resurs Bank issued subResurs Holding’s share is listed on Nastotal capital ratio has been lowered from ordinated Tier 2 bonds of SEK 300 million. daq Stockholm, Large Cap. The final more than 15 per cent to more than 14 These subordinated bonds were issued price paid for the Resurs share at yearINCOME STATEMENT per cent and the Common Equity Tier 1 under Resurs Bank’s MTN programme end was SEK 54.70. ratio has been lowered from more than and have a tenor of ten years. There is SEK Thousand 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 12.5 per cent to more than 11.5 per cent. the option of prematurely redeeming the Dividends Interest income 3,062,854 2,686,820 2,449,066 1,994,686 1,684,048 bonds after five years. The Board proposes that the AGM adopt Significant events after a dividend of SEK 1.95 per share. IncludInterest expense -324,025 -268,156 -236,813 -212,607 -334,992 the end of the year Anticipated future ing the dividend of SEK 1.65 paid on 12 performance October 2018, this year’s dividend amounts Other income/other expense 698,525 672,681 584,283 588,990 617,459 NEW CHAIRMAN OF RESURS HOLDING to SEK 3.60, which amounts to 63 per cent Resurs provides sales-driving finance of earnings per share. The total proposed Total operating income 3,437,354 3,091,345 2,796,536 2,371,069 1,966,515 IN THE AUTUMN solutions for retailers, consumer loans dividend for the Annual General Meeting The Chairman of the Board of Resurs and niche insurance products in the Norto adopt on 25 April 2019 amounts to General administrative expenses -1,178,239 -1,065,752 -1,081,596 -989,505 -837,307 Holding, Jan Samuelson, has declined dic region. Resurs has continuously exSEK 390 million. The Resurs share will be re-election at the Annual General Meeting panded its operations and its loan porttraded ex rights from 26 April 2019. The Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-current assets -49,039 -35,283 -31,272 -16,496 -13,820 to be held in April 2019, but has agreed folio increased from SEK 9.3 billion at 31 record date is proposed as 29 April 2019 with the Nomination Committee to stay Other operating expenses -188,445 -179,626 -167,454 -151,986 -147,770 December 2013 to SEK 28.0 billion at 31 and the dividend will be paid on 3 May on the Board and continue his role of December 2018. Resurs has established a 2019. The Board intends to continue payChairman until the autumn Extraordinary Total expenses before credit losses -1,415,723 -1,280,661 -1,280,322 -1,157,987 -998,897 stable platform, and continues to have ing semi-annual dividends, and plans to General Meeting. potential for substantial growth in the convene an Extraordinary General Meeting years to come. in the autumn of 2019. Earnings before credit losses 2,021,631 1,810,684 1,516,214 1,213,082 967,618 Credit losses, net -535,071 -413,454 -376,693 -374,863 -350,699 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE Operating profit 1,486,560 1,397,230 1,139,521 838,219 616,919 The ten largest shareholders with direct ownership on 31 December 2018 were: Waldakt AB (Bengtsson family) 28.9% Income tax expense -343,145 -317,197 -234,727 -216,010 -149,270 Cidron Semper S.A.R.L (Nordic Capital) 17.4% Profit for the year 1,143,415 1,080,033 904,794 622,209 467,649 Swedbank Robur Fonder 8.3% Second AP Fund 2.4% SEB Fonder 2.0% Handelsbanken fonder 1.9% Vanguard 1.4% Catea Group AB 1.2% AFA Försäkring 1.2% Norges Bank 1.1% Total 65.8% PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT Unappropriated earnings in the Parent Company at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting (SEK): Share premium reserve 1,785,612,857 Retained earnings 320,315,589 Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -330,000,000 Net profit for the year 823,222,879 Total 2,599,151,325 The Board of Directors and the CEO propose that these earnings be appropriated as follows (SEK): Dividends till shareholders 390,000,000 To be carried forward 2,209,151,325 Total 2,599,151,325 The Board believes that the proposed dividend is justifiable with respect to the requirements that the nature, scope and risks of the operations impose on the size of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and financial position. GRI 102-5 44 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 45 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION KEY RATIOS SEK Thousand 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Assets Operating income 3,437 3,091 2,797 2,371 1,967 Cash and balances with central banks 63,215 61,539 56,173 50,761 Operating profit/loss 1,487 1,397 1,140 838 617 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 1,009,021 842,731 892,068 956,725 805,843 Profit for the year 1,143 1,080 905 622 468 Lending to credit institutions 3,703,650 2,794,283 3,294,955 2,351,285 3,695,094 Earnings per share, SEK 1) 5.72 5.40 4.52 3.16 2.40 Lending to the public 27,956,576 24,068,795 21,204,281 18,198,175 13,923,375 C/I before credit losses 1) 41.2 41.4 45.8 48.8 50.8 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,262,568 1,735,266 1,886,004 1,477,206 1,300,484 Return on equity excl. intangible assets, (RoTE), % 1) 26.3 25.3 24.3 21.4 20.4 Subordinated loans 27,317 35,902 32,491 25,015 26,478 Return on equity excl. Intangibel assets, (ROTE), excl. nonrecurring costs, adjusted for 11,5 % (12,5) common equity tier 1 ratio, decidShares and participations 68,556 76,368 65,858 32,903 11,610 ed dividend last year and deducted dividend current year, % 1) 33.9 30.3 25.8 23.8 Derivatives 190,175 40,974 69,902 170,682 38,573 Core Tier 1 ratio, % 2) 13.4 13.6 13.2 13.1 13.4 Total capital ratio, % 2) 14.7 15.5 14.1 14.2 14.7 Intangible assets 1,973,681 1,877,166 1,885,106 1,784,003 680,346 Lending to the public 1) 27,957 24,069 21,204 18,198 13,923 Property, plant and equipment 56,228 39,954 42,079 37,132 28,515 Risk adjusted NBI marginal, % 1) 10.6 11.1 11.6 11.5 12.4 Other assets 644,485 358,294 384,470 481,533 503,997 NBI margin, % 1) 12.6 12.9 13.6 13.8 15.5 Total assets 36,955,472 31,931,272 29,813,387 25,565,420 21,014,315 C/I before credit losses (excl. Insurance), % 1) 40.5 40.8 44.7 48.1 51.5 Liabilities, provisions and equity Credit loss ratio, (%) 1) 2.1 1.8 1.9 2.3 3.0 Liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 1,700 141,260 1,026 Equity/assets ratio, (%) 1) 17.2 19.4 20.5 19.6 15.5 Deposits and borrowing from the public 20,578,153 18,033,013 18,617,943 16,433,531 15,976,650 Business volume 48,535 42,102 39,822 34,632 29,900 Other liabilities 1,748,521 1,772,114 1,736,293 1,766,895 1,772,263 Net interest margin, (%) 1) 8.0 7.8 8.0 7.7 7.3 Issued securities 7,832,186 5,597,271 3,316,130 2,181,340 Reserve Ratio, %, according to IAS 39 1) 51.1 52.6 53.3 56.2 Subordinated debt 298,171 340,044 42,160 38,224 Reserve ratio, %, according to IFRS 9, stage 1 1) 0.8 Equity 6,348,541 6,188,830 6,099,161 5,004,170 3,264,376 Reserve ratio, %, according to IFRS 9, stage 2 1) 9.2 Total liabilities, provisions and equity 36,955,472 31,931,272 29,813,387 25,565,420 21,014,315 Reserve ratio, %, according to IFRS 9, stage 3 1) 45.3 Claims ratio %, insurance operations 3) 27.4 31.2 38.5 43.2 41.3 Operating costs ratio %, insurance operations 3) 62.9 60.7 59.9 52.1 54.7 Combined ratio %, insurance operations 3) 90.2 91.8 98.4 95.3 96.0 Required solvency margin, insurance operations 3) 177 90 Available Capital Base 3) 539 653 632 of which Tier 1 capital 539 653 632 Solvency Capital Requirement 3) 377 361 355 Solvency ratio, % 3) 143 181 178 Average number of employees 774 730 675 645 578 Return on assets, (%) 1) 3.3 3.5 3.3 2.7 2.5 1) Alternative performance measurements, which management and analysts use in the analysis and evaluation of the Group, are not defined or specified according to (International Financial Reporting Standars). Management believes that inclusion of these measures provides information to the readers that enable comparability between periods and they facilitate both management and analysts in the analysis. Calculations and reconciliation against information in the financial statements of theses performance measures are provided on the website under “Financial reports”. 2) Key ratios in accordance to the capital adequacy requirements and which refer to the consolidated situation. The consolidated situation comprise the parent company Resurs Holding AB and its subsidiaries Resurs Bank AB Group. 3) Key ratios in accordance to the solvency capital requirement and which refers to the insurance operation in Solid Försäkrings AB, subsidiary of Resurs Holding AB. 46 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 47 Definitions Corporate Governance Report AVAILABLE CAPITAL BASE 3) OPERATING COSTS RATIO, % 1) Proper corporate governance practices and the Swedish Corporate Governance solutions that are deemed to better suit The available capital base is the sum of Tier 1 capital and additional Operating costs, insurance, in relation to premium earned. are fundamental in maintaining the Code (the “Code”), as well as other applithe circumstances in a particular case, capital. The eligible capital base is the capital that is permitted to be market’s confidence in the Group and cable Swedish and foreign laws and reguprovided that the company transparently included to cover the Solvency Capital Requirement. PREMIUM INCOME, NET 1) creating added value for our stakeholdlations related to listed companies. reports every such deviation, describes Premium income is calculated as the sum of premium income and the ers. As part of this effort and in order to BUSINESS VOLUME the alternative solution, and states the change in unearned premiums after deduction of reinsurers’ share. Customer-related deposits and lending. Premium income refers to revenue received by an insurance company prevent any conflicts of interest, roles SWEDISH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE reasons for said actions in its corporate for providing insurance coverage during a specific period. and responsibilities are clearly defined CODE governance report. In 2018 the company C/I BEFORE CREDIT LOSSES, % 1) and delegated among shareholders, the The Code applies to all Swedish compahad a deviation from the Code, namely Expenses before credit losses in relation to operating income. RESERVE RATIO, % 1) Board of Directors, management and nies whose shares are listed in a regulated that a Board member, Martin Bengtsson, other stakeholders. A detailed presentamarketplace in Sweden and must be was the Chairman of the Nomination C/I BEFORE CREDIT LOSSESS (EXCL. INSURANCE) , % 1) According to IAS 39 tion of corporate governance at Resurs Reserve for anticipated credit losses in relation to lending to observed as of the first day of trading. Committee for the 2018 Annual General Expenses before credit lossess in relation to operating income, Holding AB (publ) (“Resurs Holding”) is exclusive segment Insurance. the public, gross. The Code stipulates a standard for sound Meeting. The reason for this deviation is provided on the following pages. corporate governance at a higher level that the Nomination Committee instrucCAPITAL BASE 2) According to IFRS 9 of ambition than that of the Companies tion adopted by the general meeting of The sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Reserve for expected credit losses per stage in relation to CORPORATE GOVERNANCE/MANAGEAct and the minimum criteria stipulated shareholders states that the member lending to the public, gross per stage. MENT MODEL/GOVERNANCE AND in other regulations. The Code is based appointed by the largest shareholder in CLAIMS RATIO, % 1) MANAGEMENT on the comply or explain principle, meanterms of votes shall be appointed ChairInsurance compensation as a percentage of premium income. RETURN ON ASSETS % 1) Resurs Holding is a Swedish public limited ing that the company is not compelled to man of the Nomination Committee. This Net income in relation to average balance sheet total. liability company whose shares have been always comply with every rule of the Code, member was Martin Bengtsson. COMBINED RATIO, % 1) listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since April and is instead free to opt for other The sum of insurance compensation and operating expenses as a RETURN ON EQUITY EXCL. INTANGIBLE ASSETS, (ROTE), % 1) percentage of premium earned. 2016. The company’s corporate goverProfit for the period as a percentage of average equity less intangible nance practices are predominantly based assets. COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL 2) on Swedish law, the Swedish Financial Shareholders (holding exceeding 10%) at 31 December 2018: Common Equity Tier 1 capital comprises share capital, paid-in capital, Supervisory Authority’s regulations, the RETURN ON EQUITY EXCL. INTANGIBLE ASSETS, (ROTE), EXCL. NONretained earnings and other reserves of the companies included in the RECURRING COSTS, ADJUSTED FOR 11.5 % (12.5) COMMON EQUITY company’s Articles of Association and consolidated situation. internal policies. In addition to the reguNumber of TIER 1 RATIO, DECIDED DIVIDEND LAST YEAR AND DEDUCTED DIVIDEND Shareholders % ownership CURRENT YEAR, % 1) lations of the Swedish Companies Act shares CORE TIER 1 RATIO 2) Net profit for the period as a percentage of average equity less intangible (2005:551), the Swedish Annual Accounts Core Tier 1 capital in relation to risk-weighted amount as per the assets, excl. nonrecurring costs, given a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Waldakt Aktiebolag 57,785,556 28.9% Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directive. Act (1995:1554) and the company’s Artiaccording to the Board’s target and deducted dividend last year and cles of Association, the company applies deducted dividend current year. Cidron Semper S.A.R.L 34,865,318 17.4% CREDIT LOSS RATIO, % 1) Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers Net credit losses in relation to the average balance of loans to the REQUIRED SOLVENCY MARGIN 3) public. Measurement of the minimum capital base level permitted under currently legislation. Calculation is based on premium income and EARNINGS PER SHARE, SEK 1) on indemnification paid by the insurance subsidiary. The required RESURS HOLDING’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Net income attributable to shareholders in relation to average number solvency margin is the highest of these two calculated values. of shares. RISK ADJUSTED NBI-MARGIN, % 1) EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO, % 1) NBI-margin adjusted for credit loss ratio. Equity, including profit for the year and 78% of untaxed reserves, as a percentage of the balance sheet total. SOLVENCY CAPITAL REQUIREMENT 3) Solvency capital requirement is calculated according to EIOPA’s External auditors General meeting of shareholders Nomination Committee LENDING TO THE PUBLIC 1) Total lending to the public less reserves for expected credit losses. default formula. Elected by the Annual The company’s highest decision-­ Nominates Board General Meeting. Examines making body. Exercises control at members and auditors, the accounts, book-keeping the Annual General Meeting, as well and proposes their LENDING TO THE PUBLIC, EXCL. EXCHANGE RATE DIFFERENCES 1) SOLVENCY RATIO, % 3) and administration by the as Extraordinary General remuneration. Total lending to the public in local currency, excl. exchange rate differences. The solvency ratio is the eligible capital base in relation to the Board of Directors and CEO Meetings where necessary. Solvency Capital Requirement. NBI MARGIN, % 1) Operating income exclusive of the Insurance segment in relation TIER 1 CAPITAL 2) to the average balance of loans to the public. Tier 1 capital comprises Common Equity Tier 1 capital and other Tier 1 capital. Board of Directors NET INTEREST INCOME/EXPENSE (EXCL. INSURANCE) 1) The Board of Directors and its Chairman are Interest income less interest expenses less interest income and TIER 2 CAPITAL 2) appointed by the general meeting of shareexpenses Insurance segment. Tier 2 capital comprises dated or perpetual subordinated loans. Internal audit holders. The Board of Directors is responsible Subordinate to the for the company’s organisation and the Board of Directors. administration of the company’s affairs. NET INTEREST MARGIN, % 1) TOTAL CAPITAL RATIO, % 2) Reviews and evaluations Net interest income in relation to average balance sheet total. Total capital in relation to risk-weighted amount as per the Swedish internal control. Audit Corporate Remuneration Governance Financial Supervisory Authority´s directive. Committee Committee Committee NONRECURRING COSTS 1) Items deemed to be of a one-off nature, meaning individual transactions that are not a part of normal business activities. To facilitate the comRisk Control function* Compliance function* parison of profit between periods, items are identified and recognised seperately since they are considered to reduce comparability President and CEO Appointed by the Board of Directors. 1) Alternative performance measures. 2) Key ratios according to capital adequacy rules. Appointed by 3) Key ratios according to insurance rules. Reports to/informs Group Management *) Function subordinate to the CEO 48 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-18 RESURS HOLDING 49 SHAREHOLDERS’ ROLE IN CORPORATE A doption of the income statement fees for the Board of Directors and its The Nomination Committee applies item reporting and reporting by the control results were presented to the Board and GOVERNANCE/LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS and balance sheet, and consolidated Committees, the election of and fees for 4.1 of the Code as its diversity policy, and functions, and evaluate the company’s the Nomination Committee. Resurs Holding’s share register is mainincome statement and consolidated the company’s auditors, and the process strives for a combination of skills and exoperations based on the established tartained by Euroclear Sweden AB. At 31 balance sheet and criteria that are to govern the apperience that meet the demands of Regets and policies adopted by the Board. MEMBERS OF THE BOARD December 2018, the company had a total A resolution on the appropriation of pointment of members of the Nomination surs Holding’s most important priorities. Finally, the Board also decides on major The members of the Board are elected on of 200,000,000 shares. the company’s profit according to the Committee until the next AGM. The Nomination Committee believes that investments and organisational and operan annual basis by the AGM for the period adopted balance sheet The focus of the Nomination Committhe diversity issue is important, and it ational changes in the company. The until the end of the next AGM. According GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS tee’s efforts is on ensuring that the Board actively endeavours to achieve an even Chairman of the Board is to monitor the to Resurs Holding’s Articles of Association, Resolution on discharge from liability gender distribution over time. In accordance with the Swedish Companies of Directors comprises members who company’s earnings in close cooperation the Board is to comprise three to ten for the Board of Directors and the CEO The Nomination Committee’s proposals Act, the general meeting of shareholders collectively possess the expertise and with the CEO, and chair Board meetings. members elected by a general meeting. is the company’s highest decision-making T he re-election of Board members Jan experience to match the criteria that the for the 2019 AGM will be published in The Chairman leads the Board’s work and The Board currently comprises nine membody. The general meeting of shareholders Samuelson, Martin Bengtsson, Fredrik shareholders impose on Resurs Holding’s the forthcoming AGM notice on Resurs the Board members, and creates an open bers elected by a general meeting for the can resolve every company matter that Carlsson, Anders Dahlvig, Marita Odélius highest decision-making body, including Holding’s website. and constructive dialogue. The Chairperiod until the end of the 2019 AGM. does not expressly fall under the exclusive Engström, Christian Frick, Mariana the requirements that are stipulated in man’s tasks also include monitoring and Under the Code, a majority of the expertise of another company body. At the Burenstam Linder and Lars Nordstrand the Code. Accordingly, in the process of BOARD OF DIRECTORS evaluating the skills, work and contribuAGM-elected Board members must be Annual General Meeting (AGM), which must up until the next Annual General Meeting; assessing candidates for the Board, the Following the general meeting of sharetions of individual Board members to the independent in relation to the company be held within six months of the end of the and election of Mikael Wintzell as a new Chairman of the Board presents the holders, the Board is the company’s Board. In addition to the regular Board and its management. To determine financial year, shareholders exercise their Board member up until the next Annual Nomination Committee with the evaluahighest decision-making body and its members, the CEO and CFO also particiwhether a Board member is independent, voting rights on matters including the General Meeting. Jan Samuelson was tion that has been conducted of the highest executive body. The work of the pate in Board meetings. The Group’s CGO a collective assessment must be made of adoption of the income statement and re-elected as Chairman of the Board. Board’s work and of the individual memBoard is primarily governed by the (Chief Governance Officer) serves as the all circumstances that may give reason balance sheet, appropriation of the comElection of auditors bers during the past year. The NominaSwedish Companies Act. The Board’s Board’s secretary. Other members of to question a Board member’s indepenpany’s profit or loss, motions on discharge Determination of fees for Board tion Committee is also given the opporwork is also governed by the rules of Group Management and other executives dence in relation to the company or its from liability for Board members and the members and auditors tunity to meet the Board’s members. The procedure that are established annually report on specific matters. management, such as if a Board member CEO for the financial year, the election of Nomination Committee also makes by the Board. The rules of procedure has recently been employed by the comBoard members and auditors, as well as Adoption of Nomination Committee preparations for the election of auditors. govern such matters as the delegation of EVALUATION OF THE BOARD pany or one of its related companies. At fees to be paid to Board members and instruction Shareholders are free to submit propostasks and responsibilities among the Once a year, the Board conducts a sysleast two of the Board members who are appointed auditors. Resolution on guidelines for compenals to the Nomination Committee pursuBoard, the Chairman of the Board and tematic evaluation during which Board independent in relation to the company In addition to the AGM, Extraordinary sation CEO and other senior executives ant to the instructions posted on Resurs the CEO, and detail the procedures for members are given an opportunity to proand its management must also be indeGeneral Meetings may also be convened. A uthorisation to buy back own shares Holding’s website. the CEO’s financial reporting. The Board vide their views on approaches, Board mapendent in relation to the company’s Pursuant to the Articles of Association, to encompass up to 5% of all of the The AGM resolves on principles for the also adopts rules of procedure for the terial, their own and other members’ work major shareholders. In order to determine notice of a general meeting of shareholdshares in the company up until the next composition of the Nomination CommitBoard’s Committees. The Board’s tasks on the Board with the aim of improving this independence, the scope of the memers must be announced in Postoch InAnnual General Meeting tee and its work. Ahead of the 2019 AGM, include establishing strategies, business the work of the Board and providing the ber’s direct or indirect relations to major rikes Tidningar and by making the notice pursuant to Resurs Holding’s principles plans and budgets, submitting interim Nomination Committee with a relevant shareholders must be taken into account. available on the company’s website. ConResurs Holding’s next AGM will be held on for the Nomination Committee, the Comreports and financial statements and basis for making decisions ahead of the Major shareholders are defined under firmation that the official notification has 25 April 2019. mittee is to comprise representatives of adopting policies. The Board must also AGM. An evaluation was performed by an the Code as shareholders who directly or been issued must simultaneously be anthe four largest shareholders in terms of monitor the company’s financial perforexternal company led by the Chairman of indirectly control 10 per cent or more or nounced in Svenska Dagbladet. A press reRIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE voting rights registered as owners in the mance, ensure the quality of the financial the Board ahead of the 2019 AGM, and the the company’s shares or voting rights. lease in Swedish and English including the GENERAL MEETING share register maintained by Euroclear notice in its entirety is published ahead of All shareholders who are entered in the Sweden AB at 31 August of each year, as Members of the Board every general meeting of shareholders. extract from the share register concerning well as the Chairman of the Board. The The Chairman of the Board, the minithe status of the shareholders five days Nomination Committee appoints its RemuneraCorporate Board Committee No. of own mum number of Board members needed prior to the meeting (including Saturdays) Chairman, who is to represent the largest IndeAudit tion ComGovernance meeting meeting and related to form a quorum, and the CEO are to and who registered their participation on shareholder in terms of voting rights, Name Function Elected1) pendent Committee mittee Committee attendance attendance Total fees parties’ shares attend extraordinary meetings of sharetime, pursuant to the stipulations in the and to work in the interests of all shareSEK holders. In addition to the aforementioned notice, are entitled to participate in the holders. Resurs Holding announced the Jan Samuelson Chairman 2012 Yes • • 16/16 13/13 293,369 1,516,0004) parties, AGMs must be attended by at least meeting and to cast votes based on the composition of the Nomination Committee one member of the Nomination Committee, number of shares that they hold. Shareahead of the 2019 AGM on 10 October Board SEK Martin Bengtsson 2012 No2) 3) • 16/16 7/7 57,785,556 the auditor-in-charge, and, whenever holders who are unable to attend in person 2018. The four largest shareholders of member 1) 460,000 possible, all Board members. may be represented by a proxy. ShareResurs Holding on 31 August 2018 were: The company’s Articles of Association Mariana Board SEK holders may not be accompanied by more Waldakt AB, Nordic Capital via Cidron 2015 Yes • 16/16 7/7 31,407 do not include any specific stipulations Burenstam Linder member 607,0004) than two individuals. Semper Ltd, Swedbank Robur Fonder and concerning the election or dismissal of In addition to registering with the Handelsbanken Fonder AB. Swedbank Board SEK Board members, limitations to sales of company, shareholders whose shares are Robur Fonder relinquished its place on the Fredrik Carlsson 2012 Yes • 16/16 6/6 138,254 member 651,0004) 6) shares or amendments to the Articles of held in the custody of a trustee through Nomination Committee and therefore the Association. The Board does not currently a bank or other securities firm must Second AP Fund was asked to join the Board SEK Anders Dahlvig 2012 Yes 14/16 108,202 hold any authority granted by a general temporarily register their shares in their Committee as the fifth largest shareholder. member 1) 469,0004) meeting of shareholders to make a deciown name with Euroclear Sweden AB in The Nomination Committee comprises Board SEK sion on Resurs Holding issuing any new order to be entitled to participate in the Committee Chairman Martin Bengtsson Christian Frick 2012 No2) • • 14/16 13/13 0 member 477,000 shares. At the Annual General Meeting on meeting. Shareholders should inform for Waldakt AB with a 28.8 per cent share27 April 2018, the Board was once again Board SEK their trustees of this well in advance of holding in Resurs Holding on 31 August; Lars Nordstrand 2014 Yes • 16/16 7/7 64,994 authorised to buy back own shares to member 1) 795,0004) 6) the general meeting. Robert Furuhjelm, for Nordic Capital’s encompass up to 5 per cent of all of the Resurs Holding’s Articles of Association holding company Cidron Semper S.A.R.L Marita Odélius Board SEK shares in the company up until the next do no stipulate any limitations as to how (17.4%); Anna Sundberg for Handelsbanken 2015 Yes • 15/16 7/7 23,407 Engström member 552,000 Annual General Meeting. many votes each shareholder may cast Fonder AB (2.8%); Ulrika Danielson for the In addition to the Annual General Meetat a general meeting. Second AP Fund (2.4%); and Resurs HoldBoard SEK ing, an Extraordinary General Meeting was Mikael Wintzell 2018 Yes 10/10 0 ing AB’s Chairman Jan Samuelson. The member 5) 293,000 held during the year. NOMINATION COMMITTEE current composition of the Nomination A total of 140,938,214 shares were 1) T he following individuals were also former Board members of Resurs Bank and/or Solid Försäkring prior to the foundation of Resurs Holding in 2012: Martin The Nomination Committee represents Committee is also posted on Resurs Bengtsson (Resurs Bank and Solid Försäkring, since 2008), Anders Dahlvig (Resurs Bank, 2011) and Lars Nordstrand (Resurs Bank, 2011). represented at the 2018 AGM. The repreResurs Holding’s shareholders. The Holding’s website. The Nomination sented shares comprised approximately 2) Not independent in relation to the company’s major shareholders. Nomination Committee is tasked with Committee convened on a total of six 3) Not independent in relation to the company and its management. 70.5 per cent of the total number of preparing and presenting motions for occasions ahead of the 2019 AGM, and shares in the company. 4) Payment was made to Board member company until March; amount includes compensation for additional taxes. resolution, for example, determining the was also in contact by telephone and 5) Board member since 27 April 2018. The resolutions passed at the 2018 proposals on the number of and election held meetings with the members of the AGM included: 6) Reported fees refer to total remuneration Board member received for serving on the board of the company and its subsidiaries. of Board members, the Board Chairman, Board and the CEO. 50 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-18 GRI 102-18 RESURS HOLDING 51 THE BOARD’S WORK IN 2018 Bank’s internal capital and liquidity Resurs Holding’s Audit Committee Member of Employed No. of own continuously ensures the quality of assessments, and monitor proposals on Group manageat Resurs and related Own number Fourth quarter First quarter legislative amendments that may imName Position ment since1) since parties’ shares of warrants Resurs Holding’s financial reporting, while • E xtraordinary General Meeting • Financial reporting and operapact the Group’s licensed operations. the Corporate Governance Committee • A doption of Q3 report tions-related matters ensures the quality of Resurs Holding’s The Corporate Governance Committee is Kenneth Nilsson President and CEO 1) 2012 1993 478,474 1,500,000 • A udit plan for external audit • Credit matters, large exposures, corporate governance, internal control, also to inform the Board of and provide • F inancial reporting and operations-reproblem credits Peter Rosén CFO/Deputy CEO 2015 2015 48,358 750,000 compliance, risk control and internal recommendations on the results of these lated matters • Budget 2018 reviews and evaluations. The Corporate audit functions. • B oard’s annual strategy meeting • Internal liquidity adequacy Anna Nauclér CCO 2018 2018 0 160,000 Governance Committee has three • Credit matters, large exposures, assessment process (ILAAP) problem credits • Recovery plan members: Lars Nordstrand (Chairman), RISK ASSESSMENT AND CONTROL • S ale of delinquent receivables • Year-end report Mariana Burenstam Linder and Marita Eva Brike CHRO 2017 2017 0 250,000 ACTIVITIES • A ddition of Internal liquidity adequacy • Remuneration of senior executives Odélius Engström. Resurs Holding has implemented a model assessment process (ILAAP) • Declaration of intent to merge yA Anette Konar for assessing the risk of errors in the CMO 2017 2017 0 90,000 • C hanges to capital targets Bank AS and Resurs Bank AB REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Riple accounting and the financial reporting. • Reporting from control functions • Reporting from control functions The Remuneration Committee’s task is to The most significant items and processes • B udget 2019 prepare matters concerning remuneration Sebastian Green CIO 2018 2018 0 0 in which the risk of material errors may Q4 Q1 DEC JAN and other terms of employment for exectypically exist include income-statement Erik Frick COO 20132) 2012 75,485 250,000 NOV FEB utive management. The Remuneration and balance-sheet items, lending to the Committee is to monitor and evaluate 1) R  esurs Holding AB was founded in 2012. The following individuals held positions at Resurs Bank prior to public, intangible assets and financial inOCT MAR the application of the guidelines for rethe foundation of Resurs Holding AB: Kenneth Nilsson (since 2001). struments. Resurs Holding continuously muneration to senior executives which 2) Previously CSO and member of Group Management as COO since 2018. monitors the effectiveness of the control SEP APR the Annual General Meeting is to adopt of these items and processes. according to the law, and assist the AUG MAY Board with support and advice in formuMONITORING, EVALUATION AND Third quarter JUL JUN Second quarter lating the Group companies’ respective that could be assumed to be of signifiCONTROL ENVIRONMENT Q3 Q2 REPORTING • A doption of Q2 report • F inancial reporting and remuneration policies to promote sound cance for the company’s shareholders. The Board has adopted a number of policy The Board continuously evaluates the in• F inancial reporting and operations-related matters and efficient risk management and, if Furthermore, the CEO is to lead the documents, which, along with the external formation it receives. The Board regularly operations-related matters • M erger plan for yA Bank AS necessary, propose changes. The internal executive management and execute regulatory framework, comprise the basis receives reports from the business areas • C redit matters, large exposures, proband Resurs Bank AB policies govern matters such as the balthe decisions made by the Board. for Resurs Holding’s control environment. concerning Resurs Holding’s financial lem credits • C redit matters, large exposures, ance between fixed and variable remuResurs Holding’s Group Management All employees are responsible for composition and reports from the Audit problem credits neration, and the relation between consists of six people: the CEO, CFO, plying with the adopted policies. The • D ocuments for Extraordinary General Committee regarding their observations, Meeting • I nternal liquidity adequacy earnings and compensation, the primary CCO, CHRO, CMO, CIO and COO. Board has adopted policies that govern recommendations, and proposals on assessment process (ILAAP) terms for bonus and incentive schemes, Remuneration of the CEO senior executhe responsibilities of the CEO and the • R eporting from control functions actions and decisions. The internal audit • A doption of Q1 report and the terms for other benefits, pensions, tives may include fixed salary, long-term Board. The Board’s rules of procedures • R ecovery plan function, compliance function and risk resignation/dismissal and termination incentive programmes, pensions and stipulate that due to the consolidated • A pplication for authorisation control function regularly report their benefits. The Remuneration Committee other benefits. Senior executives are not situation, which includes Resurs Holding to repurchase shares observations and proposals for actions is tasked with monitoring and evaluating paid a bonus or variable remuneration. together with Resurs Bank, the Board is to • A nnual Report and Annual to the CEO, the Board and certain Board the results of variable remuneration, and The AGM on 27 April 2018 resolved on reensure the presence of a risk control funcGeneral Meeting Committees. The internal and external the Group’s compliance with the guidemuneration guidelines that are to apply tion (second line of defence), a compliance • S tatutory Board meeting regulatory frameworks that govern finanlines for remuneration as adopted by a for remuneration of the CEO and other function (second line of defence) and an • F unding/MTN cial reporting are communicated intergeneral meeting. The Remuneration senior executives. internal audit function (third line of de• R eporting from control functions nally by way of policies that are published Committee has three members: Jan Remuneration of the CEO and other sefence), all of which are organisationally on the Group’s intranet. Samuelson (Chairman), Christian Frick nior executives is to be determined by the separated from one another. The control BOARD COMMITTEES and Fredrik Carlsson. Board in accordance with the guidelines functions must regularly report on signifand discuss the coordination between the AUDITORS Although the overall responsibility of the on remuneration of senior executives apicant weaknesses and risks to the Board external and internal auditing functions Ernst & Young AB (Jakobsbergsgatan 24, proved by a general meeting and internal and CEO. The reports are to follow up on Board cannot be delegated, the Board inwith the auditors. The Audit Committee is CEO AND OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES SE-111 44, Stockholm, Sweden), has served stitutes Committees from among its ranks policies based on regulations on remunerpreviously reported weaknesses and risks also to assist Resurs Holding’s Nomination The CEO is subordinate to the Board of as the company’s auditor since 2013, with that prepare, evaluate and monitor matation systems in banking and insurance and account for each newly identified Committee in producing candidates for Directors and is responsible for the comNiklas Paulsson as the Auditor-in-Charge. ters within each specific area ahead of operations applicable at any time. significant weakness and risk. The Board external auditors. The Audit Committee pany’s operational management and its Niklas Paulsson is an Authorised Public decisions by the Board. Accordingly, the has three members: Jan Samuelson day-to-day business. The delegation of and the CEO are to take the appropriate Accountant and a member of FAR, the inBoard has instituted an Audit Committee, (Chairman), Christian Frick and Martin duties among the Board and the CEO is INTERNAL CONTROL actions based on the control functions’ stitute for the accountancy profession in Corporate Governance Committee and Bengtsson. The Audit Committee fulfils outlined in the Board’s rules of procedure The Board’s responsibility for internal reports as soon as possible. The Board Sweden, as well as a licensed auditor for Remuneration Committee. The Committee the requirements on auditing and acand the CEO’s instructions. The CEO is control is governed by the Swedish and the CEO are to ensure that Group has financial companies. members and Chairmen are appointed by counting expertise as stipulated in the also responsible for preparing reports and Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act procedures in place to regularly monitor The company’s auditor participates in the Board and their work is governed by Swedish Companies Act. compiling information from management (1995:1554), the Code and the applicable actions that were taken based on reports a number of Audit Committee meetings each Committee’s rules of procedure. ahead of Board meetings and makes elements of the Swedish Financial Supermade by the control functions. Responsiand the Board meeting at which the presentations at the Board meetings. visory Authority’s regulations and general bility for maintaining an effective control CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Annual Report and consolidated financial recommendations. The procedures for environment and a regular focus on risk AUDIT COMMITTEE The Corporate Governance Committee’s Pursuant to the internal policies on fistatements are addressed. At this Board nancial reporting, the CEO is responsible internal control, risk assessment, control assessment and internal control regarding One of the primary tasks of the Audit tasks include evaluating the Group’s inmeeting, the auditor presents such matfor financial reporting at Resurs Holding activities and monitoring regarding its financial reporting is delegated to the Committee in accordance with Chapter 8, ternal control and policies pertaining to ters as the financial information and disand must thus ensure that the Board has financial reporting were designed to enCEO. However, responsibility ultimately Section 49b of the Swedish Companies Act compliance, risk control and internal audit, cusses the audit with the Board members. sufficient information in order to be able sure reliable overall financial reporting lies with the Board. The CEO must reguis to ensure that the Board meets its insofar as these do not influence the area The external auditing of the company’s to regularly assess the company and the and external financial reporting pursuant larly provide the Board with a written CEO oversight requirements pertaining to auof financial reporting, for which the Audit and subsidiaries’ financial statements Group’s financial position. Accordingly, to IFRS, prevailing laws and regulations, report, including general commentary on diting, accounting and financial reporting. Committee is responsible. Among other and accounts, as well as the Board’s the CEO continuously keeps the Board and other requirements that must be significant events. As operative personnel The Audit Committee is also tasked with matters, the Corporate Governance Comand CEO’s administration, is conducted complied with by companies listed on in the first line of defence, managers at reviewing the processes and procedures mittee is to evaluate observations and informed of the performance of the in accordance with generally accepted the Nasdaq Stockholm. These efforts invarious levels within the Group are refor the aforementioned areas. In addition, proposals for improvement measures business, earnings and financial position, accounting policies. volve the Board, Group Management and sponsible for identifying and addressing the Audit Committee is to supervise the based on reports submitted by the comtrends in liquidity and credit risk, key other personnel. identified risks. impartiality and independence of the pliance function, risk control function business developments, as well as any auditor, evaluate the auditing practices and internal audit function, review Resurs other event, circumstance or condition 52 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-18 GRI 102-18 RESURS HOLDING 53 Board of Directors Group Management Jan Samuelson Anders Dahlvig Kenneth Nilsson Anette Konar Riple Born in 1963. Chairman of the Board since Born in 1957. Member of the Board Born in 1962. President and CEO since 2012. Born in 1975. Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) 2012. Chairman of the Audit Committee and since 2012. since 2017 Remuneration Committee, member of NomEducation and professional experience: Ecoination Committee. Education and professional experience: nomics and marketing studies. Former CEO of Education and professional experience: BSc in Business Administration and MA Solid Försäkring. Law degree, Lund University and Master of Education and professional experience: in Economics. Former President and International Relations, SAIS Johns Hopkins MSc in Economics and Business AdministraCEO of IKEA. Other current appointments: University. Previously Business Area tion and Master of Laws. Previously Senior CEO of Resurs Bank. Manager and Marketing Director at Partner at Accent Equity and Other significant appointments: Chairman Euroflorist, Brand Manager at Procter & Senior Vice President, EF Education. of Inter Ikea Holding BV. Board member of Gamble and PR Consultant at Kreab. H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, Axel Johnson Other significant appointments: Chairman Aktiebolag, Oriflame AG, Kingfisher Ltd and Other current appointments: of Stillfront Group AB and Sdiptech AB, Dunkers stiftelser. Board member of Saltå Kvarn AB. Martin Bengtsson Mikael Wintzell Peter Rosén Sebastian Green Born in 1970. Member of the Board since Born in 1981. Member of the Board since 2018. Born in 1968. Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Born in 1973. Chief Information Officer (CIO) 2012. Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Deputy CEO since 2015. Head of since 2018. and member of the Audit Committee. Education and professional experience: IR since 2017. Upper-secondary engineering course. Deputy Chief Education and professional experience: Education and professional experience: MSc Commercial Officer at Klarna, Sales Education and professional experience: MSc in Computer Engineering, Lund in Economics and Business Administration. Director at Payex. Currently Partner and MSc in Economics and Business AdministraUniversity. Previously CIO and Head of Previously Manager, Business development CEO of Wellstreet Partners. tion, Lund University. Previously CFO of Development at Bergendahls Food, IT at SIBA Aktiebolag, Country Manager at SIBA Flügger Group and CFO of Leaf (now Cloetta) consultant at Capgemini, NCR Teradata and Aktiebolag, Danish Branch and Investment Other significant appointments: Board member Scandinavia. IKEA. Manager at Waldir Aktiebolag. ofcompanies associated with Wellstreet Partners. Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Other significant appointments: Chairman of AB Remvassen. Board member and CEO of Waldir Aktiebolag. Mariana Burenstam Linder Lars Nordstrand Eva Brike Erik Frick Born in 1957. Member of the Board since 2015. Born in 1951. Board member since 2012. Chairman Born in 1968. Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) Born in 1982. Chief Operating Officer (COO) Member of the Corporate Governance Committee. of the Corporate Governance Committee. since 2017 since 2018. Education and professional experience: MSc Education and professional experience: BSc in Education and professional experience: BSc in HuEducation and professional experience: BSc in in Economics and Business Administration. Humanities, and Economics and Business Adminisman Resource Management, University of Lund. Business Administration, Växjö University and MSc Previously CEO of Nordic Management AB, tration, CEO of Moderna Försäkringar and Deputy CEO Previously Senior Vice President Human Resources in Business & Corporate entrepreneurship, ChalmABB Financial Consulting, Ainax AB and member of Inviki, major in the Swedish military reserve force. at Rosti Group and HR Director at ers University of Technology. Previously Chief of the executive committee of Skandinaviska Air Liquide Norden, BRIO Group and Ericsson Mobile Strategic Officer at Resurs Holding and Head of Other significant appointments: Chairman of Group CRM and Project Management at CDON Enskilda Banken AB (publ), founder of Burenstam Platforms. Anticimex Försäkringar AB. Board member Group and Sales Manager at CDON AB. & Partners AB and ProactiveMedicine AB. of Modernac S.A Luxembourg and Nordnet Other current appointments: Board member of Other current appointments: Board member Other significant appointments: Chairman of the Pensionsförsäkring AB. Dacke Industri AB and Dacke Industri Holding AB. of Kivra Oy. Deputy Board member of Resurs NorSweden-America Foundation. Board member of den AB and Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB. Investmentaktiebolaget Latour and BTS Group AB. Fredrik Carlsson Marita Odélius Engström Anna Nauclér Born in 1970. Board member since 2012. Born in 1961. Member of the Board since 2015. Member Born in 1977. Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Member of the Remuneration Committee. of the Corporate Governance Committee. since 2018. Education and professional experience: MBA, Education and professional experience: MSc in EcoEducation and professional experience: BSc in Business Administration. Former Global nomics and Business Administration, Authorised Public MSc in Business Administration, Stockholm UniHead of Research, SEB Enskilda, Head of Accountant. Previously CFO and Head of Process & versity. Previously Sales Manager and Equities, Second AP Fund, Bank of America/ Synergies, Skandia Nordic Group. Country Manager at Unilever Food Solutions, BI Merrill Lynch and HSBC. Consultant at KnowIT, CFO at Innograte. Other significant appointments: CEO of Fora AB. Other significant appointments: Chairman of the Board of Directors of Svolder Aktiebolag and Sten Other current appointments: Board member A Olssons Pensionsstiftelse. Board member of at Out of Home. Betsson AB, Novobis AB and Torsten and Wanja Söderbergs Stiftelser. Christian Frick Born in 1976. Board member since 2012. Member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee. Education and professional experience: MSc in Economics and Business Administration. Advisor to Nordic Capitals Fonder since 2003. Currently partner at NC Advisory AB. Other significant appointments: Board member of Nordnet AB, Nordnet Bank AB, NNB Intressenter AB, Nordax Group AB, Nordax Bank AB, XEFM Holding AB and MFEX Mutual Funds Exchange AB. 54 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 55 Statements and notes, Group STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION, GROUP 1 Jan 2018 SEK thousand Note 31/12/2018 revaluated 1) 31/12/2017 INCOME STATEMENT, GROUP Assets SEK thousand Note 2018 2017 Cash and balances at central banks 63,215 61,539 61,539 Interest income G7 3,062,854 2,686,820 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing G21 1,009,021 842,731 842,731 Interest expenses G7 -324,025 -268,156 Lending to credit institutions G22 3,703,650 2,794,283 2,794,283 Fee and commission income, banking operations G8 217,836 233,945 Lending to the public G23 27,956,576 23,647,823 24,068,795 Fee and commission expense, banking operations G8 -57,090 -63,130 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities G24 1,262,568 1,735,266 1,735,266 Premium earned, net G9 826,154 798,339 Subordinated loans G25 27,317 35,902 35,902 Insurance compensation, net G10 -226,211 -248,738 Shares and participations G26 68,556 76,368 76,368 Fee and commission expense, insurance operations -220,345 -226,423 Derivatives G27 190,175 40,974 40,974 Net income/expense from financial transactions G11 -47,929 -8,969 Goodwill G28 1,719,056 1,694,918 1,694,918 Other operating income G12 206,110 187,657 Other intangible assets G28 254,625 182,248 182,248 Total operating income 3,437,354 3,091,345 Property, plant and equipment G29 56,228 39,954 39,954 Reinsurer's share of technical provisions G30 4,267 5,688 5,688 General administrative expenses G14,G15 -1,178,239 -1,065,752 Other assets G31 195,760 101,065 101,065 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets G16 -49,039 -35,283 Current tax asset 106,736 81,991 19,089 Other operating expenses G17 -188,445 -179,626 Deferred tax asset G19 26,695 45,315 8,277 Total expenses before credit losses -1,415,723 -1,280,661 Prepaid expenses and accrued income G32 311,027 224,175 224,175 Total assets 36,955,472 31,610,240 31,931,272 Profit before credit losses 2,021,631 1,810,684 Liabilities, provisions and equity Credit losses, net G18 -535,071 -413,454 Liabilities and provisions Operating profit 1,486,560 1,397,230 Liabilities to credit institutions G33 149,900 Deposits and borrowing from the public G34 20,578,153 18,033,013 18,033,013 Income tax expense G19 -343,145 -317,197 Other liabilities G35 680,616 638,273 638,273 Profit for the year 1,143,415 1,080,033 Derivatives G27 12,984 103,646 103,646 Accrued expenses and deferred income G36 183,080 154,467 154,467 Attributable to Resurs Holding AB shareholders 1,143,415 1,080,033 Current tax liability 98,344 181,102 181,102 Deferred tax liability G19 218,521 232,552 232,552 Basic and diluted earnings per share, SEK G20 5.72 5.40 Technical provisions G37 532,115 455,123 455,123 Other provisions G38 22,861 24,660 6,951 Issued securities G39 7,832,186 5,597,271 5,597,271 Subordinated debt G40 298,171 340,044 340,044 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, GROUP Total liabilities and provisions 30,606,931 25,760,151 25,742,442 SEK thousand 2018 2017 Equity G41 Profit for the year 1,143,415 1,080,033 Share capital 1,000 1,000 1,000 Other paid-in capital 2,086,305 2,088,504 2,088,504 Other comprehensive income that will be reclassified to profit Translation reserve 33,044 -14,192 -14,192 Retained earnings incl. profit for the period 4,228,192 3,774,777 4,113,518 Translation differences for the year, foreign operations G41 85,787 -107,179 Total equity 6,348,541 5,850,089 6,188,830 1) Hedge accounting -49,424 21,693 Hedge accounting, tax 1) 10,873 -4,772 TOTAL LIABILITIES, PROVISIONS AND EQUITY 36,955,472 31,610,240 31,931,272 Comprehensive income for the year 1,190,651 989,775 1) Revaluation of Lending to the public, Current tax asset, Deferred tax asset and Other provisions have been made as of 1 January 2018 due to IFRS 9, se note G2.1. Attributable to Resurs Holding AB shareholders 1,190,651 989,775 See note G42 for information on pledged assets, contingent liabilites and commitments. 1) Refers to a hedge of a net investment in a foreign subsidiary and consists of equity and capital contributions in yA Bank at the time of acquisition. Goodwill and profit since the acquisition are not subject to hedge accounting. Fair value changes of the hedging instruments impact taxable earnings and, in the Group, this tax effect is recognised in Comprehensive income for the year. The hedging of net investments in foreign operations above was terminated in connection with the merger of this business in November 2018. 56 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 57 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CASH FLOW STATEMENT (INDIRECT METHOD), GROUP SEK thousand Share capital Other paid-in Hedge Translation Retained Total equity SEK thousand Note 2018 2017 capital accounting reserve earnings incl. reserve profit for the Operating activities year Operating profit 1,486,560 1,397,230 Initial equity at 1 January 2017 1,000 2,088,610 -13,970 90,036 3,933,485 6,099,161 of which interest received 3,061,912 2,685,979 Owner transactions of which interest paid -320,663 -266,765 Option premium received/repurchased -106 -106 Adjustment for non-cash items in operating profit 735,250 459,128 Dividends paid -600,000 -600,000 Income taxes paid -435,187 -356,251 Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -300,000 -300,000 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities 1,786,623 1,500,107 Profit for the year 1,080,033 1,080,033 Changes in operating assets and liabilities Other comprehensive income for the period 16,921 -107,179 -90,258 Lending to the public -4,477,411 -3,520,949 Equity at 31 December 2017 1,000 2,088,504 2,951 -17,143 4,113,518 6,188,830 Other assets -707,013 -170,045 Liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 -1,700 Initial equity at 1 January 2018 according to IAS 39 1,000 2,088,504 2,951 -17,143 4,113,518 6,188,830 Deposits and borrowing from the public 2,456,827 -316,281 Impact of revaluation of credit loss reserves due to IFRS 9 implementation -438,681 -438,681 Acquisition of investment assets 1) -1,423,084 -1,110,747 Impact of revaluation of credit loss reserves due to IFRS 9 implementation tax effect 99,940 99,940 Divestment of investment assets 1) 1,754,259 1,262,719 Equity at 1 January 2018 according to IFRS 9, adjusted 1,000 2,088,504 2,951 -17,143 3,774,777 5,850,089 Other liabilities 9,521 275,943 Cash flow from operating activities -450,378 -2,080,953 Initial equity at 1 January 2018 1,000 2,088,504 2,951 -17,143 3,774,777 5,850,089 Owner transactions Investing activities Option premium received/repurchased -2,199 -2,199 Acquisition of non-current assets G28,G29 -136,382 -86,165 Dividends paid -360,000 -360,000 Divestment of non-current assets 2,154 707 Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -330,000 -330,000 Cash flow from investing activities -134,228 -85,458 Profit for the year 1,143,415 1,143,415 Financing activities Other comprehensive income for the period -38,551 85,787 47,236 Dividends paid -690,000 -900,000 Equity at 31 December 2018 1,000 2,086,305 -35,600 68,644 4,228,192 6,348,541 Option premium repurchased -2,199 -106 Issued securities 2,205,138 2,301,863 All equity is attributable to Parent Company shareholders. Subordinated debt -42,664 300,000 See note G41 regarding translation reserve. Cash flow from financing activities 1,470,275 1,701,757 Cash flow for the year 885,669 -464,654 2) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 2,855,822 3,351,128 Exchange differences 25,374 -30,652 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 2) 3,766,865 2,855,822 Adjustment for non cash flow items in operating profit Credit losses G18 535,071 413,454 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets G16 49,039 35,283 Profit/loss tangible assets 244 Profit/loss on investment assets 1) 3,853 -24,463 Change in provisions 75,337 -7,496 Adjustment to interest paid/received 6,639 3,246 Currency effects 59,688 33,705 Other items that do not affect liquidity 5,379 5,399 Total adjustments for non cash flow items in operating profit 735,250 459,128 1) Investment assets are comprised of Bonds and other interest-bearing securities, Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing, Subordinated loans and Shares and participations 2) Liquid assets are comprised of Lending to credit institutions and Cash and balances at central banks. 1 Jan Cash flow Non cash flow items 31 Dec 2018 2018 Change in opening balance Accrued acquisition costs Exchange rate differences Issued securities 5,597,271 2,205,138 7,207 22,570 7,832,186 Subordinated debt 340,044 -42,664 -3,000 1,171 2,620 298,171 Total 5,937,315 2,162,474 0 8,378 25,190 8,130,357 SEK thousand 1 Jan Cash flow Non cash flow items 31 Dec 2017 2017 Change in opening balance Accrued acquisition costs Exchange rate differences Issued securities 3,316,130 2,301,863 5,403 -26,125 5,597,271 Subordinated debt 42,160 300,000 -2,116 340,044 Total 3,358,290 2,601,863 5,403 -28,241 5,937,315 58 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 59 Notes use of options to extend or terminate a lease is Foreign currency an amount corresponding to the net investment in the G1 GENERAL INFORMATION reviewed if a significant event or change in The Group uses the Swedish crowns as presentation lease. The lease payment, excluding cost of service, is circumstances arises that impacts this assessment and Currency. Functional currency refers to the currency recognised as repayment of the receivable and as the change is within the lessee’s control. that is primarily used in a business’s cash flows. The unearned financial income. The income is distributed Resurs Holding AB (publ), Corporate Identity Number assumptions are used to determine the carrying For lessees, existing leases and right-of-use assets are functional currency is determined within the Group to obtain an even return on the net investment 556898-2291, address Ekslingan 9, Väla Norra, amounts of assets and liabilities which are not readily to be capitalised as assets and liabilities in the As of 1 of January 2019 the liability for unused leasing based on each individual business's primary economic recognised for each period. Helsingborg, is a public limited liability company apparent from other sources. The actual outcome may statement of financial position, with the associated commitment amounts SEK 107 million and for unused environment. headquartered in Helsingborg, Sweden. Resurs Holding differ from those estimates and assumptions. effect that the cost in profit or loss is divided between right-of use assets the amount is SEK 112 million. Revenue recognition AB is owned by Waldakt AB (28.9 per cent) and Cidron depreciation in operating profit and interest expense Equity will not be affected by the transition to IFRS 16. The income statement is translated using the average The standard for Revenue from agreements with Semper Ltd (17.4 per cent) . No single remaining The accounting estimates and assumptions are in net financial items. The new standard does not For more information, see Note G13. rate for the period in which the transaction arise. customers, IFRS 15, is applied for various types of shareholder owns 20 per cent or more. reviewed regularly. Changes in accounting estimates represent any major changes for lessors, and leases Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency services which are mainly reported in the income are recognised in the period of the change if the are essentially to be recognised in accordance with the IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (not approved by the EU) together with non-monetary assets and liabilities statement as commission income. IFRS 15 also applies Resurs Holding AB hereby submits the annual report change only affects that period. Changes are current rules under IAS 17. A description of how the The final standard that will replace the standard measured at fair value are translated into the closing to certain services that are found in the item Other and the consolidated financial statements for 1 recognised in the period of the change and future Group will be impacted and will manage IFRS 16 from 1 previously known as IFRS 4 (Phase II) was published in rate at the balance sheet day. income January 2018 – 31 December 2018. periods if the change affects both. Assessments made January 2019 is presented below. May 2017 and takes effect on 1 January 2022. The by Group management and key sources of estimation standard entails new basis for the recognition and All gains and losses arising from currency translation Fee & commission income and expense The Group is comprised of the subsidiaries: Resurs uncertainty when applying IFRS that have a significant Resurs Holding-koncernen som leasetagare measurement of insurance contracts with the aim of of monetary items, including the currency component Fee & commission income and expense that are an Förvaltning Norden AB, Corporate Identity Number impact on the financial statements are described in Resurs Holding leases mainly premises and vehicles. enhancing transparency and reducing differences in of forward contracts, measured at fair value, are integral part of the effective interest rate are not 559067-0690, Resurs Bank AB, together with its more detail in Note G46 Key estimates and Leases are normally signed for fixed periods of about the recognition of insurance contracts. The company recognised in the income statement as exchange-rate recognised under fee & commission income, but under subsidiaries, Corporate Identity Number 516401-0208 assessments. five years for premises and three years for vehicles, has commenced internal activities to analyse the changes within the item Net income/expense from effects of the new standard, internal training interest income. This is comprised of opening fees for and Solid Försäkrings AB, Corporate Identity Number but there are the options of extensions and advance financial transactions. requirements and planning for the transition to the loans and fees for the provision of credit or other 516401-8482. For the complete Group structure, see New standards, amendments and interpretations that termination, which are described below. The terms are Goodwill in foreign currency attributable to the the new standard when it comes into force. Work will types of loan commitments for which it is likely that Note G43. have been applied by the Group negotiated separately for each lease and contain a acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as assets continue over the next few years on analysing the the credit facility will be utilised. Commission and fees large number of contractual terms. of the foreign operation and is translated at the The regulatory consolidation (consolidated situation) IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effects and impact on the financial reporting and on closing rate. Exchange-rate gains and losses are received on financial services are recognised in the include Resurs Bank Group and its parent company ensuring that the company is wellprepared to meet the recognised in other comprehensive income. period during which the service is expected to be 1 January the Group introduced IFRS 9 Financial From 1 January 2019, leases will be recognised in changes required in good time. provided when the credit product does not have Resurs Holding AB. Instruments. IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 Financial accordance with IFRS 16 as right-of-use together with Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and a corresponding liability to the lessor on the day that Assets and liabilities in subsidiaries and branches with different partial payment options. Opening fees for Consolidated financial statements a functional currency other than Swedish crowns are other credit products (comprising products with which The consolidated financial statements and the annual encompasses recognition and measurement, the leased assets become available for use by the The consolidated financial statements include the translated to the reporting currency using the the customer has the option of switching between report are presented in SEK thousand unless otherwise impairment and general hedge accounting. The largest Group. The right-of-use and lease liability are Parent Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are exchange-rate on the balance sheet date. The income different repayment plans) are recognised indicated. changes compared to IAS 39 relate to classification recognised on the lines Other assets and Other entities over which the Parent Company exercises statement is translated at the average exchange-rate immediately, since the credit maturity is shorter and and valuation, impairment losses and hedge liabilities in the balance sheet. Each lease payment is control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is for each currency during the period. Emerged Presentation and adoption of the annual report there is greater uncertainty about credit maturity. accounting. Classification of financial asset to a distributed between depreciation of liability and exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns through translation differences are reported in statement of The annual report was approved for issuance by the category is not optional but depends on business interest expense. The interest expense is distributed its power over the entity and has the ability to affect comprehensive income. Consequently, exchange-rate Fee & commission expenses are the costs of services Board of Directors on the 18 March 2019. The income model and whether the instrument’s cash flows are over the lease term so that each reporting period is attributable to currency hedges of the investment in received, to the extent they are not considered to be those returns through its power over the entity. A statement and the balance sheet are subject to solely payments of principal and interest. The overall charged with an amount equivalent to a fixed interest subsidiary is consolidated from the acquisition date, the foreign companies are also transferred to interest and are comprised of loan commission. approval by the Annual General Meeting on 25 April assessment is that the business model used is an rate for the liability recognised for each period. The statement of comprehensive income, taking into which is the date when the Parent Company obtains Transaction costs, which are taken into account when 2019. “other business model” with recognition at fair value right-of-use asset is depreciated straight-line over the account deferred tax. This is subject to compliance control. A subsidiary is deconsolidated from the date calculating the effective interest rate, reduce interest through profit or loss, except for lending to the public, identified right-of-use period. with the requirements for hedge accounting. Any on which control ceases. inefficiencies in hedges are recognised in the income income. Fee & commission expense in the insurance G2 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES which is recognised at amortised cost. The Group has Assets and liabilities arising on leases are initially statement within the item Net income/expense from operations comprises remuneration to partners, retail decided to continue to apply the hedge accounting recognised at present value. The Group is comprised of the subsidiaries, Resurs financial transactions at fair value. and insurance brokers for the sale of insurance rules in IAS 39, in accordance with the transitional rules Förvaltning Norden AB, Resurs Bank AB and Solid Group products. Such fee & commission expense are in IFRS 9. Lease liabilities include the present value of the Försäkrings AB. The subsidiaries were consolidated The consolidated financial statements were prepared Segment reporting recognised in the financial statements on a separate following lease payments. using the acquisition method and, accordingly, the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner line under total operating income. The Group believes that the calculations of credit loss fixed payments (including in-substance fixed Standards (IFRS), issued by the International carrying amount of subsidiary shares is eliminated consistent with the Group’s internal reporting provided reserves under IFRS 9 will entail greater volatility in the payments), less incentives Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as adopted by the against the subsidiaries’ equity at the time of to the chief operating decision maker. The chief Dividend income credit loss line of the income statement, which is variable lease payments that depend on an index or EU. Applicable sections of the Swedish Annual acquisition. operating decision maker is the function responsible Dividend income is recognised when the right to primarily due to transfers between stage 1 and 2 and rate, initially measured using the index or rates on the Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities for allocating resources and assessing performance of receive payment is established. the calculations being more procyclic as a result of commencement date Purchase consideration for the acquisition of a Companies, the Swedish Financial Supervisory the operating segments. assessment of the macroeconomic outlook being amounts expected to be payable under a residual subsidiary comprises the fair value of transferred Authority’s regulations and general guidelines on Net income/expense from financial transactions included in the calculations. For information about the value guarantee assets, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former Interest income and interest expense Annual Reports in Credit Institutions and Securities The item net income/expense from financial model see below in section Credit loss and Impairment the exercise price under a purchase option that the owners of the acquired company, and the shares Companies (FFFS 2008:25 and all applicable Interest income and interest expense attributable to transactions includes realised and unrealised changes of financial assets. lessee is reasonably certain to utilise issued by the Group. Purchase consideration also amendments), and the Swedish Financial Reporting financial assets and liabilities are recognised using the in value arising from financial transactions. penalty for terminating the lease, if the length of the includes the fair value of all assets and liabilities that effective interest method. The effective interest rate is Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary For the effect of IFRS 9 see Accounting principles 2.1 term reflects the assumption that the lessee will utilise Net income/expense consists of: Accounting Rules for Groups, were also applied. Unless are a result of a contingent consideration agreement. the rate that equates the present value of all this option. Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities assumed in estimated future receipts or payments during the capital gains from financial assets at fair value otherwise specified, the accounting principles IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Lease payments are discounted at the interest rate through described below were applied consistently to all a business combination are measured initially at their anticipated fixed interest terms with the carrying IFRS 15 is the new standard regarding revenue periods presented in the Group’s financial statements. implicit if the rate can be determined, otherwise at the acquisition date fair values. For each acquisition, i.e. amount of the receivable or liability. Interest income profit or loss recognition. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS incremental borrowing rate. unrealised changes in value from financial assets at on a transaction-by-transaction basis, the Group and interest expense include any transaction costs and fair 11 Construction Contracts and all related The right-of-use assets are measured at cost and Basis of preparation decides whether to measure the non-controlling other differences from the original value of the asset value through profit or loss interpretations (IFRIC and SIC). The standard will come include the following: Group management has considered the development interest (NCI) in the acquired company at fair value or or liability. realised and unrealised changes in the value of into effect on January 1 2018. The assessment of the the amount at which the lease liability was originally and information regarding the Group’s key accounting at the NCI’s proportionate share of the identifiable net derivative instruments that are economic hedging Group are that the new standard does not have any measured principles and has defined its position on the choice assets of the acquired company. Acquisition-related Interest income and interest expense presented in instruments but do not qualify for hedge accounting significant impact on the Group’s earnings and lease payments paid on at before the and application of these principles. The Group’s assets costs are recognised as an expense when incurred. profit or loss comprise: exchange-rate differences position. commencement date, after any rewards received when and liabilities are measured at historical cost. Financial Interest on financial assets and liabilities measured Ineffective part of the hedge accounting in the fair the lease was signed. Goodwill is initially measured as the difference assets and liabilities are measured at amortised cost, at amortised cost using the effective interest method, value hedge. New standards, amendments and interpretations that initial direct costs apart from certain assets and liabilities which are between the total purchase consideration plus any fair including interest on doubtful receivables. have not yet been applied by the Group. costs for restoring the asset to the condition Premium income measured at fair value through profit or loss. Financial value of non-controlling interests, and the fair value of Interest on financial assets and liabilities at fair prescribed in the terms of the lease. identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities assumed. If value through profit or loss. Premium income refers to the compensation an assets and liabilities measured at fair value through A number of new or amended IFRSs have been insurance company receives from the policy holder for profit or loss comprise: the purchase consideration is lower than the fair value published, but have not yet taken effect, as at the The Resurs Holding Group has decided to apply the accepting the transfer of insurance risk. Premium Bonds and other interest-bearing securities, including of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is Classification of leases and recognition of lease preparation of this annual report on 31 December following exemptions in IFRS 16: income is recognised through profit or loss when the subordinated loans recognised directly through profit or loss. income 2018. Payments for short-term leases and leases of a low risk transfer commences in accordance with the Shares and participations Leases are classified as operating or finance leases value are expensed straight-line in profit or loss. Derivatives There are no plans for these new or amended IFRSs to Short-term leases are leases of 12 months or less. Low In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed based on an assessment of the economic substance of insurance contract. If the contracted premium for the Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing reserves are divided into two parts, a tax component the lease. If the economic substance of the lease insurance period is divided into several sub-amounts, be applied in advance. The anticipated effects on the value leases include IT and office equipment. financial statements of the application of the following (22 per cent) and a component that is recognised in concerns the financing of a purchase or an asset, the the entire premium is nevertheless recognised from Judgements and estimates in the financial statements new or amended IFRSs are set forth below. No other equity (78 per cent). lease is classified as a finance lease. If the economic the start of the period. Options to extend or terminate a lease Preparation of financial statements in compliance with new or amended IFRSs approved by IASB as at 31 substance of the lease is comparable to a rental Options to extend or terminate a lease are included in Intra-Group transactions, balance-sheet items and Premium earned IFRS requires Group management to make judgements, December 2018 are expected to have any impact on agreement, the lease is classified as an operating a number of the Group’s leases for premises. The terms income and costs for intra-Group transactions are The portion of premium income that is attributable to accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the the consolidated financial statements. lease. The key factor in assessing the economic are used to maximise flexibility in managing leases. eliminated. Gains and losses resulting from intra-Group substance of the lease is whether it transfers the accounting period is recognised as premiums application of the accounting principles and the These options of providing the opportunity to transactions and which are recognised as assets are substantially all risks and economic benefits incidental earned. The portion of premium income from the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, income and IFRS 16 Leasing terminate a lease in advance can only be utilised by eliminated in their entirety. The accounting principles to ownership of the asset from the lessor to the lessee. insurance contract that pertains to periods after the expenses. Estimates and assumptions are based on IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 from 1 January 2019. Under the the Resurs Holding Group and not the lessors. When historical experience and a number of other factors for subsidiaries have been changed where necessary All lease contracts in which the Group is the lessor are closing date is reserved in the premium reserve in the new standard, leased assets and right-of-use assets such an option is utilised, a fee corresponding to six that are considered reasonable in the present to ensure consistent application of the Group’s classified as finance leases and are recognised in the balance sheet. Provisions to the premium reserve are (for example, rental agreements for premises) are months’ rent is often charged. The assessment of the circumstances. The results of these estimates and principles. Group’s balance sheet under Lending to the public at normally calculated by allocating premium income recognised in the statement of financial position. GRI 102-3 60 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 61 strictly based on the term of the underlying insurance an outflow of resources from the Group. A liability is Financial instruments Financial assets at fair value Financial instruments – Loan receivables, accounts Hedging of net investments in foreign operations The assessment of ECL should reflect: An objective and contract. Risk-adjusted allocation – meaning in recognised in the statement of financial position when through profit or loss (IFRS 9) receivables and purchase receivables (IAS 39) The Group hedges its net investments in foreign a probability-weighted amount determined through relation to expected claims outcome – takes place for it is probable that an outflow of resources from the If a financial asset does not meet the conditions Loan receivables, purchased receivables and accounts subsidiaries. The hedged item comprises the sum of the evaluation of a number of potential outcomes; certain insurance products, particularly those with Group will result from the settlement of a present for measurement at amortised cost or for receivable are financial assets that are not derivative the subsidiary’s equity at the acquisition date, other with consideration given to money’s time value and to terms of more than one year. obligation and the amount at which the settlement will measurement at fair value through other instruments, that have fixed or fixable payments and contributions after the acquisition and deductions for all reasonable and verifiable information available on take place can be measured reliably. comprehensive income, it must be valued that are not listed on an active market. These dividends paid. The portion of gains or losses on a the reporting date without unreasonable expense or Ceded reinsurance at fair value through profit or loss. The category receivables are represented by the balance sheet hedging instrument that is deemed to be an effective exertion. The assessment also take into account Financial instruments comprises two sub-categories, the mandatory and the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. historical, current and forecasts for future economic Premiums for ceded reinsurance comprise amounts items Cash and balances at central banks, Lending to Profit or loss attributable to the ineffective portion is conditions. paid during the financial year or amounts recognised Financial instruments recognised under assets in the Fair Value Option. In the first category, we have credit institutions, Lending to the public, Other assets derivatives and financial instruments held for trading. recognised through profit or loss. For foreign as a liability to insurance companies that assumed statement of financial position include treasury and and Prepaid expenses and accrued income. These The calculation of credit losses is based on expected operations carried out in the form of a branch, the reinsurance according to signed reinsurance contracts, other bills eligible for refinancing, loan receivables, assets are measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost Group's treasury function manages the net investment credit losses under IFRS 9 and will be calculated by including portfolio premiums. The premiums are bonds and other interest-bearing securities, Unrealised and realised changes in the fair is calculated based on the effective interest rate used in each currency and reduces currency risk through multiplying the PD with the Exposure at Default (EAD) allocated so that the cost is distributed to the period subordinated loans, other assets, and derivatives. The value of financial instruments that are measured at initial recognition. other positions in the same currency and through multiplied by the Loss Given Default (LGD). This means heading liabilities, provisions and equity includes at fair value through profit or loss are recognised to which the insurance cover pertains. Ceded currency derivatives. Translation differences are that the calculation of expected credit losses is based under Net income/expense from financial transactions. reinsurance is recognised in the net amount in the loans, issued securities, subordinated debt, derivatives Accounts receivable and loan receivables are recognised through profit or loss. Accumulated gains on the bank’s total lending volumes, including credits financial statements under premiums earned. and trade payables. recognised at the amounts expected to be received, and losses in equity are recognised through profit or without any increased credit risk. The second measurement category includes equity meaning after deductions for doubtful receivables. loss when the foreign operations are fully or partly index bonds and structured products, which contain divested. The hedging of net investments in foreign Insurance compensation Financial instruments Recognition in and The impairment model includes a three-stage model both an interest bearing and a derivative component operations ceased in connection with the merger of yA Total insurance compensation includes insurance derecognition from the statement of financial position Purchased receivables, comprised of a portfolio of based on changes in the credit quality of financial The Group has decided to include equity index bonds Bank in November 2018. compensation paid during the period, changes in A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in non-performing consumer loans, were purchased at a assets. Under this three-stage model, assets are and structured products in the category Fair Value provisions for claims outstanding and claimsthe statement of financial position when the Group price significantly lower than the nominal value. divided into three different stages depending on how Option. Methods of determining fair value adjustment expenses. Insurance compensation paid becomes a party under the instrument’s contractual Recognition follows the effective interest model, with credit risk has changed since the asset was initially Financial instruments listed on an active market includes payments to policy holders during under terms. the carrying amount of the portfolio corresponding to recognised in the balance sheet. Stage 1 encompasses In the balance sheet, these are represented by the The fair value of financial instruments listed on an financial year based on insurance contracts or incurred the present value of future cash flows, discounted items: Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing, active market is determined on the basis of the asset’s assets for which there has not been a significant insurance claims, regardless of when the claim Financial assets are derecognised from the balance using the effective interest rate applicable on initial Bonds and other interest-bearing securities, listed bid price on the closing date without additions increase in credit risk, stage 2 encompasses assets for occurred. sheet when the contractual rights to the cash flows acquisition of the portfolio, based on the relationship Subordinated loans, Shares and participations and for transaction costs (for example, brokerage) at the which there has been a significant increase in credit deriving from the asset cease or when all significant between cost and the projected cash flows at the time Derivatives. time of acquisition. A financial instrument is deemed torisk, while stage 3 encompasses defaulted assets, That Other operating income risks and benefits associated with the assets are of acquisition. The projected cash flows are regularly be listed on an active market if listed prices are readily is assets which have been transferred to debt The item primarily comprises monitoring fees and transferred to another party. This also applies to part reviewed during the year and updated to reflect Financial instruments Financial assets at fair value available from a stock exchange, dealer, broker, trade collection or are past due 90 days or more. withdrawal fees and originate from Lending to the of a financial asset. A financial liability is derecognised collection results, agreements on repayment plans through profit or loss (IAS 39) association, pricing service or regulatory agency and public. when the contractual obligation is discharged or signed with debtors and macroeconomic information. This category has two sub-categories: financial assets those prices represent actual and regularly occurring The provision of expected credit losses for assets is extinguished in some other way. This also applies to market transactions on commercial terms. Any future governed by the category to which the assets belong. held for trading, and other financial assets the General administrative expenses part of a financial liability. A financial asset and a Unutilised credits are not recognised in the statement Provisions are made under stage 1 for expected credit company designated as financial assets at fair value transaction costs on disposal are not taken into General administrative expenses include personnel financial liability may be offset and the net amount of financial position but are included in contingent (using the fair value option) on initial recognition. consideration. The fair value of financial liabilities is losses within 12 months, while provisions for stage 2 expenses, postage, communication and notification recognised in the statement of financial position only liabilities. and 3 are made for expected credit losses under the Financial instruments in this category are regularly based on the quoted selling price. costs, IT costs, consulting fees, premises costs and when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the full lifetime of the assets. measured at fair value, with changes in fair value Instruments that are listed on an active market are certain other costs related to the business. The item recognised amounts and the intention is either to Financial instruments Financial liabilities at fair recognised through profit or loss. The first subrecognised under Treasury and other bills eligible for Other under General administrative expenses includes settle on a net basis, or to simultaneously realise the value through profit or loss (IFRS 9) A central factor impacting the amount of expected category includes derivatives. For financial refinancing, Bonds and other interest-bearing lease payments for the Group’s vehicles and premises. asset and settle the liability. Acquisitions and If a financial liability does not meet the conditions credit losses is the rule governing the transfer of an instruments held for trading, both realised and securities, and Shares and participations. All leases, in which the Group is lessee, is treated as divestments of financial assets are recognised on the for measurement at amortised cost or for unrealised changes in value are recognised under the asset between stage 1 and 2. The Group makes use of operating leases, with lease payments recognised as trade date, the date on which the Group commits itself measurement at fair value through other income statement item Net income/expense from Financial instruments not listed on an change in the lifetime Probability of Default (PD) to an expense through profit or loss on a straight-line to acquire or divest the asset. Loan receivables are comprehensive income, it must be valued at fair value financial transactions. The second sub-category active market determine the significant increase in risk, with the basis over the agreed term of the lease. recognised in the statement of financial position when through profit or loss. The category comprises two includes equity-linked bonds, which have both a fixedIf the market for a financial instrument is not active, change assessed by a combination of absolute and the loan amount is paid to the borrower. sub-categories, the mandatory and the Fair Value income portion and a derivative portion. The Group has the fair value is determined by applying various relative changes in the lifetime PD. Furthermore, all Employee benefits Option. chosen to classify equity-linked bonds at fair value measurement techniques that are based on market credits for which payments are more than 30 days late Personnel expenses Financial instruments Classification and data as far as possible. The fair value of currency are attributed to stage 2, regardless of whether or not through profit or loss in the fair value option subIn the balance sheet the mandatory category includes Personnel expenses, such as salaries, payroll overhead measurement (IFRS 9) there is a significant increase in risk. and variable remuneration, are recognised through In accordance with IFRS 9, all financial assets category. The classification of other instruments in this Derivatives. Both unrealised and realised changes in forwards is calculated by discounting the difference sub-category involves the Group managing and the fair value are recognised under Net between the contracted forward rate and the forward profit or loss during the period in which the employee are allocated to measurement categories: Amortised rate that can be utilised on the closing date for the To determine whether there is a significant increase in evaluating these financial assets based on fair value. income/expense from financial transactions. rendered service to the Group. A provision for variable cost, Fair value through other comprehensive income remaining contract period. Discounting is at a risk-free risk, and thus a transfer to stage 2, the bank starts by remuneration is recognised when the Group has a legal or Fair value through profit or loss. Profit or loss is interest rate based on government bonds. The fair assessing the change in the expected life PD of the Financial instruments Financial assets measured at Financial instruments Financial liabilities at fair or constructive obligation to make such payments as then divided into two sub-categories, mandatory and value of interest swaps is based on discounting credit. In order for there to be a significant increase in amortised cost (IFRS 9) value through profit or loss (IAS 39) a result of the services in question having been Fair Value Option (FVO). Financial instruments in the risk, a change in start PD must amount to the total of a Loan receivables, purchased receivables and accounts This category includes two sub-categories: financial anticipated future cash flows in accordance with rendered by the employees, and when the amount can mandatory category, are continously valued to fair given threshold and a percentage change in the start receivable are financial assets that are not derivative liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities that contractual terms and maturities using the market be measured reliably. value with the changes reported in profit or loss. instruments, that have fixed or fixable payments and rate. The fair value of non-derivative financial PD. were designated as financial liabilities at fair value that are not listed on an active market. These (using the fair value option) on initial recognition. instruments is based on future cash flows and current Pensions Financial instruments are initially measured at their receivables are represented by the balance sheet market rates on the closing date. The discount rate In addition, the bank also uses an absolute change in Financial instruments in this category are regularly The Group primarily has defined contribution pension fair value plus transaction costs. Transaction costs are items Cash and balances at central banks, Lending to used reflects market-based interest rates for similar PD that entails that if a lifetime PD increases by a measured at fair value, with changes in fair value plans, which are recognised through profit or loss in direct costs attributable to the acquisition or issue of credit institutions, Lending to the public, Other assets instruments on the closing date. Information about fair given percentage point, which varies depending on recognised through profit or loss. The first subthe period during which the employee rendered service the financial asset or financial liability. Derivatives and and Prepaid expenses and accrued income. These value recognised in the statement of financial position product category, then it is attributable to stage 2. category includes derivatives with a negative fair to the Group. Defined contribution plans are plans instruments classified as financial assets and financial assets are measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost based on a measurement technique is provided in Note is calculated based on the effective interest rate used value except for derivatives that are designated and under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are G44 Financial instruments. The Group measures Alongside the significant PD changes described above, are effective hedging instruments. The Group does not separate legal entity. The Group has no legal or measured at fair value, excluding transaction costs. A at initial recognition. derivatives at fair value solely based on input data the bank uses a “back stop,” meaning that a credit that have any liabilities in the second sub-category. constructive obligation to pay further contributions if financial instrument is classified on initial recognition that is directly or indirectly observable on the market. is between 30 and 90 days past due is attributable to Accounts receivable and loan receivables are the legal entity does not hold sufficient assets to pay according to the purpose for which it was acquired. Instruments that are not listed on an active market are stage 2 even if there is no significant increase in PD. recognised at the amounts expected to be received, in Financial instruments Liabilities at amortised cost all employee benefits relating to employee service in Classification determines how a financial instrument is recognised under Lending to credit institutions, accordance to IFRS 9. Purchased receivables, (IFRS 9) the current and prior periods. measured subsequent to initial recognition, as Deposits and lending from the public, Derivatives and The calculation of the lifetime for credit cards and comprised of a portfolio of non-performing consumer When liabilities arise, these are valued at amortised described below. Other assets and liabilities. other revolving credits is based on predictive models loans, were purchased at a price significantly lower cost and accrued interest expenses are accrued on an Termination benefits about the future limit use and statistical repayment than the nominal value. Recognition follows the ongoing basis according to the effective interest Termination benefits are only recognised if the Group Financial instruments Classification and Credit losses and impairment of financial assets plans. The models are based on internal historical data effective interest model, with the carrying amount of method. In the balance sheet the liabilities are is demonstrably committed, without realistic measurement (IAS 39) (IFRS 9) where different models are used for homogeneous the portfolio corresponding to the present value of represented by the balance sheet items Liabilities to possibility of withdrawal, to terminate employment Financial instruments are initially measured at their Credit losses comprise confirmed credit losses during groups of credits with similar explanatory variables. credit institutions, Deposits and borrowing from the before the normal retirement date and has a detailed fair value plus transaction costs. Transaction costs are future cash flows, discounted using the effective the year less amounts received for previous years’ interest rate applicable on initial acquisition of the public, Issued securities, Subordinated debts, Other formal plan for termination. direct costs attributable to the acquisition or issue of confirmed credit losses and changes in the provision Calculations of expected credit losses under IFRS 9 portfolio, based on the relationship between cost and liabilities, Accrued expenses and accrued income. the financial asset or financial liability. Derivatives and the projected cash flows at the time of acquisition. for expected credit losses. Loans are recognised net of include forward-looking information based on the Recognition of assets and liabilities instruments classified as financial assets and financial macroeconomic outlook. The Group has decided to The projected cash flows are regularly reviewed during Financial instruments Liabilities at amortised cost confirmed credit losses and the provision for expected Assets are defined as resources controlled by the liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are credit losses (ECL) base the forward-looking calculations on a (IAS 39) company as a result of past events and which are likely measured at fair value, excluding transaction costs. A the year and updated to reflect collection results, macroeconomic variable (unemployment level) that agreements on repayment plans signed with debtors In the balance sheet the liabilities are represented by to generate future economic benefits. These are financial instrument is classified on initial recognition In accordance to IFRS 9, the Group assesses expected from a historical perspective has proven to correlate the balance sheet items Liabilities to credit recognised in the statement of financial position when according to the purpose for which it was acquired, but and macroeconomic information. All updated well with changes in the Group’s credit losses. information is gathered and processed in the Group's institutions, Deposits and borrowing from the public, credit losses together with future-oriented factors for it is probable that future economic benefits associated also accordingto the options specified in IAS 39. models according to IFRS 9. Issued securities, Subordinated debts, Other liabilities, all financial instruments, within the category of with the asset will flow to the Group and when the Classification determines how a financial instrument is The lending to credit institutions are deemed to have Accrued expenses and accrued income. The liabilities amortised cost. Expected balance from loan value/cost of the resource can be measured reliably. measured subsequent to initial recognition, as very low credit risk and are not considered to have are valued at amortised cost and accrued interest commitments are also considered. The Group reports described below. been exposed to increased credit risk, which is why expenses are accrued on an ongoing basis according the possible losses on each reporting occasion. Liabilities are current obligations arising from past lending to credit institutions has not been impaired. to the effective interest method. events, the settlement of which is expected to result in 62 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 63 The new impairment requirements entail a from the acquisition. Each unit or group of units to Impairment of non-financial assets Taxes Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset when balances at central banks including Lending to credit nonrecurring effect of SEK 439 million regarding total which goodwill has been allocated represents the Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as Income tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax institutions. reserves and provisions for items in and off the lowest goodwill or intangible assets not ready for use, are not Income taxes are recognised through profit or loss assets against current liabilities and when deferred tax balance sheet. Equity declines by SEK 339 million after level in the Group at which the goodwill in question is amortised but are tested annually for impairment. except in cases where the underlying transaction is assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by Repossessed assets expected tax. This effect impacts 1 January 2018, see monitored for internal control purposes. Goodwill is Assets are tested for impairment whenever events or recognised directly in other comprehensive income or the same tax authority, on either the same or different Assets repossessed to safeguard claims are chapter 2.1 for the effects of IFRS 9. Classification, tested for impairment annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying equity. taxable entities, where there is an intention to settle recognised in the statement of financial position measurement and impairment were applied events or changes in circumstances indicate possible amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is The Group’s foreign branch offices in Norway, on a net basis. together with similar assets already held by the Group. retroactively, meaning opening balances were impairment. The carrying amount of goodwill is taken for the amount whereby the carrying amount of Denmark, Finland and Switzerland are taxed on their All assets taken over to safeguard claims are initially effected. compared with its recoverable amount, which is the the asset exceeds recoverable amount. The income in their own countries. In Sweden, the Group is Contingent liabilities measured at fair value, and any difference between higher of value in use and fair value less selling recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair liable to pay tax on all its income, including earnings A contingent liability is recognised when a possible the loan’s carrying amount and the fair value of the For provisions for credit losses pertaining to leasing in expenses. Any impairment is recognised as an expense value less selling expenses and its value in use. In from its foreign branch offices. To the extent that the obligation may arise based on past events and the repossessed asset is recognised under Credit losses, factoring, an individual assessment is made as to immediately and is not reversed. impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest company pays tax in Sweden on its foreign income, a existence of the liability will be confirmed by the net. Fair value at the reporting date is the asset’s cost whether a provision is to be established or impairment level for which there are separate identifiable cash deduction is normally allowed for the foreign tax paid, occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more or amortised cost, whichever is applicable. (leased equipment) is to be recognised. Testing for Other intangible assets flows (cash-generating units). For assets other than in order to avoid double taxation. uncertain future events, or when there is an obligation In subsequent periods, assets taken over to safeguard these contractual groups is performed only at Other intangible assets have finite useful lives, and are goodwill that were previously impaired, a test for that is not recognised as a liability or provision claims are measured in accordance with the individual level since no group is deemed to meet the Current tax is the amount of income tax payable or because it is not probable that an outflow of resources measurement principles for the asset class. Income recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation. reversal is performed every closing date. requirements for being treated as a homogeneous They are amortised on a straight-line basis to recoverable for the current year, calculated using tax will be required to settle the obligation. and expenses related to repossessed assets are group. A provision or impairment is reversed when distribute the cost over their 4-5 year estimated useful Provisions rates applicable on the closing date, and includes any allocated in the same way as other income and there is verifying information that the impairment requirement no longer exists. Confirmed credit losses life. In connection to the merger of yA Bank additional A provision is recognised in the statement of financial adjustments relating to prior periods. Cash flow statement expenses in profit or loss. include losses for which the amounts are determined other intangible assets referring to customer relations position when there is a present obligation (legal or The cash flow statement for the Group and the Parent through bankruptcy, settlements, a statement from the were added. The amortisation period for these are 10constructive) due to a past event and it is probable Deferred tax is based on temporary differences Company are prepared in accordance with the indirect As of 31 December 2018, the value of property enforcement authority or exemption from payment 15 year. that an outflow of financial resources will be required between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities method. Recognised cash flows only include repossessed to safeguard claims amounted to SEK 0 granted in some other way. to settle the obligation, and the amount of the and their corresponding tax bases. Deferred tax assets transactions involving cash inflows and outflows. Cash (0). Other intangible assets include in-house development obligation can be reliably estimated. Where the effect on deductible temporary differences and tax loss transactions are classified under operating activities, Credit losses and impairment of financial assets of IT software. Maintenance costs for IT software are of the time value of money is material, provisions are carryforwards are only recognised to the extent it is investing activities and financing activities. Cash and (IAS 39) expensed as incurred. Development costs directly calculated by discounting anticipated future cash probable they will be utilised. Credit losses comprise confirmed credit losses during attributable to the development of software products flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the year less amounts received for previous years’ controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible current market assessments of the time value of confirmed credit losses and changes in the provision assets when the following criteria are met: money and, if applicable, the risks specific to the for anticipated credit losses. Loans are recognised net -It is technically feasible to complete the software so liability. of confirmed credit losses and the provision for that it can be utilised, anticipated credit losses. It is the company’s intention to complete and utilise Technical provisions the software, Provisions are made for anticipated credit losses when There are opportunities to utilise the software, Technical provisions are based on estimates made and G2.1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES assumptions regarding future claim costs, which there is objective evidence that the creditor will not The way in which the software will generate probable entails that there is always an element of uncertainty Effect of IFRS 9 receive all amounts due under the receivable’s original future economic benefits can be demonstrated, associated with estimates. Estimates are based on In the statement of financial position, the items in calculation of the credit loss provision according to opposed to the previous model that was based on terms. The debtor is deemed to have significant Adequate technical, economic and other resources historic statistics regarding previous claims outcomes below table, have been affected by the fact that the IFRS 9 is calculated on expected credit losses as credit losses incurred. difficulties if payment is not made or is delayed (due are available to complete the development and to that are available when the annual accounts are for 60 days or more). The carrying amount after utilise the intangible asset, and prepared. The uncertainty associated with estimates is provisions is calculated as the present value of future The expenditure associated with the intangible asset generally greater when estimating new insurance cash flows (including cash flows from possible during its development can be measured reliably. portfolios. Estimates of technical provisions include SEK thousand 31 Dec 2017 Adjustment Adjustment Adjustment Adjustment 1 Jan 2018 repossessed assets, even when this is not likely), the following: amount of unpaid claims, claims trends, according to Lending to Deferred tax Current tax Other discounted using the effective rate applicable on Completed development projects are recognised at the changes in legislation, legal judgements and the earlier the public asset asset provisions initial recognition of the asset. Changes to the reserve costs incurred, less accumulated amortisation and general economic climate. accounting requirement are based on continuous assessments of impairment. principles future cash flows based on experience from historical Provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks Assets payment patterns. When the creditor fears that the Property, plant & equipment In the statement of financial position, this item debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial Lending to the public 24 068 795 -420 972 23 647 823 Items of property, plant & equipment are recognised comprises provisions corresponding to the company’s reorganisation, the creditor tests whether individual at cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes commitments for insurance cases, administration Current tax asset 19 089 62 902 81 991 impairment is required. expenses directly attributable to the acquisition of an costs and other expenses for the remainder of the Deferred tax asset 8 277 37 038 45 315 asset. Subsequent expenditure is added to the asset’s contract period for ongoing insurance contracts. For provisions for credit losses pertaining to leasing in carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset Liabilities and provisions Provision for unearned premiums are calculated factoring, an individual assessment is made as to (whichever is more suitable) only when it is probable individually for each insurance contract. Premiums are Ohter provisions 6 951 17 709 24 660 whether a provision is to be established or impairment that future economic benefits associated with the earned using experience-based factors calculated Equity (leased equipment) is to be recognised. asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the item based on when claim and operating costs arise in an can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the Revaluation of credit losses according to IFRS 9 -420 972 37 038 62 902 -17 709 -338 741 Testing for these contractual groups is performed only replaced component is derecognised from the insurance period. This means that earnings are not at individual level since no group is deemed to meet statement of financial position. All other types of shown pro rata for all products. A large part of the the requirements for being treated as a homogeneous repair and maintenance are recognised as an expense portfolio has a term of more than one year. group. A provision or impairment is reversed when Financial assets and Financial liabilities through profit and loss in the period in which they there is verifying information that the impairment Compared with strictly straight-line recognition of Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing, Bonds to IAS 39 have been reclassified as Amortised cost through increased estimated credit reserves, see Note arise. requirement no longer exists. Confirmed credit losses Depreciation of property, plant & equipment for the earnings, costs during the first year of the insurance and other interest-bearing securities, Subordinated under IFRS 9. No changes have been made in reported G18, also Current tax and Deferred tax asset together include losses for which the amounts are determined Group’s own use is applied on a straight-line basis in contract are assumed to be lower than for the debt together with Shares and participating interests values due to the reclassification at the transition 1 with Other provisions have been affected, see the through bankruptcy, settlements, a statement from the order to allocate cost or revalued amount down to are classified in the same category, Fair Value Through January 2018. table above. remainder of the contract period, based on a one-year enforcement authority or exemption from payment Profit and Loss, under both IAS 39 and IFRS 9. No residual value over the estimated useful life. Assets guarantee period for the products encompassed by changes have been made in reported values due to Deposits and borrowing from the public, Other granted in some other way. are depreciated over their estimated useful life of 3-5 the insurance policies. Lending to the public was classified as Loan the transition 1 January 2018. receivables and Account receivables according to IAS liabilites, Accrued expenses, Issued securities and years from the date of acquisition. Residual values and Loan commitments and unutilised credit 39 and have been reclassified as Amortised cost under Subordinated debt which were classified according to useful lives of property, plant & equipment are A provision is made for unexpired risks if the premium Cash and balances at central banks, Lending to credit IFRS 9. Changes in reported values have been made IAS 39 as Other financial liabilites have been The Group has no outstanding loan commitments. reviewed on each closing date and adjusted if level is deemed to be insufficient to cover expected institutions, Other assets together with Prepaid All unutilised credit facilities granted are terminable due to the reclassification and are shown in the table reclassified at Amortised cost under IFRS 9. No with immediate effect to the extent allowed under the necessary. The carrying amount of an asset is also claim costs and operating costs. The change for the expenses and accrued income which were classified as above. The effect in Lending to the public is shown changes have been made in reported values due to the Swedish Consumer Credit Act. Unutilised credit is immediately impaired to its recoverable amount if the period in the provision for unearned premiums and Loan receivables and Account receivables according reclassification at the transition 1 January 2018. recognised as a committment. asset’s carrying amount exceeds its estimated unexpired risks is recognised through profit or loss. recoverable amount. The recoverable amount refers to Changes attributable to the translation of the Intangible assets either the net selling price or the value in use, provision items to the exchange-rate on the closing Goodwill whichever is higher. The recoverable amount is date are recognised as exchange-rate gains or Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and calculated as soon as there is an indication that the exchange-rate losses. other business combinations and is the amount by carrying amount is too high. which the purchase consideration exceeds the Costs for insurance contracts participation in the fair value of the identifiable The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment Direct costs that have a distinct link to signed assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the is derecognised from the statement of financial insurance contracts are recognised as assets (gross). acquired company or business plus the fair value of income on disposal, divestment or when no future Direct costs mainly refer to fee & commission expense the non-controlling influence in the acquired company. economic benefits are expected from its use or and are subsequently allocated over the term of the For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill disposal/divestment. Gains or losses arising from the insurance contract. acquired in a business combination is allocated to disposal/divestment of property, plant and equipment cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating comprise the difference between the sales price and units that are expected to benefit from synergies the asset’s carrying amount less direct selling expenses. 64 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 65 G3 RISK MANAGEMENT CREDIT RISK EXPOSURE, GROSS AND NET The Group is exposed to a number of risks that are Risk propensity indicates the level of risk that the typical for companies within the industry that are of Group can accept in order to achieve its strategic lending does not entail that the borrower takes 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 a similar size, with a corresponding product range objectives. These risk limits are well-defined and that operate within the same geographical boundaries that regulate the desired risk exposure repayment capacity is determined based on their Credit risk ImpairValue of Credit risk Credit risk ImpairValue of Credit risk markets. The Group generally has a low risk tolerance and are applicable, for example, in defining levels financial situation and resilience. exposure, ments collateral exposure, exposure, ments collateral exposure, and employs a cautious approach concerning the within the various risk categories. gross net gross net risks that arise in its operations and prioritises The Group endeavours to ensure a highly diversified Cash and balances at central banks identifying and preventing risk. The Group has a standardised process for risk credit portfolio with pricing based on risk exposure AAA/Aaa 63,215 63,215 61,539 61,539 identification, risk assessment and risk reporting and through a broad base of customers with relatively Total cash and balances at central banks 63,215 0 0 63,215 61,539 0 0 61,539 has implemented this processes throughout the low exposure amounts per customer. maintain capital is crucial to its profitability. Various operations. The Group companies work actively on Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing types of risks arise in the operations. The following creating a high level of risk awareness and efficient To maintain a highly diversified credit portfolio with a AAA/Aaa 401,033 401,033 363,611 363,611 main categories of risk have been identified and can risk management. Risk management is based on the balanced risk profile and to strike a favourable be actualised in different ways for each company. view of three lines of defence where the combination balance between risk and return, the Group works AA+/Aa1 557,976 557,976 428,931 428,931 1) of these lines will ensure efficient risk management in unrated 50,012 50,012 50,189 50,189 Credit risks (including those attributable to the the day-to-day operations. and macroeconomic changes that could potentially Total treasury and other bills eligible for credit portfolio, liquidity and investment portfolio, impact the risk profile. The Group continuously 1,009,021 0 0 1,009,021 842,731 0 0 842,731 refinancing credit-related concentration risks and counterparty The first line of defence is at the operational level. Lending to credit institutions risks) Operational personnel have the best opportunity to proactively managed by performing continuous Market risks (interest rate risk, currency risk and identify, monitor and control specific risks arising in analyses of the credit portfolio to ascertain whether AA+/Aa1 26,701 26,701 24,615 24,615 other exchange risks) the day-to-day operations. it will be impacted by future macroeconomic AA-/Aa3 1,413,231 1,413,231 1,044,363 1,044,363 Liquidity risks changes. These analyses are used, for example, as A+/A1 1,301,910 1,301,910 757,095 757,095 Operational risks (including process risks, personnel The second line of defence comprises the control supporting material for governance and risks, IT and systemic risks and external risks) function in each Group company, Compliance and A/A2 856,947 856,947 780,120 780,120 Other business risks (including strategic risks, Risk Control, which independently and autonomously unrated 2) 104,861 104,861 188,090 188,090 business risks, cyclical risks and reputational risks) Credit risks in investments Total lending to credit institutions 3,703,650 0 0 3,703,650 2,794,283 0 0 2,794,283 Insurance risks (only relevant to the insurance both in writing and verbally, to the respective CEO, Credit risks in investments arise in the banking operations). board and certain board committees. Lending to the public liquidity reserve that is to serve as a separate Lending to the public Retail 30,139,006 -2,551,266 27,587,740 25,664,838 -1,938,679 23,726,159 Credit risks, liquidity risks and operational risks that The third line of defence is an independent internal reserve for high quality liquid assets, and partly other arise within the framework of its banking operations audit function. This function regularly examines the liquidity that is not related to the liquidity reserve. Lending to the public Corporate 405,607 -36,771 -144,097 224,739 371,258 -28,622 -110,401 232,235 are deemed to comprise the most significant risks for The liquidity portfolio comprises bank balances and Total lending to the public 30,544,613 -2,588,037 -144,097 27,812,479 26,036,096 -1,967,301 -110,401 23,958,394 the Group. Insurance risk is the most significant risk and second lines of defence, to evaluate that these investments in interest-bearing securities. In the Bonds in the insurance operations. lines of defence are adequately managed from a risk insurance operations, credit risks arise in the perspective. The internal audit function reports investment portfolio that comprises bank balances AAA/Aaa 869,656 869,656 848,858 848,858 regularly to the Board, both in writing and verbally. and investments in interest-bearing securities and A+/A1 6,062 6,062 0 limit and control risks, the Group companies have investments in equities. To reduce credit risks in A/A2 20,510 20,510 26,137 26,137 produced policies in a 3-tiered hierarchy. External CREDIT RISK investments, the Group follows the established regulatory frameworks and policies comprise the Credit risk is the risk of a counterparty or debtor policies of each Group company which regulate, A-/A3 122,114 122,114 7,056 7,056 failing to fulfil its contractual obligations and the risk among other things, the type of investment and the BBB+/Baa1 13,829 13,829 13,938 13,938 management of risks that arise in the operations. The that pledged collateral does not cover claims. The limits applicable to each individual counterparty. BBB/Baa2 23,154 23,154 23,241 23,241 policies also outline the delegation of authorities within specific areas of risk. portfolio, investments and derivative instruments. Counterparty risks BBB-/Baa3 22,691 22,691 0 Credit risk exposure in financial instruments is named BB+/Ba1 12,246 12,246 The board of each Group company stipulates the risk counterparty risk and refers to the risk that the BB-/Ba3 10,382 10,382 10,440 10,440 management policies. A person is appointed in each credit risks that arise in connection with credit counterparty will be unable to fulfil its contractual organisation to take responsibility for each policy lending and entail the risk of incurring a loss due to obligations or will choose not to fulfil its obligations B+/B1 9,120 9,120 7,063 7,063 who regularly reviews the policy, manages reporting in the future pursuant to the same or similar unrated 3) 97,642 97,642 112,899 112,899 and proposes necessary adjustments to it. for various reasons. Credit risk exposure also includes conditions. Since a large share of the banking risks related to the concentration of the credit Total bonds 1,195,161 0 0 1,195,161 1,061,878 0 0 1,061,878 Guidelines comprising the level under policies are portfolio. Concentration risks are measured based on assets are denominated in NOK, EUR and DKK, Other interest-bearing securities determined by the CEO or the person responsible for the level of exposure to individual counterparty risks arise when the Group hedges its Fixed income funds 36,827 36,827 643,136 643,136 the specific risk area that the guidelines regulate in counterparties/customers, industries and regions. currency exposures. The banking operations manage the specific Group company. These guidelines contain counterparty risk by signing agreements on Structured products 30,580 30,580 30,252 30,252 more detailed information about risk management in Credit risks in the credit portfolio derivative instruments with several different Total other interest-bearing securities 67,407 0 0 67,407 673,388 0 0 673,388 a specific risk area. At the operational level, company The Group is exposed to credit risks in the credit financial counterparties. Trading in derivative Subordinated loans managers establish the procedures that apply for portfolio. Credit risks in the credit portfolio include instruments in the banking operations is governed by specific groups of employees. The procedures are the risk of borrowers failing to meet their payment ISDAs and the collateral by CSA agreements. BBB/Baa1 12,680 12,680 more detailed in terms of the management of obligations. Responsible credit lending is a Derivative instruments can be used in the insurance BBB/Baa2 5,568 5,568 specific work duties in the daily operations. prerequisite for well-functioning banking operations. operations to manage risks in the investment BBB-/Baa3 9,258 9,258 12,467 12,467 portfolio. Derivative instruments in the insurance The risk management framework is an integrated ambitious objectives and goals in terms of ethics, operations are used to a minor extent and trading is BB/Ba1 5,379 5,379 quality and control. Credit risks are to identify and governed by ISDAs. BB/Ba2 17,867 17,867 objectives with its risk management. The risk Total subordinated loans 27,317 0 0 27,317 35,902 0 0 35,902 are granted. An internally developed risk functions, strategies, processes, procedures, policies, classification tool is in place to assist with credit Derivatives risk propensity, risk indicators, risk limits, risk lending. AA-/Aa3 90,418 90,418 21,468 21,468 mandates, and control and reporting procedures necessary for identifying, measuring, monitoring, A/A2 99,757 99,757 19,506 19,506 managing and reporting risks. crucial credit assessment component in every credit Total derivatives 190,175 0 0 190,175 40,974 0 0 40,974 lending decision. The Group follows a policy, adopted Total credit risk exposure in the balance sheet 36,800,559 -2,588,037 -144,097 34,068,425 31,546,791 -1,967,301 -110,401 29,469,089 Risk propensity, risk indicators and risk limits are by the Board, that specifies the framework for the regularly monitored and reported to the Board. The Commitments Board of each Group company has established a risk credit risk reporting and credit rules to be applied in Unutilised credit facilities granted 4) 27,533,519 27,533,519 26,348,967 26,348,967 propensity for specific risks based on qualitative and credit assessment. quantitative valuations. Total credit risk exposure 64,334,078 -2,588,037 -144,097 61,601,944 57,895,758 -1,967,301 -110,401 55,818,056 Rating by S&P and Moodys. In the event credit ratings differ, the lowest is used. 1) The item 'unrated treasury and other bills elegible for refinancing' is comprised of holdings in a Swedish municipality that are not rated. 2) The item 'lending to credit institutions unrated' is comprised of lending to other banks. The Group also runs a deposit co-operative with Avanza Bank, a bank listed on Nasdaq Stockholm; the SEK 105 million (30) of liquidity produced therefrom is invested to manage daily flows arising from the deposit co-operative. 3) The item 'bonds unrated' is comprised of bonds investments from Solid Försäkringar´s investment portfolio. The largest counterparties are BillerudKorsnäs SEK 20 million, Peab SEK 20 million and Kinnevik SEK 16 million. The rest SEK 34 million, is devided on 6 additional counterparts. 4) All granted but unutilised credit facilitities are terminable to the extent permitted under the Swedish Consumer Credit Act. GRI 102-15 66 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 67 INSURANCE RISKS A straight-line (pro rata) earnings model is used for CREDIT QUALITY, LOAN AND LEASE RECEIVABLES Insurance risk is the risk of a change in value due to insurance risks with a term of 12 months or less. A controls to ensure that identified risks are managed deviations between actual and expected insurance provision for unexpired risks is made if the provision and monitored effectively. The Group has a 31/12/2018 Credit risk Impaircosts. This means the risk that actual outcome for unearned premiums is deemed to be insufficient procedure for approving new or significant changes exposure, ments deviates from the expected outcome due to, for in existing products/services, markets, processes or gross example, a higher claims frequency, larger average terms of valid insurance contracts. other major changes in the business operations. The Lending to the public, retail customers claims costs, one or more major claims or higher procedure is aimed at enabling the Group to Receivables not due outcome of insurance costs compared with estimated There is always some uncertainty associated with effectively and efficiently manage risks that may provisions. Insurance risk primarily comprises estimates of technical provisions. The estimates are arise in connection with, for example, new or Stage 1 22,198,221 -165,419 premium and reserve level risk and disaster risk. based on facts relating to historical claims and significantly changed products or services. Stage 2 3,326,966 -312,054 assessments of future trends. Because the majority Doubtful receivables Premium risk MARKET RISKS Premium risk is the risk of losses due to incorrect most portfolios, claims are concluded within 2 to 12 Market risks in the financial operations primarily Stage 3 4,613,818 -2,073,792 pricing, risk concentration, taking out wrong or months from the claim date), the risk of negative comprise interest rate risk, currency risk and share Total lending to the public, retail customers 30,139,005 -2,551,265 insufficient reinsurance or a random fluctuation in developments due to factors such as future claims price risk. The Board adopts policies that control the claims frequency and/or claims amount. The risk inflation is reduced. these risk, for example, by setting limits that restrict risk levels. No positions are held in the trading book. Lending to the public, corporate customers well-balanced and mainly comprises a large number Receivables not due of insurance with low, individual risks. Concentration the Board annually or more frequently in connection Risks attributable to foreign exchange-rates arise on risk in the overall portfolio is also considered to be with the preparation of the annual accounts. the differences between assets and liabilities in Stage 1 312,931 -2,428 different currencies. Interest rate risks arise on the Stage 2 50,724 -345 diversified in terms of both products and geography. Disaster risk difference between interest-rate terms for assets Doubtful receivables A scenario in which the same event would generate and liabilities. The Group manages and limits premium and disaster claims on a large number of policies is considered Stage 3 41,952 -33,998 risk by the Board issuing policies regulating, for unlikely as the insurance portfolio is well diversified. Total lending to the public, corporate customers 405,607 -36,771 example, maximum retention and a framework for premium pricing. The Group carries out regular individual product insurance policies for consumer detailed reviews of premium pricing and continuously goods, which do not have any exposure to natural Total lending to the public 30,544,612 -2,588,036 assesses the profitability of established insurance disasters, such as hurricanes, flooding, hail, arrangements and changes in tariffs and premiums earthquakes or subsidence. Assessments of the credit quality of consumer loans The Group assesses the credit quality of lease specific guidelines. levels. To further limit premium and disaster risk, that are non-performing was previously performed receivables and lending to the public, corporate reinsurance has been taken out in the risk portfolios Operational risks based on internal PD-models and classification into customers, on the basis of the individual borrower's In collaboration with established credit rating with a higher risk exposure to major and chainOperational risks refer to the risk of loss due to low/medium or high risk followed the definitions in ability to pay. agencies, the Group regularly tracks the situation of reaction claims. Reinsurers are selected based on incorrect or non-appropriate internal processes and the bank's credit strategy. Comparative figures for 31 individual credit commitments in order to monitor factors including expertise and financial position and procedures, human errors, incorrect systems or December 2018 are instead based on theIFRS 9 customers' repayment capacity. comply with the policies established by the board of external events, including legal risks. structure and the three stages in which a credit is continuously monitors and reports on corporate the insurance company. The Group continuously categorised. credit lending commitments in accordance with reviews the entire reinsurance programme to ensure Operational risks include the following main that all risks are covered as required. categories of risk: Process risks, which arise due to process Reserve level risk weaknesses, unclear distribution of responsibilities, Reserve level risk refers to the risk of variations in shortcomings in internal control, etc. 31/12/2017 Credit risk Impairthe time and amount of claims payments. Provisions Personnel risks, which arise on, for example, exposure, ments for unearned premiums is intended to cover the changes in personnel; weaknesses in project gross expected claim costs and operating costs for the management, corporate culture and communication; Lending to the public, retail customers remaining term of valid insurance contracts. As errors by personnel; risks attributable to compensation is only paid after a loss has occurred, remuneration systems, etc. Receivables not due it is also necessary to make provisions for claims IT/systemic risks, which arise due to shortcomings Low to medium credit risk 19,425,063 outstanding. Technical provisions are the total of in IT systems, inadequate systems support, etc. High risk 1) 1,545,010 -135,254 unearned premiums and unexpired risks, and claims External risks, which arise in the event of criminal outstanding. Technical provisions always contain a actions, shortcomings among suppliers, disasters, Past due receivables certain degree of uncertainty as the provisions etc. Receivables past due 60 days or less 1,092,315 include an estimate of the size and frequency of Legal risks, which arise, for example, when an Receivables past due > 60-90 days 411,553 -79,167 future claim payments. The uncertainty of technical agreement is not fully or partially enforceable, provisions is usually higher for new portfolios for lawsuits, adverse judgements or other legal Receivables past due > 90 days 3,190,897 -1,724,258 which complete settlement statistics are not yet processes that disrupt or adversely impact the Total lending to the public, retail customers 25,664,838 -1,938,679 available and for portfolios in which final adjustment business. Legal risks also include compliance risk, of claims takes place following a long period of time. which arises as a result of failure to comply with laws, rules, regulations, agreements, prescribed practices 1) of which, doubtful receivables 207,024 135,254 Solid Försäkring manages and minimises reserve and ethical standards, and which can lead to current or future risks as regards earnings and capital. level risk and technical provision risks and Lending to the public, corporate customers provisioning instructions that govern the calculation Security risks are included in operational risks and Low to medium credit risk 330,231 of technical provisions. The actuarial assumptions for refer to the risk of inadequate or incorrect internal High credit risk 41,027 -28,622 determining the provisions for claims outstanding processes or external events, including cyber attacks are based on historical claims and exposures that are or in sufficient physical security, that can negatively Total lending to the public, corporate customers 371,258 -28,622 known at the reporting date. The models used are affect the availability, integrity and confidentiality of clearly recognised actuarial models such as chain information and communication systems or the Total lending to the public 26,036,096 -1,967,301 ladder or other loss development factor models. The information used to provide services. outcome corresponds to a provision that covers the expected future payments for all claims incurred, The Group manages operational risks, for example, by even claims that have not yet been reported. applying a risk management framework that includes In 2017, assessments were carried out based on subject to adjusted payment conditions, Provision for unearned premiums are calculated measures for risk identification, assessment, training, internal PD models and classification into receivables from customers who have been continuously monitors and reports on corporate individually for each insurance contract. The control and reporting operational risks. Focus is on low/medium or high risk followed the definitions in granted statutory debt restructuring, and credit lending commitments in accordance with computation uses experience-based factors, the managing significant risks by analysing and receivables from estates of deceased persons. specific guidelines. starting point being how the claim costs are incurred documenting processes and procedures and by over the period of insurance. applying risk-mitigating measures. The Group classifies past due receivables of less than The Group assesses the credit quality of lease In collaboration with established credit rating 60 days as medium risk and past due receivables of receivables and lending to the public, corporate agencies, the Group regularly tracks the situation 60 days or more as high risk. customers, on the basis of the individual of individual credit commitments in order to borrower's ability to pay. monitor customers' repayment capacity. Doubtful receivables refers to receivables that are 68 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 69 FIXED INTEREST FIXED INTEREST INTEREST RATE RISK 31/12/2017 Less than 1 1-3 3-12 More than 1 InterestTotal Interest rate risk is primarily defined as a risk of Overall interest rate risk is deemed to be limited. This The financing via deposits at variable interest rates month months months year free given the relatively high credit turnover rate and the has a contractual and theoretical very short fixed Assets net interest income will decrease due to fact that interest rates can be adjusted within two interest term of only one day. When calculating Cash and balances at central banks 61,539 61,539 disadvantageous market interest rates. Interest rate months according to credit agreements and interest rate risk, this means that interest rate risk risk normally arises as a result of companies having applicable consumer credit legislation in several will be higher than if it is assumed that the fixed Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 77,591 717,006 48,134 842,731 different maturities or fixed interest terms for their markets. Most lending and deposits take place at interest term of deposits would be longer. The Lending to credit institutions 2,794,283 2,794,283 assets and liabilities. Interest rate risk increases if variable interest rates. Interest swap agreements pattern, unlike the contractual, has historically been the terms for assets deviate from the terms for may also be signed to limit interest rate risk. The significantly longer than one day. Lending to the public 22,862,376 100,044 341,170 765,205 24,068,795 liabilities. Interest rate risk mainly affects companies Treasury Department continually measures, checks Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 200,091 1,495,125 13,938 26,112 1,735,266 in the form of gradual changes in net interest and manages interest rate risk on interest-bearing Subordinated loans 35,902 35,902 income, which can thus affect operating income and assets and liabilities by applying a variety of models associated with lending is limited since the majority both short and long-term capital ratios. and the Board has established limits for maximum of the interest rate terms are variable. In reality, Shares and participations 76,368 76,368 interest rate risk. however, it is not as easy for market reasons to fully Intangible assets 1,877,166 1,877,166 Interest rate risk pertains to changes in interest rates offset a change in interest rates, and this may have Property, plant & equipment 39,954 39,954 and the structure of the interest rate curve. In a calculation of a one (1) percentage-point change an impact on net interest income, depending on the in the market interest rate, net interest income for active position. Higher interest expenses can be Other assets 399,268 399,268 the next 12 months would increase/decrease by SEK countered promptly by amending the terms for new Total assets 25,995,880 2,312,175 355,108 875,353 2,392,756 31,931,272 54 million (55), based on interest-bearing assets and lending. In view of the relatively high credit turnover where fixed interest terms for assets and liabilities do liabilities on the closing date. A one (1) percentagerate, overall interest rate risk is deemed limited. Most not always coincide. point parallel shift in the yield curve and by applying borrowers in the Payment Solutions segment are also Liabilities the discounted future cash flow, interest rate risk on able to switch between various partial payment Deposits and borrowing from the public 16,288,940 285,985 930,948 527,140 18,033,013 The Group endeavours to ensure sound matching equity on the closing date was +/SEK 6 million (10). options during the credit period. Other liabilities 1,316,991 1,316,991 between fixed and variable interest rates in its statement of financial position, and can relatively Technical provisions 455,123 455,123 quickly mitigate interest rate rises by changing the Issued securities 2,650,032 2,947,239 5,597,271 terms of new loans. Subordinated debt 300,000 40,044 340,044 Equity 6,188,830 6,188,830 Total liabilities 19,238,972 3,273,268 930,948 527,140 7,960,944 31,931,272 31/12/2018 Less than 1 1-3 3-12 More than 1 InterestTotal Interest derivatives, variable interest received 0 month months months year free Interest derivatives, fixed interest paid 0 Assets Difference, assets and liabilities 6,756,908 -961,093 -575,840 348,213 -5,568,188 0 Cash and balances at central banks 63,215 63,215 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 174,752 785,296 24,337 24,636 1,009,021 Lending to credit institutions 3,703,650 3,703,650 Lending to the public 27,116,865 77,890 256,004 505,817 27,956,576 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 287,482 913,442 61,644 1,262,568 Subordinated loans 5,835 12,680 8,802 27,317 Shares and participations 68,556 68,556 Intangible assets 1,973,681 1,973,681 Property, plant & equipment 56,228 56,228 Other assets 834,660 834,660 Total assets 31,351,799 1,789,308 280,341 600,899 2,933,125 36,955,472 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 149,900 Deposits and borrowing from the public 19,027,169 224,465 1,096,719 229,800 20,578,153 Other liabilities 1,216,405 1,216,405 Technical provisions 532,115 532,115 Issued securities 3,476,521 4,355,666 7,832,187 Subordinated debt 298,171 298,171 Equity 6,348,541 6,348,541 Total liabilities 22,951,761 4,580,131 1,096,719 229,800 8,097,061 36,955,472 Interest derivatives, variable interest received 0 Interest derivatives, fixed interest paid 0 Difference, assets and liabilities 8,400,038 -2,790,823 -816,378 371,099 -5,163,936 0 GRI 102-15 70 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 71 CURRENCY RISK CURRENCY EXPOSURE Exchange-rate risk is the risk that the value of assets So as to minimise exchange-rate risk, efforts are acquisition and deductions for dividends paid. The 31/12/2017 DKK EUR NOK CHF GBP Other Total and liabilities, including derivatives, may vary due to made to match assets and liabilities in the respective Group applies hedge accounting for this net exchange rate fluctuations or other relevant risk currencies as far as possible, and part of earnings in investment. Exchange-rate differences attributable Foreign currency assets, presented in SEK thousand factors. currencies other than SEK are exchanged on a regular to currency hedges of investments in foreign Cash and balances with central banks 61,539 61,539 basis. The Treasury Department manages the Currency risk arises when the value of assets and currency exposures arising in the banking operations Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 24,401 23,733 39,074 87,208 liabilities in foreign currency translated to SEK by using currency hedges to reduce the net value of translated to SEK using the average exchange-rate Lending to credit institutions 20,782 70,297 725,281 3,504 3,429 3,789 827,082 change because exchange rates fluctuate. The main assets and liabilities (including derivatives) in one during the period in which the income and expenses Lending to the public 3,015,506 2,206,332 7,850,425 13,072,263 currencies for the operations are: SEK, NOK, DKK and single currency. Derivatives in the banking operations have occurred. EUR. There are also currency flows in, for example, are regulated via ISDA and CSA agreements. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 6,929 651,645 35,041 693,615 GBP, CHF and USD. Exchange-rate gains and losses arising on Subordinated loans 12,467 12,467 The Group hedged the net investment in yA Bank AS settlement of these transactions and from Shares and participations 6,069 6,069 before the operation was merged. The hedged item translation of foreign currency assets and liabilities using the closing rate are recognised through profit Intangible assets 137 1,136,986 1,137,123 exposure to currency risks that impact earnings is acquisition date, other contributions after the or loss. Property, plant & equipment 311 3,171 5,486 8,968 managed continuously. Other assets 14,320 33,126 89,651 4,214 5,821 171 147,303 Total assets 3,075,320 2,356,192 10,566,156 42,759 9,250 3,960 16,053,637 Foreign currency liabilities, presented in SEK thousand Deposits and borrowing from the public 5,329,882 5,329,882 CURRENCY EXPOSURE Other liabilities 59,024 93,636 244,303 4,734 335 2,076 404,108 Technical provisions 3,223 44,662 156,460 31,574 8,069 105 244,093 31/12/2018 DKK EUR NOK CHF GBP Other Total Other provisions 5,122 5,122 Foreign currency assets, presented in SEK thousand Issued securities 950,768 950,768 Cash and balances with central banks 63,215 63,215 Subordinated debt 40,044 40,044 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 24,337 24,636 188,968 237,941 Total liabilities 62,247 138,298 6,726,579 36,308 8,404 2,181 6,974,017 Lending to credit institutions 61,915 120,274 843,314 4,056 3,973 2,414 1,035,946 Lending to the public 3,507,362 2,775,132 8,857,731 15,140,225 Net assets 3,013,073 2,217,894 3,839,577 6,451 846 1,779 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 44,264 131,401 36,827 212,492 Nominal amount, currency hedges -3,009,598 -2,214,213 -2,329,024 Subordinated loans 3,423 3,423 Difference between assets and liabilities incl. nominal amount 3,475 3,681 1,510,553 6,451 846 1,779 of currency hedges Shares and participations 5,801 5,801 Intangible assets 20 1,114,158 1,114,178 Sensitivity analysis Property, plant & equipment 188 3,655 4,433 8,276 Total financial assets 3,065,857 2,330,874 9,352,680 42,416 7,474 3,918 Other assets 97,020 50,892 310,168 3,494 3,079 166 464,819 Total financial liabilities -57,226 -62,461 -6,455,792 -4,370 -279 Total assets 3,690,822 3,022,296 11,519,189 44,377 7,052 2,580 18,286,316 Nominal amount, currency hedges -3,009,598 -2,214,213 -2,329,024 Total -967 54,200 567,864 38,046 7,195 3,918 Foreign currency liabilities, presented in SEK thousand Deposits and borrowing from the public 380,951 6,337,350 6,718,301 Exchange-rate flutctuation, 5% on comprehensive income of Other liabilities 55,337 85,804 330,553 3,075 100 474,869 -48 2,710 28,393 1,902 360 196 the year before tax Technical provisions 1,138 49,323 213,953 33,677 6,584 120 304,795 Other provisions 1,487 1,076 11,672 14,235 Issued securities 988,564 988,564 Total liabilities 57,962 517,154 7,882,092 36,752 6,684 120 8,500,764 Net assets 3,632,860 2,505,142 3,637,097 7,625 368 2,460 Nominal amount, currency hedges -3,625,760 -2,496,898 -2,607,353 Difference between assets and liabilities incl. nominal amount 7,100 8,244 1,029,744 7,625 368 2,460 of currency hedges Sensitivity analysis Total financial assets 3,654,471 3,039,495 10,178,489 43,594 6,160 2,494 Total financial liabilities -63,067 -470,426 -7,633,861 -2,632 -100 Nominal amount, currency hedges -3,625,760 -2,496,898 -2,607,353 Total -34,356 72,171 -62,725 40,962 6,060 2,494 Exchange-rate flutctuation, 5% on comprehensive income of -1,718 3,609 -3,136 2,048 303 125 the year before tax GRI 102-15 72 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 73 FUNDING CONSOLIDATED SITUATION LIQUIDITY EXPOSURE, UNDISCOUNTED CASH FLOWS GROUP A core component of financing efforts is maintaining to as Asset Backed Securities (ABS). This took place the business. There must also be preparedness for 31/12/2018 Payable on < 3 months 3-12 1-5 years >5 years No Total a well-diversified financing structure with access to uneven cash flows, which can be handled by means demand months duration several sources of financing. Access to a number of wholly owned subsidiaries Resurs Consumer Loans 1 of a quick redistribution of liquidity or disposal of sources of financing means that it is possible to use Limited. In January 2018 the financing expanded and investments. There must be preparedness for a rapid Financial assets the most appropriate source of financing at any at 31 december 2018 a total of appoximately SEK 3.7 strengthening of liquidity through various actions. Cash and balances at central banks 63,215 63,215 particular time. billion in loan receivables had been transferred to Resurs Consumer Loans. The acquisition of loan Banking operations are characterised by financing Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 270,991 27,359 673,601 46,667 1,018,618 Work on diversifying financing remained in focus receivables by Resurs Consumer Loans was financed which, for the most part, consists of long-term Lending to credit institutions 3,450,465 57,558 90,000 75,644 29,983 3,703,650 during the year. Currency hedges are used to manage by an international financial institution. Resurs Bank savings together with ABS and MTN bonds. Lending Lending to the public 4,178,366 6,453,403 17,420,866 10,695,858 3,290,346 42,038,839 the currency risk associated with lending in has, for a period of 18 months (revolving period), the operations primarily comprises short-term lending currencies other than the currencies found in the right to continue sale of certain additional loan (Credit Cards and Retail Finance). This is a major Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 101,784 141,463 979,030 19,173 36,827 1,278,277 financing operations. These derivatives are covered receivables to Resurs Consumer Loans. Resurs Bank difference from general banking operations in the Subordinated loans 41 400 29,090 29,531 and regulated by ISDA and CSA agreements and Resurs Consumer Loans have provided security Nordic region, which have historically been based on established with numerous counterparties. for the assets that form part of the securitisation. At shorter financing than loans (such as mortgages), Shares and participations 68,556 68,556 the balance sheet date, the external financing creating a negative cash flow. Structural liquidity risk Other financial assets 261,945 12,900 274,845 The main type of financing is deposits from the amounted to SEK 2.9 billion (2.1) of the ABS financing. is limited since the operations of the Group have a Total 3,513,680 4,870,685 6,725,525 19,178,231 10,761,698 3,425,712 48,475,531 public.This form of financing has been offered to Resurs Bank has the right to amortise (reduce) the fundamentally positive cash flow. In the liquidity customers in Sweden and Norway for several years. funding every month. Since the bank has this option, exposure table with maturity times, deposits from the Deposits to customers in Germany have also been collateral is linked to the securitisation that pays a public at variable interest rates are placed in the Financial liabilities offered since the end of 2018. Deposits, which are central role in the monthly interest payments. payable on demand category. However, assessment Liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 149,900 analysed on a regular basis, totalled SEK 20,773 and historical outcomes show that customer 1) million (18,147), whereof in Sweden SEK 14,056 million A Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) has been Deposits and borrowing from the public 19,025,446 226,486 1,105,095 233,399 20,590,426 (12,817), in Norway SEK 6,337 million (5,330) and in discussed for some time. The aim is to show that significantly longer than this. The company believes Issued securities 17,724 1,608,323 5,097,074 1,220,596 7,943,717 Germany SEK 381 million (0). The lending to the there is a sufficient percentage of stable financing in that deposits from the public are a long-term and Subordinated debt 3,002 8,907 47,665 338,791 398,365 public/deposits from the public ratio for the relation to long-term assets, as shown by a ratio of stable source of financing. consolidated situation is 135 per cent (133 per cent). more than 100 per cent. The ratio is regulated in the Other financial liabilities 713,791 79,878 793,669 EU Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR), although Management and control of liquidity risk is Total 19,025,446 961,003 2,952,103 5,378,138 1,559,387 0 29,876,077 Deposit products are covered by the deposit calculation methods have not yet been fully centralised and the Treasury Department is insurance scheme, the purpose of which is to established. Based on an interpretation of the Basel responsible for continuously monitoring, analysing, strengthen the protection of deposits received from forecasting, managing and reporting liquidity risks. Net assets -15,511,766 3,909,682 3,773,422 13,800,093 9,202,311 3,425,712 18,599,454 the public and contribute to the stability of the advisory consults, internal models have been The department is led by the Head of Treasury, who Derivatives, received 6,037,479 2,870,459 8,907,938 financial system. The state deposit insurance scheme produced to regularly follow and monitor the in turn organisationally reports to the CFO. Monthly Derivatives, paid -5,904,770 -2,825,298 -8,730,068 in Sweden totals SEK 950,000 per person and reports that include information on the financial 2) institution, with the option of applying to extend this assessed that the ratio exceeds 100 per cent. It is not situation, liquidity forecast and risk measures are Difference per time interval -15,511,766 4,042,391 3,818,583 13,800,093 9,202,311 3,425,712 18,777,324 amount under certain circumstances. The deposits yet definitively known when a quantitative NSFR submitted to the Treasury Committee. Policies offered to customers in Germany are covered by the requirement will be established. adopted by the Board are continuously monitored, The cash flow for securities is calculated applying the coupon-rate for each security at that point of time. Interest attributable to Deposits from the public with variable interest rates are not reflected in the above tables. Swedish deposit insurance scheme. In Norway, the while the Treasury Committee may also establish state deposit insurance totals NOK 2,000,000 per requirements that must be followed. Regular reports 1) Interest attributable to Deposits from the public with fixed interest rates is capitalised annually; in the model, however, it is deemed paid in full at maturity. person. The majority of deposits from the public are Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable are also submitted to the Board. Investments must 2) Amounts payable on demand amounted to SEK -15,512 million. Contractual and expected terms are deemed to deviate for deposits from the public of SEK 19,025 million. The pattern, unlike covered by the state deposit insurance scheme. to discharge its payment obligations on the due date be of a high credit and liquidity quality and the contractual terms, has historically been significantly lower than one day. without borrowing at highly unfavourable rates. The consideration is continuously given to maintaining a Resurs Bank has a funding programme for issuing consolidated situation, comprised of the Parent sufficient amount of liquid assets. bonds, the programme amounts to SEK 8,000 million Company Resurs Holding AB and the Resurs Bank AB 31/12/2017 Payable on < 3 months 3-12 1-5 years >5 years No Total (5,000). Within the programme, Resurs Bank has been Group, must maintain a liquidity reserve and have The banking operations prepare a funding and demand months duration working successfully to issue bonds on a regular access to an unutilised liquidity margin in the event liquidity plan whenever required, at least once basis and sees itself as an established issuer on the of irregular or unexpected liquidity flows. annually. Stress tests are carried out regularly to Financial assets market. Resurs Bank has primarily issued bonds in ensure that liquidity is in place for circumstances Cash and balances at central banks 61,539 61,539 Sweden but also in Norway. The programme has ten that deviate from normal conditions. One recurring outstanding issues at a nominal amount of SEK 4,250 that specify limits, responsibilities and monitoring stress test evaluates significant outflows of deposits Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 75,234 151,646 613,433 840,313 million (2,850) and NOK 400 million (400). and include a contingency plan. The purpose of the from the public. Stress scenarios combining a variety Lending to credit institutions 2,519,788 39,855 150,900 55,385 28,355 2,794,283 contingency plan is to make preparations for various of events and circumstances are implemented on a Lending to the public 3,601,116 5,695,856 14,680,817 8,405,950 3,187,637 35,571,376 Of the ten issues, nine are senior unsecured bonds courses of action should the liquidity situation trend regular basis. Examples of combined events are and one issue is a subordinated loan of SEK 300 unfavourably. This plan includes risk indicators that disruptions in the capital market and deterioration in Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,018 229,155 848,910 19,210 643,138 1,741,431 million (300). Resurs Bank has, outside the could trigger the contingency plan and action plans Subordinated loans 600 745 37,433 38,778 programme, issued NOK 600 million (600) in senior Shares and participations 76,368 76,368 unsecured bonds and issued subordinated loan of controlled and audited by independent functions. SEK 200 million (200). Other financial assets 125,530 7,811 133,341 There must always be liquid assets that can be used Total 2,581,327 3,843,353 6,236,113 16,235,978 8,425,160 3,935,498 41,257,429 Resurs Bank has completed a securitisation of loan immediately to manage daily cash flows arising in receivables, a form of structured financing, referred Financial liabilities Deposits and borrowing from the public 1) 16,288,940 286,274 939,545 536,233 18,050,992 Issued securities 11,823 662,787 4,349,992 665,676 5,690,278 Subordinated debt 3,435 50,473 339,372 393,280 Other financial liabilities 660,404 77,912 738,316 Total 16,288,940 961,936 1,730,717 5,225,597 665,676 0 24,872,866 Net assets -13,707,613 2,881,417 4,505,396 11,010,381 7,759,484 3,935,498 16,384,563 Derivatives, received 3,936,964 3,427,431 127,250 7,491,645 Derivatives, paid -3,991,932 -3,430,086 -132,378 -7,554,396 2) Difference per time interval -13,707,613 2,826,449 4,502,741 11,005,253 7,759,484 3,935,498 16,321,812 The cash flow for securities is calculated applying the coupon-rate for each security at that point of time. Interest attributable to Deposits from the public with variable interest rates are not reflected in the above tables. 1) Interest attributable to Deposits from the public with fixed interest rates is capitalised annually; in the model, however, it is deemed paid in full at maturity. 2) Amounts payable on demand amounted to SEK -13.7 million. Contractual and expected terms are deemed to deviate for deposits from the public of SEK 16.3 million. The pattern, unlike the contractual terms, has historically been significantly lower than one day. 74 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 75 LIQUIDITY AND LIQUIDITY RESERVE CONSOLIDATED SITUATION G4 CAPITAL ADEQUACY CONSOLIDATED SITUATION Capital adequacy Liquidity comprises both a liquidity reserve and The liquidity reserve, totalling SEK 1,899 million The Group also has unutilised credit facilities of SEK Capital adequacy regulation is the legislator's calculated for other risks identified in the operations non-preferential creditors. In the event of default or another liquidity portfolio that is monitored on a (1,744), is in accordance with Swedish Financial 50 million (50). requirement for how much capital, known as the according to the internal capital adequacy bankruptcy, subordinated loans are repaid after daily basis. The main liquidity risk is deemed to arise Supervisory Authority regulations on liquidity risk capital base, a credit institution must have in relation assessment process (ICAAP). other liabilities. See note G40 Subordinated debt, for in the event multiple depositors simultaneously management (FFFS 2010:7) and applicable Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for the consolidated to the level of risks the institution takes. Capital further information. withdraw their deposited funds. An internal model is amendments thereto for the consolidated situation. situation is reported to the authorities on a monthly requirements are calculated in accordance with The ongoing review of the internal capital adequacy used to set minimum requirements for the amount of Accordingly, assets are segregated, unutilised and of basis. The LCR shows the ratio between high European Parliament and Council Regulation EU Capital requirement the liquidity reserve, calculated based on deposit high quality. The liquidity reserve largely comprises qualitative assets and net outflow during a 30-day 575/2013 (CRR) and Directive 2013/36 EU (CRD IV). The risk management. The internal capital adequacy The consolidated situation calculates the capital volumes, the proportion covered by deposit assets with the highest credit quality rating. stressed period. As at 31 December 2018, the ratio for Directive was incorporated via the Swedish Capital assessment process is performed annually and the requirement for credit risk, credit valuation insurance and relationship to depositors. The model the consolidated situation is 146 per cent (201 per Buffers Act (2014:966), and the Swedish Financial internally assessed capital requirement is updated adjustment risk, market risk and operational risk. also takes into account the future maturities of In addition to the liquidity reserve, the consolidated cent).For the period January to December 2018, the Credit risk is calculated by applying the standardised issued securities. The Board has stipulated that the situation has other liquid assets primarily comprised average LCR measures 200 per cent for the prudential requirements and capital buffers (FFFS capital target is to achieve a Total capital ratio and method under which the asset items of the liquidity reserve may never fall below SEK 1,300 of cash balances with other banks. These assets are consolidated situation. 2014:12). The capital requirement calculation below Common Equity Tier 1 ratio exceeding 14% and 11.5%, consolidated situation are weighted and divided million. Apart from the liquidity reserve, there is an of high credit quality and total SEK 3,688 million comprises the statutory minimum capital respectively. Capital targets can be seen as an between 17 different exposure classes. The total riskintraday liquidity requirement of at least 4 per cent of (3,113) for the consolidated situation. Total liquidity requirement for credit risk, credit valuation overall risk propensity. Information about risk weighted exposure amount is multiplied by 8 per cent deposits from the public, or a minimum SEK 700 amounted SEK 5,588 million (4,857). Total liquidity adjustment risk, market risk and operational risk. management in the Group can be found in Note G3 to obtain the minimum capital requirement for credit million. corresponded to 27 per cent (27 per cent) of deposits Risk management. risk. The credit valuation adjustment risk is also from the public. calculated according to the standardised method and There are also other liquidity requirements regulating Capital base is applied to calculate the counterparty risk arising and controlling the business. its Parent Company Resurs Holding AB. See note G1 The capital base is the total of Tier 1 capital and Tier when the consolidated situation hedges currency for further information. 2 capital less deductions in accordance with the exposures by using derivative instruments. The basic Capital Requirements Regulation 575/2013 EU (CRR). indicator method is used to calculate the capital The combined buffer requirement for the Deductions made by the consolidated situation are requirement for operational risk. Under this method, 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 consolidated situation comprises a capital presented in the table below and deducted from the capital requirement for operational risks is 15 per Liquidity reserve as per FFFS 2010:7 definition conservation buffer requirement and a Common Equity Tier 1 capital. cent of the income indicator (meaning average countercyclical capital buffer requirement. The operating income for the past three years). Three Securities issued by sovereigns 49,117 48,268 capital conservation buffer requirement amounts to Common Equity Tier 1 capital different credit rating companies are used to Securities issued by municipalities 729,974 664,222 2.5 per cent of the risk-weighted assets. The Common Equity Tier 1 capital comprises share Lending to credit institutions 250,000 183,000 countercyclical capital buffer requirement is capital, paid-in capital, retained earnings and other bonds and other interest-bearing securities. These weighted according to geographical requirements, reserves of the companies included in the Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 870,196 848,957 which amounts to 2 per cent of the risk-weighted consolidated situation. Profit for the year may only Summary Liquidity reserve as per FFFS 2010:7 1,899,287 1,744,447 assets for Swedish and Norwegian exposures of the be included after approval by the SFSA. Transition rules IFRS 9 risk-weighted assets. The countercyclical capital Resurs Bank has applied to the Swedish Financial buffer requirements will increase to 2.5 per cent for Tier 1 capital Supervisory Authority for permission to apply the Other liquidity portfolio Swedish exposures from 19 September 2019 and for Tier 1 capital comprises Common Equity Tier 1 capital transition rules decided at EU level in December 2017. Cash and balances at central banks 63,215 61,539 Norwegian exposures from 31 december 2019. The and other Tier 1 capital. The consolidated situation Under the transition rules, a gradual phase-in of the Securities issued by municipalities 100,033 Group currently does not need to take into account a does not currently have any Additional Tier 1 effect of IFRS 9 on capital adequacy is permitted, buffer requirement for its other business areas in instruments, which means that Common Equity Tier 1 regarding both the effect of the transition from IAS Lending to credit institutions 3,425,045 2,443,075 Denmark and Finland. However, a Danish capital is equal to Tier 1 capital. 39 as at 1 January 2018 and the effect on the Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 100,043 608,096 countercyclical capital buffer requirement of 0.5 per reporting date that exceeds the amount when IFRS 9 cent will apply from 31 March 2019 and it will increase Tier 2 capital is first applied to category 1 and category 2. The Total other liquidity portfolio 3,688,336 3,112,710 to 1 per cent from 30 September 2019. Tier 2 capital comprises dated or perpetual proportion of the phase-in amount for respectively subordinated loans. When the remaining maturity of year is as follows: Total liquidity portfolio 5,587,623 4,857,157 a subordinated loan is less than 5 years, it is no 2018: 95 %, 2019: 85 %, situation must maintain a capital base that, by a longer included as Tier 2 capital in the capital ratio 2020: 70 %, 2021: 50 %, sound margin, covers statutory minimum capital calulcations. Tier 2 capital is subordinate to the 2022: 25 % Other liquidity-creating measures requirements and the capital requirements Unutilised credit facilities 51,225 50,055 regulation (EU) 575/2013 Valuations of interest-bearing securities in the above table are measured at market value and accrued interest. CAPITAL BASE 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Tier 1 capital LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (LCR) LIQUID ASSETS Equity, Group 5,205,126 5,108,797 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Net profit for the period, Group 1,143,415 1,080,033 Liquid assets, Level 1 1,030,930 1,215,652 Proposed dividend -390,000 -360,000 Liquid assets, Level 2 572,680 649,904 Additional/deducted equity in the consolidated situation -537,809 -516,631 Total liquid assets 1,603,610 1,865,556 Additional/deducted net profit in the consolidated situation 124,474 -23,470 Equity, consolidated situation (adjusted for proposed/foreseeable dividend) 5,545,206 5,288,729 LCR measure 146% 201% Adjustments according to transition rules IFRS 9: Initial revaluation effect, net 95 % 321,804 Level 1 consist of high qualitative assets, level 2 consists of assets with the highest quality in accordance to the rules of Liquidity Coverage Ratio. Dynamic effect category 1 and 2, net 95 % The report on liquidity generally describes the consolidated situation and not the Group. The consolidated situation includes the Parent Company and the Resurs Bank Group. Less: Additional value adjustments -2,039 -2,211 Intangible assets -1,945,773 -1,846,399 Deferred tax asset 1) -8,171 Shares in subsidiaries -120 -100 Total Common Equity Tier 1 capital 3,919,078 3,431,848 Total Tier 1 capital 3,919,078 3,431,848 Tier 2 capital Dated subordinated loans 362,227 473,231 Total Tier 2 capital 362,227 473,231 Total capital base 4,281,305 3,905,079 1) The asset is included in riskweighted exposure amount with 250 per cent from 31 December 2018 . 76 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 77 CAPITAL REQUIREMENT LEVERAGE RATIO 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 The leverage ratio is a non-risk-sensitive capital that are not recognised in the balance sheet and is yet been made regarding a quantitative requirement requirement defined in Regulation (EU) no 575/2013 calculated by the Tier 1 capital as a percentage of for the level of the leverage ratio. A quantitative Riskweighted Capital Riskweighted Capital of the European Parliament and of the Council. The the total exposure measure. The consolidated requirement of 3 per cent is expected to be adopted. exposure requireexposure requireratio states the amount of equity in relation to the situation currently has a requirement to the Swedish amount ment amount ment consolidated situation's total assets including items Financial Supervisory Authority but no decision has Credit risks Exposures to central governments or central banks 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Exposures to regional governments of local authorities Exposures to public sector entities Tier 1 capital 3,919,078 3,431,848 Exposures to multilateral development banks Leverage ratio exposure 37,406,727 31,916,576 Exposures to international organisations Leverage ratio, % 10.5 10.8 Exposures to institutions 748,532 59,883 146,633 11,731 Exposures to corporates 366,130 29,290 346,486 27,719 Retail exposures 19,027,139 1,522,171 16,446,397 1,315,712 G5 SEGMENT REPORTING Exposures secured by property mortgates The CEO of Resurs Holding is the chief operating The CEO assesses the performance of Payment responsibility. Segment reporting is based on the Exposures in default 2,666,279 213,302 1,806,015 144,481 decision maker for the Group. Management has Solutions, Consumer Loans and Insurance. The CEO same principles as those used for the consolidated Exposures with particularly high risk established segments based on the information that evaluates segment development based on net financial statements. Assets monitored by the CEO Exposures in the form of covered bonds 86,879 6,950 84,801 6,784 is dealt with by the Board of Directors and used as operating income less credit losses, net. The refer to Lending to the public. supporting information for allocating resources and Insurance segment is evaluated at the operating Commission income and other operating income Items related to securitisation positions evaluating results. are reported in accordance with IFRS 15. Exposures to institutions and companies with short-term credit ratings 99,943 7,995 373,659 29,893 Exposures in the form of units or shares in collective instrument undertakings (funds) 65,265 5,221 Equity exposures 80,001 6,400 79,978 6,398 2018 Payment Consumer Insurance Intra-Group Total Group Other items 545,212 43,618 243,081 19,446 Solutions Loans adjustment Total credit risk 23,620,115 1,889,609 19,592,315 1,567,385 Interest income 1,121,384 1,935,502 12,629 -6,661 3,062,854 Interest expense -107,272 -223,362 -52 6,661 -324,025 Credit valuation adjustment risk 45,050 3,604 4,948 396 Provision income 325,477 119,331 -226,972 217,836 Fee & commission expense, banking operations -57,090 -57,090 Market risk Premium earned, net 828,678 -2,524 826,154 Currency risk 0 0 472,850 37,828 Insurance compensation, net -226,211 -226,211 Fee & commission expense, insurance operations -429,776 209,431 -220,345 Operational risk 5,552,748 444,220 5,096,823 407,746 Net income/expense from financial transactions -21,182 -19,694 -7,745 692 -47,929 Total riskweighted exposure and total capital requirement 29,217,913 2,337,433 25,166,936 2,013,355 Other operating income 163,937 52,082 -9,909 206,110 Total operating income 1,425,254 1,863,859 177,523 -29,282 3,437,354 In addition to the treatment of Pillar 1 risks above, 1.0 % (1.68) of the consolidated situation's risk-weighted assets are allocated for Pillar 2 requirements as at 31 December 2018. 1) of which, internal 117,630 111,898 -200,246 -29,282 0 CAPITAL RATIO AND CAPITAL BUFFERS Credit losses, net -186,442 -348,629 -535,071 Operating income less credit losses 1,238,812 1,515,230 177,523 -29,282 2,902,283 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio, % 13.4 13.6 Expenses excl. credit losses 2) -94,110 Tier 1 ratio, % 13.4 13.6 Operating profit, Insurance 3) 83,413 Total capital ratio, % 14.7 15.5 Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement incl. buffer requirement, % 8.6 8.6 2017 Payment Consumer Insurance Intra-Group Total Group of which, capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.5 Solutions Loans adjustment of which, countercyclical buffer requirement, %* 1.6 1.6 Interest income 990,683 1,688,524 13,495 -5,882 2,686,820 Common Equity Tier 1 capital available for use as buffer, % 6.7 7.5 Interest expense -93,783 -180,099 -156 5,882 -268,156 Provision income 297,029 109,724 -172,808 233,945 *Geographical allocation of the countercyclical buffer requirement 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Fee & commission expense, banking operations -63,130 -63,130 Credit risk CounterWeighted Credit risk CounterWeighted Premium earned, net 800,443 -2,104 798,339 exposure cyclical counterexposure cyclical counterbuffer cyclical buffer cyclical Insurance compensation, net -248,738 -248,738 requirement buffer requirement buffer Fee & commission expense, insurance operations -399,231 172,808 -226,423 requirement requirement Net income/expense from financial transactions -12,372 -4,959 8,362 -8,969 Sweden 10,795,867 2.0% 0.9% 9,626,410 2.0% 1.0% Other operating income 149,950 43,225 16 -5,534 187,657 Norway 7,016,402 2.0% 0.6% 5,957,214 2.0% 0.6% Total operating income 1,268,377 1,656,415 174,191 -7,638 3,091,345 Finland 2,271,143 0.0% 0.0% 1,586,592 0.0% 0.0% 1) of which, internal 98,552 73,908 -164,822 -7,638 0 Denmark 2,788,172 0.0% 0.0% 2,275,466 0.0% 0.0% Total1) 22,871,584 1.5% 19,445,682 1.6% Credit losses, net -153,683 -259,771 -413,454 1) Operating income less credit losses 1,114,694 1,396,644 174,191 -7,638 2,677,891 (FFFS 2014:12). Expenses excl. credit losses 2) -91,301 Operating profit, Insurance 3) 82,890 1) internal pricing. 78 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 79 SEGMENT REPORTING G7 NET INTEREST INCOME/EXPENSE 2) Reconciliation of Expenses excl. credit losses against income statement. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest income As per segment reporting Lending to credit institutions 3,357 3,234 Expenses excl. credit losses as regards Insurance segment -94,110 -91,301 1) Lending to the public 3,052,213 2,675,921 Not broken down by segment Interest-bearing securities 7,284 7,665 Expenses excl. credit losses as regards banking operations -1,321,613 -1,189,360 Total interest income 3,062,854 2,686,820 Total -1,415,723 -1,280,661 Of which, interest income calculated using the effective interest method 3,055,570 2,679,155 As per income statement Interest expense General administrative expenses -1,178,239 -1,065,752 Liabilities to credit institutions -7,316 -2,568 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets -49,039 -35,283 Deposits and borrowing from the public -234,512 -211,175 Other operating expenses -188,445 -179,626 Issued securities -68,429 -40,790 Total -1,415,723 -1,280,661 Subordinated debt -10,815 -13,266 Other liabilities -2,953 -357 3) Reconciliation of Operating profit against income statement. Total interest expense -324,025 -268,156 2018 2017 Of which, expense for deposit guarantee scheme and resolution fee -26,946 -27,027 As per segment reporting Of which, interest expense calculated using the effective interest method -324,025 -268,156 Operating profit, Insurance 83,413 82,890 Not broken down by segment 1) Amount includes interest income on impaired receivables of 209,886 191,149 Operating profit as regards banking operations 1,403,147 1,314,340 Total 1,486,560 1,397,230 As per income statement G8 FEE AND COMMISSION EXPENSE, BANKING OPERATIONS Operating profit 1,486,560 1,397,230 2018 2017 Total 1,486,560 1,397,230 Fee & commission income Lending commissions 84,386 82,771 Payment Consumer Insurance Total Group Credit card commissions 65,943 62,670 Solutions Loans Compensation, mediated insurance 1,896 20,666 Lending to the public Other commissions 65,611 67,838 31 Dec 2018 10,507,819 17,448,757 27,956,576 Total fee & commission income 217,836 233,945 1 Jan 2018 9,270,137 14,377,686 23,647,823 31 Dec 2017 9,419,131 14,649,664 24,068,795 Fee & commission expenses Lending commissions -6,620 -14,838 Credit card commissions -50,470 -48,292 Total fee & commission expenses -57,090 -63,130 G6 GEOGRAPHIC INCOME DISTRIBUTION AND OTHER DATA BY COUNTRY No commission income or commission expense is attributable to balance sheet items at fair value. Other 2018 Sweden 2) Denmark Norway Finland Switzerland Total countries 1) Gross income 1,829,619 602,929 1,296,151 499,367 23,175 13,784 4,265,025 Profit before tax 608,752 195,196 484,895 196,411 1,306 1,486,560 G9 PREMIUM EARNED, NET Income tax expense -156,570 -50,712 -92,673 -43,144 -46 -343,145 2018 2017 2017 Sweden 2) Denmark Norway Finland Switzerland Total Premium earned 912,807 842,826 Premiums for specified reinsurance -25,075 -25,124 Gross income 1) 1,911,580 460,784 1,079,214 420,709 25,505 3,897,792 Change in provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks -61,466 -16,137 Profit before tax 693,609 179,797 331,166 191,356 1,302 1,397,230 Reinsurers' share in change in provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks -112 -3,226 Income tax expense -135,312 -44,456 -91,980 -45,405 -44 -317,197 Total premium earned, net 826,154 798,339 1) Gross income includes interest income, fee and commission income, net income/expense from financial transactions, premium revenue net, profit/loss from participations in Group companies and other operating income. 2) Gross income for Sweden also includes cross-boarder business within the Insurance segment totalling SEK 61.5 million (44.9) Danmark, SEK 170.8 million (32.0) Norway, SEK 55.9 million (13.9) Finland, SEK 1.9 million (11.6) Great Britain and SEK 11.9 million (28.7) other countries. G10 INSURANCE COMPENSATION, NET Branches: Resurs Bank Danmark reg.no. 36 04 10 21, Resurs Bank Norge reg. no 984150865, Resurs Bank Finland reg. no 2110471-4, Branches: Solid Försäkrings AB Schweiz reg no. 170 9 000 698-8, Solid Försäkrings AB Norge reg. no. 988 263 796 and Solid Försäkrings AB Finland reg. no. 1714344-6. 2018 2017 The Group has no single customer that generates 10% or more of total revenues. Gross Reinsurers Net Gross Reinsurers Net fees fees Claims paid -205,003 7,829 -197,174 -256,374 9,184 -247,190 Change in provision for losses incurred and reported -11,343 -224 -11,567 15,399 1,208 16,607 Change in provision for losses incurred but not reported (IBNR) 1,634 1,634 988 988 Operating expenses for claims adjustment -19,484 380 -19,104 -19,659 516 -19,143 Total insurance expenses, net -234,196 7,985 -226,211 -259,646 10,908 -248,738 80 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 81 G11 NET INCOME/EXPENSE FROM FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS G14 GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 2018 2017 2018 2017 Dividend 3,425 1,790 General administrative expenses Net income/expense from shares and participations -7,471 3,752 Personnel expenses (also see Note G15) -607,086 -535,334 Net income/expense from bonds and other interest-bearing securities 184 18,967 Postage, communication and notification costs -129,171 -140,083 Derivatives -263,593 -80,943 IT costs -185,332 -159,178 Exchange-rate difference 219,526 47,465 Premises costs -41,244 -40,377 Total net income/expense from financial transactions -47,929 -8,969 Consulting expenses -79,681 -70,403 Other -135,725 -120,377 Net gains/losses by measurement category 1) Total general administrative expenses -1,178,239 -1,065,752 Financial assets at FVTPL -267,446 Financial assets at FVTPL, designated 24,509 The item Other in the classification of General administrative expenses includes fees and remuneration to auditors as set out below. Financial assets at FVTPL, held for trading -80,943 2018 2017 Loan receivables and account receivables 219,517 47,465 Auditors fee and expenses Total -47,929 -8,969 Ernst & Young AB 1) There is no ineffectiveness in the hedges of net investments in foreign operations that have been recognised in profit or loss or in comprehensive income. Audit services -5,834 -4,715 Net gain and net loss relate to realised and unrealised changes in value. Other assistance arising from audit -1,797 -2,976 Tax advisory services -1,037 -2,051 Other services -1,383 -4,947 G12 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Total -10,051 -14,689 2018 2017 Mazars SA Other income, lending to the public 170,069 151,875 Audit services -334 -545 Other operating income 36,041 35,782 Total -334 -545 Total operating income 206,110 187,657 Total auditors fees and expenses -10,385 -15,234 G13 LEASING Audit services comprise the examination of the Directors and CEO. They also include other as advice or other assistance arising from Resurs Holding Group as lessor annual financial statements and accounting procedures required to be carried out by the observations made during the audit or while records and the administration of the Board of Group's and parent company's auditors, as well performing such other procedures. In the banking operations, the Group owns assets Lending to the public in the statement of financial other equipment. Future minimum lease payments that are leased to customers under finance leases. position, in accordance with IFRS. The leased under non-cancellable leases fall due as follows: These assets are reported as assets are primarily comprised of machinery and G15 PERSONNEL 2018 2017 Non-cancellable lease payments: 2018 2017 Within one year 15,341 16,297 Salaries -415,631 -366,716 Between one and five years 17,271 21,574 Social insurance costs -117,292 -103,671 After five years 1,690 2,197 Pension costs -52,294 -42,198 Total non-cancellable lease payments 34,302 40,068 Other personnel expenses -21,869 -22,749 Total personnel expenses -607,086 -535,334 Reconciliation of gross investment and present value of receivables relating to future minimum lease payments Salaries and other benefits Gross investment 66,000 78,480 Board, CEO and other senior executives -20,484 -21,950 Less unearned financial income -34,302 -40,068 Other employees -395,146 -344,766 Net investment in finance agreements 31,698 38,412 Total salaries and other benefits -415,631 -366,716 Remuneration of Board members paid to companies and included in the above amounts is reported under General administrative expenses in the Group and in Personnel expenses in the Provision for doubtful receivables relating to lease payments 799 965 Parent Company income statement. The Group management has changed during the year. At 31 December 2018, the majority of the Group's gross and net investments had a remaining maturity of less than five years. Resurs Holding Group as lessee Operating leases are part of Resurs Holding share attributable to car leases. Most office leases 2018, totalled SEK 38.3 million (36.6). There are no Group's normal operations and are primarily have maturities of ten years, and car variable fees. Future minimum lease payments attributable to office space leases, with a small leases three years. Expensed leasing fees in under non-cancellable leases fall due as follows: 2018 2017 Non-cancellable lease payments: Within one year 28,079 25,679 Between one and five years 82,268 68,109 After five years 1) 5,821 Total non-cancellable lease payments 116,168 93,788 1) The termination clause allows the lease to be terminated three years prior to the end of the contract for half an annual rent. 82 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 83 PERSONNEL PERSONNEL Remuneration and other benefits The Board of the banking operations has established In 2018, variable remuneration was paid in excess of For more information, see table below. SEK 22.8 2018 Basic Variable Other Pensions Total a remuneration policy in accordance with Swedish SEK 100 thousand to employees in companies million was recognised as other contributed capital salary/ remunebenefits acquired at the end of 2015 who can influence the under equity. No cost arises in accordance with IFRS Board fees ration Regulations regarding remuneration structures in 2 since management and the employees paid a Board and CEO credit institutions, investment firms and fund make deferred payments for variable remuneration market price for the warrants. The total number of 1) Jan Samuelson, Chairman -1,516 -1,516 management companies licensed to conduct that are spread evenly over three years, with the last subscribed warrants on 31 December 2018 that can Christian Frick -477 -477 discretionary portfolio management, recently payment in 2019. Executive management and be converted by participants after exercising the updated through FFFS 2014:22. The Board of the warrants corresponds to approximately 3.1 per cent Martin Bengtsson -460 -460 insurance operations has established a remuneration were paid variable remuneration corresponding to 1) 3) Lars Nordstrand -795 -795 approximately 3.2 per cent (2.4) of basic salary. The implementation of the offer. 1) 3) -651 -651 FFFS 2011:2 General guidelines regarding corresponding figure for the Parent Company is Fredrik Carlsson 1) remuneration policy in insurance undertakings, fund about 0.0 per cent (0.0). Pensions Anders Dahlvig -469 -469 management companies, exchanges, clearing 1) Mariana Burenstam Linder -607 -607 organisations and institutions for the issuance of Warrants other senior executives are covered by defined Marita Odélius Engström -552 -552 electronic money. The Board has instituted a The Extraordinary General Meeting of Resurs in April contribution plans and are based on basic salary. In Remuneration Committee, which is responsible for 2016 resolved to issue warrants as part of the addition to occupational and statutory pension, a Mikael Wintzell -293 -293 preparing significant remuneration decisions and the incentive programme for management and provision for pension benefits of SEK 445 thousand Kenneth Nilsson, CEO -4,773 -163 -1,030 -5,966 Group has a control function which, when appropriate employees. A total of 8,000,000 warrants were issued. (445) in an endowment insurance policy has been and at least annually, independently reviews how the Issued warrants had no dilutive effect since the made for the CEO. The corresponding figure for other Other senior executives ( 6 individuals) -9,893 -681 -2,386 -12,960 market price is less than the exercise price. senior executives, in addition to occupational and Other employees that may effect the Bank's risk level (33 individuals) -36,002 -1,795 -4,191 -6,963 -48,951 corresponds to the regulatory framework. The statutory pension, is SEK 40 thousand (187) in an Total remuneration and other benefits -56,486 -1,795 -5,035 -10,379 -73,696 Chairman and members of the Board are paid the The warrants were issued in two separate series with endowment insurance policy. fees resolved by the Annual General Meeting. different terms (Series 2016/2019 and Series Remuneration of executive management and heads 2016/2020). Each series comprises 4,000,000 Termination conditions and benefits 2017 Basic Variable Other Pensions Total warrants. Each warrant entitles the holder to In the event of termination of employment by the salary/ remunebenefits Board. Remuneration comprises a basic salary, other purchase a share at a predetermined price. The bank, the CEO and the Executive Vice President are Board fees ration benefits and pension. options can be utilised during three subscription entitled to salary during the notice period (18 months Board and CEO periods in 2019 and three subscription periods in and 12 months, respectively). The notice period for Jan Samuelson, Chairman 1) -1,708 -1,708 Senior executives are not paid a bonus or variable 2020, respectively. Each participant acquires the other senior executives is 6-8 months. remuneration. Information on remuneration in the same number of warrants in each series. Christian Frick -450 -450 subsidiaries Resurs Bank AB and Solid Försäkrings AB No termination benefits are paid. Martin Bengtsson -467 -467 is published on www.resurs.se and www.solidab.com. Lars Nordstrand 1) 3) -788 -788 Fredrik Carlsson 1) 3) -526 -526 Anders Dahlvig 1) -526 -526 David Samuelson resigned on the Annual General Meeting 28th of April 2017, at his own request -150 -150 Mariana Burenstam Linder 1) -657 -657 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Marita Odélius Engström -483 -483 Credit Unutilised Credit Unutilised Kenneth Nilsson, CEO -4,747 -156 -1,038 -5,941 limits credit limits credit CEO 220 196 220 83 Other senior executives (7 individuals) 2) -11,448 -799 -2,831 -15,078 Board members 541 27 671 91 Other employees that may effect the Bank's risk level (33 individuals) -33,652 -1,357 -1,703 -5,898 -42,610 Other senior executives in the Group 830 578 1,034 639 Total remuneration and other benefits -55,602 -1,357 -2,658 -9,767 -69,384 Lending terms correspond to terms normally applied in credit lending to other personnel. The Group has not pledged security or assumed contingent liabilities for above-named executives. 1) Payment was made to Board members company; amount includes compensation for additional taxes. 2) The item also includes amounts invoiced by individuals for their services to the company. The Group recognises these as general administrative expenses and the Parent Company recognises them as other external expenses. 3) Recognised fees refers to total remuneration received by a Board member for board assignment in the company and its subsidiries. Average numbers of employees 2018 2017 Pension costs Men Women Total Men Women Total 2018 2017 Sweden 228 273 501 204 263 467 Denmark 45 47 92 44 44 88 Board, CEO and other senior executives -3,416 -3,869 Norway 48 64 112 51 63 114 Other employees -48,878 -38,329 Finland 18 52 70 11 50 61 Total -52,294 -42,198 Total 339 436 774 310 420 730 Board members and senior executives at the end of the year 2018 2017 Reconciliation of outstanding warrants in accordance to the incentive program in Resurs Holding AB Number Of which, Number Of which, 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 men men Issued warrants, total 8,000,000 8,000,000 Board members 9 78% 8 75% CEO and senior executives 7 57% 6 67% Subscribed warrants 7,010,000 7,010,000 Repurchased warrants -830,000 -150,000 Issued warrants, outstanding 6,180,000 6,860,000 Whereof subscribed by CEO 1,500,000 1,500,000 Whereof subscribed by other senior executive members 1,500,000 1,590,000 Whereof subscribed by other personnel 3,180,000 3,770,000 84 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 85 G16 DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETTS G19 TAXES 2018 2017 2018 2017 Depreciation and amortisation Current tax expense Tangible assets -20,858 -16,829 Current tax for the year -340,166 -354,811 Intangible assets -28,181 -18,454 Adjustment of tax attributable to previous year's -193 -3,421 Total -49,039 -35,283 Current tax expense -340,359 -358,232 1) Deferred tax on temporary differences -2,786 41,035 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets -49,039 -35,283 Total tax expense reported in income statement -343,145 -317,197 2018 2017 G17 OTHER OPERATING COSTS Reconciliation of effective tax 2018 2017 Profit before tax 1,486,560 1,397,230 Marketing -183,614 -174,554 Tax at prevailing tax rate -22.0% -327,043 -22.0% -307,391 Insurance -4,272 -4,692 Non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income -0.5% -8,120 -0.1% -1,931 Other -559 -380 Tax attributable to differing tax rates for foreign branch offices and subsidiaries -0.5% -7,618 -0.3% -4,124 Total other operating expenses -188,445 -179,626 Tax attributable to prior years 0.0% -193 -0.2% -3,421 Standard interest, tax allocation reserve 0.0% -171 0.0% -330 Recognised effective tax -23.0% -343,145 -22.7% -317,197 G18 CREDIT LOSSES 2018 2017 2018 Change in deferred tax Provision of credit losses, IFRS 9 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, property, plant & equipment -795 -1,541 Stage 1 15,288 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, intangible assets -12,696 -10,728 Stage 2 19,114 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, lending to the public 9,165 5,081 Stage 3 -235,908 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, pensions 412 771 Total -201,506 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, untaxed reserves 44,000 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, other 1,128 3,452 Provision of credit losses off balance (unutilised limit), IFRS 9 Total deferred tax 1) -2,786 41,035 Stage 1 2,490 Stage 2 -416 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Stage 3 Deferred tax assets Total 2,074 Deferred tax assets for property, plant & equipment 3,857 5,187 Deferred tax assets for lending to the public 29,504 106 Write-offs of confirmed credit losses -354,004 Deferred tax assets for pensions, net 5,034 4,629 Recoveries of previously confirmed credit losses 18,365 Deferred tax assets, other 10,003 8,246 Total -335,639 Total deferred tax asset 1) 48,398 18,168 Total credit losses for the year, IFRS 9 -535,071 Offset by country -21,703 -9,891 off which lending to the public -537,145 Net deferred tax assets 26,695 8,277 2017 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Individually assessed loan receivables under IAS 39 Deferred tax liabilities Write-offs of confirmed credit losses -3,379 Deferred tax liabilities, intangible assets 48,506 35,371 Recoveries of previously confirmed credit losses 2,236 Deferred tax liabilities for lending to the public 36,736 52,091 Provision/reversal of credit losses, utilised limit 5,387 Deferred tax liabilities for untaxed reserves 154,982 154,981 Net result of individually assessed loan receivables for the period 4,244 Total deferred tax liabilities 240,224 242,443 Collectively assessed loan receivables under IAS 39 Offset by country -21,703 -9,891 Write-offs of confirmed credit losses -110,750 Net deferred tax liabilities 218,521 232,552 Recoveries of previously confirmed credit losses 18,092 1) Adjustment in relation to IFRS 9 totalling SEK 37.0 million, has been recognised directly through equity, see note G2.1. Provision/reversal of credit losses -325,040 Net cost of collectively assessed homogeneous groups of loan receivables -417,698 Net cost of credit losses for the period, IAS 39 -413,454 86 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 87 G20 EARNINGS PER SHARE G23 LENDING TO THE PUBLIC 2018 2017 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Basic earnings per share, before diluting, is During the January December 2018 period, there During the January December 2017 period, there calculated by dividing the profit attributable to were a total of 200,000,000 shares with a quotient were a total of 200,000,000 shares with a quotient Receivables outstanding, gross Parent Company shareholders by the weighted value of SEK 0.005. Share capital totalled SEK 1 value of SEK 0.005. Share capital totalled SEK 1 Loans in SEK 13,806,413 11,791,715 11,791,715 average number of ordinary shares outstanding million. No changes in either the number of million. No changes in either the number of Loans in DKK 4,057,458 3,381,073 3,381,073 during the period. outstanding shares or the quotient value took place outstanding shares or the quotient value took place in 2018. No dilution effect exists as of 31 December in 2017. No dilution effect exists as of 31 December Loans in NOK 9,564,908 8,395,440 8,395,440 2018. 2017. Loans in EUR 3,115,833 2,467,868 2,467,868 Total lending to the public 30,544,612 26,036,096 26,036,096 Basic and diluted earnings per share, SEK 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Retail sector 29,915,303 25,409,637 25,409,637 Profit attributable to parent company shareholders 1,143,415,000 1,080,033,000 Net value of acquired non-performing consumer loans 1) 223,702 255,201 255,201 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 200,000,000 200,000,000 Corporate sector 2) 3) 405,607 371,258 371,258 Basic and diluted earnings per share 5.72 5.40 Total lending to the public 30,544,612 26,036,096 26,036,096 Share capital and number of shares 2018 2017 Less provision for expected credit losses 4) -2,588,036 -2,388,273 -1,967,301 Number of Share Number of Share Total net lending to the public 27,956,576 23,647,823 24,068,795 shares capital shares capital Opening numbers beginning of the year 200,000,000 1,000,000 200,000,000 1,000,000 1) Acquired non-performing consumer loans as follows: Closing numbers at the end of the year 200,000,000 1,000,000 200,000,000 1,000,000 Opening net value of acquired non-performing consumer loans 255,201 255,201 278,215 Amortisation for the year -36,858 -24,084 Currency effect 5,359 1,070 G21 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing Net value of acquired non-performing consumer loans 223,702 255,201 255,201 2) Amount includes acquired invoice receivables of SEK 273.3 million (237.9). 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 3) Amount includes finance leases of SEK 32.6 million (38.9) for which Resurs Bank is lessor. Nominal Fair value Carrying Nominal Fair value Carrying 4) Amount includes lending to retail and corporate sectors. amount value amount value Issued by Swedish government and municipalities 902,283 908,836 908,836 789,026 794,597 794,597 Geographic distribution of net lending to the public Foreign governments and municipalities 98,867 100,185 100,185 45,735 48,134 48,134 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Total 1,001,150 1,009,021 1,009,021 834,761 842,731 842,731 Sweden 12,816,351 10,850,762 10,996,532 Of which, listed 1,001,150 1,009,021 1,009,021 834,761 842,731 842,731 Denmark 3,507,362 2,924,767 3,015,506 Norway 8,857,731 7,710,434 7,850,425 Remaining maturity Finland 2,775,132 2,161,860 2,206,332 0-1 years 293,392 294,422 294,422 225,000 225,390 225,390 Total net lending to the public 27,956,576 23,647,823 24,068,795 1-3 years 344,205 345,351 345,351 462,761 466,826 466,826 More than 3 years 363,553 369,248 369,248 147,000 150,515 150,515 Expected credit losses according to IAS 39 -1,967,301 Total 1,001,150 1,009,021 1,009,021 834,761 842,731 842,731 Expected credit losses according to IFRS 9 Issuer's rating per S&P and Moodys Stage 1 -167,847 -181,320 AAA/Aaa 398,720 401,033 401,033 360,489 363,611 363,611 Stage 2 -312,399 -322,150 AA+/Aa1 552,430 557,976 557,976 424,272 428,931 428,931 Stage 3 -2,107,790 -1,884,802 Unrated 1) 50,000 50,012 50,012 50,000 50,189 50,189 Total expected credit losses -2,588,036 -2,388,273 -1,967,301 Total 1,001,150 1,009,021 1,009,021 834,761 842,731 842,731 Rating by S&P and Moodys. In the event credit ratings differ, the lowest is used. Doubtful receivables according to IAS 39 1) Unrated treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing' is comprised of holdings in a Swedish municipality that are not rated. Doubtful receivables 3,850,501 1) of which doubtful receivables, corporate sector 41,027 Of which credit losses, corporate sector -28,622 G22 LENDING TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS Key ratios for lending activities, IAS 39 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 2017 Loans in SEK 2,678,959 2,036,152 Percentage of gross impaired loans 1) 15% Loans in DKK 61,154 14,727 Percentage of net impaired loans 2) 7% Loans in NOK 841,478 675,098 Total reserve ratio 3) 8% Loans in EUR 119,564 64,609 Reserve ratio, impaired loans 4) 51% Loans in other currencies 2,495 3,697 1) Gross impaired loans before provisions divided by total loan receivables before provisions. Total lending to credit institutions 3,703,650 2,794,283 2) Net impaired loans divided by total loan receivables before provisions. 3) Total provisions divided by total loan receivables before provisions. 4) Provision for impaired loans divided by gross impaired loans. 88 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 89 Change in provision, Lending to the public Loans to the public, split by stage and provision, corporate sector Doubtful Non doubtful receivables receivables 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Carrying amount gross Carrying amount, gross 312,931 291,208 Carrying amount gross 1 January 2018 19,364,496 2,830,968 3,840,632 26,036,096 Provisions -2,428 -4,848 Carrying amount gross 31 December 2018 22,511,152 3,377,690 4,655,770 30,544,612 Carrying amount 310,503 286,360 Provision Provision at beginning of year -181,320 -322,150 -1,884,803 -2,388,273 Stage 2 New and derecognised financial assets -37,888 -60,998 130,593 31,707 Carrying amount, gross 50,724 48,555 Changes in risk factors (PD/EAD/LGD) 24,808 8,722 14,763 48,293 Provisions -345 -2,589 Changes in macroeconomic scenarios 2,028 4,733 17,725 24,486 Carrying amount 50,379 45,966 Transfers between stages Total performing at year end 363,655 339,763 from 1 to 2 18,750 -103,073 -84,323 Total provision, perfoming at year end -2,773 -7,437 from 1 to 3 15,226 -209,781 -194,555 from 2 to 1 -5,109 88,767 83,658 Stage 3 from 2 to 3 76,170 -186,373 -110,202 Carrying amount, gross 41,952 31,495 from 3 to 2 -1,912 8,778 6,866 Provisions -33,998 -27,225 from 3 to 1 -386 22,502 22,116 Carrying amount 7,954 4,270 Exchange-rate differences -4,385 -2,659 -20,764 -27,807 Provision at end of year -168,277 -312,399 -2,107,360 -2,588,036 Total performing at year end 405,607 371,258 Carrying amount Total provision, perfoming at year end -36,771 -34,662 Opening balance at 1 January 2018 19,183,176 2,508,818 1,955,829 23,647,823 Closing balance at 31 December 2018 22,342,875 3,065,291 2,548,410 27,956,576 Totals Provision of credit losses during the period were impacted by several different factors, as described below: 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 Transfers between Stage 1 and Stage 2 or Stage 3 depending on whether the loan has significantly increased (or decreased) in risk or if it has defaulted during the period and thus transferred between 12 month and full lifetime ECL. Carrying amount gross, stage 1 22,511,152 19,364,496 New loans during the period and also loans removed from the portfolio in the same period. (Increases due to issue and purchase and decline due to derecognition from the statement of Carrying amount gross, stage 2 3,377,690 2,830,968 financial position) Changes in risk factors (PD/EAD/LGD), arising because the model has been updated with new amounts (Changes due to changed credit risk, net). Carrying amount gross, stage 3 4,655,770 3,840,632 Changes in macroeconomic scenarios based on macroeconomic factors, that from a historical perspective has proven to correlate well with changes in the Group's credit losses and also partly on an assessed effect of regulatory changes in Norway. Carrying amount, gross 30,544,612 26,036,096 Modifications to existing loans (Changes due to modifications without derecognition from statement of financial position (net)) Exchange-rate differences Other adjustments Provision stage 1 -167,847 -181,320 Change in gross volume, Lending to the public Provision stage 2 -312,399 -322,150 Doubtful Provision stage 3 -2,107,790 -1,884,803 Non doubtful receivables receivables Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Total provisions -2,588,036 -2,388,273 Carrying amount gross 1 January 2018 19,364,496 2,830,968 3,840,632 26,036,096 Carrying amount 27,956,576 23,647,823 New and derecognised financial assets 3,832,521 893,416 -194,344 4,531,593 Transfers between stages Share of loans in stage 1, gross% 73.70% 74.38% from 1 to 2 -1,069,269 1,104,558 35,288 Share of loans in stage 2, gross% 11.06% 10.87% from 1 to 3 -516,494 537,476 20,981 Share of loans in stage 3, gross% 15.24% 14.75% Share of loans in stage 1, net% 79.92% 81.12% from 2 to 1 772,763 -976,086 -203,323 from 2 to 3 -510,443 489,356 -21,087 Share of loans in stage 2, net% 10.96% 10.61% from 3 to 2 15,951 -16,740 -789 Share of loans in stage 3, net% 9.11% 8.27% from 3 to 1 20,393 -43,333 -22,940 Exchange-rate differences 106,742 19,327 42,723 168,791 Reserve ratio loans in stage 1 0.75% 0.94% Carrying amount gross 31 December 2018 22,511,151 3,377,690 4,655,770 30,544,612 Reserve ratio loans in stage 2 9.25% 11.38% Reserve ratio loans in stage 3 45.27% 49.08% Loans to the public, split by stage and provision, retail Reserve ratio performing loan 1.86% 2.27% 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 Stage 1 Total reserve ratio loans 8.47% 9.17% Carrying amount, gross 22,198,221 19,073,288 Provisions -165,419 -176,473 Carrying amount 22,032,802 18,896,815 Stage 2 Carrying amount, gross 3,326,966 2,782,413 Provisions -312,054 -319,561 Carrying amount 3,014,912 2,462,852 Total performing at year end 25,525,187 21,855,701 Total provision perfoming at end of the year -477,473 -496,034 Stage 3 Carrying amount, gross 4,613,818 3,809,137 Provisions -2,073,792 -1,857,578 Carrying amount 2,540,026 1,951,559 Total performing at year end 30,139,005 25,664,838 Total provision perfoming at end of the year -2,551,265 -2,353,612 90 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 91 G24 BONDS AND OTHER INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES G26 SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS Bonds The shareholdings largely comprise shares from Solid assets were recognised at a total amount of SEK shares. The holdings in Visa Norway resulted in share 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 1.002 thousand on the closing date. The holdings holdings in Visa that comprise 768 shares, which Nominal Fair value Carrying Nominal Fair value Carrying shareholdings comprising shares in Visa Inc. C and in comprise 534 shares in Vipps AS that have come into earlist can be sold in year 2018 and that will receive 4 amount value amount value Vipps AS. The Group views these shareholdings as the company's possession after becoming a member 573 shares at the earliest to be sold in 2019. Corporate bonds 225,109 225,462 225,462 210,942 213,019 213,019 strategic and the of Vipps AS, whereby all members received Swedish mortgage institutions 869,081 878,159 878,159 795,000 803,377 803,377 Foreign mortgage institutions 91,103 91,540 91,540 45,000 45,482 45,482 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 1,185,293 1,195,161 1,195,161 1,050,942 1,061,878 1,061,878 Cost 78,542 74,788 Of which, listed 1,185,293 1,195,161 1,195,161 1,050,942 1,061,878 1,061,878 Of which, listed 78,071 74,327 Remaining maturity Carrying value 68,556 76,368 0-1 years 234,613 234,825 234,825 225,000 225,613 225,613 Of which, listed 68,084 75,907 1-3 years 639,224 647,406 647,406 375,928 379,012 379,012 More than 3 years 311,456 312,930 312,930 450,014 457,253 457,253 Fair value 68,555 76,368 Total 1,185,293 1,195,161 1,195,161 1,050,942 1,061,878 1,061,878 Of which, listed 68,084 75,907 Bonds, rating by S&P and Moodys See note G44 Financial Instruments for additional information. AAA/Aaa 860,184 869,657 869,657 840,000 848,858 848,858 A+/A1 6,000 6,062 6,062 A/A2 20,490 20,510 20,510 26,022 26,137 26,137 A-/A3 122,000 122,114 122,114 7,000 7,056 7,056 G27 DERIVATIVES BBB+/Baa1 14,000 13,829 13,829 14,000 13,938 13,938 31/12/2018 Nominal amount BBB/Baa2 23,098 23,154 23,154 23,004 23,241 23,241 Remaining maturity Positive Negative BBB-/Baa3 23,000 22,691 22,691 marketmarket< 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total values values BB+/Ba1 12,000 12,246 12,246 Derivatives instruments hedge accounting BB-/Ba3 10,000 10,382 10,382 10,000 10,440 10,440 Currency related contracts B+/B1 9,055 9,120 9,120 7,000 7,063 7,063 Swaps Unrated 97,466 97,642 97,642 111,916 112,899 112,899 Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 1,185,293 1,195,161 1,195,161 1,050,942 1,061,878 1,061,878 In the event the credit ratings differ, the lowest is used. Derivatives instruments, no hedge accounting Other interest-bearing securities Currency related contracts 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Swaps 8,730,010 5,567 8,735,577 190,175 12,984 Cost Fair value Carrying Cost Fair value Carrying value value Total 8,730,010 5,567 0 8,735,577 190,175 12,984 Fixed income funds 37,932 36,827 36,827 617,493 643,136 643,136 Structured products 30,000 30,580 30,580 30,000 30,252 30,252 Total derivatives 8,730,010 5,567 0 8,735,577 190,175 12,984 Total 67,932 67,407 67,407 647,493 673,388 673,388 31/12/2017 Nominal amount Total bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,253,225 1,262,568 1,262,568 1,698,435 1,735,266 1,735,266 Remaining maturity Positive Negative marketmarket< 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total values values Derivatives instruments hedge accounting G25 SUBORDINATED LOANS Currency related contracts Swaps 672,204 672,204 7,397 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total 672,204 0 0 672,204 7,397 0 Nominal Fair value Carrying Nominal Fair value Carrying amount value amount value Subordinated loans 27,991 27,317 27,317 34,129 35,902 35,902 Derivatives instruments, no hedge accounting Total subordinated loans 27,991 27,317 27,317 34,129 35,902 35,902 Currency related contracts Swaps 6,748,341 154,846 6,903,187 33,577 103,646 Remaining maturity Total 6,748,341 154,846 0 6,903,187 33,577 103,646 1-3 years 3,339 3,423 3,423 11,573 12,467 12,467 More than 3 years 24,652 23,894 23,894 22,556 23,435 23,435 Total derivatives 7,420,545 154,846 0 7,575,391 40,974 103,646 Total subordinated loans 27,991 27,317 27,317 34,129 35,902 35,902 Subordinated loans, rating by S&P and Moodys BBB+/Baa1 13,000 12,680 12,680 BBB/Baa2 5,417 5,568 5,568 BBB-/Baa3 9,339 9,258 9,258 11,573 12,467 12,467 BB+/Ba1 5,652 5,379 5,379 BB/Ba2 17,139 17,867 17,867 Total subordinated loans 27,991 27,317 27,317 34,129 35,902 35,902 In the event the credit ratings differ, the lowest is used. 92 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 93 G28 INTANGIBLE ASSETS G29 PROPORTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 31/12/2018 Goodwill Internally Acquired Total 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 developed customer software relations Equipment Opening cost 1,709,728 144,188 139,819 1,993,735 Cost at beginning of the year 86,248 73,971 Investments during the year 97,182 97,182 Purchases during the year 39,200 15,590 Divestments/disposals during the year 0 Divestments/disposals during the year -12,497 -2,690 Exchange-rate difference 24,138 1,904 2,567 28,609 Reclassifications 2,554 Total cost at year-end 1,733,866 243,274 142,386 2,119,526 Exchange-rate difference 638 -623 Total cost at year-end 116,143 86,248 Opening amortisation -72,162 -29,597 -101,759 Amortisation of divested/disposed assets 0 Accumulated depreciation at beginning of the year -46,294 -31,892 Amortisation for the year -14,853 -13,328 -28,181 Accumulated depreciation of divested/disposed assets 10,099 1,983 Exchange-rate difference -1,023 -72 -1,095 Depreciation for the year -20,858 -16,829 Total accumulated amortisation at year-end 0 -88,038 -42,997 -131,035 Reclassifications -2,554 Exchange-rate difference -308 444 Opening impairment -14,810 -14,810 Total accumulated depreciation at year-end -59,915 -46,294 Total accumulated impairment at year-end -14,810 0 0 -14,810 Carrying amount 56,228 39,954 Carrying amount 1,719,056 155,236 99,389 1,973,681 31/12/2017 Goodwill Internally Acquired Total developed customer G30 REINSURER'S SHARE OF TECHNICAL PROVISIONS software relations Opening cost 1,764,294 78,309 145,621 1,988,224 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Investments during the year 70,576 70,576 Unearned premiums and unexpired risks 3,453 3,552 Divestments/disposals during the year -1,411 -1,411 Unsettled claims 814 2,136 Exchange-rate difference -54,566 -3,286 -5,802 -63,654 Total reinsurers' share of technical provisions 4,267 5,688 Total cost at year-end 1,709,728 144,188 139,819 1,993,735 Opening amortisation -70,969 -17,339 -88,308 G31 OTHER ASSETS Amortisation of divested/disposed assets 1,411 1,411 Amortisation for the year -5,403 -13,051 -18,454 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Exchange-rate difference 2,799 793 3,592 Receivables, leasing activities 1,299 Total accumulated amortisation at year-end 0 -72,162 -29,597 -101,759 Receivables, factoring activities 3,854 7,047 Receivables, insurance brokers and representatives 68,543 57,310 Opening impairment -14,810 -14,810 Receivable, collection sale 96,638 Total accumulated impairment at year-end -14,810 0 0 -14,810 Other 25,426 36,708 Total other assets 195,760 101,065 Carrying amount 1,694,918 72,026 110,222 1,877,166 Impairment testing of goodwill The forecasts are based primarily on an internal average return. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful assessment based on historical performance and G32 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME lives are tested for impairment annually. The market development of future income and cost recoverable amount is determined based on trends, economic conditions, anticipated interest rate 9.2 per cent (9.2) after tax. The corresponding rate 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 estimates of value in use using a discounted cash trend and anticipated effects of future regulations. before tax was 11.6 per cent (11.6) for Consumer flow model with a five-year forecast period. The Loans and 11.7 per cent (11.6) for Payment Solutions. Prepaid expenses 66,720 55,313 valuation is performed for each cash-generating A forecast is conducted over the first five years The calculated value in use of goodwill is sensitive to Prepaid acquisition expenses, insurance operations 167,119 136,586 unit: Resurs Group segments, Consumer Loans, based on a long-term growth rate assumption. The a number of variables that are significant to Payment Solutions and Insurance. Goodwill is assessment is based on long-term assumptions anticipated cash flows and the discount rate. The Accrued interest 10,219 9,277 allocated to the segments based on expected future about market growth beyond the forecast period and variables most significant to the calculation are Accrued income, lending activities 66,969 22,999 benefit. assumptions about interest rate and economic Total prepaid expenses and accrued income 311,027 224,175 trends, future margins and cost effectiveness. Anticipated future cash flows assumption of a 2 (2) per cent long-term growth rate. During the first five years, anticipated future cash Anticipated cash flows have been discounted using No reasonably possible change in the key flows are based on forecasts of risk-weighted an interest rate based on a risk-free rate and risk assumptions would affect the carrying amount of volumes, income, expenses, credit losses and goodwill. G33 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS anticipated future capital requirements. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Loans in SEK 149,900 The following is a summary of goodwill allocated to each operating segment Total liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 0 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Opening ExchangeClosing Opening ExchangeClosing carrying rate carrying carrying rate carrying value difference value value difference value Payment Solutions 352,285 3,379 355,664 359,924 -7,639 352,285 Consumer Loans 1,330,766 20,759 1,351,525 1,377,693 -46,927 1,330,766 Insurance 11,867 11,867 11,867 11,867 Total 1,694,918 24,138 1,719,056 1,749,484 -54,566 1,694,918 94 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 95 G34 DEPOSITS AND BORROWING FROM THE PUBLIC G38 OTHER PROVISIONS 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 01/01/2018 31/12/2017 Deposits and borrowing in SEK 13,859,852 12,702,959 Opening balance 24,660 6,951 6,988 Deposits and borrowing in NOK 6,337,350 5,330,054 IFRS 9 adjustment 17,709 Deposits and borrowing in EUR 380,951 Provisions made during the year -1,881 236 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 20,578,153 18,033,013 Exchange-rate difference 82 -273 Closing balance 22,861 24,660 6,951 Retail sector 17,507,318 14,993,915 Corporate sector 3,070,834 3,039,098 Provision of credit reserves, unutilised limit, Stage 1 9,762 12,151 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 20,578,153 18,033,013 Provision of credit reserves, unutilised limit, Stage 2 6,016 5,558 Other provisions 7,083 6,951 Maturity The majority of deposits from the public are payable on demand; see also Note G3, Risk management. Closing balance 22,861 24,660 6,951 The parent company and Resurs Bank have entered into an endowment insurance agreement for safeguarding pension obligations. The endowment insurance and obligations have been netted. The amount in other provisions, consists of payroll tax that are not covered in the insurance agreement SEK 2 million (1.8). The market value of the endowment insurance is SEK 14.8 G35 OTHER LIABILITIES million (12.7). Through the merger with Finaref AS, Resurs Bank AB's Norwegian branch office has defined-benefit pension plans. The provision is calculated annually on an actuarial basis to ensure the 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 correct amount is allocated. The provision amounts to SEK 5 million (5.1). Trade payables 72,914 76,459 G39 ISSUED SECURITIES Liabilities to representatives 349,386 286,525 Preliminary tax, interest on deposits 17,949 18,820 Resurs Bank has completed a securitisation of loan of certain additional loan receivables to Resurs Resurs Bank has primarily issued bonds in Sweden receivables, a form of structured financing, referred Consumer Loans. but also in Norway. The programme has ten Provision for loyalty programmes 32,198 37,564 to as Asset Backed Securities (ABS). This took place outstanding issues at a nominal amount of SEK 4,250 Liabilities for reinsurance 1,633 278 Resurs Bank and Resurs Consumer Loans have million (2,850) and NOK 400 million (400). Other 206,536 218,627 wholly owned subsidiaries Resurs Consumer Loans 1 provided security for the assets that form part of the Limited. In January 2018 the financing expanded and securitisation. Because significant risks and benefits Of the ten issues, nine are senior unsecured bonds Total other liabilities 680,616 638,273 at 31 december 2018 a total of appoximately SEK 3.7 associated with the loan receivables sold, these were and one issue is a subordinated loan of SEK 300 billion in loan receivables had been transferred to not transferred to the subsidiary and are still million (300). Resurs Bank has, outside the Resurs Consumer Loans. programme, issued NOK 600 million (600) in senior loss in accordance with IFRS 9. unsecured bonds and issued subordinated loan of G36 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME The acquisition of loan receivables by Resurs SEK 200 million (200) to Solid Försäkrings AB. This Consumer Loans was financed by an international Resurs Bank has a funding programme for issuing loan is reported by both Resurs Bank AB and Solid financial institution amounted to SEK 2.9 billion (2.1) bonds, the programme amounts to SEK 8,000 million Försäkrings AB, but is eliminated at Resurs Holding 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 of the ABS financing and the rest is financed by (5,000). Within the programme, Resurs Bank has been level. Accrued interest expenses 10,616 7,254 Resurs Bank AB. Resurs Bank has, for a period of 18 working successfully to issue bonds on a regular Accrued personnel-related expenses 95,149 89,942 months (revolving period), the right to continue sale basis and sees itself as an established issuer on the market. Accrued administrative expenses 68,466 52,496 31/12/2018 Currency Nominal Interest rate Carrying Fair value Deferred income, leasing 1,973 953 amount amount Other deferred income 6,876 3,822 Resurs Bank MTN 102 31/08/2019 SEK 400,000 Variable 399,734 402,160 Total accrued expenses and deferred income 183,080 154,467 Resurs Bank MTN 103 24/02/2020 SEK 300,000 Variable 299,827 301,134 Resurs Bank MTN 104 16/03/2021 SEK 500,000 Variable 499,172 503,500 Resurs Bank MTN 105 29/05/2020 SEK 600,000 Variable 599,577 601,794 G37 TECHNICAL PROVISIONS Resurs Bank MTN 106 07/12/2020 SEK 350,000 Variable 349,661 349,913 Resurs Bank MTN 107 31/08/2020 SEK 600,000 Variable 599,502 601,380 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Resurs Bank MTN 108 16/06/2021 SEK 500,000 Variable 499,402 500,450 Unearned premiums and unexpired risks Resurs Bank MTN 109 30/08/2021 SEK 700,000 Variable 699,068 699,650 Opening balance 423,574 414,583 Resurs Bank MTN 301 20/05/2019 NOK 400,000 Variable 409,722 410,456 Insurance written during the year 915,331 844,929 Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Ltd ABS SEK 2,900,000 Variable 2,897,678 2,910,108 Premiums earned during the year -853,865 -828,792 Resurs Bank 17/19 FRN 03/04/2019 NOK 400,000 Variable 409,800 410,456 Exchange-rate difference 5,242 -7,146 Resurs Bank 17/19 FRN 25/10/2019 NOK 165,000 Variable 169,043 169,533 Closing balance 490,282 423,574 Total issued securities 7,832,186 7,860,533 Unsettled claims 31/12/2017 Currency Nominal Interest rate Carrying Fair value Opening balance 31,549 48,270 amount amount Resurs Bank MTN 101 03/04/2018 SEK 400,000 Variable 399,867 400,896 Settled claims from previous financial years -20,933 -41,465 Resurs Bank MTN 102 31/08/2019 SEK 400,000 Variable 399,400 403,932 Change in anticipated expense for claims incurred during previous years -1,800 -484 Resurs Bank MTN 103 24/02/2020 SEK 300,000 Variable 299,688 302,079 Exchange-rate difference -573 332 Resurs Bank MTN 104 16/03/2021 SEK 500,000 Variable 498,813 503,545 Provision of the year 33,590 24,896 Resurs Bank MTN 105 29/05/2020 SEK 600,000 Variable 599,250 602,472 Closing balance 41,833 31,549 Resurs Bank MTN 106 07/12/2020 SEK 350,000 Variable 349,486 350,130 Resurs Bank MTN 301 20/05/2019 NOK 400,000 Variable 400,163 400,652 Total technical provisions at the end of the year 532,115 455,123 Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Ltd ABS SEK 2,100,000 Variable 2,100,000 2,105,052 yA Bank AS 17/19 FRN 03/04/2019 NOK 400,000 Variable 400,440 401,761 yA Bank AS 17/19 FRN 25/10/2019 NOK 150,000 Variable 150,164 150,316 Total issued securities 5,597,271 5,620,835 96 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 97 G40 SUBORDINATED DEBT G43 RELATED PARTIES Ownership 31/12/2018 Currency Nominal Interest rate Carrying Fair value Resurs Holding AB, corporate identity number 556898Assets and liabilities, and dividends between Resurs Waldir AB owns 28.9 per cent of Resurs Holding AB amount amount 2291, is owned at 31 December 2018 to 28.9 per cent Holding AB (parent company) and other Group directly and indirectly via Waldakt AB and therefore 1) Resurs Bank MTN 201 17/01/2027 SEK 300 000 Variable 298,171 305,973 by Waldakt AB and to 17.4 per cent by Cidron Semper companies, are specified in the respective notes to has significant influence over the company. The Total subordinated debt 298,171 305,973 S.A.R.L. Of the remaining owners, no single owner the statement of financial position. Waldir Group includes amongst other NetOnNet AB. holds 20 per cent or more. Related parties Other companies with controlling or Waldir AB is owned by the Bengtsson family, who also 31/12/2017 Currency Nominal Interest rate Carrying Fair value The Group is comprised of the operating companies significant influence controls AB Remvassen. Transactions with these amount amount Resurs Holding AB, which are the parent company in Nordic Capital Fund VII owns 17.4 per cent of Resurs companies are reported below under the heading Resurs Bank MTN 201 17/01/2027 SEK 300,000 Variable 300,000 312,366 the Group, and the subsidiaries Resurs Bank AB, Solid Holding AB directly and indirectly via Cidron Semper Other companies with control or significant influence. Försäkrings AB and Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB S.A.R.L and have and therefore has significant Transaction costs in the table refer to market-rate yA Bank AS Subordinated loan 20/11/2023 2) NOK 40,000 Variable 40,044 40,312 and . Please see below for complete Group structure. influence over the company. Ellos Group AB is compensation for the negotiation of credit to related Total subordinated debt 340,044 352,678 another company controlled by Nordic Capital Funds 1) The issuer is entitled to early repayment of the bonds from First Call Date , provided that the issuer receives the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Group companies are reported according to the VII and with which the Group has conducted 2) The issuer is entitled to early repayment of the bonds from First Call Date , provided that the issuer receives the approval of the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority. acquisition method, with internal transactions transactions. All assets/liabilites items for related companies are eliminated at the Group level. interest bearing. Related parties Key Resurs Holding AB personnel G41 EQUITY Kenneth Nilsson CEO Resurs Holding AB Shares Translation reserve Changes in equity Jan Samuelson Chairman of the Board of Resurs Holding AB The number of shares in the Parent Company is Includes translation differences on consolidation of See the statement of changes in equity for details 200,000,000, with a quotient value of SEK 0.005. the Group's foreign operations. on changes in equity during the year. Christian Frick Director of Resurs Holding AB Quotient value is defined as share capital divided by Martin Bengtsson Director of Resurs Holding AB number of shares. See Note G20 for details on events Profit or loss brought forward Anders Dahlvig Director of Resurs Holding AB during the year. Refers to profit or loss carried forward from previous years less profit distribution. Fredrik Carlsson Director of Resurs Holding AB Lars Nordstrand Director of Resurs Holding AB Change in translation reserve Mariana Burenstam Linder Director of Resurs Holding AB 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Marita Odélius Engström Director of Resurs Holding AB Opening translation reserve -14,192 76,066 Mikael Wintzell Director of Resurs Holding AB Translation difference for the year, foreign operations 85,787 -107,179 Key personnel Hedge accounting reserve -38,551 16,921 Information about transactions between related party key personnel and remuneration of these individuals can be found in Note G15, Personnel. Closing translation reserve 33,044 -14,192 Transactions with other companies with significant influence 2018 2017 G42 PLEDGED ASSETS, CONTINGENT LIBILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Transaction costs -452,009 -456,231 Interest expenses, deposits and borrowing from the public -6,390 -6,884 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Fee & commission income 36,912 36,846 Lending to credit institutions 1) 166,728 204,909 Fee & commission expenses -45,921 -46,024 2) Lending to the public 3,617,840 2,653,185 General administrative expenses -27,232 -28,316 Assets for which policyholders have priority rights 3) 940,173 551,886 Restricted bank deposits 4) 28,190 28,354 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Total collateral pledged for own liabilities 4,752,931 3,438,334 Other assets 10,407 9,194 Deposits and borrowing from the public -953,166 -1,325,083 Contingent liabilities Other liabilities -114,386 -104,040 Guarantees 311 1,563 Total contingent liabilities 311 1,563 Transactions with key personnel 2018 2017 Other commitments Interest expenses, deposits and borrowing from the public -237 -438 Unutilised credit facilities granted 27,533,519 26,348,967 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Deposits and borrowing from the public -39,827 -67,992 its business, the company has the right to register and deregister assets as long as all insurance commitments are covered pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Unutilised credit granted refers to externally granted credit. All unutilised credit facilities granted are terminable with immediate effect to the extent allowed under the Swedish Consumer Credit Act. Group structure Resurs Holding 1) AB Lending to credit institutions refers to funds pledged as collateral for the fulfilment of commitments to payment intermediaries. 2) Relating to securitisation, Issued securities see Note G39, 3) Technical provisions, net, amounts to SEK -0.5 million (-4.0). which means that total surplus of registered assets amounts to SEK 0.94 million (1.0). 4) As at 31 December 2018, SEK 26.7 million (24.6) in reserve requirement account at the Bank of Finland and, SEK 2.0 million (1.8) in tax account at Norwegian DNB, and SEK -0.5 million (1.9) in tax account at Danske Bank. Resurs Bank Solid Resurs AB Försäkrings AB Förvaltning Norden AB Resurs Resurs Norden Consumer AB Loans 1 Ltd 98 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 99 G44 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 31/12/2018 Fair value at Fair value Fair value Total carrying Fair value 31/12/2017 Derivatives Loan Financial Financial Total carrying Fair value amortised through profit through other amount for hedge receivables assets assets amount cost or loss compreaccounting and at FVTPL, at FVTPL, held hensive accounts designated for trading income receivable Assets Assets Cash and balances at central banks 63,215 63,215 63,215 Cash and balances at central banks 61,539 61,539 61,539 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 1,009,021 1,009,021 1,009,021 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 842,731 842,731 842,731 Lending to credit institutions 3,703,650 3,703,650 3,703,650 Lending to credit institutions 2,794,283 2,794,283 2,794,283 Lending to the public 27,956,576 27,956,576 28,575,822 Lending to the public 24,068,795 24,068,795 24,649,899 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,262,568 1,262,568 1,262,568 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,735,266 1,735,266 1,735,266 Subordinated loans 27,317 27,317 27,317 Subordinated loans 35,902 35,902 35,902 Shares and participations 68,556 68,556 68,556 Shares and participations 76,368 76,368 76,368 Derivatives 190,175 190,175 190,175 Derivatives 33,577 33,577 33,577 Other assets 191,757 191,757 191,757 Derivative instruments hedge accounting 7,397 7,397 7,397 Accrued income 83,088 83,088 83,088 Other assets 101,064 101,064 101,064 Total financial assets 31,998,286 2,557,637 0 34,555,923 35,175,169 Accrued income 32,277 32,277 32,277 Total financial assets 7,397 27,057,958 2,690,267 33,577 29,789,199 30,370,303 Intangible assets 1,973,681 Property, plant & equipment 56,228 Intangible assets 1,877,166 Other non-financial assets 369,640 Property, plant & equipment 39,954 Total assets 31,998,286 2,557,637 0 36,955,472 Other non-financial assets 224,953 Total assets 7,397 27,057,958 2,690,267 33,577 31,931,272 31/12/2018 Fair value Fair value at Total carrying Fair value through profit amortised amount 31/12/2017 Financial liabilities at FVTPL, Other financial Total carrying Fair value or loss cost held for trading liabilities amount Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 149,900 149,900 Liabilities Deposits and borrowing from the public 20,578,153 20,578,153 20,576,353 Deposits and borrowing from the public 18,033,013 18,033,013 18,032,632 Derivatives 12,984 12,984 12,984 Derivatives 103,646 103,646 103,646 Other Liabilities 648,507 648,507 648,507 Other liabilities 610,528 610,528 610,528 Accrued expenses 145,162 145,162 145,162 Accrued expenses 127,788 127,788 127,788 Issued securities 7,832,186 7,832,186 7,860,533 Issued securities 5,597,271 5,597,271 5,620,835 Subordinated debt 298,171 298,171 305,973 Subordinated debt 340,044 340,044 352,678 Total financial liabilities 12,984 29,652,079 29,665,063 29,699,412 Total financial liabilities 103,646 24,708,644 24,812,290 24,848,107 Provisions 22,861 Provisions 6,951 Other non-financial liabilities 919,007 Other non-financial liabilities 923,201 Equity 6,348,541 Equity 6,188,830 Total liabilities and equity 12,984 29,652,079 36,955,472 Total liabilities and equity 103,646 24,708,644 31,931,272 100 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 101 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS G45 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS New chairman of Resurs Holding in the autumn Resurs Bank invests in newly established Kivra Oy The table below shows financial instruments Other observable inputs for assets or liabilities Note G2, Accounting policies provides details on the Resurs Holding's Chairman Jan Samuelson has Resurs Bank was among the first to offer their measured at fair value, based on classification in the other than listed prices included in level 1 directly determination of fair value for financial assets and declined re-election at the Annual General Meeting in customers in Sweden, to receive mailings via Kivra's fair value hierarchy. (i.e., price quotations) or indirectly (i.e., derived from liabilities at fair value through the statement of April 2019, but agreed with the Nomination digital mailbox. The partnership is now strengthened price quotations) (level 2) financial position. Carrying amounts for current Committee to continue in the role until the by Resurs investing in Kivra's newly established joint Levels are defined as follows: receivables, current liabilities and deposits and loans extraordinary general meeting. venture company in Finland. Listed prices (unadjusted) in active markets for Inputs for assets or liabilities that are not based on to the public are deemed to reflect fair value. identical assets or liabilities (level 1) observable market data (i.e., unobservable inputs) (level 3) Financial assets valued through fair value 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 G46 KEY ESTIMATES AND ASSESSMENTS Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 When preparing financial statements in accordance indicate that impairment is required, for example, a The Group has decided to base the forward-looking with IFRS and generally accepted accounting changed business climate or decision to divest or calculations on a macroeconomic variable that from Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: principles, management needs to proactively make discontinue operations. Impairment is recognised if a historical perspective has proven to correlate well Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 1,009,021 842,731 certain estimates, assumptions and evaluations. the estimated value in use exceeds the carrying Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,262,568 1,735,266 These are based on historical experience and current amount. A description of impairment testing for the factors, which are considered fair and reasonable. year is provided in Note G28. Other provisions Subordinated loans 27,317 35,902 The results of these professional estimates and The amount recognised as a provision is the best, Shares and participations 67,554 1,002 75,389 979 assessments affect the reported amounts of assets, Impairment of credit losses estimate of the expenditure required to settle a Derivatives 190,175 33,577 liabilities, income and expenses in the financial The calculation of credit losses is based on present obligation at the reporting date. Earnings statements. Actual outcomes may differ from these calculating the expected credit losses. The may be affected if an estimate has been made that Derivative instruments hedge accounting 1) 7,397 estimates and assumptions. The Group has made the impairment model includes a three-stage model is not consistent with the actual outcome. Total 2,366,460 190,175 1,002 2,689,288 40,974 979 following critical estimates in applying significant based on changes in the credit quality of financial accounting policies: assets. The assets are divided into three different Technical provisions classification and measurement of financial stages depending on how credit risk has changed Technical provisions are based on estimates and Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: instruments since the asset was initially recognised in the balance assumptions made regarding future claims costs and, Derivatives -12,984 -103,646 impairment testing of goodwill and other assets sheet. Stage 1 encompasses assets for which there accordingly, are always associated with uncertainty. Total 0 -12,984 0 0 -103,646 0 impairment of credit losses has not been a significant increase in credit risk, Estimates are based on historical statistics on earlier other provisions stage 2 encompasses assets for which there has claims outcomes that are available at the 1) technical provisions been a significant increase in credit risk, while stage preparation of the annual accounts. The uncertainty Derivative instruments hedge accounting, is valued through other comprehensive income. 3 encompasses defaulted assets. associated with estimates is generally greater in Classification and measurement of financial estimates of new insurance portfolios. In estimating Changes within level 3 instruments The provision of expected credit losses for assets is technical provisions, the amount of unpaid claims, 2018 2017 The accounting policies in Note G2 define the way in governed by the category to which the assets belong. claims trend, changes in legislation, court rulings and which assets and liabilities are to be classified in the Provisions are made under stage 1 for expected the general economic trend are taken into account. Shares and participations various categories. Fair value measurement of credit losses within 12 months, while provisions for Opening balance 979 1,039 financial instruments may lead to some uncertainty, stage 2 and 3 are made for expected credit losses Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on a regular as prevailing interest rates and market conditions under the full lifetime of the assets. basis. Changes to estimates are recognised in the Exchange-rate difference 23 -60 may change quickly and affect the value of the asset. period of the change if the change affects only that Closing balance 1,002 979 Calculations of expected credit losses include forward-period. Changes are recognised in the period of the Impairment testing of goodwill and other assets. looking information based on the macroeconomic change and future periods if the change affects both. Financial instruments measured at fair value for disclosure purposes Goodwill is tested for impairment annually when the outlook. annual accounts are prepared or as soon as changes The carrying amount of variable rate deposits and based on valuation at the listing marketplace. Fair The fair value of the portion of lending that has been borrowing from the public is deemed to reflect fair value has been classified as level 1. sent to debt recovery and purchased non-performing value. consumer loans is calculated by discounting Fair value of issued securities (MTN) is calculated calculated cash flows at the estimated market For fixed rate deposits and borrowing from the based on the listing marketplace. Fair value has been interest rate instead of at the original effective public, fair value is calculated based on current classified as level 1. interest rate. Fair value has been classified as level 2. market rates, with the initial credit spread for deposits kept constant. Fair value has been classified For issued securities (ABS), fair value is calculated by The carrying amount of current receivables and as level 2. assuming that duration ends at the close of the liabilities and variable rate loans is deemed to reflect revolving period. Fair value has been classified as fair value. Fair value of subordinated debt is calculated level 3. Transfer between levels There has not been any transfer of financial instruments between the levels. Financial assets and liabilities that are offset or subject to netting agreements Derivative agreement has been made under the ISDA Most of the derivatives at 31 December 2018 were means that collateral is obtained and provided in the agreement. The amounts are not offset in the covered by the ISDA Credit Support Annex, which form of bank deposits between the parties. statement of financial position. Related agreements 31/12/2018 Related agreements 31/12/2017 Gross Master Collateral Net amount Gross Master Collateral Net amount amount in netting received/ amount in netting received/ the balance agreement pledged the balance agreement pledged sheet sheet Derivatives 190,175 -12,984 -149,900 27,291 40,974 -40,974 0 Total assets 190,175 -12,984 -149,900 27,291 40,974 -40,974 0 0 Derivatives -12,984 12,984 0 -103,646 40,974 60,900 -1,772 Total liabilities -12,984 12,984 0 0 -103,646 40,974 60,900 -1,772 102 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 103 Statements and notes Parent company PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET SEK thousand Note 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 KEY RATIOS Assets Non-current assets SEK thousand 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Property, plant and equipment Net sales 25,511 20,050 23,762 18,502 16,038 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings P12 57 Profit/loss after financial items 768,257 629,201 455,921 -61,485 -22,706 Balance sheet total 2,616,976 2,476,467 2,695,767 2,200,354 907,240 Financial non-current assets Equity/Assets ratio (%) 99.4 99.6 99.6 97.7 99.4 Participations in Group companies P11 2,053,410 2,053,390 Average number of employees 2 2 2 2 12 Total non-current assets 2,053,410 2,053,447 Current assets Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 397,180 419,651 Deferred tax asset P9 449 294 PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT Other current receivables 675 Prepaid expenses and accrued income P13 334 379 SEK thousand Note 2018 2017 Total current receivables 397,963 420,999 Net sales P4 25,511 20,050 Cash and bank balances 165,603 2,021 Operating expenses Personnel expenses P7 -19,506 -17,506 Total current assets 563,566 423,020 Other external expenses P5,P6 -25,487 -32,695 Total assets 2,616,976 2,476,467 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets of non-current assets -57 -276 Total operating expenses -45,050 -50,477 Equity and liabilities Equity P15 Operating profit/loss -19,539 -30,427 Restricted equity Share capital 1,000 1,000 Profit/loss from financial items Profit/loss from participations in Group companies P8 787,219 660,000 Non-restricted equity Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 674 Share premium reserve 1,775,929 1,785,613 Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items -97 -372 Profit or loss brought forward Total profit/loss from financial items 787,796 659,628 Profit for the year 823,223 680,316 Total non-restricted equity 2,599,152 2,465,929 Profit/loss after financial items 768,257 629,201 Total equity 2,600,152 2,466,929 Appropriations P10 65,000 56,000 Provisions Tax on profit for the year P9 -10,034 -4,885 Other provisions 399 261 Profit/loss for the year 823,223 680,316 Current liabilities Trade payables 294 1,641 Liabilities to Group companies 500 338 Current tax liabilities 11,885 3,694 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Other current liabilities 700 531 SEK thousand 2018 2017 Accrued expenses and deferred income P14 3,046 3,073 Total current liabilities 16,425 9,277 Profit/loss for the year 823,223 680,316 Total equity and liabilities 2,616,976 2,476,467 Other comprehensive income that may be reversed to profit/loss Comprehensive income for the year 823,223 680,316 For information on pledged assets, contingent liabilities and commitments, see Note P16. 104 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 105 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY SEK thousand Share capital Share premium reserve Profit/loss brought forward Profit for Total equity the year Notes Equity at 1 January 2017 1,000 2,073,620 112,806 498,873 2,686,299 Owner transactions P1 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Option premium received/repurchased 314 314 The Parent Company applies the same accounting For the Parent Company, the terms balance sheet 1 January 2018 or later have had, or are deemed to Dividends paid -600,000 -600,000 principles as the Group, any differences between and cash-flow statements are used for reports have, a material effect on the Parent Company. the accounting principles are described below. The that are referred to as statement of financial Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -288,321 -11,679 -300,000 differences compared with the consolidated position and statement of cash flows in the Group. Shares and participations in Group companies financial statements that apply in the Parent The income statement and the balance sheet for Shares and participations in Group companies are Appropriation of profits according to resolution by Annual General Meeting 498,873 -498,873 0 the Parent Company are presented according to recognised according to the cost method. Profit for the year 680,316 680,316 mainly comprise the recognition of financial the format of the Annual Accounts Act, while the Dividends received are recognised as income income, expenses and assets. statement of changes in equity and cash-flow when the right to receive payment is deemed Equity at 31 December 2017 1,000 1,785,613 0 680,316 2,466,929 statement are based on IAS 1 Presentation of certain. The Parent Company prepares its annual report in Financial Statements and IAS 7 Statement of Cash Equity at 1 January 2018 1,000 1,785,613 0 680,316 2,466,929 accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act Flows. Transaction costs associated with acquisitions are (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Reporting added to the cost in the Parent Company and are Owner transactions The consolidated financial statements and the eliminated in the Group. Dividends paid -360,000 -360,000 regulations in RFR 2 stipulate that the Parent annual report are presented in SEK thousand Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -9,684 -320,316 -330,000 Company, in the annual accounts for the legal unless otherwise indicated. Income entity, is to apply all IFRSs and statements Service assignments are recognised in the Parent adopted by the EU to the extent that this is Notes not directly related to the income Appropriation of profits according to resolution by Annual General Meeting 680,316 -680,316 0 possible within the framework of the Annual statement, statement of comprehensive income, Chapter 2, Section 4 of the Annual Accounts Act Profit for the year 823,223 823,223 Accounts Act with consideration to the balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and when the service has been completed. Equity at 31 December 2018 1,000 1,775,929 0 823,223 2,600,152 relationship between accounting and taxation. cash flow statement: P1 Accounting principles Appropriations The deviations arising between the Parent P2 Risk management Appropriations comprise provisions, reversals of See Note P15 for additional information on equity. P3 Capital adequacy analysis untaxed reserves and Group contributions. Group are due to the limitations on the possibility of applying IFRS in the Parent Company, as a result of Changed accounting principles in the Parent recognised in accordance with the alternative rule the Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Company in RFR 2. This means that both received and paid PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT Obligations Vesting Act. No changes to accounting principles that are to be Group contributions are recognised as applied to financial years beginning on or after appropriations through profit or loss. SEK thousand Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating profit/loss -19,539 -30,427 P2 RISK MANAGEMENT Adjustment for non-cash items in operating profit/loss 195 393 Interest paid -97 -372 There are no additional risks in the Parent Company other than those found in the Group. The Group's risk management is detailed in Note G3. Interest received 674 Income taxes paid -1,844 -97 P3 CAPITAL ADEQUACY ANALYSIS Cash flow from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities -20,611 -30,503 The Group's capital requirements and capital base are detailed in Note G4. Cash flow from working capital change Other assets 55,235 41,618 P4 INTRA-GROUP PURCHASES AND SALES Other liabilities -1,041 -3,741 Cash flow from operating activities 33,583 7,374 One hundred per cent (100) of total revenue for the year is attributable to sales to other Group companies. Costs in this table are provided for market-rate remuneration in line with administration costs. Investing activities Dividend received P8 819,999 800,000 Transactions with subsidiaries Cash flow from investing activities 819,999 800,000 2018 2017 General administrative expenses -4,697 -3,220 Financing activities Dividends paid -690,000 -900,000 P5 OTHER EXTERNAL EXPENSES Option premium received 314 Cash flow from financing activities -690,000 -899,686 2018 2017 Consultancy expenses -3,691 -15,979 Cash flow for the year 163,582 -92,312 Other external expenses -21,796 -16,716 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,021 94,333 Total other external expenses -25,487 -32,695 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 165,603 2,021 Adjustment for non-cash items P6 AUDITORS FEE AND EXPENSES Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets P12 57 276 2018 2017 Other provisions 138 117 Ernst & Young AB Total adjustment for non-cash items 195 393 Liquid assets consist of cash and bank balances. Audit services -800 -750 Other assistance arising from audit -165 -100 Total auditors fee and expenses -965 -850 Audit services comprise the examination of the annual financial statements and accounting records and the administration of the Board of Directors and CEO. They also include other procedures required to be carried out by the Parent Company's auditors, as well as advice or other assistance arising from observations made during the audit or while performing such other procedures. 106 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 107 P7 PERSONNEL Board members and senior executives at the end of the year 2018 2017 2018 2017 Of which, Of which, Number Number Salaries -12,530 -12,231 men men Social insurance costs -4,601 -2,967 Board members 9 78% 8 75% Pension costs -1,688 -1,569 CEO and other senior executives 1) 7 57% 6 67% Other personnel expenses -687 -739 1) The number refers to all other senior executives and not only the number who received a salary from the Parent Company. Total personnel expenses -19,506 -17,506 Additional details on remuneration policy, pensions and terms are provided in Note G15. Salaries and other benefits Average numbers of employees Board, CEO and other senior executives -12,530 -12,231 2018 2017 Total salaries and other benefits -12,530 -12,231 Men Women Total Men Women Total Sweden 2 0 2 2 0 2 Amounts invoiced by individuals for their services to the company is in the Group recognised as general administrative expenses and in the Parent Company as personnel expenses. Total 2 0 2 2 0 2 The Management has changed during the year. Remuneration and other benefits 2018 Basic Variable Other Pensions Total P8 PROFT/LOSS FROM PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES salary/ remunebenefits Board fees ration 2018 2017 Board and CEO Dividend from Resurs Bank AB 330,000 300,000 1) Jan Samuelson, Chairman -1,516 -1,516 Dividend from Solid Försäkrings AB 129,999 Christian Frick -477 -477 Anticipated dividend from Resurs Bank AB 330,000 360,000 Martin Bengtsson -460 -460 Impairment of receivable Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB -2,780 Lars Nordstrand 1) -745 -745 Total 787,219 660,000 1) Fredrik Carlsson -469 -469 Anders Dahlvig 1) -469 -469 Mariana Burenstam Linder 1) -607 -607 Marita Odélius Engström -552 -552 P9 TAXES Mikael Wintzell -293 -293 Current tax expense Kenneth Nilsson, CEO -4,773 -163 -1,030 -5,966 2018 2017 Other senior executives (1 individuals) -2,894 -124 -471 -3,490 Current tax for the year -10,151 -5,767 Total remuneration and other benefits -13,254 0 -288 -1,500 -15,042 Adjustment of tax relating to prior years -38 588 Current tax expense -10,189 -5,179 2017 Basic Variable Other Pensions Total salary/ remunebenefits Board fees ration Deferred tax on temporary differences 155 294 Board and CEO Total tax expense reported in income statement -10,034 -4,885 Jan Samuelson, Chairman 1) -1,708 -1,708 Reconciliation of effective tax Christian Frick -450 -450 2018 2017 Martin Bengtsson -467 -467 1) Profit before tax 833,257 685,201 Lars Nordstrand -788 -788 1) Tax at prevailing tax rate -22.0% -183,317 -22.0% -150,744 Fredrik Carlsson -526 -526 Non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income 20.8% 173,321 21.2% 145,271 Anders Dahlvig 1) -526 -526 Tax attributable to prior years 0.0% -38 0.1% 588 David Samuelson resigned on the Annual General Meeting 28th of April 2017, at his own request -150 -150 1) Recognised effective tax -1.2% -10,034 -0.7% -4,885 Mariana Burenstam Linder -657 -657 Marita Odélius Engström -483 -483 Change in deferred tax Kenneth Nilsson, CEO -4,747 -156 -1,038 -5,941 2018 2017 Other senior executives (2 individuals) 2) -3,409 -124 -472 -4,005 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, pensions 155 294 Total remuneration and other benefits -13,911 0 -280 -1,510 -15,701 Total deferred tax 155 294 1) Payment was made to Board members company; amount includes compensation for additional taxes. Deferred tax assets 2) The item also includes amounts invoiced by individuals for their services to the company. The Group recognises these as general administrative expenses and the Parent Company recognises them as other external expenses. 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Deferred tax assets for pensions, net 449 294 Pension costs Total deferred tax assets 449 294 2018 2017 Board, CEO and other senior executives -1,688 -1,569 Total -1,688 -1,569 P10 APPROPRIATIONS 2018 2017 Group contribution, received 65,000 56,000 Total 65,000 56,000 108 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 109 P11 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES P15 EQUITY Subsidiaries and indirect subsidiaries Shares See Note G20 for additional information. Changes in equity Corp. ID no. Domicile Share of Share of Number Book value The number of shares in the Parent Company totals For details on changes in equity during period, see equity voting of shares 31/12/2018 200,000,000, with a quotient value of SEK 0.005. Profit/loss carried forward the Parent Company's statement of changes in power Quotient value is defined as share capital divided by Refers to profit or loss carried forward from previous equity. 516401-0208 Helsingborg the number of shares years less profit distribution. Resurs Bank AB 100 100 500,000 2,021,690 Resurs Norden AB 556634-3280 Helsingborg 100 100 Proposed allocation of profits Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Ltd 559768 Dublin 100 100 Unappropriated earnings in the Parent Company at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting (SEK): Solid Försäkrings AB 516401-8482 Helsingborg 100 100 30,000 31,600 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB 559067-0690 Helsingborg 100 100 100,000 120 Share premium reserve 1,775,928,446 1,785,612,856 Total book value, participations in Group companies 2,053,410 Net profit for the year 823,222,879 680,315,589 Total 2,599,151,325 2,465,928,445 Corp. ID no. Domicile Share of Share of Number Book value equity voting of shares 31/12/2017 power The Board of Directors propose that these earnings be appropriated as follows (SEK): Resurs Bank AB 516401-0208 Helsingborg 100 100 500,000 2,021,690 Dividends to shareholders SEK 1.95 (1.80) per share 390,000,000 360,000,000 Resurs Norden AB 556634-3280 Helsingborg 100 100 Carried forward 2,209,151,325 2,105,928,445 yA Bank AS 989932667 Oslo 100 100 Total 2,599,151,325 2,465,928,445 Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Ltd 559768 Dublin 100 100 Solid Försäkrings AB 516401-8482 Helsingborg 100 100 30,000 31,600 The Board believes that the proposed dividend is justifiable with respect to the requirements that the nature, scope and risks of the operations impose on Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB 559067-0690 Helsingborg 100 100 100,000 100 Total book value, participations in Group companies 2,053,390 P16 PLEDGED ASSETS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Opening acquisition cost 2,053,390 2,053,390 The company has no pledged assets. Accourding to the Board's assessment, the company has no contingent liabilities. Share capital Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB 20 Total accumulated amortisation at year-end 2,053,410 2,053,390 Closing residual value according to plan 2,053,410 2,053,390 P12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Equipment Acquisition cost at beginning of the year 1,127 1,712 Divestments/disposals for the year -500 Reclassification -85 Total acquisition cost at year-end 1,127 1,127 Accumulated depreciation at beginning of the year -1,070 -1,379 Reclassification 85 Accumulated depreciation of divested/disposed assets 500 Depreciation for the year -57 -276 Total accumulated depreciation at year-end -1,127 -1,070 Carrying amount 0 57 P13 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Prepaid expenses 334 379 Total prepaid expenses and accrued income 334 379 P14 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Accrued personnel-related expenses 1,912 1,989 Accrued administrative expenses 1,134 1,084 Total accrued expenses and deferred income 3,046 3,073 110 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 111 SIGNATURES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CEO Audit or’s r eport To the general meeting of the shareholders of Resurs Holding AB (publ), corporate identity number 556898-2291 The Board of Directors and the CEO give their assurance that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in Sweden, and the consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as referenced by the European Parliament and the Council directive (EC) 1606/2002 dated 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. The annual accounts and Report on t he annual account s and consolidat ed account s and results and describe the significant risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the Group companies are exposed. Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated Our opinions in this report on the annual account s and account s of Resurs Holding AB (publ) except for the cor porate consolidated account s are consistent with the content of the governance statement on pages 49-55 for the year 2018. The additional report that has been submitted to the parent income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the Annual General Meeting for approval on 25 April 2019. annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company company's audit committee in accordance with the Audit are included on pages 38-112 in this document . Regulation (537/ 2014) Article 11. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Basis for Opinions accordance with the Annual Account s Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent We conducted our audit in accordance with Internat ional Helsingborg 18 March 2019 company as of 31 December 2018 and its financial Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing performance and cash flow for the year then ended in standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated standards are further described in the Auditor’s account s have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Responsibilities sect ion. We are independent of the parent Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies company and the group in accordance with professional ethics and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our Kenneth Nilsson position of the group as of 31 December 2018 and their ethical responsibilit ies in accordance with these requirement s. Chief Executive Officer financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in This includes that , based on the best of our knowledge and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards belief , no prohibited services referred to in the Audit (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act for Regulation (537/ 2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the Credit Inst itut ions and Securities Companies. Our opinions do audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or not cover the corporate governance statement on pages 49its controlled companies within the EU. The Board of Directors, 55. The statutory administration report is consistent with the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated account s. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. We therefore recommend that the general meet ing of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Jan Samuelson Chairman of the Board Key Audit Mat t ers Key audit matters of the audit are those mat ters that, in our We have fulfilled the responsibilit ies described in the Auditor’s professional judgment , were of most significance in our audit responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of the annual accounts and consolidated account s of the of our report, including in relat ion to these matters. Martin Bengtsson Mariana Burenstam Linder Fredrik Carlsson current period. These matters were addressed in the context Accordingly, our audit included the perfor mance of procedures Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material account s and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not misstatement of the financial statement s. The results of our provide a separate opinion on these mat ters. For each matter audit procedures, including the procedures performed to below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter address the mat ters below, provide the basis for our audit is provided in that context. opinion on the accompanying financial statement s. Anders Dahlvig Christian Frick Lars Nordstrand Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Marita Odélius Engström Mikael Wintzell Member of the Board Member of the Board Our audit report was submitted on 18 March 2019 Ernst & Young AB Niklas Paulsson 1|5 Authorized Public Accountant 112 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 113 Lending t o t he public and provision for credit losses Goodwill and impairment t est Detailed informat ion and description of t he area is present ed in t he annual consolidated account s. Credit risk exposure and how it is Detailed informat ion and description of t he area is present ed in t he annual consolidat ed account s. The group’s report ed goodwill is specified managed is described in not e G3 section Credit risk. The group’s report ed credit losses are specified in not e G18 and t he provision for credit in note G28. Regarding the area relevant accounting policies for the group, these can be found in not e G2, section Goodwill. Est imat es and losses is specified in not e G23. Regarding t he area relevant account ing policies for t he group, t hese can be found in not e G2, sect ion Credit assessment s are described in not e G2, section Judgement s and est imat es in t he financial stat ements and also in not e G46. losses and impairment of financial asset s. Descript ion How our audit addressed t his key audit mat t er Descript ion How our audit addressed t his key audit mat t er The goodwill as of December 31 20187 amount s to SEK 1 719 In our audit we have evaluated and tested the company´ s As of 31 December 2018, lending to the public amounts to We have reviewed the group’s process of granting and accepting million. The company test s the book value of goodwill and process for impairment testing, by analyzing earlier accuracy in SEK 27 957 SEK million for the group. Lending to public credit s. This review includes policies and guidelines, as well as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives annually and forecasts and assumptions. We have together with our consists of outstanding gross receivables at the amount of the configurat ion of the processes focusing on ident ifying whenever event s or changes in circumstances indicate that valuations specialists reviewed the company´ s model and SEK 30 545 million less provision for expected credit losses of significant risks of error s and controls in order to prevent and the carrying amount might not be recoverable. The method applied for the impairment test and we have evaluated SEK 2 588 million. The Group has implemented a new model detect those kinds of errors. We have evaluated the recoverable amount per cash generating unit is determined the company’s own sensitivity analyses. We have also together for credit losses as of 1 January 2018 since IFRS 9 was effectiveness of significant controls and verified that they based on estimates of value in use using a discounted cash with our valuation specialists examined whether the implemented. operate as intended by test ing a selection of transactions. flow model with a five-year forecast period. Ant icipated future assumptions of the interest rate and the long-term growth are The new model for credit losses implies that lending to the We have assessed whether the group’s model for calculating cash flows are based on the first five years of forecast s of riskbased on marketable assumptions. We have evaluated whether public are categorized into three stages depending on the credit losses is in accordance with IFRS 9. weighted volumes, income, expenses, credit losses and the informat ion in the annual report is appropriate. grade of increase of credit risk. In stage 1 the provision for anticipated future capital requirement s. The forecasts are We have, among other things, with support from our modelling based primarily on an internal assessment of the company credit losses correspond to expected credit losses the coming specialists, evaluated if the company’s model of calculating based on historical performance, market development of 12 months. In stage 2 and 3 the provision for credit losses provisions is operating according to the requirements of IFRS 9. future revenue and cost trends, economic conditions, correspond to expected credit losses during the remaining We have also tested for the group relevant controls relating to anticipated interest rate and anticipated effects of future durat ion of the credit. input to model data, the model and the result of the calculations. regulations. In addit ion, a forecast is conducted after the first The model for credit losses is prospective which implies that five-year forecast period based on a long-term growth rate We have also, by testing samples assessed the reasonableness the group estimate the credit risk in each exposure and the assumption. The impairment test in 2018 did not result in an of the grouping of lending to public into the different stages. We loss that could be realized. The model requires the Group to impairment. The calculated recoverable amount is dependent have also tested the input data to the models. perform judgement s and estimates for example of criteria’s on a number of different variables. The most important for defining a significant increase of the credit risk and We have also assessed the disclosures in the financial variables are the assumption of capital requirement, interest methods for calculat ing expected credit losses. As part of the statement s regarding lending to public and provision for credit rate and economic t rends, future margins, credit losses and groups est imate also macro-economic factors should be losses are appropriate. cost effect iveness. Considering that goodwill const itutes a included. significant amount and that the valuation is dependent on Lending to the public and provision for credit losses amount to judgement we have considered goodwill to be key audit matter significant amounts. There is a risk that credits are accepted of the audit. on faulty grounds which could lead to an unwanted credit exposure. Further the calculation of expected credit losses means that the group performs judgement s and estimates. This means that ident ifying doubtful credits and estimation of impairments have a significant influence on the results and position of the group. We have therefore considered lending to the public to be a key audit mat ter of the audit. Ot her Inf ormat ion t han t he annual account s and accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidat ed account s consolidated account s, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are This document also contains other informat ion than the annual also responsible for such internal cont rol as they determine is account s and consolidated account s and is found on pages 2necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and 37. The Board of Director s and the Managing Director are consolidated account s that are f ree from material responsible for this other information. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated account s In preparing the annual account s and consolidated account s, does not cover this other informat ion and we do not express The Board of Director s and the Managing Director are any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the informat ion. group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, In connection with our audit of the annual account s and as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the consolidated account s, our responsibility is to read the going concern basis of account ing. The going concern basis of informat ion identif ied above and consider whether the accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and informat ion is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to and consolidated account s. In this procedure we also take into cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of assess whether the information otherwise appears to be Director ’s responsibilit ies and tasks in general, among other materially misstated. things over see the company’s financial reporting process. If we, based on the work performed concerning this Audit or ’s responsibilit y informat ion, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about have nothing to report in this regard. whether the annual account s and consolidated accounts as a whole are free f rom material misstatement, whether due to Responsibilit ies of t he Board of Direct ors and t he fraud or error , and to issue an auditor’s report that includes Managing Direct or our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of The Board of Director s and the Managing Director are assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing consolidated account s and that they give a fair presentat ion in standards in Sweden will always detect a material 3|5 2|5 114 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 115 relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Director s’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of suppor ting evidence in order to be able to assess]whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. misstatement when it exist s. Misstatements can arise f rom in the annual account s and consolidated accounts or , if Audit or ’s responsibilit y The audit or’s examinat ion of t he corpor at e governance fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and Ernst st & Young AB was appointed auditor of Resurs Holding AB at ement the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence about the annual account s and consolidated account s. Our thereby Vårt målour opinion about beträffande discharav revisionen from liability, geförslaget is to obtain till dispositioner (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 27 The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to audit evidence to assess with a reasonable av bolagets vinst eller förlust, och därmeddegree of assurance vårt uttalande om April 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since the 29 governance statement on pages 49-55 has been prepared in annual accounts and consolidated account s. the date of our auditor ’s report. However, future events or whether detta, är any att medmember rimlig the Board of grad of Directors av säkerhet bedöma or theom Managing förslaget April 2013. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to Director in any As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise är förenligt medmaterial respect: aktiebolagslagen. professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism continue as a going concern. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is ► hassäkerhet Rimlig undertaken är enany högaction grad av been guilty or säkerhet , menof ingen any omissiongaranti throughout the audit. We also: Helsingborgin18 conducted March 2019 accordance with FAR´ s auditing standard RevU ► Evaluate the overall presentat ion, structure and content of which för att can givesom en revision to liability rise utför s enligt the company, to god revisionssed or i Sverige 16 ErnstThe& auditor´ Young AB s examination of the corporate governance ► Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including alltid kommer att upptäcka åtgärder eller försummelser som ► in any other way has acted in cont ravent ion of the statement. This means that our examinat ion of the corporate the annual accounts and consolidated account s, whether the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and kan föranleda ersät tningsskyldighet mot bolaget, eller att ett Companies Act , the Annual Account s Act or the Articles of governance statement is different and substantially less in due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures consolidated accounts represent the underlying förslag t ill dispositioner av bolagets vinst eller förlust inte är Association. scope than an audit conducted in accordance with Niklas Paulsson responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair förenligt med aktiebolagslagen. Internat AuthorizedionalPublic Standards on Auditing and generally accepted Accountant sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our presentat ion. Our en objective concerning the god audit of the proposed Som del av en revision enligt revisionssed i Sverige audit ing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement ► Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding THIS IS appropriations använder A TRANSLATION of the company’s vi professionellt omdöme FROM profit och THE SWEDISH or har loss,en and thereby our professionellt ORIGINAL has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. resulting from fraud is higher than for one result ing f rom opinion about this, underis to assess with reasonable degree av of the financial informat ion of the entities or business skeptisk inställning hela revisionen. Granskningen A corporate governance statement has been prepared. error, as f raud may involve collusion, forgery, intent ional assurance whether the proposal is in accordance withvinstthe activit ies within the group to express an opinion on the förvaltningen och förslaget till dispositioner av bolagets Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second omissions, misrepresentat ions, or the override of internal Companies Act. consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the eller förlust grundar sig f rämst på revisionen av paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter control. direction, supervision and performance of the group audit . räkenskaperna. Reasonable assurance Vilka tillkommande is a high levelgranskningsåtof assurance,gärder but is not soma 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent ► Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal cont rol We remain solely responsible for our opinions. utförs guarantee baserasthat an på audit vår professionella conducted in bedömning accordance med with with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated relevant to our audit in or der to design audit procedures utgångspunkt generally accepted i riskauditing och väsentlighet standards .in Det Sweden innebär att vi will always account s and are in accordance with the Annual Account s Act. We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other fokuserar granskningen that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must detect Audit oractions or omissions ’s responsibilit y påthat sådana can give rise to områden liability to och åtgärder, the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effect iveness of company, orsom förhållanden thatär the väsentliga proposed för verksamheten appropriations och of därthe also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, Our objective concerning theare audit Ernst & Young AB was appointed auditor of Resurs Holding AB the company’s internal cont rol. avsteg company’s och profit övert rädelser or loss skulle notofhain the administration, särskild accordance betydelse with and för the including any signif icant def iciencies in internal control that we thereby bolagets our opinion situat ion. about Vi går discharigenomgeoch from liability, prövar is to obtain fattade beslut, (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 27 Companies Act. ► Evaluate the appropriateness of account ing policies used ident ified. audit evidence to assess beslutsunderlag, vidtagna withåtgärder a reasonable och degree andra of assurance förhållanden April 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since the 29 and the reasonableness of accounting est imates and As part of member whether an audit inthe accordance with generally accepted April 2013. We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement som är any relevanta förof vårt Board ut talande of Directors or the Managing om ansvarsfrihet. Som related disclosures made by the Board of Director s and the audit ing standards Director in Sweden, we exercise professional that we have complied with relevant ethical requirement s underlagin any för material vårt utrespect: talande om styrelsens förslag till Managing Director. judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the regarding independence, and to communicate with them all disposit has ioner undertaken beträffandeany of actionbolagets or been vinst guilty of förlust eller any har vi ►audit . The examination the administrat ion and the omission proposed Helsingborg 18 March 2019 relat ionships and other matters that may reasonably be granskat which styrelsens can give rise motiverade to liability yttrande to the samt ett company, or urval av ► Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, underlagen för detta för att kunna bedöma om förslaget är Ernst & Young AB and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis primarily on the audit of the account s. Addit ional audit related safeguards. ► in anymed förenligt other way has acted in cont ravent ion of the aktiebolagslagen. of accounting in preparing the annual account s and procedures performed are based on our professional judgment Companies Act , the Annual Account s Act or the Articles of consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based From the mat ters communicated with the Board of Director s, with starting Revisorns point in risk gr anskning av andbolagsst materiality. yr ningsrapporThis means t en that we Association. on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material we determine those mat ters that were of most signif icance in focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships Niklas Paulsson uncertainty exists related to events or condit ions that may the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated account s, Det that are styrelsenforsom är material har ansvaret the operat ionsauditand whereför bolagsstyrningsdeviations and Authorized Public Accountant Our objective concerning the of the proposed cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s including the most important assessed risks for material rapporten violat ions would på sidorna 55-61 och för att den är upprättad i appropriations of have particular the company’s importance profit or loss,for and the company’s thereby our ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We enlighet situation. med årsredovisningslagen. We examine andassess test decisions undertaken, suppor opinion about this, is to with reasonable degree of t a material uncertainty exist s, we are required to draw describe these mat ters in the auditor’s report unless law or for decisions, Vår granskning assurance whetheract harions the taken skett proposal and other enligt in cir isFARs cumstances uttalande RevU accordance that the with are 16 attention in our auditor ’s report to the related disclosures regulation precludes disclosure about the mat ter. relevant toAct. Revisorns Companies our opinion concerning granskning discharge from liability. av bolagsstyrningsrapporten. DettaAs a basis at innebär fort vår ourgranskning opinion onavthe Board of Director s’ proposed bolagsstyrningsrapporten har en Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a appropriations annan inriktning of och the company’s en väsentligt profit or loss mindre we examined omfattning jämförthe guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Boardinriktning den of Directors’ och reasoned omfattning statement som en a selection andrevision enligtof generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always suppor ting Internat ional evidence Standards in order to be ableoch on Auditing to assess]whether god revisionssed thei Report on ot her legal and regulat ory requir ement s detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the proposalhar. Sverige is inVi accordance anser at t denna with the Companiesger granskning Act. oss tillräcklig company, or that the proposed appropriations of the grund för våra ut talanden. company’s The audit or’s profit or loss examinat ionare of t henotcorporin accordance at e governance with the Opinions Responsibilit ies of t he Board of Direct ors and t he st atbolagsstyrningsrapport En Companies ement Act. har upprättat s. Upplysningar i Managing Direct or enlighet med 6 kap. 6 § andra stycket punkterna 2-6 årsredoIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and Information of about audit inAnnual 31 §General Meeting 2019 Thepart As Board of an Directors accordance is responsible with generally the accepted consolidated accounts, we have also audited the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for visningslagen samt 7 kap. andra for stycketthat samma corporate lag är audit ing standards governance statement in on Sweden, pages 49-55 we exercisehas beenprofessional prepared in administrat ion of the Board of Director s and the Managing appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal Information förenliga judgment med and about Annual årsredovisningens maintain professional General och Meeting koncernredovisningens skepticism throughout 2019the accordance delarwith the Annual Accounts Act. Director of Resurs Holding AB (publ) for the year 2018 and the of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the Information övriga audit . The examination about samt Annual i överensstämmelse of the administratGeneralmed ionMeeting årsredovisningsand the proposed 2019 lagen. Our examination of thecompany’s corporate profit governance statement proposed appropriations of the company’s prof it or loss. dividend is justifiable considering the requirement s which the Helsingborg appropriations on April 25, of the 2019 at 10:30 a.m. or loss is basedis company's and the group’s type of operations, size and risks conducted primarily on in accordance the audit with FAR´ s auditing of the account s. Addit ional audit standard RevU We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that Revisorns Helsingborg mandatonsApril period the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in place on the size of the parent company's and the group’s 16 The auditor´ procedures performed are25, examination based 2019 of on the at 10:30 our corporate professional a.m. governance judgment equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and posit ion in Helsingborg statement. Ernst with & Young starting Thison point April means AB inutrisk 25, that sågs and 2019 t illour examinat Resurs materiality. 10:30 atHolding a.m. ion ofmeans This ABs corporate the revisor that we av the statutory administ rat ion report and that the members of governance bolagsstämman statement den on 27is different april 2018and och substantially har less in the Board of Director s and the Managing Director be general. focus the examination such actions, areas andvarit bolagets relationships scope that than den are sedan revisor material anfor 29audit theapril conducted 2013. operat ions and in where accordance deviations and with discharged from liability for the financial year. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s Internat ional Standards on Auditing and generally accepted organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. violat ions would Helsingborg denhave 18 mars particular 2019 importance for the company’s Basis for opinions audit ing standards situation. We examine in Sweden. and test We believeundertaken, that the examination decisions suppor This includes among other things cont inuous assessment of Shareholders Ernst & hasdecisions, who Young provided us wish AB to attend the Annual General Meeting shall, firstly,t be entered in the share register maintained by We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring for actwith ions sufficient taken andbasis otherfor cirour opinions. cumstances that are Euroclear Sweden on Wednesday, 17 April 2019, secondly give notice of their attendance no later than on 17 April 2019. Shareholders relevant A corporate towhoourwish to attend opinion governance thestatement concerning Annual General discharge hasMeeting from shall, beenliability. firstly, prepared. As be entered in the share register maintained by audit ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilit ies under those that the company's organization is designed so that the Euroclear Sweden onopinion Wednesday, 17 standards are further described in the Auditor’s accounting, management of asset s and the company’s Shareholders aDisclosures basis Notice forwho to attend iswish our in accordance to be tomade: attend the on withtheApril Annual2019, Board chapter secondly General of give Meeting 6 Director section notice 6s’shall, proposed the of their firstly, second be attendance entered in theno share later than on 17 register April 2019.by maintained Euroclear Sweden appropriations paragraph points on Wednesday, of the 2-6company’s 17 of the Annual April 2019, secondly or loss we profitAccounts give Act notice examined and chapter of their the attendance no later than on 17 April 2019. Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent financial affairs otherwise are cont rolled in a reassuring Notice to attend Niklas Paulsson is to be made: company and the group in accordance with professional ethics manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing Board 7 section of Directors’ 31 the second reasoned paragraph statement the same andlawaare selection consistent of Notice to attend is to be made: for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our administrat ion according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines suppor with the ting Auktoriserad evidence other partsinoforder revisor the annualto be able to assess]whether accounts and consolidated the ethical responsibilit ies in accordance with these requirement s. and instructions and among other matters take measures that proposal account sisand in accordance are in accordance with the Companies with the Annual Act. Account s Act. are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in The audit or’s examinat ion of t he corpor at e governance We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is accordance with law and handle the management of assets in st at ement sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. a reassuring manner. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate Dividends 4|5 governance The Board proposes statement that the on Annualpages 49-55 General Meeting been prepared has adopts a dividendin of SEK 1.95 per share. The total dividend amounts to SEK 390 million. The5final |5 Dividends date for tradingwith accordance in thethe company's Annual shares Accounts right to receive dividend is Thursday, 25 April 2019. The record date is proposed as 29 April 2019 Act. theadopts including The Board Dividends proposes that the Annual General Meeting a dividend of SEK 1.95 per share. The total dividend amounts to SEK 390 million. The final and the dividend will be paid on 3 May 2019. date Our The forexamination trading Board proposes in the thatcompany's of the shares corporate theAnnual including General governance Meeting theadopts rightstatement toa receive dividenddividend is of SEK 1.95is Thursday, 25The per share. April 2019. total The record dividend date to amounts is proposed as 29 April SEK 390 million. 2019 The final and the for dividend conducted date trading thebecompany's ininwill accordance paid on with 3 shares MayFAR´ 2019. s auditing including standard the right to receive RevUdividend is Thursday, 25 April 2019. The record date is proposed as 29 April 2019 16the and Thedividend auditor´ will be paid on 3 May 2019. s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examinat ion of the corporate 116 RESURS HOLDING governance statement is different and substantially less in RESURS HOLDING 117 scope than an audit conducted in accordance with Internat ional Standards on Auditing and generally accepted audit ing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination About the Sustainability Report This is Resurs Holding’s second SustainResurs issues the Sustainability Report PARTICIPATION IN TRADE AND external environment for the operations, what its Sustainability Report will cover. that they should have a mutual relationability Report. It pertains to the entire annually, and it covers one calendar PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS which offers importance guidance for The results of the materiality analysis ship with the Group, as well as being Group. The report has been developed in year. The most recent Sustainability ReResurs is a member of several associathe Group’s priorities and activities relatperformed in 2017 in order to identify significantly affected by the business. accordance with the precautionary prinport, for 2017, was published on 20 March tions, thereby complying with current ing to various sustainability topics. The the Group’s most crucial sustainability They completed a web-based survey, ciple, and it has been prepared in accor2018. The report also constitutes Resurs’s industry requirements in the markets in stakeholders considered to be the most topics are still considered relevant. The to which 1,324 stakeholders from the dance with the GRI Standards at Core report to the UN Global Compact, the which the Group conducts banking operaconcerned or directly affected by the analysis process began by defining the Group’s four main markets (Sweden, Denlevel. This report constitutes the formal Communication on Progress. tions, as well as ensuring a responsible operations are retail finance partners, most important sustainability topics in mark, Norway and Finland) responded. sustainability reporting according to The primary target group for the Sustainapproach to both retail finance partners customers, employees and owners. the banking and finance industry. This The Group’s perspective was repreChapter 6 Section 11 of the Annual ability Report is Resurs’s shareholders. and customers, as well as employees Dialogue takes place in various channels helped to clarify relevant issues to bring sented by Group Management, which in Accounts Act. This report is included as Other important stakeholders such as and society. Resurs is a member of the and at different frequencies depending up at the Group’s first internal workshop. its responses also emphasised the impart of the Group’s Annual Report, and is retail finance partners, customers and Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, on topic and stakeholder group. The issues were selected based on portance of the Group’s environmental a part of the Board of Directors’ Report. employees, as well as society at large, the Swedish Bankers’ Association, FAR, GRI’s list of sustainability topics, as well and social impact. Their responses were The auditor’s review of the report is should also be able to find explanations Finance Norway, the Association of NorMATERIALITY ANALYSIS as from a business strategy perspective. as then combined with the results of the attached and is limited to a statement of the most important issues in this report. wegian Finance Houses, the Danish The materiality analysis helps the Group In order to ensure that the survey adstakeholder survey. that the report has been prepared, This Sustainability Report drawn up Chamber of Commerce and the Finnish understand the sustainability topics that dressed the entire Group’s operations, The result was then analysed at a second which appears on page 123. according to GRI Standards has not be the Commerce Federation. are of greatest importance to stakerepresentatives from a number of Group internal workshop where a validation was The contents of this Sustainability subject of an external third-party review. holders and their expectations for the functions participated. Guided by the performed based on Resurs’s overall Report are based on the materiality For questions concerning the Group’s STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE business. In addition, the results of the workshop results, twelve sustainability business strategy perspective. analysis performed in 2017, which has Sustainability Report, please contact Resurs continuously engages in dialogue analysis provide information about the topics were selected to ask stakeholders The appraisal also took into account guided the selection of the Group’s Eva Brike, Resurs’s Chief Human Resources with various stakeholder groups. Such impact of operations on the economy, about. The stakeholders consisted of the importance of sustainability topics most material sustainability topics. Officer and Sustainability Director by engagement provides insight into the society, people and the environment. customers, employees, retail finance in a global context, as well as the ability e-mail at: eva.brike@resurs.se expectations of stakeholders and the Resurs applies the principles and guidepartners, owners and members of Group of Resurs’s operations to directly or lines of the GRI Standards to determine Management. The selection criteria were indirectly influence these issues. Key topics and concerns Resurs Bank’s Stakeholder group Engagement channel raised by stakeholders management of key topics CUSTOMERS Customer meetings D  igital services, such as e-invoices, D  evelopment of new services that Customer service bank app, omni-solution give customers greater ability to Social media Invoicing and questions on fees manage their banking themselves. RESURS HOLDING Surveys Open and clear communication Paper print-outs A MATERIALS Customer experience T  ransition from paper print-outs to digital Security information, for example, through Kivra B ENERGY CONSUMPTION F C  onsolidation of systems for better and K quicker customer service C CLIMATE IMPACT I dentification via mobile BankID in stores and via telephone D OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND J SAFETY E E OTHER STAKEHOLDERS EMPLOYEES Materiality analysis Occupational health and safety Internal and external training TRAINING AND G Employee appraisals Professional development and career Management training PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Internet Diversity and equal treatment Work environment training F D L Introduction for new employees CUSTOMER PRIVACY Employee surveys Sustainability work D  edicated HR role focusing on G sustainability, diversity and health DIVERSITY AND Diversity and health EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Sustainability council H I ENVIRONMENTALLY G  uidelines/policy for diversity SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT and equal treatment I H A Health-promoting measures SOCIALLY SUSTAINABLE PROC PARTNERS Materiality analysis O  ffering of payment and financing F  urther development of existing J CUREMENT B Partners (e.g. Correspondence (e-mail, post, etc.) solutions to end customers, focusing products and services, with a particular retailers) Customer meetings on digitisation, simplification focus on digitisation and automation. RESPONSIBLE K CREDIT LENDING End customers and security. Authentication and signing using T  he new rules and regulations that electronic ID. L GROUP MANAGEMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION affect the services that partners use  djustments to and evaluation of effects A or broker via Resurs Bank. and opportunities linked to new regulaFINANCIAL RESULTS  igital services, such as e-invoices, D tions (e.g. GDPR, PSD2, money laundering), bank app, omni-solution D  evelopment of new services that give customers greater ability to COMMENTS ON THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS manage their banking themselves. The results of the materiality analysis demonstrate clear agreement between what the OWNERS Materiality analysis Sustainable growth and return  ork on clear and open W Group and its key stakeholders consider to be important. This indicates that the Group’s Shareholders, Investor meetings R  isk management and financial communication to enhance understanding sustainability efforts conform well to the expectations of others. investors and stability among the investor collective. In the analysis, the greatest importance was attributed to the sustainability topics analysts Roadshows Sustainability work  rranged Capital Market Day A Customer privacy, Anti-Corruption, Responsible credit lending and Diversity and equal Capital Market Day to further enhance communication. opportunity. For the 2018 report, Employees and Diversity and equal opportunity were Annual General Meetings combined, and Social responsibility and the Environment were added as new material P  resentation of quarterly sustainability topics. reporting GRI 102-11, 102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, GRI 102-46, 102-47, 103-1 118 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 119 102-47, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 103-1 Management of Resurs’s sustainability efforts Resurs’s operation as a banking and insurance group poses demands for conis responsible for initiating, driving and following up operational sustainability MANAGEMENT APPROACH: major changes in the business operations are intended to effectively and A SELECTION OF POLICIES AND GUIDELINES: ANTI-CORRUPTION duct according to business ethics, as well efforts, with the objective of ensuring Resurs has three levels of control funcefficiently identify and manage relevant as the assumption of responsibility for the operation’s impact on people, society compliance with the Group’s long-term commitments. The sustainability committions, the three lines of defence, to manage corruption risks in the operation and risks that may arise. G uidelines for diversity and the environment. The Group’s approach is based on tee comprises a total of nine employees from Customer Experience, Marketing, ensure that the Group is doing business MANAGEMENT APPROACH: and equal treatment. and entering into business relationships RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING following the laws and regulations of HR, Customer Service, Facility, Consumer based on value creation and ethically The limits for credit lending operations are each country where it operates, such as Market, Legal and Finance. The committee meets four times per year and reports proper grounds. The first body focuses based on the overall policy set by the P olicy against victimisation competition law, environmental regulaon the risks that may arise in operations, Board. This policy defines the credit tions, labour market regulations and collecdirectly to the Sustainability Director. consisting of control functions within the strategy to be followed by the Group and in the workplace tive agreements that affect the operation. Group’s various departments, as well as is based on the Group’s products and Resurs respects international conventions CODE OF CONDUCT – RESURS’S the Group’s Legal and Anti-Corruption business segments, laws and regulaon human rights, which guide its own busiOVERALL MANAGEMENT TOOL Compliance Officer, who coordinates and tions, and the long-term sustainable P olicy for governance risk ness. Child labour and labour that is forced is responsible for operational anti-coror performed under the threat of violence Resurs has been a member of the UN’s sustainable business initiative, the Global ruption efforts. The second body consists level of credit losses that the business is prepared to accept. management and control is not tolerated under any circumstances. Compact, since 2018. This means that of each Group company’s Compliance The strategy is implemented in operaResurs makes target efforts to oppose all forms of corruption. the Group is in favour of the initiative and supports and furthers its ten princiand Risk Control function, as well as the Actuarial function within insurance opertional activities by being translated into scoring models and award criteria, which Credit policy Its shared corporate culture is based ples. The updated version of the Code of ations, which continually and indeare then followed up and checked by on the Group’s values – Driven, Open, Innovative, Trustworthy – and this culture Conduct, which was introduced in 2018 and is based on these ten principles, pendently control the operations. The third control body is Resurs’ internal several bodies. Reports are made to the risk committee and the results of the Whistle-blowing policy has support throughout the Group. clarifies issues including the Group’s views audit function, which independently excontrol functions’ examinations are also MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND on business ethics, working conditions, amines the Group’s operations and evaluates how the other control functions reported to the Board. A nti-bribery diversity, equality and equal opportunity. The national credit managers use RESPONSIBILITY Resurs’s Code of Conduct encompasses manage and assess risks. monthly sampling checks to review the policy The overall strategic direction of Resurs’s the entire Group and all of its employees. work based on prevailing criteria and sustainability efforts is determined by It must guide how everyone, regardless MANAGEMENT APPROACH: regulations. The Risk Control function Group Management. Resurs’s CEO is of their function and role within the CUSTOMER PRIVACY then examines parts of the credit lending P olicy on anti-money laundering ultimately responsible for sustainability Group, acts according to business ethics process by measuring credit losses and topics. Resurs’s sustainability committee and in a way that inspires trust on the The Group’s control functions consist of the Internal Audit function, the Complifollowing up on the product portfolios’ and financing of terrorism part of retail finance partners, customers, ance and Risk Control function and the credit risks. In addition, an internal audit authorities and other stakeholders. The Code of Conduct is available on insurance operation’s Actuarial function. They are independent and report regularof the credit lending operation is also continuously carried out. Data protection policy the intranet, as well as on Resurs’s exly verbally and in writing to their respecDRIVEN ternal websites, so that retail finance partners, customers and investors can tive company CEOs and the Group CEO, the Board and certain Board committees. MANAGEMENT APPROACH: Competition policy EMPLOYEES, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL read about the fundamental guidelines The Internal Audit function’s review of OPPORTUNITY according to which the Group operates. the Group’s operations includes reviewing The function of HR Specialist SustainPolicy on trade sanctions activities in operations to determine OPEN ability, Diversity & Health is dedicated to whether the business is being adequately driving, developing and monitoring efforts managed from a risk perspective. The in the areas of sustainability, diversity Complaint management policy Internal Audit function reports regularly and health. The role includes working on to the Board. sustainability projects and following up Remuneration policy INNOVATIVE The Risk Committees, in which senior on them. The Group furthermore has a executives participate, monitor and Compensation & Benefit Manager, who identify risks in the business as well as proactively addressing potential risks manages compensation and benefits. This role is primarily responsible for reviewing Insider policy and following up on approved actions. remuneration levels and an annual salary TRUSTWORTHY The Group’s processes for approving new or significant changes in existing products/ survey, as well as developing policies and guidelines for salaries, pensions, benefits Code of Conduct services, markets, processes or other and company cars. GRI 102-16, 102-18, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-2, 103-3 120 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 121 Annual Accounts Act: Management approach and policies Annual Accounts Act: Management approach and policies GRI content index TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Number Disclosure Page Comments Number Disclosure Page Comments GRI 101 FOUNDATION GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH (2016) See topic-specific disclosures GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CORE) (2016) GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016) 102-1 Name of the organisation Cover 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 24, 118-119 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3, 20-23 103-2 The management approach and its components 120-121 102-3 Location of headquarters 60 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 120-121 205-2 C  ommunication and training about anti-corruption 35 102-4 Location of operations 3 policies and procedures 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3, 44 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (2016) 102-6 Markets served 3, 16-17 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 24, 118-119 102-7 Scale of the organisation 3, 16-17, 27, 103-2 The management approach and its components 120-121 40-41, 46-47 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 120-121 102-8 Information on employees 27, 29 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 29 102-9 Supply chain 18-19 GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY (2016) 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 4-5, 21-23 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 24, 118-119 102-11 Precautionary Principle 118 103-2 The management approach and its components 120-121 102-12 External initiatives 24 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 120-121 102-13 Membership of associations 118 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 34 C  omplete information is not avail102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-9 privacy and losses of customer data able. Resurs does not presently measure/monitor complaints from 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 29, 33-35, 43, a strict privacy perspective. 63-73 RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING (OWN SUSTAINABILITY TOPIC) 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 120 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 24, 32-33, 102-18 Governance structure 24, 49-53, 118-119 120-121 103-2 The management approach and its components 120-121 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 118 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 120-121 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 29 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 118 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 118 Auditor’s report on the statutory 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 118 sustainability statement 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 40 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 118-119 To the general meeting of the shareholders of Resurs Holding AB (publ), corporate identity number 556898-2291 102-47 List of material topics 118-119 Engagement and responsibility 102-48 Restatements of information 24 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2018 on pages 18-19, 24-35 and 120-121 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 102-49 Changes in reporting 118 The scope of the audit 102-50 Reporting period 118 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion 102-51 Date of most recent report 118 regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International 102-52 Reporting cycle 118 Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 118 has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 118 Opinions 102-55 GRI content index 122-123 A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. 102-56 External assurance – T  he Group’s Sustainability Report Helsingborg 18 March 2019 has not been externally assured in Ernst & Young AB accordance with GRI Niklas Paulsson Authorized Public Accountant GRI 102-55 GRI 102-55 122 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 123 Resurs Holding AB PO Box 22 209 SE-250 24 Helsingborg, Sweden Email: resursholding@resurs.se www.resursholding.se
