Dear stakeholders Mercamer Oy is proud to continue its commitment of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. Respective way of administrative operations benefits us and our stakeholders. Obeying all the rules and legislation strictly we will do our share of assuring social peace and stable operation surrounding to our business. Operating with respect against our stakeholders and environment we expect to receive similar behavior back. Global Compact is an excellent channel to inform all our stakeholders around the world of the important issues we support and expect also from our stakeholders. We will always take consideration of ten principles whenever we are making decisions in our daily business. Ten principles are integrated in our company policy and culture. In our operations we focus in energy efficiency, business travels impacts to environment and in advising our customers to use more environmental friendly solutions in transportation and product packaging. To support ten principles we focus both on our internal operations and responsibility and also on the external impact to share these important issues to our stakeholders. Vantaa (FIN), February 11th, 2019 Sami Hietanen Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENT Principle 1 – Protection of Human Rights Principle 2 – Complicity in Human Rights Abuses ACTION We follow Human Rights, health and safety at work and occupational health services in our daily business. There rights are openly informed in our Quality manual (ISO 9001). All this information is located in our intranet and it available for all our employees. These documents are trained to all our employees. Our payment of wages and expenses are settled accurately. We reward all our employees with addition payments by results. We expect our stakeholders to follow and manage their Human Rights policies. We strictly resist all kind of human rights abuses. OUTCOME Mercamer Oy has a close co-operation with the service provider of occupational health care. We have enabled employee preventive actions of health and welfare. Our company will continue determinately developing our practices to take care of our employee and stakeholders. We follow up our suppliers policies by auditing their operations with a structural form. We support our employees to exercise and to take care of their health. Our company provide to all employees additionally wide insurance of health care. LABOUR COMMITMENT Principle 3 – Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Principle 4 – Forced and Compulsory Labour Principle 5 – Child Labour Principle 6 – Discrimination ACTION Mercamer Oy operates in domestic market in Finland. We import products related to transportation and product packaging from Europe, Asia and USA. We respect our employee´s freedom of association and labour agreements and strictly resist all abuse of labour. Our company support equality and provide equal opportunities of all our employees. We accept all individuals regardless of age, gender, religion or nationality. We strictly resist racism. We expect our co-operation partners to manage and develop their Labour policies according to Global Compact principles. OUTCOME Mercamer Oy continues to follow all rules and legislations of local authorities and EU. We survey our employees opinions of labour conditions every second year by independent operator (insurance company). This survey is implemented since 2006. Results of these surveys show stability and improvement in our labour conditions. According to surveyed information there is no need for concerns. We follow up our suppliers policies by auditing their operations with a structural form. ENVIRONMENT COMMITMENT Principle 7 – Precautionary Approach Principle 8 – Environmental Responsibility Principle 9 – Environmentally Friendly Technologies ACTION Mercamer Oy follows the instructions of our Environmental manual (ISO 14001). We are actively reducing our operations load to environment. When choosing suppliers we evaluate their progress in taking care of environment. We inform and advice our customers of environmental friendly solutions. Our company is actively seeking for new more environmental friendly packaging solutions. We co-operate closely with a leading Finnish packaging engineering company. Our mutual goal is to reduce impacts to environment by offering our customers packaging material solution that reduce the impact to environment. OUTCOME Mercamer Oy measure following targets: Consumption of electricity, company car CO2 emissions, amount of produced waste and consumption of heating power. Every measured value has a target value and we can see that over the years we have been able to reduce our load to environment. We don’t have own production, therefore our possibility to impact directly these values is limited due to the nature of our business. We follow up our suppliers actions to reduce environmental load by auditing their operations with a structural form. ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMITMENT Principle 10 – Corruption ACTION Mercamer Oy resists all kind of corruption in our operations. We have not faced any signs of corruption over the years in our operation. OUTCOME We emphasize by our action that we don’t accept any kind of corruption. We expect our stakeholders to be strict against corruption.
