KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2018 1 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko’s Annual Report 2018 Kesko’s 2018 annual report describes the progress made in Kesko’s strategy, financial results and sustainability work, with comprehensive performance indicators. It depicts K Group’s impact on the society and our value creation, with perspectives from our stakeholders. Kesko’s direction Sustainability Financials Corporate governance This section describes Kesko and This section describes highlights This section contains the Report This section contains Kesko’s its divisions and the progress made in sustainability and the objectives by the Board of Directors and the Corporate Governance Statement in their strategy execution, as well and results of our responsibility Group's key performance indicators, and Remuneration Statement. as our financial targets, operating programme, and provides key the Financial Statements and the environment and value creation. corporate responsibility indicators in Auditor's Report for 2018. accordance with GRI standards. 2 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2018 KESKO'S DIRECTION KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 KESKO'S Kesko in brief 5 Value creation 13 DIRECTION Key indicators Divisions in brief 6 7 Operating environment Strategy 14 15 This section describes Kesko and its divisions and the Review by the President and CEO 8 Grocery trade 18 progress made in their strategy execution, as well as Kesko as an investment 11 Building and technical trade 20 our financial targets, operating environment and value creation. Financial targets and results 12 Car trade 22 4 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko in brief Kesko is a Finnish trading sector forerunner. We operate in the grocery trade, building and technical trade, and car trade. Our divisions and chains act in close cooperation with retailer entrepreneurs and other partners. Our chain operations comprise some 1,800 stores in Kesko has strong expertise and market positions and they Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, offer good potential for profitable growth in the long term. Belarus and Poland. Combining online sales and digital services with our extensive store site network, we enable a Corporate responsibility is a strategic choice for K Group seamless customer experience in all channels. and integrated into our daily activities. Responsible purchasing, product safety, the environment and good Together, Kesko and K-retailers form K Group, whose sales corporate governance are key focus areas for our (pro forma) totalled approximately €13 billion in 2018. corporate responsibility work. Kesko’s business model K Group is the biggest trading sector operator in Finland and one of the biggest Northern Europe. We employ some Kesko's shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. Its domicile Kesko’s principal business model in Finland is the chain business model, in which independent K-retailers 41,000 people. and main premises are in Helsinki. run retail stores in Kesko's chains. Sales to retail entrepreneurs accounted for approximately 46% of Kesko’s strategic business areas are grocery trade, building Kesko’s net sales in 2018. and technical trade, and car trade. They are areas where Kesko’s own retailing accounted for some 18% of net sales. B2B trade is a significant, growing part of Kesko’s business operations. In 2018, net sales from B2B trade totalled some €3.8 billion, accounting for 36% of Market Kesko’s net sales. Biggest trading World’s most 1,800 stores in Strong financial capitalisation sector operator Profitable sustainable Outside Finland, we mainly engage in own retailing 8 countries and position with of €5.1 billion in Finland, one growth strategy, trading sector and B2B trade. Net sales from international operations extensive digital good dividend (28.2.2019), the biggest in 3 divisions company totalled some €2.1 billion in 2018, representing 20.5% services capacity 41,000 Northern Europe (Global 100) of our net sales. shareholders 5 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Key indicators Successful strategy execution enabled us to achieve our all-time best result in 2018. Our net sales grew by 3.5% in comparable terms and we made a record operating profit. We were also able to meet the 14% target level for return on capital employed set in 2015. Net sales 2018 Grocery trade 5,386 € million €10,383 Building and technical trade Net sales, Comparable operating profit, Comparable return on million 4,103 € million € million € million capital employed Car trade 893 € million 10,383 332 14% Comparable operating profit 2018 Grocery trade 228.0 € million Personnel, Remitted and paid taxes, Waste recovery rate, €332.2 Building and technical trade (31.12.2018) € million Finland million 98.4 € million Car trade 34.5 € million 23,000 1,074 100% Read more in the Report by the Board of Directors 6 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Divisions in brief Grocery trade Building and technical trade Car trade Comparable operating Comparable operating Comparable operating Net sales, € million Net sales, € million Net sales, € million profit, € million profit, € million profit, € million 5,386 228.0 4,103 98.4 893 34.5 K Group is the second biggest operator in grocery trade The building and technical trade division has operations K-Auto imports and markets Volkswagen, Audi, SEAT in Finland, with a market share of 36.0% (2017: 35.8%). in eight countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, and Porsche passenger cars and Volkswagen Commercial Our K-food store business is heavily based on retailer Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Belarus. We serve customers Vehicles and MAN trucks in Finland, and SEAT cars in entrepreneurship. Independent K-food retailers are in 420 stores and extensively in digital channels. Our Estonia and Latvia. K-Auto also develops car-related responsible for customer satisfaction, and we operate customers include technical professionals, professional multichannel services. K-Auto’s market share in Finland together with them under the chain business model. The builders and consumers. Some 70% of our retail sales was 18.5% (including passenger cars and vans). K-food store chains are K-Citymarket, K-Supermarket, Kcome from B2B trade, as construction is increasingly Market and Neste K service stations. There are some delegated to professionals. K-Auto’s retail company K-Caara is a major retailer of 1,200 K-food stores in Finland, with 1.2 million daily new and used vehicles and it offers servicing and aftercustomer visits. Our strong chains are Onninen, which serves technical sales services at its own outlets in the greater Helsinki professionals, and K-Rauta, Byggmakker, K-Senukai area, Turku and Tampere (Porsche). K-Caara’s services Our strengths include our versatile, high-quality and OMA, which serve both professional builders and also include the online sales of used cars, a store for lower selections, a high proportion of Finnish products, and consumers. The leisure goods trade chains Intersport, price range used cars, and leasing services for private and professional service. The division includes the operations Budget Sport, The Athlete’s Foot and Kookenkä are also corporate customers. of Kespro, Finland’s leading foodservice provider. part of the division. 7 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 REVIEW BY THE PRESIDENT AND CEO A year of strong growth and transformation In 2018, Kesko and K Group continued to transform intensely. All our businesses – the grocery trade, building and technical trade, and car trade – increased their sales and improved their profitability. Our strategy of profitable growth, sharper focus, and “One unified K” has paid off. • Net sales grew in comparable terms by 3.5% and We have determinedly transformed our store network comparable operating profit rose to an all-time high of and continued the implementation of store-specific €332 million. business ideas. Increasingly customer-oriented services and the recovery in consumer purchasing power have • Comparable net sales grew in the grocery trade and resulted in significant growth in sales and customer in the building and technical trade. In all divisions, numbers in all K-food store chains. Customer satisfaction profitability improved in comparison to the previous year. is also markedly higher. We now have the widest and • Return on capital employed achieved our target level of most comprehensive store network in Finland. For the 14%, thanks to successful strategy execution. most part, these stores’ selections and brand have been renewed. Robust growth also continued online, and more A strong year of transformation than 150 K-food stores offered online sales of groceries in the grocery trade by the end of the year. In 2018, net sales for the grocery trade grew by 5.1% in comparable terms. Comparable operating profit rose to Kespro is the market leader in foodservice wholesale €228 million, i.e. to 4.2%, which is a good level also by in Finland. In 2018, we strengthened Kespro’s international standards. Our strong transformation efforts competitiveness by acquiring the leading Finnish fresh fish boosted growth in sales and market share. and meat providers, Kalatukku E. Eriksson and Reinin Liha. Kespro’s strong performance is underpinned by the trend The Suomen Lähikauppa acquisition has been a success, of eating out, which is vigorously growing in Finland too. and has lifted K Group to clear leadership in the neighbourhood market. The integration was completed For many Finnish farmers, 2018 was a difficult year. and synergies were obtained sooner than anticipated. K Group quickly took concrete action to support the 8 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 position of Finnish food, first doubling the sum paid to €98 million despite the impact of divestments carried Car trade brings new mobility services in support of producers of the 'Thank the Producer' out in 2017. to the market products, and then expanding the product range. Overall, the year was good for the car trade division, The operating model has so far resulted in additional The acquisition of Onninen in 2016 has strengthened although new WLTP emissions testing caused significant support of €1.5 million for food producers. We have our market position and B2B sales in building and disturbances in European car trade in the latter half of the expanded the model also in 2019. technical trade. Onninen’s net sales grew by 1.7% and its year. We had an 18.5% market share in passenger cars comparable operating profit rose to €40 million. Sales and and vans, and with our extensive brand portfolio, we are Implementation of country-specific profit grew especially in Finland, the Baltics and Poland. the market leader in Finland. Porsche’s performance was strategies improved profitability in especially strong, while market shares also grew for SEAT the building and technical trade In the first half of the year, we further focused our and Volkswagen. Sales in the car trade division decreased Our building and technical trade division operates operations by completing the divestment of our building by 1.8%, but the comparable operating profit grew to a in eight countries, and our objective is to become and home improvement trade operations in Russia. In total of €34 million. an increasingly significant operator in Northern the summer, we carried out two acquisitions in Norway, Europe. We made significant changes to the division’s and consequently 29 retailer-owned Byggmakker stores The entire car sector and the concept of mobility are management model at the start of the year, and our became part of Kesko. We completed a third acquisition rapidly changing, and we need to constantly develop our increased country-specific focus resulted in improved of Byggmakker stores in January 2019. These strategically operating models, services and technologies. In 2018, we competitiveness and profitability. We also enhanced important acquisitions create a good basis for further introduced new consumer and corporate leasing products profitability through acquisitions and the streamlining growth in upcoming years. In October, Kesko Senukai and car sharing services. of operations. Net sales for the division grew by 2.7% acquired the online player 1A Group, making Kesko in comparable terms, and over half of it came from Senukai one of the leading e-commerce operators in The Volkswagen Group intends to focus strongly on outside Finland. Comparable operating profit grew Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. electric cars going forward. We want to take part in 2018 JANUARY FEBRUARY JUNE JULY SEPTEMBER Q1 Q2 Q3 Kesko ranked 31st and Russian building A nationwide network Reinin Liha Oy Kalatukku E. Skattum Handel Kesko added to Dow Jones the most sustainable and home of electric car charging acquired in Eriksson acquired in AS and Gipling Sustainability Indices trading sector improvement points to be built in Finland Finland AS acquired in company in the world trade divested Finland in 2018–2019 Norway on the Global 100 list 9 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 the shift towards electric cars, and are building a We are committed to international climate summit goals Thanks to our personnel, nationwide electric car charging network at K-store regarding the mitigation of global warming, and have K-retailers and stakeholders locations in Finland during 2018 and 2019. set ambitious emission targets for our operations and K-Kampus, our new headquarters in Helsinki’s Kalasatama, supply chains. K Group is reducing its emissions through will be completed in spring 2019. It will bring together Sustainability is the foundation of our operations the use of renewable energy, energy efficiency at the some 1,800 K Group employees in the greater Helsinki Our sustainability work is based on long-term, concrete stores, and efficient logistics. Since the beginning of 2017, region and offer us entirely new types of operating premises, actions in various areas. Key issues for us are transparency all electricity purchased by Kesko in Finland has been along with new possibilities in terms of ways to work. Our in sourcing and environmental care as well as extensive produced with renewable energy based on hydropower personnel have actively taken part in the planning and value creation throughout society. We want to enable or bioenergy. We have also installed solar power plants implementation of the changes, and we are eager to test our a sustainable lifestyle for our current and future on the rooftops of over 30 stores, and are the biggest great new environment and new ways of working in practice. generations of customers, in the areas of food, mobility producer and user of solar power in Finland. and living. Investors are also increasingly taking account I’m very happy with our cooperation at K Group. I wish to of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors Promoting the sustainable use of natural resources and extend my warmest thanks to all our Kesko employees, alongside financials when making investment decisions. circular economy is a central aspect of our responsibility K-retailers and their staff, our shareholders and our programme. In our updated plastics policy, we set tighter business partners for the valuable work you have done Kesko is included in prestigious global sustainability indices, objectives for plastics recycling and for reducing and towards our success. such as the DJSI World and DJSI Europe. In January 2019, avoiding the use of plastics. Kesko ranked 88th on the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World list, and was once again the most In autumn 2018, we took part in Plan’s Girls Takeover sustainable trading sector company in the world. In CDP’s event, and made the promotion of gender equality part of Mikko Helander Climate questionnaire, Kesko received an A– score. our responsibility programme. President and CEO 2019 OCTOBER JANUARY Q4 Q1 • The number of 'Thank the Producer' products supporting Online retailer 1A The DIY retail business of Sørbø Kesko ranked the most sustainable Finnish farmers tripled Group acquired in Trelast AS and Tau & Jørpeland Bygg trading sector company in the word • Plastics policy update: tighter objectives for plastics the Baltics AS acquired in Norway on the Global 100 list for the fifth recycling and for reducing and avoiding the use of plastics year in a row 10 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Six reasons Kesko's growth strategy is based on customer-oriented operations and using quality for 1 differentiation in both our stores and digital channels. We seek growth organically and to invest in Kesko Growth strategy through acquisitions. In business, we focus on growth in three divisions where we have strong competencies and competitiveness: the grocery trade in Finland, building and technical trade in Northern Europe, and car trade in Finland. These divisions and markets offer good growth and value creation potential long into the future. Kesko is a growing and profitable Northern European retail company Kesko is one of the leading retail companies in Northern Europe and the largest retail that uses a long-term approach 2 operator in Finland. We strive to be among the top two operators in all our businesses in Strong market order to ensure economies of scale. Finland accounts for nearly 80% of Kesko’s net sales. in strengthening its cash flow and positions Kesko is the second biggest operator in the Finnish grocery trade, and the biggest operator in dividend capacity. the Finnish building and technical trade as well as in the car trade. Outside Finland, we have strong market shares in the Baltics, Belarus and Norway. Kesko’s strategic objective is to achieve profitable growth in all its businesses. Our 3 comparable operating profit in 2018 was €332 million. In 2014, before we adopted our Long-term new strategy, it was €233 million. This improvement in profitability is a result of customerprofitability oriented growth strategies in our business divisions, measures taken to improve gross profit, improvement and the effective management of capital employed. We operate under “One unified K” and “Our growth strategy has maximise the use of synergies between our businesses. yielded increasingly good 4 results. Strong transformation Kesko’s good dividend capacity is based on the solid and consistent ability of its operations to continued in all our divisions, Attractive with improved competitiveness. generate cash flow. Kesko has paid uninterrupted dividends every year since 1968, and our dividend yield We also carried out various aim is to sustain an attractive and steadily growing dividend yield. acquisitions and divestments. 5 Our strong financial position The total shareholder return of a Kesko B share since 2015 is 17.5% p.a. This growth in enables both investments in Ability to shareholder value is the outcome of successful strategic decision making and execution and growth and good dividend increase sharethe efficient allocation of capital – these have seen Kesko's return on capital employed rise capacity.” holder value from 11.7% in 2015 to 14.0% in 2018. Jukka Erlund, Chief Financial Officer 6 Thanks to Kesko’s long-term and comprehensive sustainability work, it is included in prestigious global sustainability indices, such as the DJSI World and DJSI Europe. Responsibility Furthermore, we have been counted among the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations Kesko in sustainability indices in the World list. 11 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Financial targets We are moving strongly towards our financial targets and better returns on capital employed and equity through growth, increased profitability, synergies and working capital efficiency. Alongside growth, we continue to focus on higher cost-efficiency in all our operations to ensure competitiveness. Our strong balance sheet enables both investments in strategic growth endeavours as well as good dividend Updated dividend policy payments. Between 2015 and 2018, we invested more In the long-term, Kesko aims to distribute a steadily than €1.7 billion in our business operations, financing the growing dividend of some 60-100% of its comparable investments with €1.0 billion divestments of non-strategic earnings per share, taking into account the company’s business operations and real estate. financial position and strategy. Kesko plans to pay its dividends in two instalments, starting with the dividend paid for the year 2018. Organic investments were at their highest in 2017, and are planned to come down to an annual level of €200250 million. Investments in store sites will decrease, while investments in digitalisation will increase. In future acquisitions, we will aim for economies of scale and Dividend history 2013–2018 improved competitiveness, especially in the building and €/share 2.5 technical trade division. 2.5 2.34* 2.2 2.0 2.0 1.5 1.5 1.4 Key financial targets 1.0 2017 2018 Target level Return on capital employed, %* 13.3 14.0 14% 0.5 Return on equity, % 10.9 11.7 12% 0.0 Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA 0.3 0.4 <2.5 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Proposal to the Annual General Meeting 12 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Responsible value Responsible value creation for creation for the whole society the whole society OUR RESOURCES ADDED VALUE AND IMPACTS • Well-researched, safe and PERSONNEL • 23,000 employees in Kesko responsibly produced products AND • 1,100 K-retailers employ CUSTOMERS • Tailored selections and individual store RETAILERS 18,000 people • More affordable shopping baskets with own brand products • 1,800 stores in 8 countries STORE • Salaries €694 million and SITES • Online stores and digital BUIL PERSONNEL DIN training €3.1 million services G AN D T • Purchases around €9 billion • Brands and own brand EC H • Business partnerships and distribution products 2% NI channels * SUPPLIERS • Customer dialogue E5 CA • Social responsibility audits of suppliers AND SERVICE in high-risk countries L TR GRO CERY TR AD • 3.5 million K-Plussa PROVIDERS INTANGIBLE • Sourcing policies for raw materials critical customers ASSETS AD E from a social and environmental • Store concepts responsibility perspective 40%* • Relations to product suppliers and service providers THE CUSTOMER AND QUALITY – • In 2018 Kesko paid €219 million as dividends IN EVERYTHING WE DO SHARE• Total shareholder return of B share HOLDERS since 2015 is 17.5% FINANCIAL • Balance sheet €4.3 billion • A responsible investment RESOURCES • Equity €2.2 billion SHARED VALUE AND IMPACTS • 100% renewable electricity C AR NATURAL in Finland TR ADE 9%* RESOURCES • Own energy production; • Investments €418 million, solar power plants of which €226 million in Finland SOCIAL • Remitted and paid taxes €1,074 million, IMPACTS of which €872 million to Finland * Share of division’s net sales of • Co-operation with NGOs • Management by information Kesko’s total net sales • Purchasing and product research PROCESSES • Emissions 125,961 tons of CO2e • Logistics ENVIRONMENT • Science Based Targets for emissions • Selection management • Waste recovery in Finland 100% 13 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Operating environment The trading sector is affected by various global megatrends ranging from digitalisation to climate change. By identifying the trends that affect K Group’s operations, we can effectively anticipate future challenges and opportunities and better respond to them. MEGATRENDS Globalisation Digital trade and services Increasingly individual • Intensifying price competition • Growth in international and Finnish customer behaviour • Global supply online trade • Customers value convenience • Seamless online and mobile and quality customer experience • Urbanisation • Impactful marketing that addresses • Changes in purchase habits, individual needs individualisation • Customers looking to optimise their lives Customers hold the power Sustainability and strong Climate change • Conscientious consumers seek brands as preconditions • Sustainable lifestyle: food, living information as the basis for their for success and mobility choices • Renewable energy • Good corporate governance • Peer experiences have a big impact • • Circular economy solutions on choices Responsible operating principles • Minimising food waste • Customers want to affect selections • Transparency of purchasing chains • Transparency in pricing, availability • Open dialogue with stakeholders and the supply chain • Responsible investment • Responsibility and smart consumption significant criteria Read more about opportunities and risks 14 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Strategy and objectives In line with its strategy, Kesko is an increasingly focused company that concentrates on growth and improving its profitability in three strategic areas: the grocery trade, the building and technical trade, and the car trade. Quality and customer orientation are increasingly important as the focal points of our strategy. Our strategy established in 2015 aims for profitable We continue the execution of our growth strategy growth through stronger focus and transformation. Concentration enables the efficient allocation of capital to VISION To be preferred choice of customers and the quality leader in the European trading sector increase shareholder value. The rapid transformation of the trading sector presents us with great opportunities. Our businesses are the grocery trade, building and STRATEGIC technical trade and car trade. These are areas where we FOCUS AREAS have strong market positions and the best capabilities, and Profitable Business Quality and Best digital One growth focus customer services unified K they offer the best potential for long-term development. orientation We use quality and customer orientation to differentiate ourselves from the competition, from service in stores to Grocery trade Building and technical trade Car trade digital services. • The most customer-oriented • Country-specific strategies • Growing our business in and inspiring food stores • Serving three customer segments collaboration with the Consistent progress in the execution • The most extensive and according to their specific needs Volkswagen Group of our growth strategy STRATEGIC comprehensive store network • Synergies within and between • Expanding our own service FOCUS AREAS in Finland operating countries business In the grocery trade, we aim for continued profitable FOR DIVISIONS • The best digital solutions in the • Organic growth and profitability • The best customer experience growth in Finland. We want to offer the most inspiring and trading sector improvement in all channels customer-oriented food stores and the best digital solutions • Developing retailer • Selected acquisitions to win a entrepreneurship as on the market. K-retail entrepreneurs ensure customer a competitive advantage chosen country and segment focus and quality in our store network, which is the most • Growing Kespro's business extensive in Finland. In recent years, we have successfully remodelled K-food stores and Neste K service stations, and all store redesigns are to be completed in 2019. VALUE The customer and quality – in everything we do 15 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We completed the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa, B2B trade already accounts for some 70% of the division’s and our share of the neighbourhood market is now nearly sales, but we see further growth potential. Building 60%. Megatrends such as urbanisation, population ageing and renovation are becoming more technical and and increasingly individual customer behaviour support increasingly outsourced to professionals. The need for strengthening neighbourhood services. The acquisition renovation building is also growing in Northern Europe. Sustainable choices doubled our store network with almost 400 new stores. The acquisition of Onninen strengthened our position in in K-stores After the conversion and transfer of the stores to retailers, the growing B2B segment and extended our offering. We want to enable a sustainable our sales are up and continue to grow. We obtained the lifestyle for our customers in terms targeted synergies of €30 million sooner than anticipated. of food, mobility and living. We use quality and customer In 2018, we began to forcefully grow K Group’s network orientation to differentiate ourselves of stores offering online grocery sales, and the service is from the competition, from service in now available to three million Finns. The growth in online grocery sales is accelerating fast, and we aim for 100% stores to digital services. growth with net sales of over €40 million in 2019. Online grocery sales do not erode the sales of our traditional stores, but rather the two support each other. New digital services and online sales are a significant part of the customer journey and more efficient operations. Growing Kespro’s foodservice business is another Consumers increasingly seek information and compare strategic focus area, supported by the trend of eating out. products online, although still often come to the store to To support the business, we acquired two top companies get them. In B2B trade, online sales and digital services in the field, Kalatukku E. Eriksson and Reinin Liha, in have gained a strong foothold. summer 2018. In spring 2018, Kesko discontinued its building and In the building and technical trade, we aim for an even technical trade operations in Russia by selling most of its stronger position in Northern Europe. We updated the building and home improvement store properties to the division’s organisation and strategy in spring 2018, and French Leroy Merlin. All building and home improvement redefined its customer segments. We now aim to offer trade operations in Russia were discontinued during the added value to technical professionals, professional first half of 2018. The divestment clearly improves the builders and consumers. We serve each customer segment division’s return on capital employed. according to its specific needs. The strategy also has a stronger country-specific focus that enables us to better In the car trade, our objective is to grow our markettake into account local customer needs. We seek synergies leading position in Finland through tight cooperation with both within and between the operating countries. Growth the Volkswagen Group. We expect the sales of electric is sought organically and through selected acquisitions. cars to grow in upcoming years, and support the trend 16 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 by expanding our K Charge network. Our objective is to We were the first Finnish company to set emission targets As a sign of our long-term commitment to corporate improve profitability in imports, retail and after-sales. approved by the Science Based Targets initiative in line responsibility, Kesko has been included in the prestigious K-Caara develops service concepts and alternatives to with the Paris Climate Agreement. We are reducing Dow Jones Sustainability Indices of the world’s most owning a car, for example, car sharing paid by use. emissions through the use of renewable energy, energyresponsible companies, the DJSI World and the DJSI efficiency at our stores, and efficient logistics. All Europe. Kesko ranked 88th on the Global 100 Most One unified K is an important part of our strategy. We electricity purchased by Kesko in Finland is generated with Sustainable Corporations in the World list published in want to establish a strong reliable K Brand and provide renewable energy, and we are the biggest producer of January 2019. even better service to our customers. In addition to solar power in the country. a common strategy, One unified K means seamless cooperation with retailers and across divisions. In recent years, we have successfully executed our strategy and focused operations via various acquisitions and divestments, while also making investments to accelerate growth and improve profitability. Strategy execution Increased focus on customers in our 1A Group To execute our growth strategy we have done several acquired in corporate responsibility work the Baltics Kesko has been ranked the most sustainable trading significant acquisitions and divestments. Kalatukku E. Eriksson 10/2018 sector company in the world multiple times. This obliges acquired us to ensure even more thoroughly the sustainability and Russian building and 07/2018 home improvement responsibility of the products we sell and their purchasing, trade divested and care for the environment. We want to become an 02/2018 07/2018 K-maatalous even more active member of society and engage in public divested Skattum Handel discussion. Russian 06/2017 and Gipling grocery trade 06/2018 acquired in Norway divested Reinin Liha Our sustainability strategy, established in spring 2018, Suomen acquired 11/2016 06/2017 focuses our responsibility efforts increasingly on our Lähikauppa acquired Asko and Sotka customers. We want to enable a sustainable lifestyle furniture trade 04/2016 12/2016 for our customers in terms of food, mobility and living. divested AutoCarrera Customers must be able to trust that K-stores enable them acquired to make responsible choices. For example, in our updated 06/2016 plastics policy, we set even tighter objectives for plastics Onninen acquired recycling and for reducing and avoiding the use of plastics. 17 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Profitable growth continued in ”K Group’s position on the Finnish grocery the grocery trade in 2018 trade market strengthened in 2018. We have the most extensive store network in the country, and we successfully reshaped it during the year. We offer the most inspiring food stores in Finland and the The strategy for the grocery trade division is profitable growth in all best digital services in the sector, tailored to the needs and wishes of our customers.” channels. Strategy execution saw good progress, with positive development Ari Akseli, President of the grocery in our customer numbers, sales and market share. Online grocery sales trade division also grew forcefully, and Kespro continued on a strong growth track. K Group is the second biggest grocery trade operator in Our digital services are also growing strongly. K-Ruoka is Kespro is the leading foodservice provider in Finland. In Finland, with a market share of 36.0% (2017: 35.8%). the biggest food media in Finland: the K-Ruoka.fi website 2018, Kespro grew through two complementary acquisitions, In 2018, we opened 10 K-Supermarkets, 13 K-Markets and the K-Ruoka app have 1.5 million weekly visitors. namely Reinin Liha and Kalatukku E. Eriksson. Kespro’s and one Neste K service station. We will continue to The app has over 600,000 registered users, and the strong development is underpinned by the robustly expand our store network in 2019. We also extended number grew by 100,000 in 2018. growing trend of eating out in Finland. opening hours, and now all K-food stores are open every day of the year. In the autumn, we celebrated the one-year anniversary of our collaboration with China’s biggest online store The remodelling of K-food stores proceeded well in 2018, operator Alibaba. We export Finnish food brands and our and over 90% of our food stores and Neste K service own Pirkka products to the growing Chinese market, and Net sales Operating profit* stations have now been rebranded. The reshaping of our also learn from a global e-commerce pioneer and use the store network will continue in 2019. We will open new knowledge to develop our own online store. € million € million stores primarily in growth centres. 6,000 250 228.0 5,282 5,386 203.4 Our K-food store business is heavily based on retailer 5,000 200 The online sales of groceries grew forcefully in 2018, with entrepreneurship. K-food retailers handle selections, 4,000 150 annual rate of over 70%. Around 160 K-food stores now customer service, staff competencies, product quality and 3,000 offer online sales of groceries. Customer numbers have business profitability in their stores, based on their own 100 2,000 doubled and customer satisfaction is high. We target store-specific business ideas. Over 550 K-food stores are 1,000 50 online sales of over €40 million in 2019 and a market now operated under the multi-store model, in which one leading position in Finland within the next few years. K-retailer has multiple stores. 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 * Comparable 18 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Megatrends and strategic focus areas Megatrends affecting STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE WHAT WE ARE DOING grocery trade Digitalisation as a standard The most customer-oriented • Wide implementation of store-specific business ideas The age of hybrid consumer and inspiring food stores • Using data to enable more personal customer experiences Demographic changes • Continuous store concept development Growth in premium • We take actions to ensure our price competiveness Sustainability Developing and modernising • Profitably maintaining and expanding our network our store network • Maintaining our focus on growth centres Seamless omnichannel • Expanding online grocery to cover 75% and K Transport deliveries 50% customer experience of Finnish households Developing retailer • Focusing on store-specific business ideas entrepreneurship as • Utilising the multi-store model a competitive advantage Expanding the foodservice • Developing our own brands business • Growing the sales of fresh foods Read more about grocery trade chains, key figures and market information on Kesko.fi 19 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Profitability improved in the building and technical trade “Our objective is to strengthen our market position in Northern Europe and improve our profitability in all operating countries. In 2018, we sought growth both organically as well as through wellThe building and technical trade division’s strategic objective is to become an targeted acquisitions.” Jorma Rauhala, President of the building even stronger operator in Northern Europe. To ensure a solid foundation for and technical trade division, Deputy to the execution of our international growth strategy, in 2018 we concentrated on the President and CEO improving our profitability through acquisitions and streamlining of operations. K Group’s building and technical trade division is a leading Our goal is to offer an efficient combination of online Acquisitions enable the division to better seek new operator in building and technical trade in Northern sales, electronic services, professional sales staff and opportunities for growth and improved profitability on the Europe. During 2018, we strengthened the country focus a comprehensive store network to best suit the needs stable Northern European markets. of both our management model and business operations, of each of our customer segments. We are constantly and made good progress in the execution of country-specific developing our digital services. Particularly good strategies. In Finland, Onninen’s good sales growth continued development has been seen in the OnnShop online store Net sales* Operating profit* and K-Rauta’s profit development was strong. In the leisure for Onninen’s technical professional customers. trade, Intersport and Kookenkä maintained their positions as € million € million Finland’s leading sports and shoe store chain, respectively. To further strengthen our digital foothold, we acquired 5,000 100 6.0 Sales grew for the Budget Sport and The Athlete`s Foot chains. 1A Group, a leading online retail company in the Baltic 16.2 4,000 663 375 80 region, thus becoming the largest omnichannel retail In the division’s other operating countries, our market player in the Baltics and obtaining a comprehensive 3,000 60 position varies significantly. In Norway, we actively sought e-commerce platform to serve our customers in Estonia, 78.9 92.4 2,000 3,639 3,728 40 to increase our profitability during the year 2018, and Latvia and Lithuania. carried out two targeted acquisitions for the Byggmakker 1,000 20 chain, agreeing on a third. The acquisitions enabled us During the year 2018, we focused our operations 0 0 to significantly increase our operating profit. In Sweden, by divesting our building and home improvement 2017 2018 2017 2018 we actively continued measures to improve profitability. trade operations in Russia, and by agreeing to sell our Building and technical trade Building and technical trade In Poland, we managed to turn the operations into profit. remaining stake in the Baltic machinery trade subsidiaries excl. speciality goods trade excl. speciality goods trade Kesko Senukai’s strong sales performance continued and and Konekesko Finland’s agricultural machinery trade Speciality goods trade Speciality goods trade profitability improved in the Baltics. operations. * Continuing operations * Comparable, continuing operations 20 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Our strategic objective is to gain an even stronger position in building and technical trade in Northern Europe Megatrends affecting building and technical trade STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE WHAT WE ARE DOING Market consolidation Country focus, with country• Finland: We focus on fully utilising the potential provided by our market-leading Outsourcing of construction to specific strategic actions position and on constantly improving the customer experience: expanding professionals Onninen’s store network and developing store-specific business ideas for Growth in renovation building K-Rauta. Non-traditional players entering the market • Norway: We seek growth in sales and profitability by strengthening Digital becoming increasingly important for Byggmakker’s business and management model the customer journey • Sweden: We continue measures to improve profitability • The Baltics and Belarus: We focus on growing and redesigning our store network • Poland: We systematically develop our business operations Serving three different customer • Continuing the development of digital channels for each customer segment segments according to their • Striving for the best customer experience in all channels specific customer needs Seeking synergies • We are actively seeking synergies within the operating countries, for example, in support functions, as well as between the operating countries, for example, in sourcing, digital services and concept development Organic growth and profitability • We continue systematic measures to support growth and profitability improvement • Increasing the role of our own brand products Targeted acquisitions • We continue acquisitions in selected markets and segments Read more about building and technical trade chains, key figures and market information on Kesko.fi 21 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Car trade division's profitability Thanks to our extensive selection of strengthened in 2018 brands, we are the market leader in Finnish car trade. Our objective is to grow faster than the market. In addition to traditional car sales, we continue to expand our own service business and The car trade division’s strategic objective is to grow develop the multichannel customer experience.” its business in collaboration with the Volkswagen Group Johan Friman, President of the car and strengthen its market position in retail by expanding its trade division operating area in Finland. In 2018, K-Auto’s market share in Finland was 18.5% (passenger K-Auto launched a new online service leasing service vans, thus utilising K Group's store network and customer cars and vans) and in trucks 4.1% (over 6 t). Volkswagen and for corporate customers, K-CaaraLeasing, which flows and helping to establish how attractive local stores SEAT both increased their market share and Porsche made a new offers extensive service leasing services to companies would be as pick-up points for car sharing. sales record. Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles were the most of all sizes. K-Caara’s service selection grew with the registered brand of vans in Finland. In addition to traditional K-CaaraVaihtoautot service, which combines the used car sales and servicing operations, we strengthened our own car selections of Volkswagen, Audi and SEAT Centers. service business and multichannel customer service. Growth Customers can buy the cars online or at the stores. in the user numbers of online service booking and chat supports the strong development of our digital services. K Group launched K Charge, a nationwide network of Net sales Operating profit* electric car charging stations, to be built in 2018 and 2019. Of the brands represented by K-Auto, new models It enables people to charge their car during a shopping € million € million introduced to the market in 2018 included the trip. The K Charge network will increase the number of 1,000 909 893 40 33.1 34.5 public fast charging points in Finland by over 50%, making 800 • Volkswagen Tiguan Allspace and Touareg K Group one of the most significant electric car charging 30 network operators in Finland. By the end of 2019, the 600 • Audi A7 Sportback, A6 Sedan and Avant, Q8 and A1 20 network will comprise over 70 charging stations with nearly 400 • SEAT Tarraco and CUPRA Ateca 400 charging points. 10 200 • Porsche Cayenne E-Hybrid, Macan and 911 GT3 RS, We also piloted new cross-divisional mobility services. In 0 0 and Panamera 4 E-Hybrid and Sport Turismo Advantage 2017 2018 2017 2018 spring 2018, K-food stores and K-Rauta stores in Finland Package Finnish editions began piloting rental car sharing for passenger cars and * Comparable • MAN TGE van. 22 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Megatrends and strategic focus areas Megatrends affecting car trade STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE WHAT WE ARE DOING Customer data • Strengthening the position of Volkswagen passenger and commercial vehicles, Hybrid cars Growing our business in Audi, SEAT, MAN and Porsche in Finland All-electric cars collaboration with the • Successfully integrating the Porsche business into K-Auto Connectivity and digitalisation Volkswagen Group Autonomous cars • Further developing the MAN network Mobility services • Growing the range of all-electric cars and rechargeable hybrids Expanding our own service • Launching the K Charge network business • Developing new mobility services under the K-Caara brand • Offering leasing services to private and corporate customers The best customer experience • Utilising K Group’s customer data in all channels • Continuous improvement of digital services Read more about car trade key figures and market information on Kesko.fi 23 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability in K Group Highlights 2018 26 27 Working community 45 Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections 56 This section describes highlights in sustainability and the Sustainability strategy 2018–2022 28 Environment 65 objectives and progress of our responsibility programme, Stakeholder engagement 29 Management approach 79 and provides key sustainability indicators in accordance with GRI standards. Opportunities and risks 31 Reporting principles 82 Good corporate governance and finance 33 GRI index 83 Customers 38 Assurance report 90 Society 41 25 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Sustainability in K Group Sustainability is a strategic choice for us and integrated into our day-to-day activities. Our sustainability work is guided by Kesko’s sustainability strategy, responsibility programme, general corporate responsibility principles, the K Code of Conduct, and our ethical purchasing principles. Our sustainability strategy focuses on customers Our sustainability strategy, established in spring Kesko is the most 2018, focuses our sustainability efforts increasingly sustainable trading sector on our customers. We want to enable a sustainable lifestyle for our customers in terms of food, company in the world. mobility and living. We will increasingly engage our customers in our sustainability work. Our responsibility programme reflects our objectives The themes of our responsibility programme: Kesko participates in the UN Global • Good corporate governance and finance Compact initiative and is committed • Customers to observing ten generally accepted • Society principles concerning human rights, • Working community labour standards, the environment and • Responsible purchasing and sustainable anti-corruption in all of its operating countries. selections • Environment Mikko Helander, President and CEO 26 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Highlights 2018 Where we have What we continue been successful to work on Electric car charging network paves More solar power plants the way for the new age of mobility on K-store rooftops By bringing electric car charging points to our stores across Solar power is an excellent source of electricity for food stores, Finland, we make new mobility solutions easily accessible which tend to consume the most electricity for refrigeration to our customers. We opened 13 new fast charging equipment in the summer when the plants’ production is at Making sustainability stations in 2018, and the K Charge network now comprises its highest. During 2018, 10 new solar power plants were part of the everyday 49 charging stations. By the end of 2019, the K Charge added to the rooftops of K-stores. Investments will continue lives of our customers network will comprise over 70 charging stations with nearly in 2019. With more than 30 solar power plants, K Group is 400 charging points. the biggest producer and user of solar power in Finland. One of the challenges in our sustainability work has been drawing customer attention to sustainability issues and making related efforts part of their everyday lives. In our strategy Support for Finnish farmers with Tighter targets for recycling update in spring 2018, we made ’Thank the Producer’ products and reducing plastics customers the focal point of We continue to work to improve appreciation for Finnish The reduction of plastic and recycling of plastic waste our sustainability work. We will food and the livelihood of Finnish farmers. To help farmers were hot topics among our customers throughout increasingly focus our actions on struggling with the exceptionally dry weather in summer 2018. We want to encourage our customers to choose promoting good, sustainable lives 2018, we focused on our 'Thank the Producer' operating alternative shopping bags, and therefore plastic, paper for our customers, engaging our model in the autumn. Branded products by five Finnish food and biodegradable bags are now priced the same in all customers more in the process. companies joined the model at the end of the year. We will K-food stores. In our updated plastics policy, we set even pay an additional sum of €650,000 directly to the food tighter targets for recycling and for reducing and avoiding producers for 2018. the use of plastics. 27 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Sustainability strategy 2018–2022 Our sustainability strategy, established in spring 2018, focuses our sustainability efforts increasingly on our customers. VISION WE ENABLE SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES K Group has a significant Sustainability and benefits Investors prefer Employees and K-retailers are role in societal discussion derived from it drive customer Kesko as a sustainable proud advocates of K Group's through recognised leadership in preference in both B2C and B2B investment sustainability work sustainability 1 Pursuing leadership in circular economy solutions 2 Strengthening responsible and transparent sourcing in the supply chain 3 Commercialisation of sustainability through our own brand products STRATEGIC ACTIONS 4 Creating data-based services for customers and the society using customer data and AI responsibly 5 Expanding communal responsibility initiatives together with K-retailers and our employees 6 Reducing energy consumption and increasing our own renewable energy production 28 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Stakeholder engagement “Our most important stakeholders are future generations. The decisions we make today will have an impact for decades to come. This includes our K Group is a major international and local operator, and our strategic objectives, climate work, human rights commitment, and long-term efforts to improve activities have an impact on the whole society. We work in close sustainability in our supply chain. We are committed co-operation with our various stakeholders, and encounter to promoting the UN Sustainable Development Goals in our operations.” 1.5 million customers every day at our stores. We examine the views and expectations of our stakeholders regularly and develop Matti Kalervo, Vice President of Corporate Responsibility our operations accordingly. ENGAGEMENT AND CHANNELS FOR KEY AREAS OF INTEREST AND CONCERN RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDER KEY STAKEHOLDERS INTERACTION FOR STAKEHOLDERS IN 2018 EXPECTATIONS Customers • Daily customer encounters Our customers are concerned about plastic ending up in seas and In our updated plastics policy, we set even tighter • Customer service channels and applications elsewhere in nature. Customers have asked us to reduce the use objectives for recycling and for reducing and avoiding the of plastic in stores. Building and technical trade customers are use of plastics. • Customer surveys interested in improved energy efficiency and renewable energy Read more about our plastics-related actions and energy • Social media solutions such as solar and wind power and heat pump solutions. advice. Investors, shareholders, analysts • General Meeting In investor meetings, we were asked what we are doing to mitigate In 2017, we set science based targets for reducing and other representatives of capital • Results announcements climate change. Investors were also interested in our range of emissions from our facilities, transportation, and supply markets electric cars and our electric car charging network. chains. • Press conferences In terms of ESG, there was increased interest towards issues Read more about our climate work. • Investor web pages and other digital channels related to good corporate governance among our bigger • Investor meetings shareholders. • Surveys and assessments Personnel • Performance and competence: personnel In personnel meetings and communication channels there was a Personnel members have been actively involved in surveys, performance reviews and daily lot of interest towards the new K Group headquarters K-Kampus, designing K-Kampus and new ways of working. Information interaction which will be completed in spring 2019. Personnel members were on K-Kampus is regularly provided in personnel briefings, • Co-operation with personnel curious about the work spaces and tools, changes in our ways of the K-Kampus Yammer group, and the intranets. Managers working, parking arrangements and exercise possibilities. received training on new ways of working in autumn 2018, • Organisational communication and feedback and training for the entire personnel is arranged in early and discussion channels for personnel 2019. • SpeakUp reporting channel • K Code of Conduct 29 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 ENGAGEMENT AND CHANNELS FOR KEY AREAS OF INTEREST AND CONCERN RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDER KEY STAKEHOLDERS INTERACTION FOR STAKEHOLDERS IN 2018 EXPECTATIONS Retailers and store staff • Retailer events and meetings Challenges related to the availability of skilled staff in the trading We improved on-the-job guidance and organised new • Digital communication channels and common sector and the importance of developing staff competencies were training for those conducting it. All training offered to our trade magazine topics discussed by K-Retailers’ Association and the retailers. trading sector professionals can now be found under one The use of plastics in products raises questions in stores. In portal at www.k-academy.fi. • Responsible operating principles for K-retailers and K-stores (K Code of Conduct) discussions with Kesko, retailers stressed the need for more In our plastics policy, we set targets for improving easily understandable and informative packaging labelling and packaging labelling and the recyclability of packaging. • K Group’s joint trade event K-Team Päivät packaging recyclability. Suppliers and service providers • Meetings with suppliers and partner events The future of Finnish food production and the plight of Finnish We continued our work to increase appreciation for Finnish • K Code of Conduct and Principles and Practice food producers following an exceptionally hot and dry summer food and improve the livelihood of Finnish farmers. of Socially Responsible Trading were discussed in 2018. Read more about our ’Thank the Producer’ operating • Co-operation in accordance with fair trading model. practices • Audits and training Society (media, authorities, • Meetings The rights of girls and women were discussed especially in We took part in Girls Takeover, and made the promotion of non-governmental and other • Media events and enquiries connection with Plan International’s Girls Takeover event. gender equality part of our responsibility programme. organisations, trade unions) The campaign calling for a Finnish law on mandatory human We took part in the campaign calling for a Finnish law on • Activities in organisations rights due diligence, initiated by Finnwatch, increased interest mandatory human rights due diligence and shared news • Enquiries from NGOs towards human rights and supply chains. on our work to promote human rights. The media paid close attention to the impact changes in Finnish The changes in alcohol legislation resulted in an expansion alcohol legislation had on the sales of alcoholic beverages, and of products by microbreweries in our stores, and an public discussion on a possible ban on selling energy drinks to increase in the sales of non-alcoholic beverages. K Group minors. is in favour of setting a legal age limit on sales of energy drinks to prevent adverse effects. 30 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Opportunities and risks Key opportunities and risks related to Kesko's operating Read more about operating environment environment are described in this section. OPPORTUNITIES RISKS • Customer orientation, quality and competitive prices lend us a • Intense price competition and cyclical fluctuations could weaken Economic operating competitive advantage. business profitability. Failure to deliver on quality and service would environment • Our strong financial position provides excellent opportunities for reduce customer satisfaction. growth and for developing our operations. • Misjudgements in acquisitions and divestments and unexpected Our three strategic growth areas are the grocery trade, the building • In the building and technical trade, the market is changing, and changes in the market could result in financial losses. and technical trade, and the car trade. In terms of growth, we want consequently B2B trade is growing in relation to B2C trade. • Operating models for the building and technical trade might not to increase our market share in the Finnish grocery trade, grow our adapt to changes in customer segments. building and technical trade in Northern Europe, strengthen our market leadership in the Finnish car trade, and develop our digital services. • By co-operating with product and service providers who share our • Irregularities in the management of social or environmental Purchasing and values, goals and operating practices, we improve transparency responsibility in the supply chain could cause human rights human rights and promote sustainability in the whole supply chain. Our efforts to violations, environmental damage, financial losses, and loss of improve sustainability in the supply chain increase stakeholder trust stakeholder trust and negatively affect our sustainability work and Customers must be provided with increasingly detailed information in us. its credibility. on the origins and manufacturing methods of products. We ensure • A failure in product safety control or in the quality assurance of the responsibility and product safety in the supply chain. supply chain could result in financial losses, the loss of customer trust or, in the worst case, a health hazard to customers. • By combining online sales and digital services with our • Challenges related to the profitability of online trade include the Digital services and comprehensive store network, we enable excellent customer service efficiency of logistics operating models and the adaptability of management by information in K Group. existing store sites to the logistics of online trade. • We offer a seamless customer experience in all channels by utilising • Cyber threats directed at digital services and information systems As our strategy states, we aim to offer our customers the data analytics and service design. increase risks related to business continuity and customer data. best digital services in the trading sector. • We use customer data and research to develop a more personal • Constant evolvement of online trade and digital services presents customer experience and store-specific business ideas. special challenges to the rapid development of new services and their integration into existing operating models and systems. • Growth in online trade or changes in the market situation mean there is a risk that the profitability of a chain relying on physical stores or a store site will weaken. 31 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 OPPORTUNITIES RISKS Sustainable lifestyles • We do not sufficiently stand out as the most sustainable trading Impacts of sector company and cannot offer our customers products and • By offering environmentally friendly products and services and using climate change packaging and shelf labelling and customer communications, we can services that support a sustainable lifestyle. help customers make purchase decisions that help mitigate climate • Failures to implement environmental responsibility could weaken Stakeholders, especially customers and investors, expect companies change. Key actions include increasing the use of plant-based foods, our profitability and reputation. to take actions to mitigate the impacts of climate change. All Kesko reducing food waste at home, energy-efficient appliances, use of divisions can offer customers solutions that help them reduce their home renovation to improve energy usage, low-emission cars, and climate impact, as living, food and mobility are the biggest sources of charging points for electric cars. greenhouse gases in private consumption. • Our extensive neighbourhood store network and the additional services available at the stores reduce transport emissions as customers can get to the store by foot, bike or using public transport. Energy sources • If our choice of energy sources and investments prove inefficient, • In line with our energy strategy, the electrical power sold by Kesko it can have a negative impact on our profitability and reputation. to K-retailers and the electrical power used by Kesko are 100% renewable. The energy efficiency of Kesko’s store sites and offices is industry best. • The most significant means of improving energy efficiency in stores are remote control and maintenance, LED lighting, solar power and refrigeration equipment solutions such as condensation heat recovery and the use of carbon dioxide as the refrigerant. Extreme weather phenomena • Climate change will increase the risk of extreme weather • The building and technical trade division can act as an expert in phenomena and affect food production in Finland and elsewhere. construction that takes account of extreme weather phenomena, The impacts of climate change may result in unexpected damage and supply related materials. or business interruptions. Regulation • Climate change may result in regulation-related risks, such as • By committing to voluntary actions before regulation requires them, permit procedures or costs arising from emission pricing and we can act as a forerunner in sustainability and offer our customers taxation. sustainable solutions (e.g. the Green Deal for plastic bags, circular • The implementation of the EU and Finnish Government climate economy solutions, K Charge network). and energy policy will affect energy solutions and may raise energy prices. 32 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Good corporate governance and finance Responsible business and good corporate governance are crucial for achieving good and sustainable financial results. Kesko and K-retailers are significant employers, tax payers and product and service providers. Through our supply chain, we indirectly create jobs globally in product development, factories, farms and logistics, for example. Our common K Code of Conduct is used to ensure that everyone in K Group has the same understanding of the values and principles that guide our daily work. We select our business partners with care and require that they also operate responsibly. We follow proper personal data processing practices and Information disclosed in this comply with legislation in all our operations everywhere. section – GRI codes: • 201 Economic performance We promote the following UN • 203 Indirect economic impacts Sustainable Development Goals: • 205 Anti-corruption • 206 Anti-competitive behaviour • 415 Public policy • 418 Customer privacy • 419 Socioeconomic compliance 33 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Our operations create added value This section depicts cash flows between Kesko and its PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: for various stakeholders stakeholders, as well as the distribution of economic value Return on capital 201-1 added between stakeholder groups. The most important OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 Kesko's operations generate economic benefits for cash flows comprise revenue from customer purchases various stakeholder groups in Kesko’s operating countries and retailer operations, purchases from suppliers of goods Kesko's objective is to We were able to meet the 14.0% and market areas. Key stakeholder groups include and providers of services, dividends to shareholders, achieve a 14% comparable target level for comparable return return on capital employed on capital employed set in 2015. shareholders, customers, personnel, retailers, suppliers salaries and wages paid to personnel, taxes and capital and a 12% comparable Our comparable return on equity of goods and providers of services and the society. Kesko expenditure. return on equity. was 11.7%. promotes the growth of welfare throughout its supply chain, including developing countries. Economic benefits from Kesko's operations to stakeholders Value added Distribution of value added generated Suppliers Employees Payments to providers of capital Goods, materials and Salaries, fees and social services purchased security expenses Net finance income / €-10,017 million €-694 million costs €-1 million Customers1 Public sector Community Shareholders investments Taxes3 Dividends2 Revenues €-77 million €-232 million €-2 million €11,173 million Development of business activities €150 million 1 Incl. net sales and other operating income 2 Proposal to the General Meeting 3 Incl. income taxes, real estate taxes and net worth taxes 34 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We pay steady dividends Most of the economic benefits from Kesko's operations to suppliers of goods Kesko has approximately 41,000 shareholders. In the long Continuing operations Group term, Kesko aims to distribute a steadily growing dividend € million 2018 2017 2016 of some 60-100% of its comparable earnings per share, Customers1 Revenues 11,173 11,278 10,879 taking into account the company’s financial position and strategy. Kesko’s Board of Directors proposes to the Value added generated 11,173 11,278 10,879 Annual General Meeting to be held in April 2019 that a total dividend of €232 million be paid for the year 2018, Distribution of value added: which would represent 145.2% of earnings per share and Suppliers Goods, materials and services purchased -10,017 10,065 -9,839 95.8% of comparable earnings per share. In 2018, Kesko Employees Salaries, fees and social security expenses -694 -738 -723 distributed a total of €219 million as dividends, which Payments to providers of capital Net finance income/costs -1 2 -1 represented 84.9% of earnings per share and 96.6% of Owners Dividend -2322 -219 -199 comparable earnings per share. Public sector Taxes3 -77 -60 -50 Financial assistance received from government Community investments Donations -2 -2 -2 201-4 Development of business operations 150 197 67 In 2018, Kesko Group received financial assistance of €1.0 The data is based on audited figures. The presentation method for 2017 has been changed from the previous year. million from the public sector. This amount mainly consists of assistance received in Finland (€0.6 million) and Sweden 1 Incl. net sales and other operating income (€0.4 million). Most of the public sector assistance in 2 Proposal to the General Meeting 3 Incl. income taxes, real estate taxes and net worth taxes Finland is related to investments in solar power. Read more about Economic benefits from Kesko’s operations by market area in 2018 Kesko’s purchases Salaries and Capital share-based Social security € million Purchases expenditure payments expenses Taxes¹ Total Finland 5,860 226 394 83 872 7,434 Other Nordic countries 915 161 73 23 75 1,248 Baltic countries, Poland and Belarus 743 31 107 14 127 1,021 Other countries 1,400 1,400 Total, continuing operations 8,918 418 574 120 1,074 11,104 1 Taxes include income taxes, real estate taxes, value-added taxes, excise duties, car taxes, customs duties, net-worth taxes and withholding taxes. 35 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We are a significant tax-payer The Group’s effective tax rate was 20.5%. Kesko paid €4.2 Taxes remitted in 2018 €997 203-2 million in real estate taxes and net-worth taxes to Finland million Kesko is a service sector company which has significant indirect and €1.0 million to its other operating countries in 2018. impacts on the production, use and recyclability of products. Value-added taxes, Finland €474 million Kesko collects, reports and remits also indirect taxes, Value-added taxes, other countries €150 million Kesko and K-retailers together form K Group. Purchases by such as value-added taxes and excise duties. Kesko K Group have economic impacts on suppliers of goods and remits value-added taxes to tax recipients in its capacity Withholding taxes, Finland €97 million service providers, including an increase in the number of as a company selling goods and services. In 2018, Kesko Withholding taxes, other countries €39 million jobs. Purchases from local producers affect regional business remitted value-added taxes in Finland to the amount of activities. The salaries, taxes, employee benefit expenses €474.4 million, and €150.2 million in other countries. Kesko Car taxes, Finland €159 million and capital expenditure paid by K Group have impacts on remits car taxes, and excise duties on confectionery, alcohol regional economic welfare. and soft drinks, for example. In 2018, Kesko remitted excise Customs duties, Finland €7 million duties in Finland to a total amount of €67.3 million. Customs duties, other countries €4 million Kesko operates in eight countries, and engages in both retail and wholesale operations. Our principle is that taxes Kesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as Excise duties, Finland €67 million on operating income and assets are always paid to the its employment impact, increased municipal tax income, respective operating country in compliance with local laws or income in the producer and supply chain, is evaluated and regulations. case-by-case, in connection with the establishment of a new store, for example. Taxes payable in 2018 €77 In 2018, the income taxes paid by Kesko to Finland totalled million €63.7 million and to other countries €8.3 million. Income taxes, Finland €64 million Income taxes, other countries €8 million Taxes by country in 2018 Real estate taxes, Finland €4 million € million, continuing operations Real estate and Income taxes property taxes Car taxes Customs duties Excise duties Real estate taxes and net-worth taxes, other countries €1 million Finland 63.7 4.2 159.0 6.8 67.3 Sweden 0.0 0.3 0.1 Norway 2.5 0.0 0.0 Estonia 1.0 0.0 0.2 Latvia 0.0 0.1 0.0 Lithuania 3.4 0.0 2.4 Poland 0.0 0.1 Belarus 1.4 0.5 1.3 Total 72.0 5.2 159.0 10.7 67.3 36 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Both personnel and business partners must Code of Conduct. All Kesko Group personnel are obliged to, e.g. managerial work, customer service at the stores, comply with the K Code of Conduct to annually confirm their compliance with the K Code of phishing messages, and Kesko’s partnerships with its 205-1 205-2 205-3 Conduct. We have prepared a mandatory eLearning package suppliers. Risks related to corruption are discussed as part of for employees to internalise the K Code of Conduct. Kesko Group's risk management. Key risks are identified, In 2018, no corruption related lawsuits against any Kesko assessed, managed, monitored and reported regularly Kesko’s contracting parties are also required to comply with Group company came to our knowledge. A litigation for as part of business operations in all operating countries. the K Code of Conduct. According to Group guidelines, claiming damages from a former employee on the basis of This includes risks related to corruption. In 2018, we a K Code of Conduct contract clause is to be added to all suspected criminal offence was commenced in 2018. also conducted a separate group-level compliance agreements under which the Group companies purchase risk assessment, in which we assessed risks related products or services from outside the Group. We comply with anti-competitive to corruption from the perspective of legislation and laws and regulations regulation. The most significant risks related to corruption In 2018, the prevention of malpractice was one of the focus 206 were related to construction projects and the purchasing areas for Kesko’s corporate security function. During the No authority rulings or legal actions regarding antiof goods and services. year, individual cases of suspected malpractice came to our competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices knowledge and the corporate security unit investigated them. were reported in 2018. Kesko’s anti-corruption principles are included in the K Code of Conduct guidelines published in 2016. The Kesko has a Group-wide SpeakUp channel through which Political contributions guidelines and website have been published in the employees and business partners can report any violations 415 languages of all our operating countries. Kesko employees of the K Code of Conduct. During 2018, 11 notices were We do not make monetary donations to political parties. and business partners have their own versions of the K submitted through the SpeakUp channel (2017: 38), related In election years, political parties and candidates are given equal opportunities to arrange campaign events in the PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: yards and entrance halls of our stores. K Code of Conduct Customer privacy is of utmost importance to us OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 418 In 2018, there were no cases concerning breaches of All of our personnel act in The entire personnel is obligated to annually commit to We will continue to make the annual confirmation compliance with the K Code compliance with the K Code of Conduct. In 2018, 79% of process more systematic and promote commitment customer privacy or loss of customer data. of Conduct. personnel signed the annual confirmation. to the K Code of Conduct through managerial work, training and continuous visibility. We always comply with the law 419 We organise regular In 2018, we arranged K Code of Conduct sessions in The K Code of Conduct eLearning will be updated in There were no breaches of laws or regulations in the social training on the K Code of subsidiaries in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, focusing autumn 2019. Conduct. especially on corruption and fraud-related issues. The and economic area in 2018. K Code of Conduct eLearning programme has been completed by 7,800 people (10/2016-12/2018). 37 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Customers Our value, The customer and quality – in everything we do, places customers at the centre of our operations. Over 1,100 K-retailers provide a significant competitive advantage for us. We develop our store network and services based on customer expectations. Our customers can be confident that whenever they shop in a K Group store, they are making a responsible choice. We want to enable a sustainable lifestyle for our customers in terms of food, mobility and living. We offer products and services that promote health and wellbeing. We enable convenient shopping for our customers. We promote the following UN Sustainable Development Goals: Information disclosed in this section – GRI codes: • 203 Indirect economic impacts 38 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Customers OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 Dialogue with We constantly engage in a dialogue with customers in stores To map out customer expectations for K Group’s sustainability and the most important areas of sustainability for our customers, and social medial channels. We conduct surveys on customer we conducted a survey in the Kylä customer community. customers satisfaction and brand and utilise customer views in the development of our responsibility work. We offer our customers multichannel information on our K-Rauta’s free-of-charge renovation service Remonttineuvonta expanded and now also answers questions related to yards and Consultation products and services. gardens. services to K Consumer Service responds to consumer feedback concerning the own brand products (Pirkka, K-Menu, Euro Shopper) and customers own imports of the grocery trade division. In 2018, K Consumer Service responded to 24,337 contacts made. We offer products and services that promote health and In line with our vegetable commitment, we encourage our customers to eat more vegetables. In 2018, some 400 K-food stores Wellbeing wellbeing. had dedicated veggie shelves. We organised 270 vegetable campaigns, which covered more than 1,200 vegetable products. We introduced 42 fruit and vegetable products into our selections during 2018. Intersport offered training on different sports and activated customers in stores by offering tips from experts and product testing as well as training programmes for different skill levels. Sustainable We help our customers make sustainable choices. To help our customers reduce their consumption of plastics and recycle plastics, we actively communicated on plastic-related issues in our channels and stores. We are building a nationwide network of electric car charging points in Finland. consumption We offer the best digital services to K Group's customers Our online sales of groceries grew significantly, and 66 additional stores (in a network of 156 stores) now offer online sales. We Digital services in all divisions. continued to develop the K-Ruoka online service and mobile app based on customer needs, utilising the latest technological innovations such as AI-based solutions. The new version of the OnnShop online store application has caused sales and customer satisfaction to grow in technical wholesale in Finland, Sweden and Estonia. The OnniApp mobile app makes shopping easier in Onninen Express stores. Each K-store is tailored to meet local customer demand based We improved support for management by information in K-food stores by offering more versatile, real-time, better quality data. Management by on customer data. With the tools provided, K-food stores can better manage store operations and store-specific business ideas. The number of information stores utilising data grew by more than 50% in 2018. Our objective is to further develop tools for store management and utilise customer insight and artificial intelligence (K AI) more extensively in , e.g. selection management and marketing. Using marketing based on customer data, we can offer our We continued the automation of marketing processes and promoted the use of data and artificial intelligence in marketing customers the best customer experience in the trading sector. targeting and personalisation. 39 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 An extensive store network and Especially outside growth centres, retail stores can offer is a strategic competitive factor for K Group. In 2018, additional services to customers community services which may otherwise be scarcely capital expenditure on store sites was €112 million (2017: 203-1 available. In 2018, the following services were available at €240) million. Capital expenditure in foreign operations Kesko’s principal business model in the Finnish market is K-food stores: accounted for 46.0% (2017: 10.3%) of total capital the chain business model, in which independent K-retailers expenditure. run retail stores in Kesko's chains. Retailer operations • Cashback services at all K-food stores accounted for 46% of Kesko’s net sales in 2018. At the In addition to Kesko, K-retailers invest in e.g. store fixtures. • Parcel and postal services at nearly 900 stores end of 2018, Kesko had over 1,100 independent K-retailer These figures included, K Group’s total capital expenditure entrepreneurs as partners. Kesko and K-retailers form • Nearly 200 K Charge charging points for electric cars in Finland in 2018 was around €408 million. K Group, whose retail sales (pro forma) totalled €12.9 • Over 400 Rinki eco take-back points. billion (VAT 0%) in 2018. K Group employs around 41,000 people. Our investments have an impact on the whole society K-food stores in Finnish municipalities Outside Finland, Kesko mainly engages in own retailing Kesko’s capital expenditure has a positive financial impact at 31 Dec. 2018 and B2B trade. The share of B2B trade has grown and it on the operations of building firms, building sector service 10 stores or more accounted for 36% of net sales in 2018. Own retailing companies, and suppliers of fixtures, equipment and 22 pcs 7.1% accounted for 18% of net sales. information systems, for example. 7–9 stores 17 pcs 5.5% 5–6 stores 24 pcs 7.7% K Group has an extensive network of K-food stores in Finland. The capital expenditure for Kesko’s continuing operations 3–4 stores 37 pcs 11.9% Most municipalities in the country have a K-food store. Some in 2018 totalled €418 million (2017: €334 million), or 2 stores 53 pcs 17.0% 1 store 117 pcs 37.6% 1.2 million customers visit K-food stores every day. 4.0% (2017: 3.2%) of net sales. The store site network No K-food store 41 pcs 13.2% PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Additional services at our store locations OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 We want to enable more We brought parcel pick-up points close to the We will launch new added value services that convenient services for our homes of customers of over 130 additional K-stores. make everyday life easier for our customers. The customers. In total, pick-up points (Matkahuolto and Schenker) MobilePay payment app will be available for use in were opened in nearly 400 K-stores during the year. 1,200 K Group stores during 2019. We launched a new service for online shoppers We will expand the parcel service for online that enables parcels from all online stores globally shoppers across Finland. to be directed to a specific automatic pick-up point in a K-store of the customer’s own choosing. 40 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Society Our mission is to create welfare responsibly for all our stakeholders and for all society. Most of the economic benefit generated by Kesko’s operations flows to suppliers of goods. Purchasing local products and services creates economic benefits for Kesko's home country and promotes local work. We want to actively take part in public discussion and develop new solutions. In our communications, we are increasingly emphasising sustainability actions by our stores that are meaningful to our customers. We sponsor nationwide projects in Finland that are connected to the everyday lives of children and young people, promote the quality of living and sustainability, and bring joy to as many people as possible. We promote the following UN Sustainable Development Goals: Information disclosed in this section – GRI codes: • 201 Economic performance • 204 Procurement practices 41 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 By providing support we increase wellbeing in society In the K Fishpaths 201-1 collaboration, we We sponsor nationwide projects in Finland that are connected to the restore habitats for endangered fish. everyday lives of children and young people, promote the quality of living and sustainability, and bring joy to as many people as possible. Kesko's community investments € 1,000 2018 2017 2016 Non-governmental, environmental and other organisations 299 231 412 Sports (adults) 603 1,145 891 Youth sports and other youth work 203 144 56 Science, research and education 69 50 67 Culture 45 32 14 Health 596 459 270 Veteran organisations and national defence 22 113 3 Total 1,836 2,174 1,713 In addition, Veikkaus Oy contributed an estimated combined revenue of €110-115 million to the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, generated from the sales of games by Veikkaus points of sale located at K-stores. The estimate is based on the average breakdown of each euro spent on games in 2018. The estimate has been calculated by Veikkaus Oy. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health distribute the revenue in its entirety to beneficiaries in Finland. PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Donations, sponsoring and charity OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 We focus primarily on sponsoring K-food stores collected a record €586,000 in the Finnish Cancer Foundation’s 2018 Pink Ribbon nationwide projects in Finland that (Roosa nauha) campaign. are connected to the everyday lives of Some 280 volunteers and 18 K-retailers took part in the events of the second year of WWF Finland children and young people, promote and K Group’s K Fishpaths collaboration. the quality of living and sustainability, and bring joy to as many people as Plan International Finland and K Group’s project in Thailand came to an end: 1,143 children of migrant possible. workers were educated in learning centres and 34 suppliers trained in social responsibility issues. 42 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Majority of purchases are from Finnish suppliers Kesko's purchases by operating country in 2018 204-1 Suppliers of goods Suppliers of goods Kesko assesses the economic benefit it generates by and services in Purchases from and services in other Purchases from reporting its purchases by operating country and the operating country suppliers of goods operating countries suppliers of goods company’s country of domicile. Kesko also reports both number € million % number € million % Kesko’s and K-retailers’ direct purchases of goods in Finland 10,259 5,806 81.1 2,301 1,352 18.9 Finland by region. Sweden 1,723 211 86.4 203 33 13.6 Norway 2,724 513 97.8 189 12 2.2 Most of the economic benefit generated by Kesko’s Estonia 1,233 71 51.0 479 69 49.0 operations – approximately 86% of Kesko’s net sales – Latvia 1,233 54 39.9 502 82 60.1 flows to suppliers of goods, from which purchases were Lithuania 419 127 31.6 213 274 68.4 valued at €8.9 billion in 2018. The purchases of all Kesko Poland 1,056 212 95.9 71 9 4.1 companies from suppliers operating in Finland totalled Belarus 678 57 60.6 386 37 39.4 €5.9 billion, accounting for 65.7% (2017: 65.0%) of the Total 19,325 7,050 79.1 4,344 1,867 20.9 Group’s total purchases. In 2018, Kesko had around 23,700 suppliers and service Kesko's purchases by company's and supplier's country of domicile in 2018 providers from whom purchases were valued at a minimum of €1,000 during the year. Of these, around 10,600 Company's operated in Finland, around 10,200 in Kesko’s other country of domicile Supplier's country of domicile operating countries, and around 2,900 elsewhere. Other € million Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Belarus countries Total The 10 largest suppliers accounted for 26.3% (2017: Finland 5,806 165 11 33 6 6 25 7 1,099 7,158 26.4%) of the Group’s purchases of goods, and the 100 Sweden 10 211 5 1 0 3 14 244 largest suppliers for 59.3% (2017: 59.8%). Of the 10 Norway 1 7 513 4 524 largest suppliers, 6 were Finnish food industry companies, Estonia 18 2 1 71 4 3 7 34 140 2 import companies operating in Finland, and 2 German Latvia 12 0 7 54 6 6 0 50 137 car manufacturers. Lithuania 11 2 14 35 127 45 4 162 400 Poland 1 0 0 212 8 221 The purchases of goods by Kesko Group’s Finnish Belarus 0 0 0 2 5 57 30 93 companies totalled €7.2 billion. Of these purchases, 81.1% Total 5,860 386 529 127 100 143 304 68 1,400 8,918 were from suppliers operating in Finland and 18.9% from other countries. Some of the suppliers operating in Finland are import companies, and reliable statistics cannot be compiled on the origin of goods supplied by them. 43 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Economic benefit generated by Kesko and K-retailers to Finnish regions in 2018 Local production Region K-retailers' Kesko's and Kesko's direct K-retailers' OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 purchases of purchases of capital Salaries paid Salaries paid Taxes paid by € million goods goods expenditure1 by Kesko by K-retailers K-retailers Total We support To help farmers struggling with the local producers. exceptionally dry weather in summer 2018, we Åland 44.6 0.3 0.5 45.3 focused heavily on our 'Thank the Producer' Southern Karelia 9.5 10.6 6.8 6.0 14.0 0.5 47.2 operating model. Branded products by five Finnish food companies joined the model at Southern 243.6 54.4 5.2 5.5 14.1 1.1 323.8 the end of the year. We will pay an additional Ostrobothnia sum of €650,000 directly to the food Southern Savo 49.6 19.1 6.3 4.9 11.8 1.4 93.2 producers for 2018. Kainuu 12.7 10.2 2.0 1.6 7.1 0.7 34.2 We organised 7 Local Food Dates around Finland, giving over 400 K-retailers and 170 Kanta-Häme 58.0 44.2 6.3 6.5 13.6 1.1 129.7 local food producers a chance to meet and Central 53.4 20.7 3.2 2.4 4.5 0.5 84.7 establish a collaboration. Ostrobothnia Central Finland 50.2 26.3 11.3 8.9 20.4 1.8 118.9 Kymenlaakso 41.9 6.8 16.4 6.3 13.0 1.0 85.5 Lapland 17.7 25.8 8.7 6.4 22.9 2.5 84.0 Kesko is actively increasing the amount of local purchases Pirkanmaa 268.1 39.8 31.1 34.6 45.0 3.5 422.1 and encourages K-retailers to include products from local producers in their selections. In 2018, K-retailers’ direct Ostrobothnia 140.1 11.4 5.3 6.6 11.5 0.9 175.8 purchases from Finnish regions totalled €777.6 million. Northern Karelia 31.8 25.5 6.8 5.4 11.6 1.6 82.7 Finnish food producers play a crucial role in K Group's Northern 147.3 66.6 18.7 22.2 30.1 2.8 287.6 Ostrobothnia grocery trade and the share of local food in store Northern Savo 235.5 56.3 6.3 12.1 23.2 1.9 335.3 selections is growing. Päijät-Häme 146.5 27.8 7.6 10.4 14.5 1.1 207.9 Satakunta 214.4 43.4 10.8 7.5 18.4 1.1 295.5 Uusimaa 3,341.4 189.2 225.7 323.6 147.7 17.5 4,245.0 Varsinais-Suomi 699.8 99.7 29.7 30.3 44.0 5.2 908.8 Total 5,806.2 777.6 408.4 501.6 467.3 46.2 8,007.4 1 Incl. increase in lease liabilities of K-retailers' equipment The figures are for those K-retailers whose accounts and payroll are managed by Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, representing around 95% of K-retailers’ total business volume. 44 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Working community The foundation of our operations is our professional and committed personnel. We provide them with diverse career and development opportunities in various positions. We aim to be the most attractive workplace in the trading sector. Equal opportunities, justice and non-discrimination are important principles that we are determined to observe. As the operating environment changes, continuous development of the personnel’s skills will play an increasingly important role. The prerequisite for wellbeing and success at work is that each employee knows the targets set for their work, receives feedback on their performance and experiences success at work. Information disclosed in this section – GRI codes: • 201 Economic performance • 401 Employment • 402 Labour/Management relations We promote the following UN • 403 Occupational health and safety Sustainable Development Goals: • 404 Training and education • 405 Diversity and equal opportunity • 406 Non-discrimination • 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 45 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Employer image OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 We are the best employer in Ranking 18th, K Group improved its position in the Universum We will continue to promote the agreed the trading sector in terms Ideal Employer Ranking survey (up by 7 positions). More than measures and monitor the progress of the of job satisfaction. 6,000 people responded to the Pulse survey for personnel; results with a more extensive personnel survey development was seen in the primary development areas: at the end of 2019. provision of feedback, development opportunities at Fixed-term and part-time employments at Kesko K Group and employer image. 2018 2017 2016 Fixed-term employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % Half of our employees work in Finland Changes in the number of Kesko employees 401-1 Finland 14.1 14.2 12 2018 2017 2016 In 2018, Kesko had an average of approximately 19,579 Other operating countries 6.7 4.8 6.1 Finland at 31 Dec. 11,878 12,327 14,845 (2017: 22,077) full-time equivalent employees in eight Whole Group, total 10.5 9.4 9.2 Other operating countries at 31 Dec. 11,523 12,656 12,811 countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Part-time employees of total Lithuania, Poland and Belarus. 50.2% of the personnel Total at 31 Dec. 23,401 24,983 27,656 personnel at 31 Dec., % were based in Finland and 49.8% in the other operating Finland, average 9,822 10,691 10,714 Finland 33.6 40.8 43.9 countries. Other operating countries, average 9,757 11,386 11,762 Other operating countries 11.8 7.8 6.7 Total, average 19,579 22,077 22,476 Whole Group, total 22.9 24.1 26.7 Kesko’s personnel statistics for 2018 analysed by operating country Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Belarus Total number of personnel at 31 Dec. 11,878 1,016 1,273 735 850 4,016 775 2,858 Average number of personnel in 2018 9,822 918 681 679 700 3,361 772 2,647 Number of new employments 1 4,240 389 139 395 469 2,479 134 1,154 women 2,217 122 31 157 146 1,103 20 439 men 2,023 267 108 238 323 1,376 114 715 Number of terminated employments 1 4,801 373 270 349 436 2,395 139 1,266 women 2,954 126 64 142 107 943 14 454 men 1,847 247 206 207 329 1,452 125 812 Terminated by employer, % 4.0 2.0 29.0 6.0 24.0 2.0 22.0 0.0 Total turnover rate, % 2 30.0 37.0 19.0 34.0 46.0 60.0 17.0 44.0 1 Including summer employees 2 Excluding summer employees When calculating the number of terminated employments, each employee is included only once, whereas one person may have several new employments included in the total number. 46 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Recruits, age distribution 2018, % Terminated employments, Towards a new career age distribution 2018, % Internal job rotation opens up possibilities for various career options. In Finland, approximately 1,569 (2017: 1,992) internal transfers took place, while the combined Under 26 years 56.5% Under 26 years 51.6% figure for the other operating countries was 2,361 26–35 years 22.4% 26–35 years 24.0% (2017: 2,637) (figures excluding internal transfers within 36–45 years 10.5% 36–45 years 12.5% K-Market Oy). 46–55 years 5.8% 46–55 years 7.7% Over 55 years 4.7% Over 55 years 4.2% In 2018, the New Job operating model was established for situations where an employee’s working capacity is permanently reduced compared to the requirements of the current job, and the employee is no longer capable of returning to do the job. Age distribution of Kesko personnel Age distribution of Kesko personnel in the other in Finland in 2018, % operating countries in 2018, % In Finland, K Group's recruitment is supported by the K Trainee and retailer coaching programmes. Under 26 years 23.3% Under 26 years 19.5% 26–35 years 26.0% 26–35 years 33.0% We offer comprehensive personnel benefits 36–45 years 22.9% 36–45 years 23.8% 401-2 46–55 years 18.7% 46–55 years 14.9% In Finland, all personnel are subject to statutory pension Over 55 years 9.1% Over 55 years 8.8% security and benefits concerning parental leaves. In Finland, both the permanent and temporary personnel have statutory insurance against occupational injuries and occupational diseases. Distribution of Kesko personnel by division In addition, we offer our personnel occupational health at 31 Dec. 2018, % care services, retirement benefits, versatile shopping benefits in K Group stores and the staff store as well as an opportunity to lease a car. Grocery trade 34.1% Building and technical trade 57.9% In all operating countries, we support our employees' Car trade 3.5% leisure activities in different ways. The Finnish companies, Common operations 4.5% for example, provide benefits for physical exercise, cultural activities and the commuting, which in 2019 expands to cover wellbeing services. 47 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Some of the companies operating in Estonia, Latvia and Pensions Lithuania also give financial support to their employees 201-3 through different situations in life, such as when a child is New pensions were granted to 193 people (2017: 291) born, during a child's first year at school, in the event of in Kesko Group in Finland. Of these, 32 were disability the death of a close relative and in other special situations. pensions (2017: 25), of which 15 (2017: 15) were partial disability pensions. Rehabilitation benefit is a form of Performance bonuses and share compensation plan fixed-term disability pension granted with the aim that The performance bonus schemes cover all personnel, the employee is rehabilitated and returns to working life. with the exception of sales assistant jobs and jobs covered Rehabilitation benefits were granted for the purpose of by other types of bonus or commission systems. The retraining or work trials to 93 people (2017: 111), who indicators of the performance bonus scheme include, were at a clear risk of losing their working capacity within for example, the Group’s and the division’s operating a few years. The average retirement age of employees in profit, the sales and profit of the employee’s own unit 2018 was 61.9 (2017: 61.7). The average retirement age and customer satisfaction or market share. Depending for old-age was 63.7 (2017: 63.3) and the age for disability on the role, personal performance bonus targets may pension was 47 (2017: 46.5). In the other operating also be set. In spring 2018, around €15.1 million (2017: countries 21 (2017: 29) employees retired. €11.4 million) was paid in Finland in bonuses under the 2018 performance bonus schemes, accounting for The Group has several pension arrangements in different approximately 3.5% (2017: 3.0%) of the total payroll. operating countries. In Finland, statutory pension provision for personnel is organised through pension insurance In 2018, the total remuneration paid in the form of companies and voluntary supplementary pension provision performance bonuses, sales commissions and other is mainly organised through Kesko Pension Fund. At the corresponding monetary remuneration was as follows: end of 2018, the Pension Fund had 2,581 members, 579 of whom were active members and 2,002 were pensioners. • In Finland, €16.1 million (2017: €18.1 million) The statutory pension provision organised through a • In the other operating countries, €4.5 million pension insurance company is a defined contribution plan. (2017: €5.2 million) The supplementary pension provision organised by Kesko Pension Fund is a defined benefit plan. On 31 December The maximum performance bonus amounts vary 2018, the defined benefit plan obligation was €254.2 depending on the profit impact of the person’s role and are million (2017: €266.6 million), which is fully covered. equivalent to 10-67% of the person’s annual salary. Calculated under IFRS, the surplus amount was €148.0 million on 31 December 2018 (2017: €207.5). Calculated Kesko operates a share-based compensation scheme for under IFRS, the Group’s total pension expenses represent some 130 members of management and other specified key 12.9% (2017: 14.3%) of the total payroll. Read more in the personnel. Read more about the share compensation plan. financial statements section, note 3.8. 48 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 In the subsidiaries in other countries, pensions are Helsinki region in preparation for the move to common occupational wellbeing, health and safety and together arranged in compliance with local provisions and operating premises. shared the best practices in Norway and Poland. practices, and are defined contribution plans. In 2018, we launched a Group-level labour protection Kesko's HR functions arrange occupational safety training We take care of the safety of our employees group in Finland to strengthen the role of labour protection for Kesko employees and K-retailers. Group companies also 403-1 and to develop occupational health cooperation and to arrange training sessions tailored to their specific needs. Labour protection activities are arranged separately share best practices in the field of occupational safety. for each company, region or place of business in Occupational health service helps compliance with local legislation. Labour protection Outside the Nordic countries, labour protection matters maintain working capacity activity in Finland has been made more effective by are handled by OHS (Occupational Health and Safety) 403-2 establishing regional committees and by combining committees. In 2018, we investigated the practices Within Kesko Group, the occupational health service's worker health and safety committees in the Greater and indicators and needs for cooperation related to normal operations include providing advice and counselling related to employees’ health and wellbeing at work, analysing health risks related to work and preventing illnesses, and providing treatment – even in the event of PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: serious illnesses – in collaboration with primary health care Occupational wellbeing and working capacity practitioners and specialist health care providers. OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 In Finland, 12,260 (2017: 12,600) Kesko Group employees We will improve work Kesko initiated an extensive K Work programme, which In 2019, principles which concern those doing motivation and job means a new, unified way to work within K Group. In the specialist work in K Group, will be taken into use were covered by Kesko’s own occupational health services. satisfaction. first stage of the programme, the new ways to work will be step by step irrespective of the location. These Kesko's occupational health service provides occupational communicated to approximately 2,500 K Group employees practices concern, for example, work done in health services for employees in the Greater Helsinki area in specialist positions. multiple locations, working time monitoring and knowledge work tools. and purchases occupational healthcare from one provider for employees elsewhere in Finland. Centralised and targetWe will reduce the number We developed processes to serve as a basis for the K Group will introduce an OHS solution and new oriented management enables consistent content, operating of sick leave absences, forthcoming technical OHS solution, the purpose of which processes compliant with it. accidents at work and is to anticipate risks related to working capacity and to methods and results in occupational health service. In numbers for premature develop working capacity management. In Finland, we other countries, occupational health care is arranged in retirement due to disability. initiated the evaluation of systematic, psycho-social load compliance with local legislation and practice. Kesko’s occupational health care offered the employees We will continue with the services that worked interested in their health and wellbeing new coaching related best in the trials in 2018 and pilot as new A total of €5.5 million (2017: €6.2 million) was spent to nourishment, mental health and physical condition in solutions those which prove functional in our new on occupational health care in Finland in 2018. Kela which artificial intelligence is utilised to some extent. A total K-Kampus main office building. of 224 persons participated in this coaching. (the Social Insurance Institution) reimbursed Kesko for approximately €2.8 million (2017: €3.5 million) of this sum. In 2018, Kesko’s occupational health service spent €447 (2017: €494) per employee on maintaining the personnel’s working capacity and providing medical care. 49 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Statistics on injuries in Finland and breakdowns of sickness Kesko’s contribution to occupational health care, Finland absences by country are presented in the tables on the 2018 2017 2016 right. In the other countries, a total of 92 injuries occurred €/person 447 494 499 resulting in sickness absences of more than three days in 2018. The corresponding figure in Finland was 248. In 2018, the sickness absence rate in the Group companies Injuries and occupational diseases in Finland in Finland was 4.3% of hours worked (2017: 4.6%). Approximately 76.2% (2017: 75.1%) of sickness absences 2018 2017 2016 were short-term absences, i.e paid sick days. In the other Fatal injuries 0 0 0 countries, the sickness absence rate was 5.1% (2017: 4.7%). Occupational injuries, excl. commuting injuries 181 226 227 Commuting injuries 67 79 81 Injury rate¹ /million working hours 13 11 10 Average degree of injury severity, days 31.6 20.9 15.8 Suspected occupational diseases 3 2 1 Occupational diseases 2 1 2 Sick days due to occupational injuries, commuting injuries and occupational diseases 8,040 6,473 5,744 Per employee 0.8 0.6 0.5 The calculation method: small injuries, i.e. those leading to absence of less than three days, are not included in the figures. Statistics do not include contractors. Trend in number of sick days ¹ Excl. small injuries and commuting injuries, calculated with actual working hours Sick days/million working hours 8,000 6,592 6,577 Sickness absences by country in 2018 5,987 5,960 6,179 6,000 Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Belarus 4,963 Total number of sick days 110,408 10,845 6,014 8,020 8,233 52,260 8,721 25,662 4,000 Per employee 11.2 11.8 8.8 11.8 11.8 15.5 11.3 9.7 2,000 Per million working hours 5,960 6,712 5,018 5,819 5,822 7,697 5,431 4,771 0 The calculation method: sick days per employee have been calculated on the average number of employees during the year. 2016 2017 2018 Finland Other operating countries 50 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 An operating environment in transition calls Training hours and costs in 2018 Distribution by education at 31 Dec. 2018, % for continuous competence development 2018 2017 404-1 404-2 Training hours1 Systematic, business-driven development of personnel is Comprehensive school 16.8% Finland 58,191 56,055 a critical factor for future success. The transformation of Upper secondary vocational Other countries 64,331 71,991 the trading sector and digitalisation have created needs for education 47.6% new competences. Training hours per employee1 Lower university degree 14.3% Finland 5.9 5.2 Higher university Key areas of competence building in K Group are: Other countries 6.6 6.3 degree 21.3% Training costs, € million • Leadership and management Finland 2.7 3.3 • Digitalisation Other countries 0.4 0.5 Byggmakker and Onninen AS, Norway, K-rauta AB and Training costs per employee, € • Customer experience; sales, service and product Onninen AB, Sweden not included. Finland 277 310 competences Other countries 45 45 Manager training programmes 1 2017 excludes Byggmakker Handel AS and Onninen AS Norway, In 2018, we renewed our manager training programmes: Onninen AB and K-Rauta AB Sweden, and OOO Onninen Russia. we started a training programme for new managers and the middle management of the international programme. A tailored management training was initiated for the PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: K-Citymarket chain, with the objective of more than Competence development 300 store managers obtaining specialist vocational qualifications in management. OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 Training for the Let's Talk About Work operating model is We conduct an annual performance Discussing the objectives and development We will systematically continue to implement part of the occupational ability management training for and development review with every were continued as a systematic part of these discussions and guidance. employee. the performance management model. managers, which also was renewed. Approximately 80% of our employees have discussed their objectives and development with their manager. Digital competences In 2018, we arranged info sessions targeted at the whole personnel on service design and artificial intelligence, and We will regularly train our managers. A total of approximately 830 managers took part All managers in the K Group go through a in manager training. common half-day manager training. The training agile development trainings for management groups and discusses the principles of K Way. specialists. 51 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We organise social media training sessions to deepen the We monitored the actualisation of performance reviews The personnel survey is among the key tools for improving expertise of those K Group employees with social media as in a personnel survey carried out at the end of 2017. The the quality of internal operations and manager work. The an essential part of their job description. response rate to the personnel survey was 71%. 80% entire personnel is given the chance to take part in the of the respondents state that they had discussed their survey – it is conducted simultaneously in Kesko Group Training for store personnel targets and development with their manager during the and in some K-stores in Finland and other operating We provide store personnel with professional training past year. countries. in the form of coaching and e-learning, as well as an opportunity to complete vocational degrees. All training The purpose of development discussion is to give The revised personnel survey was carried out most information has been compiled into a single portal at feedback on the person’s performance during the recently in the latter half of 2017. Action plans were www.k-academy.fi/. previous year, support their development and encourage created in early 2018, and the progress of selected them to improve their performance. Uniform criteria development initiatives was monitored later with the In 2018, we launched a new Workplace coach training ensure a fair performance and skills review for all Pulse survey that had over 6,000 respondents. Positive for store personnel and trained more than 300 workplace employees. A systematic and effective performance development was seen in the primary development areas: coaches for various chains. review gives important information and forms a basis for provision of feedback, development opportunities at other HR processes. K Group and employer image. Performance and career development reviews and performance assessment as tools for job satisfaction PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: 404-3 Performance management Our personnel is given feedback on their performance and development opportunities in annual performance and OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 development reviews. Target setting, performance and We know the targets According to the latest personnel survey, 74% of our personnel We will continue the systematic deployment development reviews and performance evaluations are set for our work and receive feedback on their performance in attaining their own of performance management and will revise receive feedback on our targets. Target-based bonus schemes cover practically the the bonus schemes. carried out at all Kesko Group companies and operating performance. entire personnel. countries. Performance reviews evaluate the person’s performance during the past period and set targets for the next one. In development discussions we discuss the employee's competencies and motivation, career wishes, quality and development of manager work and the entire working community. Finally, a personal development plan is created for the employee. 52 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We promote equal Diverse working community of genders on the Board. In 2018, women accounted opportunities and diversity In autumn 2018, we participated in Plan International’s for two out of the seven members of the Board of 405-1 406-1 Girls Takeover event and added promotion of gender Directors and one out of the eight members of the Group equality as a new objective in our responsibility Management Board. Zero-tolerance of discrimination programme. Gender equality involves strengthening the Equal opportunities, justice, non-discrimination and equality rights and opportunities of women and girls throughout We have started several programmes in recent years to are important principles that are observed at Kesko. our supply chain and improving women’s opportunities employ young people and people from special groups, Kesko Corporation and its subsidiaries in Finland draw up to advance to management posts. Our aim is to increase and employing them has become a permanent operating statutory company-specific HR, training, equality and nonthe proportion of women in management, and in model. So far, more than 4,700 young people in this target discrimination plans and define objectives for improvement. K-Citymarkets, for example, 81% of department managers group have been hired to K Group through work trials, are women. salary support and apprenticeship training. Kesko has established the TASY gender equality working group in accordance with the non-discrimination plan, According to the diversity policy of Kesko’s Board of In the future, immigrants will be an increasingly important which handles matters related to non-discrimination and Directors, Kesko seeks to have a balanced representation target group for recruitment into service duties in the retail equality within the Group. The working group includes representatives of the employer, personnel and labour protection functions as well as employees interested in the matter. The working group analyses recruitment, career development and training, remuneration and the reconciliation of work and family life. Combating discrimination is at the core of the group’s activities. To better identify and prevent discrimination, we will train ‘TASY activists’ for Kesko. In 2018, we participated in a large campaign against discrimination (#eisyrji) which sought to change attitudes and reduce discrimination in Finnish working life. Companies participating in the campaign commit to promoting a non-discriminatory work culture that is open for all. We also participated in the Day as a Director campaign arranged by the Junior Chamber International Finland, where 40 students were given the opportunity to find out about the work of K Group’s managers. No cases of discrimination were reported to us in 2018. 53 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 sector. At present, the highest number of people with Years of service in Finland in 2018, % Years of service in the other operating countries immigrant background are employed in the stores and in 2018, % warehouses of K Group. Under 2 years 29.7% Under 2 years 36.9% Employing people with immigrant background will require 2–5 years 18.1% 2–5 years 27.2% new operating methods – for example, the needs of people 6–10 years 18.4% 6–10 years 13.5% 11–15 years 12.1% 11–15 years 13.1% whose first language is not Finnish, must be taken into 16–20 years 7.6% 16–20 years 5.9% account in guidelines and management. 21–25 years 5.1% 21–25 years 2.5% Over 25 years 8.9% Over 25 years 1.1% People of various ages are an asset In Finland, the average age of employees was 37 in 2018. In the other countries, the average age of employees varied from 26 to 46 years. Percentage of women and men of personnel Long careers are not rare: 1,062 employees in Finland have worked at Kesko for over 25 years. In Finland, 33.8% Women Men of the employees have worked at Kesko over 10 years Kesko's personnel and 66.2% under 10 years, and in the other countries the Finland 51.8 48.2 figures were 22.5% and 77.5%, respectively. Other operating countries 43.6 56.4 Managers We promote the realisation of pay equality Finland 46.1 53.9 405-2 Other operating countries 37.2 62.8 The average annual salary of Kesko employees was €39,523 in Finland, €45,299 in the other Nordic countries, and €10,781 in the Baltic countries, Poland and Belarus. As Kesko Group operates in many lines of business, the Percentage of women by employee Percentage of women by employee average salary is not a good indicator of salary level or category, Finland category, other countries structure. The wage groups and tables specified in the 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 collective agreement are applied to jobs covered by Top management 28.6 28.3 24.1 Top management 12.5 0.0 0.0 the agreement, such as sales assistants and warehouse Middle management 23.3 22.6 20.0 Middle management 42.3 56.2 49.1 workers. Salaries are also influenced by role-based Managers and specialists 46.8 45.2 41.9 Managers and specialists 51.8 49.1 48.4 responsibility bonuses, years of experience and the costWorkers and white-collar employees 53.5 58.4 64.4 Workers and white-collar employees 39.3 41.6 47.2 of-living category of the locality. Total 51.8 55.5 60.1 Total 43.6 46.7 47.8 The figures also include those called to work on demand 54 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Besides the role and its requirements, the salary of a The control of the association of suppliers’ employees in months depending on the duration of employment. The specialist is determined by competence, experience, high-risk countries and corrective actions are included in same periods of notice are valid in restructuring situations performance and results. Kesko uses the HAY job social responsibility audits. as well. grade classification system. In jobs classified based on job grades, in higher and middle management jobs the Periods of notice and restructuring situations In all its operating countries, Kesko applies the notice women’s salary is 99% of men’s salary in comparable 402-1 periods specified in local labour legislation. In Finland, the jobs, and 96% with manager and specialist positions, Kesko complies with local legislation in all of its operating notice period is from two weeks to six months depending respectively. As a whole, women’s salary is 97% of men’s countries. In Finland, the key statutes governing on the duration of employment. salary in comparable jobs. restructuring situations are included in the Act on Cooperation within Undertakings, which stipulates that the Equality in remuneration is considered as part of annual employer must provide reasonable notice of decisions for company-specific equality plans. Gender is not a factor consideration on the basis of negotiations. The collective which influences remuneration, and no significant agreement for the trading sector does not specify differences between comparable jobs have been detected. any minimum notice periods applying to restructuring Equality plans strive to promote salary equality in jobs situations. where comparisons can be made. In Sweden, the statutory minimum notice period in the Freedom of association as an important value event of organisational changes is 8–24 weeks depending 407-1 on the nature of the change. The collective agreement Employees’ freedom of association is a central applying to operations in Sweden also does not specify characteristic of a welfare society. Kesko respects its minimum notice periods for restructuring situations. No personnel’s freedom of association. specific minimum notice period for organisational changes is defined in Norway, but both legislation and the collective The freedom of association or the right to collective agreement stipulate that personnel shall be informed of bargaining is not seen to be at risk in Kesko’s operating organisational changes at the earliest opportunity. countries within the EU (Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland) or in Norway. In Estonia and Latvia, the minimum notice period in restructuring situations is four weeks. The corresponding Out of the total personnel, 47% are covered by collective notice period in Belarus is eight weeks. There are no agreements. collective agreements in these operating countries. So far, no binding industry-wide collective agreements In Poland, the notice period with permanent and have been drawn up in the Baltic countries and Poland. temporary employments varies from two weeks to three 55 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections Our products are verified, safe and responsibly produced. We offer an extensive selection of own brand products with responsibility labelling. The Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the product safety and quality of the own brand products and own imports in the grocery trade. We monitor and develop responsibility in supply chains with suppliers’ factory audits and responsibility trainings. We guide the sourcing of products containing raw materials identified as critical, such as palm oil and soy, with our sustainability policies. We promote the following UN Information disclosed in this Sustainable Development Goals: section – GRI codes: • 412 Human rights assessments • 414 Supplier social assessment • 416 Customer health and safety • 417 Marketing and labelling 56 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Sustainability policies guiding our sourcing OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 Fish and shellfish policy Our fish and shellfish policy based on the WWF Finland's Seafood Guide has Our selections do not include species on the red list of the WWF been in effect for 10 years. The retail selection of Kesko’s grocery trade included Finland's Seafood Guide. When making decisions concerning 200 MSC-certified fish products and 9 ASC-certified products. Kespro’s selections, we favour sustainable stocks of fish and MSCand ASCHoReCa selection had a total of 168 MSC-certified products and 9 ASC-certified certified suppliers. products. Palm oil policy Some 99.2% of the palm oil in Kespro’s Menu food products sold in 2018 was By 2020, the palm oil in our own brand groceries will be 100% sustainably produced (CSPO), of which 0.2% was Identity Preserved, 82.0% sustainably produced (CSPO). Segregated, 13.7% Mass Balance, and 4.1% RSPO credits. Some 67% of the palm oil in Pirkka and K-Menu food products sold in 2018 was sustainably produced (CSPO), of which 44% was Segregated, 45% Mass Balance, and 2% RSPO credits. Soy policy The soy used as an ingredient in Kespro’s Menu food products sold in 2018 By 2020, the ingredients of soy origin in grocery trade’s own brand was 74.2 % responsibly produced. The soy used as an ingredient in Pirkka and food products and the soy fodder used in the production of products K-Menu food products sold in 2018 was 2.2% responsibly produced. of animal origin will be 100% responsibly produced, and be either RTRS or ProTerra certified. Timber and paper policy Kesko’s building and technical trade has been awarded the PEFC certificate, By 2025, there will be only sustainable origin timber and paper which covers sawn pine and spruce timber and processed timber as well as the products in Kesko's product range. Timber and paper products wholesale distribution of MDF boards in Finland (percentage-based method). will be FSC or PEFC certified or made of recycled materials. In the The average PEFC certification percentage in 2018 was 88.5% for pine and grocery trade, the policy applies to our own brand products. 85.6% for spruce. Of the timber and paper products in the grocery trade’s Pirkka and K-Menu ranges, 51% contained sustainable raw material. In Kespro’s Menu range, 17% of timber and paper products contained sustainable raw material. Plastics policy We accelerated the reduction of plastic by setting the same price for plastic, In the plastics policy updated in 2018, we placed more stringent paper and biodegradable bags in all K-food stores. We removed microplastics targets for the recycling, reduction and avoidance of plastic. from our own brand detergent products. Read more Animal welfare policy In spring 2018, we compiled our principles concerning products of animal origin When making decisions concerning selections, we take the wellinto an animal welfare policy. being of farm animals into account. From the start of 2026, we will no longer accept eggs form furnished cages into Kesko's selections. 57 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Efforts to promote human rights for a Finnish law on mandatory human rights due diligence, Kesko also accepts other assessment systems of social 412-1 412-2 obliging companies to avoid and to reduce the negative responsibility, if their criteria correspond to those of human rights impacts in their operations. amfori BSCI auditing and if the audit is conducted by an independent party. As part of the sourcing cooperation In 2016, we published our statement of commitment on human rights and impact assessment in compliance Suppliers’ social responsibility audits between Kesko’s grocery trade and ICA Global Sourcing, 414-1 414-2 Kesko also accepts the ICA Social Audit. In this case, with the UN's Guiding Principles on Business and Human however, suppliers are required to adopt third-party audit Rights. We review the human rights assessment every approved by Kesko after a maximum of two ICA Social three years, for the next time in 2019. Special focus on high-risk countries Audits. In the risk assessment of supply countries, we utilise the The K Code of Conduct guidelines include a section amfori’s countries’ risk classification based on Worldwide Kesko’s principle in high-risk countries is to collaborate on human rights. The K Code of Conduct eLearning Governance indicators published by the World Bank. only with suppliers that are already included in the scope of programme targeted at the entire personnel had In 2018, direct purchases from suppliers in high-risk social responsibility audits or that start the process when been completed by 7,800 people by the end of 2018. countries totalled €105 million (2017: €106 million ) and the cooperation begins. Kesko’s grocery trade requires all Awareness of the K Code of Conduct is regularly promoted accounted for approximately 1.2% (2017: 1.2%) of Kesko's of its suppliers in high-risk countries to have an approved through communications and K Code of Conduct training total purchases. Direct imports from high-risk countries audit when the cooperation begins. sessions. accounted for approximately 14.5% (2017: 13.9%) of Some of Kesko’s suppliers are amfori members Kesko's total imports into Finland. The figures concern themselves also and thus promote amfori BSCI audits The training sessions in responsible purchasing discuss the direct purchases in Finland; no statistics are available on in their own supply chains. In 2018, we purchased work implementation of human rights in global supply chains. direct imports from high-risk countries in Kesko's other clothing from two Nordic suppliers for K-Rauta, Neste In 2018, we organised the training for those engaged in operating countries. K, K-Supermarket, K-Market and K-Citymarket chains. purchasing in Kespro. The training sessions discussed the The largest high-risk countries of import are shown on the Part of the work clothes were manufactured in high-risk amfori BSCI Code of Conduct principles, the assurance map on page 36. We publish the list of manufacturers of countries in factories with three valid amfori BSCI audits process in purchasing from high-risk countries, and the clothes, accessories, shoes and bags of our own brands and one SA8000 certification. social responsibility assessment systems approved by and own imports located in high-risk countries annually on Kesko and sustainability policies guiding sourcing. our website. In 2018, to improve the transparency of the supply chain, we added the addresses of the factories to In 2018, we participated in Plan’s Girls Takeover event, the list. highlighting the status of girls and women in our supply chains. We promoted work on gender equality as part of Social responsibility assessment of our responsibility programme and made a commitment to suppliers in high-risk countries strengthen the rights and opportunities of women and girls Kesko is a member of amfori, an association dedicated in all of our operations and supply chains. to promoting sustainable trade, and takes part in amfori BSCI. Kesko utilises global social responsibility audit and In 2018–2019, we participate in the corporate certification systems, primarily amfori BSCI audits, in the responsibility law campaign initiated by Finnwatch, calling assessment of suppliers in high-risk countries. 58 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Social responsibility audits and certifications Suppliers' social responsibility audits in Kesko's 10 largest high-risk countries of import1 of suppliers in high-risk countries Social responsibility Jan 1 2019, Jan 1 2018, assessment system total total Russia amfori BSCI 300 291 €1.4 million Belarus 0 audits SA8000 12 15 €7 million 0 audits China SMETA 136 30 €52.8 million SIZA 54 22 310 audits Fairtrade 21 11 Turkey €4.8 million Rainforest Alliance 14 0 7 audits Vietnam ICTI Ethical Toy Program 8 5 €3.4 million Greece India 13 audits For Life 12 0 €5.5 million €11.1 million 3 audits 33 audits Fair for Life 1 0 Thailand WIETA 1 1 Value of imports €5.9 million Number of valid audits South Africa Bangladesh 13 audits ICA Social Audit 26 45 €1.3 million €5 million 57 audits 10 audits 1 CIF, direct imports by Kesko and Onninen Finland only, excluding imports by K-Auto. PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Supply chain OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 The social responsibility of the A total of 190 of Kesko’s suppliers' factories or plantations in high-risk countries underwent full amfori production of own direct imports BSCI audits. In addition, 135 suppliers’ factories or plantations underwent amfori BSCI follow-up audits. At from high-risk countries has been the beginning of 2019, Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk countries had a total of 585 valid social responsibility assured. audits. We assure the responsibility of the In 2015, we began the investigation of the ingredients and risk analysis of Pirkka and K-Menu food ingredients (Tier 2) of own brand products. In 2015–2018, a risk analysis has been carried out on a total of 2,240 food products under Pirkka and K-Menu food products. Kesko’s own brands. We identify and take account of We conducted an extensive survey on the water risks related to our own avocado purchases. On the basis water risks in our supply chain. of the investigation covering 280 primary producers, we will be able to focus our purchases more in areas with the lowest water risk. Purchases from the most problematic area, Petorca, Chile, were terminated. 59 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Results of amfori BSCI audits In 2018, 16 suppliers of Kesko took part in responsibility Kesko’s grocery business selections included 322 (2017: trainings targeted to suppliers organised by amfori BSCI. 300) Fairtrade products, 23 of which were Pirkka products In 2018, a total of 190 (2017: 157) of Kesko’s suppliers' The topics in the amfori BSCI trainings included the (2017: 37) and 4 were Kespro’s Menu products (2017: 4). factories or plantations underwent full amfori BSCI auditing process, responsible recruitment, occupational audits. In addition, 135 (2017: 146) suppliers’ factories or health and safety, working hours and remuneration as well In 2018, a total Fairtrade premium of €915,909 for social plantations underwent amfori BSCI follow-up audits. as participation and protection of employees. development projects was generated by products sold by The results of the 2018 amfori BSCI audits of Kesko’s Kesko’s grocery trade (2017: €719,225). The products suppliers’ factories and farms are shown on page 38. Bangladesh Accord generating the largest Fairtrade premiums were Fairtrade The majority of the deficiencies occurred in observance Kesko joined the Bangladesh Accord agreement in 2018. flowers, coffee and bananas. of working time regulations, management practices, The purpose of the Accord – Accord on Fire and Building and matters related to salaries. Corrective actions and Safety in Bangladesh – agreement is to improve electric, The most popular Fairtrade products in K-food stores are monitoring are included in the audit process. fire and building safety in ready-made garment factories flowers, and the most popular Fairtrade product in Finland in Bangladesh through inspection, training and corrective is the Pirkka Fairtrade rose. In 2008–2018, a total of more In accordance with the amfori BSCI operating model, a full measures. In 2018, all 7 ready-made garment factories in than €2 million was generated as Fairtrade premiums for audit is conducted at factories every two years to assess Bangladesh producing for K-Citymarket’s mywear brand social development projects in local communities from every field of the auditing protocol. If a factory receives were included in the Accord process. Fairtrade flowers sold by K-food stores. The Fairtrade an audit result of C, D or E, a follow-up audit within 12 premiums have been used for the renovation and extension months must be arranged to assess the deficiencies Fairtrade premiums to develop local communities of a school and a day care centre and for purchasing identified in the full audit and the corrective measures Kesko’s grocery trade has had an extensive collaboration kitchen accessories such as kitchen stoves in the local implemented. agreement with Fairtrade Finland for 20 years. In 2018, communities. Kesko does not terminate co-operation with a supplier that undertakes to resolve the grievances specified in the audit report. In 2018, we were obligated to terminate PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: cooperation with 14 factories because a consensus could Own brand products with responsibility labelling not be reached with the factories regarding necessary OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 corrective measures. We offer an Grocery trade’s Pirkka range: Kespro’s Menu range: Building and technical trade’s extensive selection • 286 Hyvää Suomesta Produce of • 12 Hyvää Suomesta Produce of Cello range: Suppliers’ responsibility training sessions of own brand Finland products Finland products • 1,006 Key Flag symbol In 2018, as part of ICA Global Sourcing (IGS) purchase products with • 153 Key Flag symbol products • 27 Key Flag symbol products products collaboration, Kesko and IGS organised responsibility responsibility • 123 Organic products • 8 Organic products • 30 Nordic Swan label products labelling. • 111 Seed leaf label products • 21 Seed leaf label products • 262 Finnish Allergy Label training targeted to shoe suppliers in Shanghai, China. The • 86 Nordic Swan label products • 20 Nordic Swan label products products training session discussed Kesko’s social responsibility • 23 Fairtrade products • 4 Fairtrade products • 63 M1 label products requirements to suppliers, the factory auditing process • 48 UTZ-certified products • 10 UTZ-certified products • 40 MSC-certified fish products • 25 MSC-certified fish products and the product quality and safety requirements. A total of • 4 ASC-certified fish products • 3 ASC-certified fish products 16 shoe suppliers took part in the training. • 5 Finnish Allergy label products • 1 Finnish Allergy Label products • 3 EU Ecolabel products 60 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 amfori BSCI audit results by area in 2018 Full audits Outstanding Good Acceptable Insufficient Unacceptable amfori BSCI audit results in 2018, full audits Social Management System and Cascade Effect 3% 4% 17% 74% 2% Workers' Involvement and Protection 39% 36% 23% 2% 0% The Rights of Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 98% 2% 0% 0% 0% Outstanding (A) 1% No Discrimination 87% 9% 4% 0% 0% Good (B) 5% Acceptable (C) 88% Fair Remuneration 26% 59% 14% 1% 0% Insufficient (D) 6% Decent Working Hours 12% 0% 9% 77% 2% Unacceptable (E) 0% Occupational Health and Safety 61% 27% 2% 8% 2% No Child Labour 99% 1% 0% 0% 0% Special Protection of Young Workers 97% 1% 1% 0% 1% No Precarious Employment 92% 7% 1% 0% 0% No Bonded Labour 99% 1% 0% 0% 0% amfori BSCI audit results in 2018, follow-up Protection of the Environment 64% 22% 12% 2% 0% audits Ethical Business Behaviour 79% 18% 1% 1% 1% Outstanding (A) 4% Follow-up audits Outstanding Good Acceptable Insufficient Unacceptable Good (B) 7% Social Management System and Cascade Effect 1% 8% 11% 78% 2% Acceptable (C) 82% Insufficient (D) 7% Workers' Involvement and Protection 57% 28% 13% 1% 1% Unacceptable (E) 0% The Rights of Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% No Discrimination 87% 9% 3% 1% 0% Fair Remuneration 28% 47% 23% 1% 1% Decent Working Hours 14% 6% 0% 76% 4% Occupational Health and Safety 66% 26% 1% 5% 2% No Child Labour 99% 1% 0% 0% 0% Special Protection of Young Workers 99% 0% 1% 0% 0% No Precarious Employment 97% 3% 0% 0% 0% No Bonded Labour 99% 1% 0% 0% 0% Protection of the Environment 73% 15% 11% 1% 0% If the supplier underwent more than one amfori BSCI audit during Ethical Business Behaviour 87% 8% 3% 1% 1% 2018, the results of the latest audit only are presented. A Outstanding B Good C Acceptable D Insufficient E Unacceptable 61 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Plan and K Group’s collaboration in 1,143 283 52% Thailand ended with excellent 1,143 283 52% 20,000 results children attended children of the children in the learning transitioned to the learning Learning centres for children 20,000 children attended children of the children in centres Thai schools centres are girls the learning transitioned to the learning Cambodian migrant Two learningcentres Learning centres werefor children established in centres Thai schools centres are girls children work in the Eastern Thailand to support the transition of Cambodian migrant Two learning centres were established in The four-year collaboration enabled the children of migrant Thai fishing children workindustry in the workers totransition Cambodian migrant children to Thai schools Eastern Thailand to support the Cambodian migrant children to Thai schools enterof 1,143 283 52%We have supported Thai fishing industry local schools and developed working conditions at Thai fishing factories. 1,143 283 52% 20,000 2015 children attended children of the children in 6,000 We have supported 2015 the learning transitioned to the learning Learning centres for children 20,000 children attended children of the children in 6,000 centres Thai schools centres are girls The 2015-2018 collaboration between Plan and K Cambodian Thailand Group migrant K LearningGroup Two learningcentres entered centres were for the collaboration children established in the learning transitioned to the learning people in Thailand inThailand Eastern Thailand to supportPlan and K Group the transition of conducted centresa Thai schools centres are girls aimed at improving the working conditions childrenof work Cambodian Cambodian migrant Thai fishing industry the because Two learning Cambodian it wanted centres migrant children tostudy promote established werePlan and to Thai K on in schools thethe Group status conducted of a people in&Thailand children work migrant workers in Thiland's fishing industry and enabling in the Eastern Thailand to support the transition of responsibility of its Pirkka fish and 3,500 & Cambodian study migrant on the status of workers 1,143 283 52%We have supportedpeople Thai fishing industry Cambodian migrant children to Thai schools their children to go to school. Cambodia 3,500 shellfish products Cambodian and knowmigrant the whole workers 1,143 283 52%We have supported Cambodia Cambodia in Cambodia 2015 supply chain all the way to the fishingchildren 20,000 children attended of the children in people in 6,000 The collaboration was part of a larger project, SEAS of 2015 the learning transitioned to the learning Learning centres forcommunities. children 20,000 children attended children of the children in 6,000 Change, funded by the SwedishThailand International Development centres Thai schools centres are girls the learning transitioned to the learning Cambodian migrant Learning Two learningcentres for centres were Thailand to supportPlan children established in and K Group conductedcentresa people in Thailand 90% Cooperation Agency (SIDA) children workininThailand Thailand the and Cambodia. Eastern the transition of Thai schools centres are girls &Thailand 34 3,5002 1 Cambodian migrant Two learning centres werePlan amforistudy established in BSCIon the status training of suppliers for people in 90% Thai fishing industry Cambodian migrant children Eastern Thailand to support the and to Thai K schoolsGroup conducted transition of migrant workers a children work in the Cambodian 34 3,5002 & 1 More than 1,100 Thaimigrant workers' Cambodian as of the people study part ofon working thethe status of collaboration fishing industry Cambodiamigrant children to Thai in theCambodian schools Thai fishing migrant workers children educated in learning centres of the industryAsare peoplepart of the collaboration, K Group and Plan also working low-paid Training for the suppliers suppliers were trained on socialpeople inon training events Cambodia advanced training Cambodia We have supported human rights on how to 2015 An important part of the work was providing advice to in the Thai fishing migrant industryorganised are low-paid Training workerssocial responsibility isfor Trainingtraining theforsuppliers organised to improve to suppliers, suppliers were responsibility people in training and labour Cambodia events advanced training promote social 6,000 trained on social on human rights on how to improve We have supported workers’ rights and ensure the social 2015 migrant Trainingwhat is organised to conventions responsibility Cambodian families before they decided to move to helpworkers the suppliers understand social responsibility responsibility of products responsibility and labour promote social 6,000 Thailand workers’ rights and ensure the social conventions responsibility Thailand. Between 2015 and 2018, Plan andPlan K Group and K and audits like a Group conducted about, and how amfori BSCI are responsibility the audits can people in Thailand of products Thailand their partners 90% provided support to some 6,000 members Plan study and Kon ofthe status help improve of a operations in the suppliers’ factories and people in&Thailand 34 3,5002 1 90% Group conducted Cambodian migrant workers 34 3,5002 migrant families in Thailand and some 3,500 in Cambodia. working conditions for their staff. & 1 of the people study workingon the status of Cambodia in theCambodian Thai fishing migrant workers of the people industry working are low-paid Training for the suppliers suppliers were training events trained on socialpeople inonCambodia human rights advanced training on how to Special learning centres Cambodia established at theinmigrant beginning of the The general training covered the amfori BSCI Code the Thai fishing workers industry are low-paid Training Training isfor the organised suppliers to improve suppliers were responsibility training trained on socialpeople inonCambodia events and labour human rights promotetraining advanced social on how to project have provided education to 1,143 children (593 workers’ of Conduct,rightsUN ensure andand ILO the social rights and labour human conventions responsibility migrant workers Training is organised to improve responsibility of products responsibility and labour promote social girls and 550 boys) between the ages of 4 and 17. The workers’ rightsand conventions, and ensure the socialnational labour protection the Thailand conventions responsibility responsibility of products 90% children have been taught the local language and other skills legislation. The in-depth training gave the suppliers tools 34 2 1 90% that enable them to move on to study at public schools in for their own promotion and supervision of social issues. 34 2 1 of the283 Thailand. As a result, people working children (113 girls and 170 boys) Over the course of 4 years, 34 suppliers were given have transitionedof in the Thai fishing public tothe areschools. people industry working low-paid Training for the suppliers training. suppliers were trained on social training events on human rights advanced training on how to in the Thai migrant fishing workers industry are low-paid Training isfor Training the to organised suppliers improve workers’ rights and ensure the social suppliers were responsibility trained on social training events and labour onconventions human rights advanced promotetraining social on how to responsibility migrant workers Training is organised responsibility to improve of products responsibility and labour promote social workers’ rights and ensure the social conventions responsibility responsibility of products 62 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We care for the health and aspects of new Pirkka products are taken into account at In 2018, we made 178 (2017: 140) product recalls in safety of our customers the product development stage. The National Nutrition the grocery trade. Forty-six of these recalls concerned 416 Council of Finland published its nutrition commitment our own brand products (2017: 33). In other cases, our The activities of our Product Research include operating model in June 2017. The nutrition commitment Product Research Unit assisted the product manufacturers assessing the impacts of products on health and safety. is the Finnish contribution to the EU Roadmap for Action in the recall. If a defect or error in a product might have Manufacturers of our own brand food products must on Food Product Improvement framework’s reformulation health impacts, a public recall is carried out. In 2018, this have international certifications that assure product programme. happened twice for our own brand products (2017: 4). safety. The standards we approve include: BRC, IFS, FSSC 22000 and GlobalGAP. In 2018, the total number of In August 2017, we joined the nutrition commitment by In the building and technical trade, we made two recalls in certified suppliers was 553 (2017: 581). This number also making a vegetable commitment, which encourages our K-Rauta in 2018 (2017: 2) and two in Onninen (2017: 3). includes old audits conducted according to our own audit customers to increase their use of vegetables through the guidelines. following actions, which extend to the year 2020: A vehicle manufacturer must launch a recall campaign if a serious error or deviation that needs repairing is detected A total of 7,678 product samples were analysed (7,350 • We set a target that by 2020, at least 400 K-food in one of their models or a part thereof. A serious error in 2017). Most of them were related to the product stores will have dedicated ‘veggie shelves’ for vegetable or deviation is one that poses a hazard to road safety or development of own brands. A total of 2,300 own control protein products. In August 2017, some 200 K-food significant harm to the environment or health. As a rule, samples were analysed (2017: 2,395). stores had a veggie shelf. At the end of 2018, a veggie this kind of a fault or defect would result in a rejection in a shelf was already in approximately 400 K-food stores. vehicle inspection. As proposed in The EC White Paper on Nutrition, • We will organise at least 250 vegetable-related Overweight and Obesity-related Health Issues, sugar, In 2018, a total of 48 recall campaigns were launched for campaigns at K-food stores each year (2018–2020). saturated fat and salt were reduced in more than 150 brands represented by K-Auto (Volkswagen passenger In 2018, we organised 270 vegetable campaigns with Pirkka products during the period 2007–2013. The health cars and utility vehicles, Audi, SEAT, Porsche and MAN). more than 1,200 vegetable products. • We will add at least 50 new fruit or vegetable products In 2018, there were no legal proceedings or fines to our selections by 2020. In 2018, we added 42 new associated with product safety or health in Kesko. PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: fruit and vegetable products to our selections. Product safety We take measures against food frauds in accordance with OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 the VACCP plan (Vulnerability Assessment and Critical The product safety of The Product Research laboratory Control Points). The VACCP plan contains an assessment K Group’s selections is and test kitchen analysed a total of the probability of encountering food frauds and a verified. of 7,678 product samples. 522 suppliers of Kesko’s own brands of monitoring plan to protect us against such frauds. Product food products have international groups identified as critical control points are subjected audit certifications that assure product safety. to normal product and supplier controls but also regular analytic monitoring to detect any frauds. 63 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Marketing communication and product We disclose the country of origin of meat in accordance information with regulation EU No 1337/2013. We label meat and dairy as ingredients in accordance with the national decree MMM Package labelling helps consumers 218/2017. in making responsible choices 417-1 In addition to statutory package labelling, we add voluntary On the product labelling of its own brand products labelling to inform the consumer of matters related to and imports, we comply with all related legislation. Key product responsibility. Such labelling may include organic regulations include: labels and ecolabelling, as well as labelling indicating social responsibility. • Food product labelling: EU food information regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 and complementary acts We add material symbols on the packaging of own brand products of Kesko’s grocery trade. These symbols help and • Product labelling related to safe use of consumer goods: guide consumers to recycle packaging materials. Directive 2001/95/EC on general product safety (and related corresponding national legislation in Kesko’s We add warning labelling of chemicals that are hazardous to operating countries) the environment in accordance with the CLP regulation. Responsible sales of alcohol and tobacco • Warning labelling for chemicals: CLP regulation EC 1272/2008 on the classification, labelling and If a product has faulty labelling, we The Finnish law allows us to sell alcohol drinks with packaging of chemicals will withdraw it from sales a maximum of 5.5% alcohol by volume and tobacco products. The sales require a store-specific licence. The 417-2 • Labelling for electrical equipment: various product law prohibits selling these products to people under 18 In 2018, there were 8 product recalls of Kesko’s own brand years of age. segment specific directives (and related corresponding products resulting from defective product labelling (2017: 9). national legislation in Kesko’s operating countries) We verify the age of all customers who purchase alcohol • Toy labelling: Directive 2009/48/EC on toy safety (and In 2018, Kesko Senukai Latvia was given a fine of €280 for or tobacco and appear younger than 30. This way, we can ensure that we do not sell alcohol or tobacco to related corresponding national legislation in Kesko’s shortcomings in the chemical information in product labelling. minors. In 2018, our cashiers verified the customer’s age operating countries) in 2,008,876 cases of alcohol purchase and in 1,152,770 • Package labelling for cosmetics: Regulation We observe good marketing manners cases of tobacco purchase. Based on these verifications, 417-3 we had to decline 14,760 alcohol purchases and 10,808 EC 1223/2009 on cosmetic products In 2018, no advertisements of Kesko or its subsidiaries tobacco purchases. were subject to processing by The Council of Ethics in We indicate the name and location of the manufacturer Our cashiers must participate in training on age limits and Advertising, and there were no breaches of legislation or on all Finnish Pirkka products and on all K-Menu products. take a test on the topic. The age limit training consists of voluntary principles to be reported. On foreign Pirkka products, we indicate the name of the basic information on age limits for sales and descriptions country of manufacture. On all own brand products of and rehearsals of various situations. After passing the final test, the cashier earns a certificate called an ‘age K-Citymarket and Kesko’s building and technical trade, we limit passport’. indicate the country of origin. 64 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Environment We are committed to international climate summit goals regarding the mitigation of global warming. We promote the sustainable use of natural resources throughout our supply chains. We have set ambitious emission targets for our operations and supply chain. We will reduce emissions through the use of renewable energy, energy-efficiency at the stores, and efficient logistics. We will reduce the use of plastics and promote plastics recycling. We create operating models that prevent plastics from ending up in water bodies and elsewhere in nature. We reduce food waste in our stores and utilise inevitable organic waste. We help our customers reduce their environmental impact. Information presented in this section – GRI codes: • 301 Materials We promote the following UN • 302 Energy Sustainable Development Goals: • 303 Water • 304 Biodiversity • 305 Emissions • 306 Effluents and waste • Food waste 65 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We mitigate climate change PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Renewable energy We participate in mitigating climate change by increasing OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 renewable energy purchases and own production and increasing energy efficiency. We aim to achieve a 10% We will purchase 100% In 2018, we purchased 580 GWh of renewable electricity based on hydropower and renewable electricity in bioenergy with Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs) from the Nordic increase in energy efficiency by 2023. Finland. countries. Read more about the impacts of climate change on We will increase the At the end of 2018, 27 solar power plants had been installed on the rooftops of In spring 2019, four new Kesko’s operations. production of solar power commercial properties managed by Kesko. A total of 4.1 GWh of electricity was solar power plants will be for our own use. produced with solar power for own use in K-food stores. At the end of 2018, the annual taken into use. electricity production capacity of our solar power plants was approximately 8 GWh. Renewable electricity 302-1 All electricity purchased by Kesko for use in K-stores and The majority of properties used district heat, but in Energy consumption of properties other Kesko properties has been produced with renewable addition 2.5% of the heat energy was produced by fuels. In Finland 2018 2017 energy since the beginning of 2017. 2018, the heat energy self-produced with natural gas and Electricity1 (MWh) 493,347 504,459 oil at properties in Finland totalled 30.5 TJ (8,483 MWh). District heat (MWh) 328,842 323,461 In 2018, we purchased 580 GWh of renewable electricity Fuel for self-produced heat (MWh) 8,483 10,978 based on hydropower (58%) and bioenergy (42%) with Calculation methods and electricity and heating Total energy consumption (MWh) 830,672 838,898 Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs) from the consumption statistics by property type as well as changes Nordic countries. About 493 GWh of the renewable energy in properties in Finland are available in the Energy Total energy consumption (TJ) 2,990 3,020 was delivered by Kesko. The rest of the renewable energy consumption tracking and Environmental profile reports. was purchased elsewhere by K-retailers but it was used by Other operating countries2 2018 2017 Kesko. Energy consumption in properties in Electricity (MWh) 71,392 80,186 other operating countries District heat (MWh) 16,862 17,719 Total energy consumption The heat energy was partly self-produced with natural gas Fuel for self-produced electricity (MWh) 0 4,055 In 2018, our energy consumption in all operating countries and oil. In Belarus, a small amount of timber (671 MWh) Fuel for self-produced heat (MWh) 19,481 32,247 totalled 4,051 TJ (including properties and logistics). and peat (136 MWh) were also used for heating. In 2018, Total energy consumption (MWh) 107,735 134,207 the fuels used for self-produced heat and electricity Total energy consumption (TJ) 388 483 Energy consumption of properties in Finland totalled 70 TJ (19,481 MWh). At the end of 2018, properties managed by Kesko in All operating countries 2018 2017 Finland (owned and leased) included offices, warehouses Subsidiaries outside of Finland report their fuel and Total energy consumption (MWh) 938,407 973,105 and 1,233 store sites. In terms of energy consumption, purchased energy consumptions to Kesko and statistics Total energy consumption (TJ) 3,378 3,503 the most significant properties include K-Citymarkets, per country are compiled from this data. The heat energy K-Supermarkets and large wholesale and storage data is not reported for some properties (10 properties in 1 Includes only electricity, which is delivered by Kesko, and which is buildings. Sweden and Latvia), because it is included in the lease or used in Kesko properties and also in K-stores where K-retailers buy the electricity from Kesko data is not available. 2 The 2018 data excludes Russia 66 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Primary energy consumption Energy intensity Joint use and reuse of pallets The primary energy consumption for purchased energy in 302-3 Reusable pallets are used in our stores for the all operating countries in 2018: The cold chain and the need for heated premises in food transportation of fresh products. IFCO RPCs enable us stores and warehouses require greater amounts of energy to actively protect the environment and promote a more • Renewable: 2,374 TJ (68%) in comparison with other business sectors. sustainable supply chain of fresh products. In 2018, a total of 721,306 reusable IFCO containers were transported • Nuclear power: 46 TJ (1%) The calculation methods for the properties in Finland are through us. In 2018, our energy saving compared to • Non-renewable: 1,052 TJ (31%) available in the Energy consumption tracking report. single-use packages amounted to 16,050 GJ. Fuel consumption Energy savings through work clothing service Specific consumptions of energy, The energy consumed by Kesko Logistics' own In 2018, the work clothing service of Kesko Logistics, properties managed by Kesko transportation or that under its direct control was 667 TJ Onninen and Kesko car trade saved, compared to washing kWh/br-m2 2018 2017 in 2018 (2017: 645 TJ ). The fuel used was diesel. In 2018, in households (calculated based on 15,000 pieces of Specific consumption of electricity 210 214 the total distance driven by Kesko Logistics was 42.7 clothing), approximately 24,240 kWh of energy and million km (2017: 41.6 million km). Specific consumption of district heat 88 86 approximately 765,000 l of water. Energy consumption was calculated using data on With Lindström’s industrial towel service, in the course More efficient use of energy kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies and the of the year approximately 4,000 kg of hazardous waste 302-4 transportation fleet. The calculation was made according was extracted from wiper cloths and absorption mats that We participate in the 2017–2025 action plan of the to the Lipasto calculation system of the VTT Technical came from Kesko’s car trade units. The hazardous waste commerce sector Energy Efficiency Agreement. In Research Centre of Finland. extracted from the cloths is shipped through Ekokem to be accordance with the agreement, we commit ourselves reused as energy. to making energy saving measures with the amount Other countries have mostly outsourced logistics equivalent to 7.5% of 2015 energy consumption amount. operations. In 2018, the logistics in Sweden, Poland and All K Group store chains in Finland are included in the Estonia consumed 5.7 TJ of fuel (diesel and gas). PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: agreement. Energy efficiency in stores A total of 771 TJ of fuels from non-renewable sources The target of our energy strategy is to achieve a 10% OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 were used for transportation as well as self-produced increase in energy efficiency by 2023, for example, by heat and electricity of properties. In addition, 2.4 TJ of During the agreement Up to this point, installed solar renewing refrigeration systems and lighting. renewable fuels were consumed. period 2017–2025: We energy and the reported actions commit ourselves to making will allow annual energy savings energy saving measures of 28.7 GWh, which is 36% of with the amount equivalent the target for 2025. Calculation to 7.5% of 2015 energy includes electricity, heating,fuels consumption amount. and district cooling. 67 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 consumption at small store sites. Condensation heat from We will continue to invest in solar power in 2019: four Energy solutions in K-stores refrigeration units is recovered at nearly all K-food stores, new solar power plants are under construction and will be which means that additional heat energy is needed only taken into use during spring 2019. After the introduction during very low sub-zero temperatures. Heat pumps are, of these solar power plants, the total power of our solar whenever possible, utilised with condensation energy. power plants will amount to approximately 11.3 MWp, and the estimated annual production will be approximately In nearly 200 K-food stores, carbon dioxide recovered 9.6 GWh. from industrial processes is used as the refrigerant in their refrigeration units. Carbon dioxide is an environmentally 4. Maintenance process friendly refrigerant. Real Estate Managers help K-stores in making energy consumption more efficient and with long-term planning. Refrigeration Old systems, which use R404A as refrigerant, will be Renovation programmes contain estimates of the Lighting Solar power units converted into energy efficient, environmentally friendly refurbishment that should be made within 5 to 10 years. carbon dioxide based systems by 2030. The task of Energy Managers who support Real Estate 3. Solar power Managers is to carry out consumption comparison Solar power is an excellent energy source to provide surveys and to investigate the reasons for deviations in electricity for stores, since the electricity consumption consumption, and to make energy efficiency investment Maintenance Remote control of food stores is greatest during the summer, when the proposals and project plans. Energy Managers report the stores and their refrigeration equipment require a lot of impact of the energy saving measures taken. electricity for cooling. 5. Remote monitoring 1. Lighting The solar panels installed on rooftops of K-food stores The set points of properties can be changed from the LED lights are used in all lighting solutions of property cover around 10-15% of the stores’ annual electricity remote management centre as required, which also development projects. Adjustable, correctly directed LEDconsumption. On a sunny summer day, solar power enables rapid response to disturbances. Setting the correct lighting can help save up to 60% of electricity consumed can cover as much as 60% of the food store's current running times and set points is the easiest and most compared to traditional fluorescent tube and metal halide consumption. The life cycle of a solar power plant is as effective way to improve energy efficiency. lighting solutions. Switching to LED lighting will reduce long as 35 years. the electricity consumption of lighting by approximately At the end of 2018, 276 sites with significant energy 40 KWh/m2, resulting in annual savings of approximately At the end of 2018, 27 solar power plants had been consumption were connected to the remote monitoring €5,000 to €50,000 a year, depending on the size of the store. installed on the rooftops of commercial properties managed centre. An expert at the monitoring centre supports by Kesko. A total of 4.1 GWh of electricity was produced maintenance personnel in technical matters around the 2. Renewing the refrigeration system with solar power for own use in K-food stores. At the end clock. In food stores, the consumption of refrigeration systems of 2018, the annual electricity production capacity of our can account for more than half of the total electricity solar power plants was approximately 8 GWh. 68 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Water We monitor water consumption and its impact Water consumption by country 303-1 m3 2018 2017 The most significant impacts from water consumption Finland 1,055,406 977,989 are caused by imported products for sale which originate Sweden 8,369 6,777 from areas suffering from water scarcity or contamination. Norway 5,888 144 Due to the large consumption of imported processed Estonia 9,001 7,421 goods and the virtual water footprint associated with Latvia 10,714 9,210 them, almost half (47%) of the water footprint of Finnish Lithuania 44,839 39,780 consumption falls outside of Finland. Poland 4,476 4,754 Belarus 54,570 51,047 Our objective is to identify the water basins most affected Total 1,193,263 1,127,137 by water scarcity or contamination issues in our supply chain. The results will be used to plan actions. In 2018, we In 2018, water consumption increased in Finland conducted an extensive survey on the water risks related especially in the following property groups: K-Citymarkets, to our own avocado purchases. Read more at 304-2. K-Supermarkets, Neste K service stations and office and warehouse buildings. Water consumption statistics by Properties managed by Kesko use water from municipal property type and changes in the property portfolio in water supplies in all operating countries. In addition, a few Finland are available in the Energy consumption tracking wells are in use on properties in Estonia, Lithuania and report. Belarus. However, water from these wells accounts for only a minor portion (2.6%) of total water consumption and The water consumption data from other countries is is thus reported with the municipal water consumption. compiled from figures reported by the companies, which Waste water from Kesko's operations goes to municipal are based on water billing or consumption data. At some sewer systems. properties located in leased premises, water consumption is included in the lease and data is not available for reporting (36 properties in Sweden, Norway and Latvia). 69 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We promote sustainable use All avocados purchased by Kesko are GlobalGAP We restore habitats of natural resources certified. The environmental requirements of GlobalGAP 304-3 304-2 certification include a requirement on good water use. K Fishpaths We identify biodiversity impacts and opportunities in our Evaluation of suppliers’ In 2017, we began a multi-year collaboration extending to operations. The objective is to reduce adverse biodiversity environmental responsibility 2021 with the environmental organisation WWF Finland impacts in the supply chain and to take part in projects We are a member of amfori, an organisation that promotes to save endangered migratory fish populations. With that promote biodiversity in co-operation with other sustainable business, and therefore recommend an the K Fishpaths collaboration we aim to remove barriers operators. amfori BEPI evaluation for evaluating the environmental and create spawning grounds in a spirit of co-operation responsibility of suppliers from high-risk countries. At the with local operators, landowners, local K-retailers and Supply chain end of 2018, 21 of our suppliers in high-risk countries volunteers. Our greatest impacts on biodiversity occur throughout participated in the BEPI process. Our goal is to have 30 the life cycle of the products on sale. Raw materials suppliers in high-risk countries in the BEPI process by the Store sites critical to biodiversity in Kesko’s supply chain include fish end of 2019. We build store sites only in areas planned by municipalities and shellfish, timber, palm oil, and soy. Their sustainable for business properties. Surveys of contaminated land are sourcing is guided by sustainability policies. K-Kampus goes Green Office made annually in connection with construction work and In autumn 2018, we joined the WWF Green Office real estate transactions. In 2018, Kesko did not have any In 2018, we conducted an extensive survey on the water network and will build a Green Office compliant sites for restoration in Finland. risks related to our own avocado purchases. The aim of environmental system in our new headquarters at the survey was to identify the areas in the supply chain K-Kampus. K Group’s Green Office payments support Kesko does not have any protected habitats of its own. which have problems related to scarcity or contamination WWF Finland in its efforts to protect the Baltic Sea. of water. It takes as much as 400 to 2,000 litres of water to grow PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: one kilo of avocados. Therefore, the water footprint Biodiversity of avocado farming is significant. As part of the risk assessment, we used WWF’s water risk tool to individually OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 examine all the 280 primary producers around the world K Fishpaths collaboration with WWF Finland: During the second season of K Fishpaths collaboration, we concentrated especially on from which Kesko purchases avocados for K-food stores. We will remove at least 50 barriers preventing improving the spawning grounds and habitat for trout. We built more than 100 gravel Among other things, the assessment showed us that water endangered migratory fish from swimming grounds for spawning and opened 3 barriers, freeing as much as an additional 30 km of new upstream and create at least 100 spawning spawning grounds and habitat formerly inaccessible to fish. A total of approximately 280 risks may vary considerably within a country or a region. grounds in Finland between 2017 and 2021. We volunteers and 18 local K-retailers participated in the work organised at 8 locations. The will increase awareness of the endangered nature trout were observed to have returned to the areas restored during the first season. of migratory fish and arrange volunteer events. On the basis of the survey, we will increasingly put emphasis on purchases from areas with the least water risks. Purchases from the most problematic area, Petorca, Chile, were terminated in 2018. 70 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Emissions Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Tonnes CO2-eq 2018 2017 Kesko reports direct and indirect (Scope 1 and 2) Direct (Scope 1) 45,139 48,219 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its operations Finland 40,679 38,506 according to the GHG Protocol standard. logistics (Kesko Logistics) 38,634 35,801 self-produced heat (natural gas and oil) 2,045 2,705 • Scope 1: GHG emissions caused by fuel consumption Other operating countries 4,460 9,713 for producing heat and electricity at properties logistics (Sweden, Poland and Estonia) 386 1,870 managed by Kesko and for transportation of goods self-produced heat and electricity (natural gas, oil, peat and timber1) 4,074 7,843 directly controlled by Kesko. Indirect (Scope 2) 80,822 82,421 • Scope 2: GHG emissions caused by generation of Finland 60,232 55,004 electricity purchased by Kesko and district heating purchased electricity (market-based) 0 0 consumed in properties managed by Kesko. purchased electricity (location-based)2 80,909 91,224 purchased district heat (location-based) 60,232 55,004 Direct and energy indirect GHG emissions Other operating countries 20,590 27,417 (Scope 1 and 2) purchased electricity (location-based) 17,084 22,803 305-1 305-2 purchased district heat (location-based) 3,506 4,614 Total 125,961 130,640 Scope 1 In 2018, the Scope 1 emissions of Kesko in Finland Finland, Scope 1 and 2 total 100,911 93,510 increased due to the increased total kilometres driven for Other operating countries, Scope 1 and 2 total 25,050 37,130 transportation of goods by Kesko Logistics. 1 The biogenous CO2 emission figure of the timber used for heating one facility in Belarus is reported in Scope 1, because its proportion of the total fuel quantity is insignificant (671 MWh). Emissions from logistics in the other operating countries 2 Following the GHG Protocol standard, the location-based emission figure for electricity consumption in Finland has been reported. The marketwere reported for Sweden, Poland and Estonia. Most of the based figure is used for the emissions totals. logistics in the other operating countries are outsourced. The transportation of goods for Kesko's grocery trade operations in other countries were calculated based on fuel (42%) with Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin in Finland is managed by Kesko Logistics. The logistics’ consumption. (REGOs) from the Nordic countries. Read more at Energy. emissions from its own transportation and from those under its direct control were calculated based on data Scope 2 The calculation principles and more detailed calculations including kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies and the In 2018, Kesko purchased for use in all K-stores and other for Scope 1 and 2 emissions attributed to properties transportation fleet. The calculation was made according Kesko properties in Finland, 580 GWh of renewable managed by Kesko can be found in the Environmental to the Lipasto calculation system of the VTT Technical electricity based on hydropower (58%) and bioenergy profile for Finland and the Other operating countries Research Centre of Finland. The emissions for logistics reports. 71 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GHG emissions intensity 305-3 305-4 Tonnes CO2-eq 2018 2017 The Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity is Upstream calculated based on net sales (€10,383 million in 2018), Purchased goods and services 7,300,300 7,698,000 and the average number of employees (19,995 in 2018). Capital goods (buildings) 29,600 33,500 Indirect emissions of purchased energy (other than Scope 1 and Scope 2) 30,200 30,900 2018 2017 Transport and distribution of goods 6,500 14,400 Based on net sales (tonnes CO 2e / € 12.1 12.2 million) Waste 11,600 10,300 Based on average number of 6.3 5.9 Business travel 3,500 3,100 employees (tonnes CO 2e / person) Employee commuting 18,100 20,800 Downstream Customer commuting (shopping trips) 149,100 164,900 Aim to reduce GHG emissions Use of sold products 1,993,400 1,771,000 305-5 End-of-life treatment of sold products 45,400 38,600 Science Based Targets Franchises (retailer entrepreneurs) 92,900 102,700 Kesko is the first Finnish company to set climate targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. The The greatest other indirect emissions of Kesko are caused The Scope 3 calculation principles can be found in the emissions targets set in line with two degree climate in the supply chain of the products for sale (75%), in the Kesko Scope 3 Report. warming were approved in June 2017. use phase of the products (21%) and by the shopping commutes of customers (2%). Kesko aims to achieve the ambitious emission goals by increasing the use of renewable energy and by improving energy efficiency. PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Science Based Targets OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 We commit to reduce our direct and indirect Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased by 12% from We aim to systematically reduce (Scope 1 and 2) emissions 18% by 2025 from base year 2015, due to the acquisitions of Suomen Scope 1 and 2 emissions. base year 2015. Lähikauppa and Onninen in 2016. In addition, we are committed to reduce our Out of Kesko’s key suppliers of 2018, 30% had set their supply chain emissions (Scope 3) so that 90% own emission reduction targets. of Kesko's key suppliers will set their own GHG emissions reduction targets by 2025. 72 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Logistics The 2018 emissions were calculated using the emission Our selection includes three products which reduce the The target of Kesko Logistics is to reduce emissions relative rates of EURO 5 engines. environmental burden on the Baltic Sea, two kinds of to the net sales index by 10% during 2012–2020 from the Pirkka archipelago fish patties made from Baltic Sea bream 2011 base year. By the end of 2018, the relative emissions We reduce the emissions of Kesko Logistics through longand Pirkka Parhaat Benella rainbow trout farmed in Finland had decreased by 16.8% from the base level. In 2018, the term work: whose fodder is based on Baltic herring and sprat caught relative emissions decreased by 0.7% in comparison to from the Baltic Sea as raw material. 2017. However, the absolute emissions increased slightly • Efficiency of logistics: centralised distribution, due to the increase in kilometres driven by logistics. optimisation of delivery routes and high volumetric Housing solutions efficiency The building and technical trade offers consumers and business customers diverse product selections and Efficient logistics fleet • Efficient reverse logistics: collection of purchase loads, expertise for improving the energy efficiency of building carrier trays, pallets, roll containers, cardboard and and renovation projects. K-Rauta stores provide a free Traditional full-trailer combination recycled bottles and cans on the return route renovation support channel for customers with advice for • Economical driving courses: all of Kesko Logistics’ more energy saving, and renovation and repair work. than 500 contract drivers have been trained Electric cars are gaining ground • New replacements in the vehicle fleet 90 roll containers 25.25 m Kesko’s selection includes 11 plug-in hybrid car models (PHEV) and 3 electric cars. In addition, the selection Scope 3 emission reductions Two-tier trailer combination includes 11 car models using natural gas or biogas as Products for sale fuel. In 2018, the registrations of Volkswagen, Audi The greatest indirect emissions of Kesko are caused in and Porsche plug-in hybrids in Finland increased 20.1% the supply chain and during the use phase of the products compared to 2017. for sale. These emissions can be influenced by offering 120 roll containers 25.25 m selections of products and services causing less emissions and by customer communications. HCT-truck Environmental impacts of food choices PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: By reducing the amount of animal-based products Logistics emissions and household food waste consumers can reduce the 114 roll containers 31 m environmental impact of their food consumption. OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 We will reduce emissions The relative emissions Two-tier HCT-truck The number of plant-based Pirkka products increased by of Kesko Logistics’ decreased by 16.8% from 41 new products in 2018 and the selection now numbers transportations relative to the the level of 2011 base year. In net sales index by 10% from the 2018, the relative emissions over 170. 2011 base year by 2020. decreased by 0.7% compared to 2017. 189 roll containers 34 m 73 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Customer shopping commutes new office at K-Kampus. We paid attention to public end of 2018, K Group had 18 video conferencing facilities The emissions caused by customer shopping commutes transport connections, financial support for commuting in use and the total duration of all video meetings between are a significant source of indirect emissions for Kesko. The and the availability of carsharing and bikesharing. two or more facilities was 338 hours (2017: 1,494). majority of shopping commutes are made by car. K-Kampus will have a bicycle parking area, 10 shared bicycles for on-the-job errands as well as a drying room, Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), Kesko is building an extensive network of electric vehicle showers and dressing rooms for employees to support and other significant air emissions charging points adjacent to K Group stores in order to mobility. 305-7 progress the electrification of cars. At the end of 2018, The electricity and heating energy consumed in properties Kesko provided nearly 200 electric and hybrid K charging Business travel managed by Kesko in Finland in 2018 caused: points adjacent to our stores. At the end of 2018, Kesko had 508 company cars in use in Finland (2017: 668). • NOX emissions: 138 tonnes (2017: 134 tonnes) In 2018, we launched a carsharing pilot in which passenger cars and vans were brought for lease to the yards of • 1 ethanol-fueled car (2017: 2) • SO2 emissions: 122 tonnes (2017: 119 tonnes) K-Supermarkets and K-Rauta stores. • 281 petrol-fueled cars (2017: 329) • Tonnes of radioactive waste produced by nuclear K Group offers Finland’s most comprehensive network • 225 diesel-fueled cars (2017: 336) power: 0 tonnes (2017: 0 tonnes) of neighbourhood stores with the best services. When • 1 natural gas car (2017: 1) the nearby neighbourhood store offers a selection suited The calculation principles and more detailed calculations for its customers, shopping commutes are shortened are available in the Environmental profile report. According to Kesko's company car policy, Kesko’s and can be travelled more often by foot, bicycle or public company cars have an emission level below 150 g CO2/ transportation, especially in cities. The extra services The particulate emissions in 2018 for Kesko’s logistics in km. The employees’ pay share will be discounted by 10% available at K-stores reduce emissions caused by customer Finland were: of the tax value if the emission level of the company car is commuting, because many errands can be run during the below 105 g CO2/km. In 2018, the average emission level same shopping trip. Increasingly, online shopping also • NOX emissions: 166 tonnes was 121 g CO2/km (2017: 122 g CO2/km). The emissions reduces customer commuting. caused by company cars in Finland totalled 2,297 tonnes • SO2 emissions: 0.2 tonnes CO2 (2017: 2,477 tonnes CO2). This calculation also Employee commuting includes private use of company cars. We want to support our employees to discover healthy, environmentally friendly ways of commuting. We In 2018, the air miles of Kesko employees travelling encourage our personnel to try out alternative means of for business totalled 9.8 million (2017: 9.8 million). commuting (such as public transport, cycling, walking and Encouraging the use of virtual meetings is one of the ways running). Kesko endeavours to decrease the amount of air travel. The amount of virtual meetings increased by approximately In 2018, we designed solutions for responsible commuting 11% compared to 2017. In 2018, a total of 77,312 hours especially in view of the employees who will move to our of virtual meetings were held (2017: 69,858 hours). At the 74 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We want to be a forerunner in all Rinki eco take-back points adjacent to all other K-food Circular economy agreement for stores in Finland circular economy solutions stores by the end of 2022. Since 2016, all our food as well as building and home improvement stores in Finland have had the opportunity Shifting to a circular economy requires increasingly Since 2017, Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags have been to participate in the national centralised Circular Economy efficient circulation of materials. We provide customers made from plastic recycled by customers. Agreement. The target is to increase the efficiency of with diversified recycling services for waste and discarded recycling at our stores and advance the circular economy. items and develop innovative circular economy solutions in In connection with our stores, customers can also return co-operation with other operators. deposit beverage containers, batteries and accumulators, At the end of 2018, a total of 585 stores (2017: 426) WEEE, impregnated timber and discarded clothing for participated in the Circular Economy Agreement. The Stringent targets for the recycling, recycling. recovery rate of the waste generated in these stores was reduction and avoidance of plastic 100% (2017: 100%) and the recycling rate was around In the plastics policy updated in October 2018, we Kesko Logistics’ centralised collection services 69% (2017: 67%). implemented more stringent targets for the recycling, In 2018, cardboard and plastic bales were centrally reduction and avoidance of plastic. By the end of 2025, directed by Kesko's grocery trade for industry reuse. From ham fat to biodiesel we will reduce the amount of plastic in all packages of, Around 3,355 tonnes of cardboard (2017: 2,912) and 48 In 2018, we took part for the third time in the Ham Trick and the packages will become recyclable. We will increase tonnes of plastic (2017: 54) were collected. campaign in which customers could take fat from roasting the amount of products and packages made of recyclable their Christmas hams to collection points at K-food stores plastic in our own brands. The reverse logistics operations of Kesko Logistics for the production of renewable diesel. The collection was transport beverage containers and boxes from stores for extended from K-Citymarkets to K-Supermarkets and In 2018, we accelerated the reduction of plastic by setting reuse and recovery. K-Markets. A total of 185,000 households participated in the same price for plastic, paper and biodegradable bags the campaign. in all K-food stores. We removed microbeads from our own brand detergent products. To bear our responsibility as a retailer, we joined The New Packages and items returned by customers to Plastics Economy Global Commitment in autumn 2018. recycling points at K Group stores in Finland 2018 2017 Read more about our activities to reduce plastic. Deposit aluminium cans (million pcs) 387 374 Packaging collected by Kesko Logistics Deposit recyclable plastic bottles (million pcs) 138 120 Recycling points for customers in Finland in Finland for recovery and reuse Deposit recyclable glass bottles (million pcs) 32 30 301-3 1,000 pcs 2018 2017 Batteries and accumulators (tonnes) 293 303 In December 2018, there were 405 (2017: 399) Rinki Aluminium cans 89,913 87,676 WEEE (tonnes) 152 68 eco take-back points intended for recycling consumer PET bottles 67,157 60,606 Lead-acid accumulators, K-Rauta (tonnes) 0 0,8 packages (fibre, glass, metal) in connection with K-food Recyclable glass bottles 12,267 12,305 Impregnated timber, K-Rauta (tonnes) 915 859 stores. Plastic was collected at 193 (2017: 173) eco takeReusable crates 21,059 20,241 Used clothing, UFF recycling points (tonnes) 3,553 3,460 back points. Our aim is to introduce collection of plastic at 75 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Waste for recovery Waste: Finland, Sweden and Norway 306-2 Finland Sweden Norway Tonnes 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Our objective is to minimise and recover all waste from our Non-hazardous waste 15,831 17,469 2,822 3,533 919 723 operations. Recycling/recovery 15,820 17,467 2,598 3,182 895 723 Landfill 11 2 224 351 24 0 Tonnes 2018 2017 Hazardous waste 289 354 160 227 733 511 Non-hazardous waste 29,812 36,401 Recycling/recovery 177 258 3 7 517 494 Hazardous waste treatment 112 96 157 220 216 17 Recycling/recovery 24,395 26,917 Total 16,119 17,823 2,982 3,760 1,652 1,234 Landfill 5,417 9,484 Recovery rate % 99.93 99.99 92 91 99 100 Hazardous waste 1,563 1,404 Recycling/recovery 996 983 The 2018 data excludes Konekesko Finland. Hazardous waste treatment 567 421 Total 31,375 37,805 Waste: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania Estonia Latvia Lithuania Tonnes 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Waste recovery rates Non-hazardous waste 859 924 1,545 911 5,895 5,973 The recovery rate includes all waste except waste to Recycling/recovery 793 834 193 171 2,966 2,657 landfill. The type of waste treatment was determined by Landfill 66 90 1,352 740 2,929 3,316 the waste management company. Hazardous waste 55 37 13 9 170 166 Recycling/recovery 4 1 0 0 155 125 Hazardous waste treatment 51 36 13 9 15 41 Total 914 961 1,558 920 6,065 6,139 Recovery rate % 93 91 13 20 52 46 PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Waste: Poland and Belarus Waste recovery Poland Belarus Tonnes 2018 2017 2018 2017 OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 Non-hazardous waste 413 404 1,528 1,494 Recycling/recovery 137 127 992 293 Our objective is to According to statistics, the recovery minimise and recover rate for waste management in Finland Landfill 276 277 536 1,201 all waste from our was nearly 100% and in the other Hazardous waste 18 17 125 82 operations. operating countries it was 65% (includes Recycling/recovery 18 17 123 81 hazardous waste treatment). The waste recovery rate for stores included in the Hazardous waste treatment 0 0 2 1 circular economy agreement in Finland Total 432 421 1,653 1,576 was 100%. Recovery rate % 36 34 68 24 76 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 We reduce food waste K Group food waste hierarchy We reduce food waste through co-operation throughout the whole food chain, from primary production to the end Food waste prevention measures: product selections, electronic forecast and order systems, efficient transport and store logistics, user. Our objective is to reduce K Group's identified food employee training, and optimisation of packaging properties waste by 13% from the 2016 level by 2021. Food waste prevention Our primary means of reducing food waste is selection Price reductions of products approaching management. K-food stores maintain selections that suit their best before dates their customer base, and complement the selections through forecast-based requirements planning. Efficient transport and store logistics, a self-control system and staff training also help to prevent waste. The optimisation and continuous development of packaging features play a Donations of food removed from sale to charity key role in reducing waste. At the store Stores are instructed to pay special attention to the Utilisation of expiration dates of fresh foods and foods with short non-edible organic expiration times. As a product’s ‘best before’ or ‘use by’ waste for energy date approaches, K-food stores can sell the product at a discount. The deregulation of store opening hours in Finland in 2016 has had an impact on food waste: as stores are open for longer, sales are steadier and there is less waste. ResQ Club app to reduce food waste With the ResQ Club waste food app, K-food stores can sell food products nearing their expiry dates to consumers. taken the application into use, they have managed to cut 2018, the amount of food products donated to charities by ResQ Club started cooperation with the first K-food stores down food waste to about one sixth of what it used to be. K-food stores was 5% higher than the year before. Some in May 2018, and in December 2018 the ResQ Club waste food waste is also given to farms for animal feed. food application was already in use at 71 K-food stores Food donations across Finland. This operating model reduces waste, and at Some 90% of K-food stores donate edible food products the same time customers have the opportunity to buy food they no longer can sell to local charities, which then at reduced prices. In some of the K-food stores, which have distribute the products as food aid to those in need. In 77 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Biogas from food waste shopping list and about 8,000 K-ruoka.fi recipes. At the We co-operate with Gasum in producing biogas from end of 2018, the app had approximately 600,000 users. inedible food waste collected from K-food stores. The biogas produced is transmitted to Gasum’s gas network, We surveyed the consumers’ attitude towards food and then utilised as energy in the production of new Pirkka waste in an online survey performed in the Kylä customer products. Three manufacturers of Pirkka products are community in late 2018. Of the 738 respondents, the included in the operating model. majority try to avoid discarding food and 84% actively try to avoid the generation of food waste. One out of 10 (11%) Biogas produced from inedible organic waste, which is households does not throw food into the rubbish bin at all. collected from about 200 K-food stores and the Kesko Logistics central warehouse, is utilised as energy in the production of new Pirkka products. In 2018, some 4,000 tonnes of organic waste (2017: 4,000) was turned into some 3,000 MWh of biogas (2017: 3,000). CO2 emissions were reduced by 600 tonnes compared to natural gas (emission factor 198 g CO2/kWh) and by 800 tonnes compared to fuel oil (emission factor 267 g CO2/kWh). Food waste from K-food stores Household food waste 2018 2017 K-ruoka.fi’s food waste pages inform our customers on Identified food waste (tonnes) 18,931 19,511 how to reduce food waste. The K-ruoka mobile app helps Identified food waste in proportion to sales 1.65% 1.72% our customers plan their grocery shopping by offering Development of food waste in proportion to -7.3% -7.1% personalised benefits, store-specific offers, a smart sales (from base year 2013) PROGRESS MADE IN OUR RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME: Food waste OBJECTIVE PROGRESS IN 2018 PLANS FOR 2019 Our objective is to reduce K Group's Food waste decreased by 7.3% from the We signed in a commitment for materials efficiency identified food waste by 13% from the previous 2013 base level. Compared to in the food industry in February 2019. The objective 2016 level by 2021. 2017, food waste at K-stores decreased by of the companies participating in this commitment 3%. K-food stores donated 5% more food to is to reduce the amount of food waste by 13% and to charity compared to 2017. increase the recycling rate of waste to 78%. 78 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Management approach GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND FINANCE CUSTOMERS Material aspects Economic performance Customer health Indirect economic impacts Product safety Anti-corruption Anti-competitive behaviour Compliance Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Customer privacy Policies and Accounting policies K-food stores and K-Rauta stores employ the K-responsibility concept. commitments Kesko Group complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved for adoption by the EU. Corporate Governance principles Risk management principles Good trading principles in the food chain K Code of Conduct Data protection policy Monitoring and Financial reporting and planning The Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the product safety and quality of own brand products and control systems own imports in the grocery trade. Compliance: compliance programmes Prevention of malpractice: internal audit, K Code of Conduct Risk management Customer privacy Programmes, In the building and home improvement store operations, the assessment of a store's operational responsibility projects and comprises the store's annual self-assessment, the criteria defined in the responsible store concept, and a initiatives responsibility audit performed by an external party on a specified sample. The auditor reports the results to the store and to Kesko. Food store operations utilise the Hymy quality review system. The service level, recognition and image of Kesko's chains are regularly monitored in brand surveys targeted at consumers in all product lines. The same practice is applied to the K-Plussa customer loyalty programme and the grocery trade's own brand products. Store-level customer satisfaction is measured by customer satisfaction surveys and the mystery shopping method in food stores and building and home improvement stores. Grievance Employees can present questions and ideas for development through their manager as Plussa.com mechanisms well as anonymously or in their own name using an electronic discussion channel. K Consumer Service SpeakUp reporting channel. Chains’ customer feedback systems Boundaries Corporate governance: Kesko Customer health and safety: Kesko’s own brand products and own imports Finance: Kesko Product and service information: Kesko’s own brand products and own imports Marketing communications: Kesko Compliance: Kesko 79 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 SOCIETY RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND SUSTAINABLE SELECTIONS Material aspects Procurement practices Information and compliance of products and services Customer health and safety Assessment of suppliers’ working conditions Human rights Marketing communications Policies and Kesko requires that its business partners act in compliance with the K Code of Conduct. Kesko's purchasing principles commitments We add a K Code of Conduct contract clause to agreements signed by Kesko Group Sustainability policies companies under which the Group companies purchase products or services from parties outside the group. Kesko's policy on chemicals for home textiles, clothing, leather goods, shoes and upholstered furniture Good trading principles in the food chain. Monitoring and Changes in the operating environment and in K Group are taken into account by Certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk countries approved by Kesko Supplier control systems adjusting objectives, operating principles, monitoring systems and/or resources. agreements require that suppliers and service provides comply with the principles of the K Code of Conduct and the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct. Kesko's grocery trade requires that the manufacturers and producers of its own brand products have an international food safety certification. Kesko’s grocery trade approves the following audit procedures: BRC, IFS, ISO/FSSC 22000, SQF1000/2000 and GlobalGAP or Laatutarha. The Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the product safety and quality of own brand products and own imports in the grocery trade. All of our food product operations have a self-control plan in place. The testing laboratory is T251 and has been accredited by the FINAS accreditation services and approved to comply with the SFS-EN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. The assessment of a store's responsible operations comprises the store's annual self-assessment, the criteria defined in the store's quality system and a responsibility audit performed by an external party on a specified sample. The auditor reports the results to the store and to Kesko. Programmes, Thank the Producer amfori BSCI projects and Accord Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh initiatives amfori BSCI Sustainable Wine Programme The Center for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility Plan International and K Group's collaboration to support Thai fishing industry migrant workers Grievance SpeakUp reporting channel K Consumer Service mechanisms Chains’ customer feedback systems SpeakUp reporting channel Boundaries Economic performance: Kesko Compliance: Kesko Indirect economic impacts: K Group Product safety: Kesko’s own brand products and own imports Purchase practices: K Group Social responsibility of procurement (1st tier): Kesko 80 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 WORKING COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Material aspects Employment Energy Labour/management relations Water Occupational health and safety Biodiversity Training Emissions Diversity and equal opportunity Waste Equal remuneration Food waste Labour practices grievance mechanisms Policies and K Code of Conduct K Group’s environmental and energy policy commitments HR policy UN Global Compact initiative Diversity policy UN Sustainable Development Goals The New Plastics Economy Global Commitment Sustainability policies Monitoring and Occupational health and safety and HR EnerKey.com system control systems All of Onninen's operations in all operating countries are ISO 14001 certified. The operations of Kesko Logistics are ISO 14001 certified. In the food stores and building and home improvement stores, environmental management is based on the K-responsibility concept. Programmes, Well-being at work programme Science Based Targets projects and Youth work at K Group Retail sector energy efficiency agreement for 2017–2025 initiatives amfori Business Environmental Performance Initiative (BEPI) RSPO RTRS Green Office K Fishpaths Grievance Employees can present questions and ideas for development through their manager as SpeakUp reporting channel mechanisms well as anonymously or in their own name using an electronic discussion channel. SpeakUp reporting channel Boundaries Working community Kesko Energy and water: Kesko Biodiversity: Kesko Emissions: Scope 1 and 2: Kesko; Scope 3: K-stores and supply chain Waste: Finland: Kesko’s warehousing operations, office operations and stores; other operating countries: warehousing operations and stores Food waste: Kesko's grocery trade division and K-food stores 81 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Reporting principles Reporting principles in accordance Assurance of reporting Report stakeholders with the GRI standards An independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, Various stakeholders use the report as their source of Since 2000, Kesko has annually reported on its corporate has provided assurance for the numerical data on information when assessing Kesko’s results in the different responsibility actions in accordance with the Global economic, social and environmental responsibility areas of responsibility. The most important target groups Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for reporting on in the Finnish-language Sustainability section of the for the report include investors, shareholders, analysts and sustainable development. The Sustainability section in Annual Report. The congruence between responsibility rating agencies, as well as society (the media, authorities, Kesko’s Annual Report is prepared in accordance with the information presented in the Finnish and English versions educational establishments and NGOs). GRI standards and it covers the key areas of economic, has been checked. social and environmental responsibility. For each reported Reporting period and contact information standard, the GRI index refers to the year of the version The conclusions, observations and recommendations by This report describes the progress and results of used. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy are detailed in the assurance responsibility work in 2018. It includes some information report. The assurance is commissioned by the operative from January and February 2019. Kesko applies in its operations the AA1000 AccountAbility management of Kesko Corporation. Principles: stakeholder inclusivity, identification of material The report for 2017 was published in March 2018. aspects and responsiveness to stakeholders. Global Compact reporting The report describes Kesko’s progress on the 10 principles The report for 2019 will be published in the spring of Kesko has taken account of the ISO 26000 standard as of the Global Compact initiative. The GRI index shows 2020. a source document providing guidelines for corporate which General Disclosures and Topic-specific Disclosures responsibility. have been used for evaluating performance in fulfilling Further information on the topics covered in the report can human rights, labour rights, environment principles and be obtained from Kesko’s contact persons. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI anti-corruption principles. Standards: Core option. Topic-specific Disclosures are reported with respect to the material topics for Kesko. Integrated annual report A comparison of the contents of the report and the GRI Kesko takes account of the IIRC (International Integrated standards is given in the GRI index. Reporting Council) <IR> Framework in its annual reporting. The report is published in Finnish and in English. The report is published online in PDF format. 82 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 GRI-index KD = Kesko's direction SU = Sustainability CG = Corporate Governance FS = Financial Statements GLOBAL MOST STANDARD CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION OMISSIONS FURTHER INFORMATION COMPACT MATERIAL SDG VERSION GRI 102 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation KD 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services KD 5 102-3 Location of headquarters KD 3 102-4 Location of operations KD 3 102-5 Ownership and legal form KD 3 102-6 Markets served KD 3 102-7 Scale of the organisation KD 3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers SU 23-24 There are no independent entrepreneurs among Kesko employees, nor does suppliers' or hired labour perform a significant part of x the work. There are no significant seasonal fluctuations in the number of employees. 102-9 Supply chain SU 20 102-10 Significant changes to the KD 6-8 organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach SU 8-9 102-12 External initiatives kesko.fi Principles of corporate responsibility 102-13 Membership of associations kesko.fi Activities in organisations 102-14 Statement from senior decisionmaker KD 6-8 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities KD 11, SU 8-9 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of kesko.fi K Code of Conduct x behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about kesko.fi Reporting concerns and x ethics instances of non-compliance 102-18 Governance structure CG 5 102-19 Delegating authority CG 14-15, kesko.fi Sustainability governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, EVP, CFO; EVP, Human Resources, Both are members of the Group environmental and social topics Corporate Responsibility and Management Board. Regional Relations 83 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 GLOBAL MOST STANDARD CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION OMISSIONS FURTHER INFORMATION COMPACT MATERIAL SDG VERSION 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, SU 6-7 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body CG 5-11 and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body CG 5-11 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest CG 5-11 governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest CG 5-11 Kesko complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies. 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting CG 5-11 purpose, values, and strategy 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body' s CG 5-11 Only the Board's self-assessment performance has been reported. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, CG 5-11 environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes CG 16-17 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social CG 16-17 topics 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability CG 7 reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns CG 10, CG 15 102-35 Remuneration policies CG 20-28 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SU 6-7 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements SU 32 x 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SU 6-7 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SU 6-7 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SU 6-7 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial FS 43-44, FS 107-109 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries SU 59 102-47 List of material topics kesko.fi Materiality assessment of corporate responsibility 84 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 GLOBAL MOST STANDARD CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION OMISSIONS FURTHER INFORMATION COMPACT MATERIAL SDG VERSION 102-48 Restatements of information No significant changes. Changes reported in connection with topicspecific information. The divested Russian building and home improvement trade operations are reported as discontinued operations and are not included in the figures for the Group’s continuing operations in the financial statement. The comparison data for the 2017 income statement, statement of cash flows and certain performance indicators have been adjusted. 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes. 102-50 Reporting period SU 59 102-51 Date of most recent report SU 59 102-52 Reporting cycle SU 59 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report kesko.fi Contacts, responsibility 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI SU 59 Standards 102-55 GRI content index SU 60-66 102-56 External assurance SU 67-68 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary SU 56-58 103-2 The management approach and its components SU 56-58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SU 56-58 TOPIC-SPECIFIC CONTENT Topic-specific content is reported regarding aspects identified as material. ECONOMIC IMPACTS 201 Economic performance 8 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and SU 11-12, SU 19 distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and SU 9 Monetary evaluations or opportunities due to climate change realisations have not been reported for risks and x opportunities. Information is not available, as climate change is difficult to estimate. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other SU 25-26 retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government SU 12 85 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 GLOBAL MOST STANDARD CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION OMISSIONS FURTHER INFORMATION COMPACT MATERIAL SDG VERSION 203 Indirect economic impacts 9 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and servies SU 17 supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts SU 13 204 Procurement practices 16 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SU 20-21 205 Anti-corruption 16 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to SU 14 The number and percentage of Risks related to corruption are discussed corruption business units have not been as part of Kesko's risk managament. Key reported. Information is not risks are identified and assessed regularly x available as the risks related to throughout the year. corruption are part of a wider assessment of business risks. 205-2 Communication and training about antiSU 14 Percentages have not been corruption policies and procedures reported by personnel group or x geographical region. Information is not available. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions SU 14 x taken 206 Anti-competitive behaviour 16 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, SU 14 anti-trust, and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 301 Materials 13 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging SU 52 Percentage calculation model in materials accordance with the GRI standard is not applicable to Kesko's operations. 302 Energy 13 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation SU 43-44 x 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organisation SU 49-51 Only limited information on energy consumption outside the x organisation is compiled for Scope 3 review (305-3). 302-3 Energy intensity SU 44 x 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SU 44-45 x 303 Water 6 2018 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SU 46 x 86 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 GLOBAL MOST STANDARD CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION OMISSIONS FURTHER INFORMATION COMPACT MATERIAL SDG VERSION 304 Biodiversity 15 2016 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and SU 47 x services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored SU 47 x 305 Emissions 13 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SU 48 x 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SU 48 x 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions SU 49 x 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SU 49 x 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SU 49-51 The emissions change is calculated considering also other factors than x emission reduction actions. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), SU 51 x and other significant air emissions 306 Effluents and waste 13 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SU 53 x Food waste 12 Food waste SU 54-55 Material topic without applicable x standard. SOCIAL IMPACTS 401 Employment 8 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SU 23-24 In new employees, total number by age group, rate by gender and rate by region is not reported. In employee turnover, x total number by age group and rate by gender is not reported. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that SU 24-25, kesko.fi Benefits and Benefits exceeding the statutory are not provided to temporary or part-time rewards level have not been reported in employees detail. Practices vary in different operating countries. 402 Labour/Management relations 8 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational SU 32 Arrangements compliant to changes legistlation. Legislation does not x define minimum notice periods at the precision required by GRI. 87 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 GLOBAL MOST STANDARD CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION OMISSIONS FURTHER INFORMATION COMPACT MATERIAL SDG VERSION 403 Occupational health and safety 3 2016 403-1 Workers' representation in formal joint SU 26 Not reported by percentages. management–worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational SU 26-27 Not reported by gender or by diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and country. number of work-related fatalities 404 Training and education 4 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SU 28-29 Not reported by gender and employee category. Information x not available. 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and SU 28-29 transition assistance programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular SU 29 Not reported by gender and performance and career development reviews employee category. Information x not available. 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 10 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SU 31-32 Not reported by age category. x Information not available. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women SU 30-31 x to men 406 Non-discrimination 10 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective SU 30-31 x actions taken 407 Freedom of association and collective 8 2016 bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to SU 32 freedom of association and collective bargaining x may be at risk 412 Human rights assessments 16 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human SU 35 The human rights assessment and rights reviews or impact commitment apply to all of Kesko's x divisions and operating countries. 412-2 Employee training on human rights SU 35 Total number of employees trained has been reported. Information about number x of hours and percentage of employees trained is not available. 88 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 GLOBAL MOST STANDARD CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION OMISSIONS FURTHER INFORMATION COMPACT MATERIAL SDG VERSION 414 Supplier social assessment 8 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social SU 35-38 The percentage of suppliers criteria screened has not been separately reported out of new suppliers but out of all suppliers in high-risk countries. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and SU 35-38 actions taken 415 Public policy 16 2016 415-1 Political contributions SU 14 x 416 Customer health and safety 3 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of SU 40 Percentage calculation model in product and service categories accordance with the GRI standard is not applicable to Kesko's operations. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the SU 40 health and safety impacts of products and services 417 Marketing and labelling 12 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service SU 41 Percentage calculation model in information and labelling accordance with the GRI standard is not applicable to Kesko's operations. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance information and SU 41 labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning SU 41 marketing communications 418 Customer privacy 16 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches SU 41 of customer privacy and losses of customer data 419 Socioeconomic compliance 16 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the SU 41 social and economic area 89 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Independent such internal control as the management determines is In a limited assurance engagement, the evidence-gathering necessary to enable the preparation of the CR Information procedures are more limited than for a reasonable Practitioner’s that is free from material misstatement, whether due to assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is fraud or error. obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An Assurance Report assurance engagement involves performing procedures to The Management of Kesko Corporation is also obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures responsible for the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 in the CR Information, and about the Company’s (Translation from the Finnish original) AccountAbility Principles of inclusivity, materiality and adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. responsiveness as set out in AccountAbility’s AA1000 The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s To the Management of Kesko Corporation AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008. judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material We have been engaged by the Management of Kesko misstatement of the CR Information and an assessment of Corporation (hereinafter also the Company) to perform Practitioner’s responsibility the risks of the Company’s material nonadherence to the a limited assurance engagement on the economic, Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. social and environmental performance indicators for conclusion on the CR Information and on the Company’s the reporting period 1 January 2018 to 31 December adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles based Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following 2018 disclosed in the “Sustainability” section of “Kesko’s on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we procedures: Annual Report 2018”. In terms of the Company’s GRI have obtained. We conducted our work in accordance with Standards reporting and GRI Standards Content Index, the the International Standard on Assurance Engagements • Interviewing senior management of the Company. scope of the assurance has covered economic, social and (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other • Interviewing employees from various organisational environmental disclosures listed within the Topic-specific than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. levels of the Company with regards to materiality, Standards as well as General Disclosures 102-8, 102-41 That Standard requires that we plan and perform the stakeholder expectations, meeting of those and 102-54 (hereinafter CR Information). engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the expectations, as well as stakeholder engagement. CR Information is free from material misstatement. Furthermore, the assurance engagement has covered • Assessing stakeholder inclusivity and responsiveness Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 In addition, we have conducted our work in accordance based on the Company’s documentation and internal AccountAbility Principles with moderate (limited) level of with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. For communication. assurance. conducting a Type 2 assurance engagement as agreed • Assessing the Company’s defined material corporate with the Company, this Standard requires planning and responsibility topics as well as assessing the CR Management’s responsibility performing of the assurance engagement to obtain Information based on these topics. The Management of Kesko Corporation is responsible moderate (limited) assurance on whether any matters for preparing the CR Information in accordance with the come to our attention that cause us to believe that Kesko • Performing a media analysis and an internet search for Reporting criteria as set out in the Company’s reporting Corporation does not adhere, in all material respects, to references to the Company during the reporting period. instructions and the GRI Sustainability Reporting the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and that the CR • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as one site Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. The Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based in Sweden. Management of Kesko Corporation is also responsible for on the Reporting criteria. 90 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and Observations and recommendations Practitioner’s independence, reporting the CR Information at the Group level and at Based on the procedures we have performed and the qualifications and quality control the site where our visit took place. evidence we have obtained, we provide the following We have complied with the independence and other observations and recommendations in relation to Kesko ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional • Assessing how Group employees apply the reporting Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards instructions and procedures of the Company. Principles. These observations and recommendations do Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the not affect the conclusions presented earlier. principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence information from original documents and systems on a and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. sample basis. • Inclusivity: The Company has processes in place for stakeholder inclusivity, collection of feedback and Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate responsibility • Testing the consolidation of information and performing stakeholder engagement. During the past reporting and assurance specialists possesses the requisite skills and recalculations on a sample basis. period, the Company has involved various stakeholders experience within financial and non-financial assurance, in its sustainability work. We recommend that the corporate responsibility strategy and management, social Limited assurance conclusion Company continues to involve its stakeholders in and environmental issues, as well as the relevant industry Based on the procedures we have performed and its sustainability work and make extensive use of its knowledge, to undertake this assurance engagement. the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come sustainability reporting also in other communication. to our attention that causes us to believe that Kesko PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International Corporation’s CR Information for the reporting period • Materiality: The Company has a process in place to Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains ended 31 December 2018 is not properly prepared, in evaluate and determine the materiality of corporate a comprehensive system of quality control including all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting responsibility aspects. The materiality assessment was documented policies and procedures regarding compliance criteria, or that the CR Information is not reliable, in all last renewed in 2012. The Company then defined 6 with ethical requirements, professional standards and material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. themes and 18 corporate responsibility topics. During applicable legal and regulatory requirements. the reporting period the Company continued to focus Furthermore nothing has come to our attention that causes its corporate responsibility work and reporting on those Helsinki 1 March 2019 us to believe that Kesko Corporation does not adhere, in all themes. We recommend that the Company continues material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. developing the materiality assessment work and focusing PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy on the material themes in its reporting. When reading our assurance report, the inherent limitations • Responsiveness: The Company takes its stakeholders’ to the accuracy and completeness of corporate responsibility expectations into account in its operations and Enel Sintonen Sirpa Juutinen information should be taken into consideration. responds to them through the continuous development Partner, Authorised Public Partner of its activities. We recommend that the Company Accountant Sustainability & Our assurance report has been prepared in accordance would raise centrally and consistently its key Assurance Services Climate Change with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept, sustainability projects and achieved results to its or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Kesko stakeholders. Corporation for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. 91 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2018 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 REPORT BY REPORT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Financial performance of continuing operations 95 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125 THE BOARD Segments Changes in Group composition 98 101 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (IFRS) 126 OF DIRECTORS Main objectives and results achieved in sustainability 101 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 126 127 AND FINANCIAL Shares, securities market and Board authorisations 105 Consolidated statement of financial position 128 Flagging notifications 107 Consolidated statement of cash flows 129 STATEMENTS Key events during the financial year 107 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 130 Key events after the financial year 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 132 This section contains the Report by the Board of Resolutions of the 2018 Annual General Meeting Directors, the Group's key performance indicators, and decisions of the Board's organisational meeting 108 and the financial statements for 2018. 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR Information contained in the notes to THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 132 the financial statements 109 1.1 Basic information about the Company 133 Risk Management 109 1.2 Basis of preparation 133 Significant risks and uncertainties 109 1.3 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions 133 Outlook 111 1.4 Critical judgements in applying Updated dividend policy 111 accounting policies 134 Proposal for profit distribution 111 1.5 Consolidation principles 134 Annual General Meeting 111 1.6 New IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations Group's key performance indicators 112 and the impact of new and updated standards 136 Calculation of performance indicators 117 Analysis of shareholding 123 93 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 2. FINANCIAL RESULTS 141 4.3 Financial risks 179 Note 3. Other operating income 214 2.1 Kesko's divisions 142 4.4 Finance income and costs 187 Note 4. Employee benefit expenses 214 2.2 Items affecting comparability 149 4.5 Financial assets and liabilities by category 187 Note 5. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 214 2.3 Other operating income 152 4.6 Finance lease liabilities 194 Note 6. Other operating expenses 214 2.4 Operating expenses 152 4.7 Lease liabilities 195 Note 7. Finance income and costs 215 2.5 Foreign exchange differences recognised 4.8 Other contingent liabilities 195 Note 8. Appropriations 215 in operating profit 153 Note 9. Changes in provisions 215 2.6 Income tax 154 5. OTHER 196 Note 10. Income taxes 215 2.7 Earnings per share 155 5.1 Group composition 197 Note 11. Deferred taxes 215 2.8 Notes related to the statement of cash flows 155 5.2 Subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures Note 12. Intangible assets 216 and proportionately consolidated mutual real estate companies 198 Note 13. Property, plant and equipment 217 3. CAPITAL EMPLOYED 158 5.3 Related party transactions 201 Note 14. Investments 218 3.1 Capital employed and working capital 159 5.4 Share-based compensation 203 Note 15. Receivables 219 3.2 Business acquisitions and disposals of assets 160 5.5 Deferred tax 205 Note 16. Shareholders' equity 219 3.3 Property, plant and equipment 162 5.6 Components of other comprehensive income 206 Note 17. Provisions 221 3.4 Intangible assets 163 5.7 Legal disputes and possible legal proceedings 207 Note 18. Non-current liabilities 221 3.5 Inventories 166 5.8 Events after the balance sheet date 207 Note 19. Current liabilities 221 3.6 Trade and other current receivables 166 Note 20. Interest-free liabilities 221 3.7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets PARENT COMPANY'S classified as held for sale and related liabilities 167 Note 21. Guarantees, liability engagements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (FAS) 208 and other liabilities 222 3.8 Pension assets 169 Parent company's income statement 208 Note 22. Cash and cash equivalents within 3.9 Shares in associates and joint ventures 173 Parent company's balance sheet 209 the statement of cash flows 223 3.10 Provisions 175 Parent company's cash flow statement 211 Note 23. Related parties 223 Notes to the parent company's financial statements 212 4. CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCIAL RISK 176 SIGNATURES 224 Note 1. Principles used for preparing the financial 4.1 Capital structure management 177 statements 212 4.2 Shareholders' equity 177 Note 2. Net sales by division 214 AUDITOR’S REPORT 225 94 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Report by the Board of Directors Kesko is a Finnish listed company that operates in the grocery trade, the building and Financial performance of continuing operations technical trade, and the car trade. Kesko has around 1,800 stores engaged in chain operations in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus and Poland. Net sales and profit for 2018 The net sales for the Group’s continuing operations in 2018 totalled €10,383 million, which Kesko’s principal business model on the Finnish market is the chain business model, in is 1.0% down on the corresponding period of the previous year (€10,492 million). The net which independent K-retailers run retail stores in Kesko's chains. Outside Finland, Kesko sales were impacted by the divestments carried out in the first half of 2017. In comparable mainly engages in own retailing and B2B trade. Retailer operations accounted for 46% of terms, net sales grew by 3.5% in local currencies excluding the impact of acquisitions and Kesko’s net sales in 2018. B2B trade is a significant and growing part of Kesko’s business divestments. The Group's net sales decreased by 1.5% in Finland, but grew by 4.0% in operations. B2B trade accounted for 36% of Kesko’s net sales in 2018. Kesko’s own comparable terms. In other countries, net sales increased by 0.9%, or 1.5% in comparable retailing accounted for 18% of the Group’s net sales. terms. International operations accounted for 20.5% (20.1%) of the Group's net sales. Kesko’s operations are founded on professional and committed personnel throughout Net sales growth in the grocery trade totalled 2.0%, weakened by the transfer of stores the value chain, a strong K brand, high-quality store site network and electronic services, acquired with Suomen Lähikauppa to retailers. In comparable terms, net sales increased by efficient purchasing and logistics operations and information systems, and stable finances. 5.1%. The comparable change has been calculated by including in the net sales those stores Kesko creates value to all its stakeholders: customers, personnel, shareholders, retailers, acquired from Suomen Lähikauppa which have been in the store network during both this product and service suppliers, municipalities and states. To customers, Kesko offers the reporting year as well as the comparison year, and by deducting the impact of Reinin Liha, products and services they need. The products are well researched, safe and responsibly acquired on 1 June 2018, and Kalatukku E. Eriksson, acquired on 2 July 2018. manufactured. To shareholders, Kesko is a financially sound listed company that is a responsible investment with a good dividend capacity. Kesko is a significant employer, tax In the building and technical trade, net sales decreased by 4.6%, impacted by the divestpayer and service provider. Kesko requires its business partners commit to responsible ments carried out in the first half of 2017. In comparable terms, net sales increased by operations. 2.7%. The comparable change % has been calculated in local currencies and by excluding the impact of divestments made during 2017 and the acquisitions of Skattum Handel AS on Operating environment 2 July 2018, Gipling AS on 23 July 2018 and 1A Group on 1 October 2018. The net sales Identified megatrends affecting K Group’s operations are global economy, digital for the building and technical trade excluding the speciality goods trade increased by 2.4%, revolution, demographic changes (urbanisation, growth in single-person households, or 2.6% in comparable terms. In the speciality goods trade, net sales decreased by 43.5% population ageing), increased consumer knowledge and power, sustainability, and climate on account of divestments, while in comparable terms net sales increased by 3.5%. change. Key operating opportunities and risks are related to the increased importance of a digital and multichannel approach to trade, the economic operating environment, the In the car trade, net sales decreased by 1.8%. Net sales development was impacted by the supply chain, and the impacts of climate change. Risks have been described in more detail implementation of the new WLTP emissions testing in Europe at the beginning of Septemin the Significant risks and uncertainties section of this Report by Board of Directors. ber and the resulting delays in car deliveries. 95 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Reinin Liha became part of Kesko Group’s foodservice wholesale company Kespro followbuilding and home improvement trade in Finland, Norway and the Baltics and Onninen in ing an acquisition completed on 1 June 2018, and Kalatukku E. Eriksson on 2 July 2018. Finland and Poland. Positive profit development in Norway was impacted by the acquisiKesko Corporation’s subsidiary Byggmakker Handel AS took over the Norwegian building and tions carried out. The decrease in the speciality goods trade operating profit was affected home improvement trade companies Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS, which have been by the divestments carried out in 2017. Profitability in the car trade remained good. operating Byggmakker stores under the retailer business model, on 2 July 2018 and 23 July 2018, respectively. Kesko Senukai assumed ownership of 1A Group, an online retail company Operating profit was €307.9 million (€338.6 million). Items affecting comparability totalled operating in the Baltic States, on 1 October 2018. During the financial year 2017, Kesko Group €-24.2 million (€42.5 million). The most significant items affecting comparability were divested the K-maatalous agricultural business on 1 June 2017, and on 30 June 2017, the Asko the €7.6 million costs related to conversions of Suomen Lähikauppa's chains and changes and Sotka furniture trade, the Yamarin boat business and the Yamaha representation. in the store site network, the €8.1 million costs in building and technical trade related to acquisitions and divestments and structural changes in the Swedish operations, and gains On 16 February 2018, Kesko announced it would be discontinuing its building and home and losses on disposal of real estate and other non-current assets and impairment charges, improvement trade operations in Russia. The divested Russian operations are reported as totalling €-3.8 million. The transfer of former Suomen Lähikauppa stores to retailers was discontinued operations and are not included in the figures for the Group’s continuing opcompleted on 30 June 2018. The most significant items affecting comparability the year erations or the figures for the building and technical trade in the financial statements. The before were the €49.7 million gain on the divestment of real estate in the Baltics, the €21.4 figures for the comparison year have been adjusted accordingly. million expenses related to the conversion of the Suomen Lähikauppa chains, the €12.3 million gain on the divestment of the K-maatalous agricultural business, as well as the gain Change in local Operating on the divestment of the Asko and Sotka furniture trade amounting to €19.0 million. currency excl. profit, Net sales, Change, acquisitions and comparable, Change, 1-12/2018 € million % disposals, % € million € million Items affecting comparability, € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Grocery trade 5,386 +2.0 +5.1 228.0 +24.6 Comparable operating profit 332.2 296.2 Building and technical 3,728 +2.4 +2.6 92.4 +13.4 Items affecting comparability trade excl. speciality +gains on disposal +6.7 +83.4 goods trade -losses on disposal -0.1 -1.8 Speciality goods trade 375 -43.5 +3.5 6.0 -10.2 -impairment charges -5.6 -0.5 Building and technical 4,103 -4.6 +2.7 98.4 +3.2 trade total +/-structural arrangements -25.3 -38.6 Car trade 893 -1.8 -1.8 34.5 +1.4 Total items affecting comparability -24.2 +42.5 Common functions and 1 (..) (..) -28.7 +6.8 Operating profit 307.9 338.6 eliminations Total 10,383 -1.0 +3.5 332.2 +36.0 The comparable profit before tax for the Group’s continuing operations was €327.5 million (..) Change over 100% (€300.3 million). The profit before tax for the Group’s continuing operations was €296.8 million (€342.4 million). The earnings per share for the Group’s continuing operations were €2.18 The Group's comparable operating profit for continuing operations was €332.2 million (€2.75), and the comparable earnings per share €2.47 (€2.29). Kesko has agreed to sell its remain(€296.2 million). Profitability improved significantly in the grocery trade due to increased ing stake in its Baltic machinery trade subsidiaries and Konekesko Finland’s agricultural machinery sales, successful chain redesigns and realised synergies. The comparable operating profit trade operations to Danish Agro Group. The minority holding in the machinery trade companies for the building and technical trade excluding the speciality goods trade grew thanks to the had a €-0.04 impact on earnings per share. The Group's equity per share was €21.06 (€21.45). 96 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 K Group's (Kesko and chain stores) retail and B2B sales (VAT 0%) totalled €12,852 million, costs for the joint venture. The comparable share of result of associates and joint ventures representing a growth of 2.5% compared to the previous year (pro forma). The K-Plussa was €-3.6 million. customer loyalty programme added 86,886 new households in 2018. The number of K-Plussa households stood at 2.4 million at the end of December and there were 3.5 million Taxes K-Plussa cardholders in total. The taxes for the Group's continuing operations were €61.9 million (€57.9 million). The effective tax rate was 20.9% (16.9%). The effective tax rate for the comparison year was Finance lowered by the tax-exempt gains on the sale of properties and subsidiaries. The Group’s cash flow from operating activities in continuing operations was €437.1 million (€291.9 million). Cash flow was strengthened by improved profitability and the €58 million Capital expenditure return of surplus assets paid by Kesko Pension Fund in March. The cash flow from operating The capital expenditure for the Group's continuing operations totalled €417.6 million activities in discontinued operations was €-23.3 million (€9.9 million). The Group’s cash (€333.5 million), or 4.0% (3.2%) of net sales. Capital expenditure in store sites totalled flow from operating activities was €413.8 million (€301.7 million). €111.8 million (€239.8 million), in acquisitions €172.0 million, and in IT €48.8 million (€32.8 million) and other capital expenditure totalled €85.1 million (€60.6 million). The Group’s cash flow from investing activities totalled €-209.0 million (€-88.3 million). Cash flow from investing activities includes the €161 million transaction price obtained Discontinued operations from the divestment of properties in Russia. Cash flow from investing activities also inIn February 2018, Kesko Corporation agreed to sell 12 K-Rauta properties in the St. Pecludes the combined €164.7 million transaction prices for the acquisitions carried out in tersburg and Moscow regions to the Russian division of the French Leroy Merlin. The busiJune-October. Cash flow from investing activities for the comparison year includes the ness operations conducted in the properties and stocks were not included within the scope divestment of a 45% stake of Konekesko’s Baltic subsidiaries to Danish Agro Group, and the of the transaction; instead, the operations were discontinued during the first year-half. divestments of Baltic real estate, the K-maatalous agricultural business, Asko and Sotka furniThe ownership of the properties was transferred to the buyer during the second quarter ture trade, and Yamaha representation and Yamarin boat business, in total €199.6 million. of 2018. The two building and home improvement store properties in the Moscow region excluded from the transaction were sold in December 2018. The Group had liquid assets of €250 million at the end of the year (€398 million). Interest-bearing liabilities at the end of the year totalled €411 million (€534 million) and The divestment of the properties resulted in a positive cash flow of €171 million for Kesko interest-bearing net debt €162 million (€136 million). In September, Kesko Corporation Corporation in February. The divestment of the properties resulted in a net €16 million sales repaid the outstanding €225 million principal of the bond issued in 2012. The repayment gain for discontinued operations. The operative result after taxes for the operations was €-1.7 was refinanced by taking on €150 million in short-term commercial paper liability and €91 million. In addition, a cost of €23 million related to the discontinuation of operations was million in long-term interest-bearing loan. Equity ratio was 51.4% (50.4%) at the end of the recorded as were translation differences of €-39 million related to the equity financing of Rusfinancial year. sian subsidiaries. The divestment of the properties also resulted in a €8 million tax cost. The net finance costs for the Group’s continuing operations totalled €1.1 million (net The Russian operations are reported as discontinued operations and are not included in the finance income €2.2 million). The financial items for the comparison year include dividend figures for the Group’s continuing operations or the figures for the building and technical income and interest income on cooperative capital of €4.5 million, of which €2.3 million trade in the financial statements. The comparison data for the 2017 income statement, was interest income on cooperative capital from Suomen Luotto-osuuskunta. The share of statement of cash flows and certain performance indicators have been adjusted. In 2017, result of associates and joint ventures was €-10.1 million. Kesko and Oriola's joint venture, Kesko’s building and home improvement trade operations in Russia recorded net sales of the Hehku wellbeing chain, had an impact of €-11.2 million, which includes discontinuation €184 million and a comparable operating profit of €0.6 million. 97 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Segments Net sales for the grocery trade amounted to €5,386 million (€5,282 million), an increase of 2.0%. In comparable terms, net sales increased by 5.1%. Net sales development in the Seasonal nature of operations K-Market chain was affected by changes in Suomen Lähikauppa’s store site network and The Group's operating activities are affected by seasonal fluctuations. The net sales and the transfer of stores to retailers. The comparable change has been calculated by including the operating profits of the reportable segments are not earned evenly throughout the in the net sales those stores acquired from Suomen Lähikauppa which have been in the year. Instead, they vary by quarter depending on the characteristics of each segment. store network during both the financial year as well as the comparison year, and by deductIn terms of the level of operating profit, the second and third quarter are the strongest, ing the impact of Reinin Liha and Kalatukku E. Eriksson. Reinin Liha became part of Kesko whereas the impact of the first quarter on the full year profit is smallest. The acquisitions of Group’s foodservice wholesale company Kespro following an acquisition completed on 1 Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen and the Norwegian Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS June 2018, and Kalatukku E. Eriksson on 2 July 2018. have increased seasonal fluctuations between quarters. The operating profit levels of these companies are at their lowest in the first quarter. The transfer of Suomen Lähikauppa stores acquired in 2016 to retailers was completed by the end of June 2018. 380 stores in total were transferred to retailers between August 2016 and June 2018, after the stores had first been converted into K-food stores. The Grocery trade synergies sought with the acquisition have been achieved. 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Net sales, € million 5,386 5,282 The total grocery market in Finland (incl. VAT) is estimated to have grown by approximately Operating profit, comparable, € million 228.0 203.4 4.0% (Kesko’s own estimate) and retail prices are estimated to have risen by some 2.4%, Operating margin, comparable, % 4.2 3.9 impacted by the increases in tobacco and alcohol taxes at the start of 2018 (incl. VAT, KeReturn on capital employed, comparable, % 25.1 25.7 sko’s own estimate based on the price development estimate of the Finnish Grocery Trade Capital expenditure, € million 124.1 224.4 Association). K Group's grocery sales grew by 4.8% (incl. VAT), and excluding the impact of Personnel, average 6,094 6,733 the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa, by 5.7% (incl. VAT). The comparable operating profit for the grocery trade was €228.0 million (€203.4 million), Net sales, € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Change, % up by €24.6 million. Profitability in the grocery trade improved significantly due to sales Sales to K-food stores growth, successful chain redesigns, and realised synergies. Kespro’s sales also grew and K-Citymarket, food 1,108 1,061 +4.4 profitability improved. The profitability of the stores acquired from Suomen Lähikauppa K-Supermarket 1,377 1,277 +7.9 in 2016 improved significantly following their conversion into K-Markets and transfer to K-Market* 1,306 1,416 -7.8 retailers and the adjustments made to the store site network. K-Citymarket, non-food 581 585 -0.7 Kespro 872 815 +7.0 Operating profit for the grocery trade was €219.3 million (€181.3 million). Items affecting Others and eliminations 142 127 +11.0 comparability amounted to €-8.7 million (€-22.1 million), and they were mainly related to Total 5,386 5,282 +2.0 the restructuring of Suomen Lähikauppa, €-7.6 million (€-21.4 million). * The comparable change in net sales attributable to K-Market in was +4.6%. Capital expenditure for the grocery trade was €124.1 million (€224.4 million), of which €89.5 million (€213.1 million) was in store sites and €13.1 million in acquisitions. 98 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Building and technical trade Net sales for the building and technical trade totalled €4,103 million (€4,302 million), down 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 by 4.6%. The net sales were impacted by the divestments carried out in the first half of Net sales, € million 4,103 4,302 2017. In comparable terms, net sales increased by 2.7%. The comparable change % has been Building and technical trade excl. speciality goods trade 3,728 3,639 calculated in local currencies and by excluding the impact of divestments made during 2017 Speciality goods trade 375 663 and the completed acquisitions of Skattum Handel AS, Gipling AS and 1A Group in 2018. Operating profit, comparable, € million 98.4 95.2 Kesko Corporation’s subsidiary Byggmakker Handel AS took over the Norwegian building Building and technical trade excl. speciality goods trade 92.4 78.9 and home improvement trade companies Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS, which have Speciality goods trade 6.0 16.2 been operating Byggmakker stores under the retailer business model, on 2 July 2018 and Operating margin, comparable, % 2.4 2.2 23 July 2018, respectively. Kesko Senukai assumed ownership of 1A Group, an online Building and technical trade excl. speciality goods trade 2.5 2.2 retail company operating in the Baltic States, on 1 October 2018. Speciality goods trade 1.6 2.4 Return on capital employed, comparable, % 10.3 10.3 On 16 February 2018, Kesko announced it would be discontinuing its building and home Capital expenditure, € million 200.7 63.7 improvement trade operations in Russia. The divested Russian operations are reported as Personnel, average 11,663 11,967 discontinued operations and are not included in the figures for the Group’s continuing operations or the figures for the building and technical trade in the financial statements. The figures for the comparison year have been adjusted accordingly. Net sales, € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Change, % Building and home improvement trade, Finland 892 870 +2.5 In Finland, net sales for the building and technical trade totalled €1,972 million (€2,190 K-Rauta, Sweden 175 200 -12.6 million), down by 10.0% due to divestments carried out in 2017. In comparable terms, net Byggmakker, Norway 370 397 -6.8 sales in Finland increased by 4.0%. Net sales from foreign operations totalled €2,131 milKesko Senukai, the Baltics 602 510 +18.1 lion (€2,111 million), up by 0.9%. In comparable terms, net sales from foreign operations OMA, Belarus 128 120 +7.2 grew by 1.5%. Foreign operations accounted for 51.9% (49.1%) of the net sales for the Onninen, Finland 881 819 +7.6 building and technical trade. Onninen, Sweden 151 191 -20.9 Onninen, Norway 252 268 -6.0 Net sales for the building and technical trade excluding the speciality goods trade operaOnninen, Baltics 77 69 +11.1 tions totalled €3,728 million (€3,639 million), an increase of 2.4%. In comparable terms, Onninen, Poland 239 217 +10.4 net sales increased by 2.6%. Building and technical trade excl. speciality 3,728 3,639 +2.4 goods trade total Net sales for the building and home improvement trade were €2,162 million (€2,092 Leisure trade, Finland 202 196 +2.6 million), an increase of 3.3%. In local currencies, net sales increased by 2.3%. Net sales in Machinery trade 173 188 -8.1 Finland grew by 2.5% and in the Baltics by 18.1%. In Belarus, net sales grew in local currenK-maatalous, Indoor Group Oy and Yamaha and 279 cy by 18.1%. Net sales decreased in local currency in Norway by 4.1% and in Sweden by Yamarin 7.0%. In Sweden, the decrease in net sales was impacted by closures of K-Rauta stores due Speciality goods trade total 375 663 -43.5 to the ending of lease agreements, while in Norway, the decline was impacted by the expiry Total 4,103 4,302 -4.6 of one retailer agreement at the start of 2018. 99 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Onninen’s net sales amounted to €1,597 million (€1,571 million), an increase of 1.7%. Net items affecting comparability were the €8.1 million costs related to acquisitions and the sales in Finland grew by 7.6% and in the Baltics by 11.1%. In Poland, net sales grew in local restructuring of operations in Sweden, and gains and losses on disposal of real estate and currency by 10.5%. Net sales decreased in local currency in Sweden by 15.8% and in Norother non-current assets and impairment charges, totalling €-3.8 million. The most sigway by 3.3%. The decrease in net sales in Sweden was impacted by the closure of five store nificant items affecting comparability the year before were the €49.7 million gain on the sites during the first half of the year. divestment of real estate in the Baltics, the €12.3 million gain on the divestment of the K-maatalous agricultural business, as well as the gain on the divestment of the Asko and The market share of K Group's building and technical trade is estimated to have strengthened Sotka furniture trade amounting to €19.0 million. in Finland. K Group's building and technical trade sales in Finland increased by 3.9% and the total market (VAT 0%) is estimated to have grown by some 2.9% (Kesko's own estimate). Capital expenditure for the building and technical trade totalled €200.7 million (€63.7 million), of which €21.8 million (€25.5 million) was in store sites and €159.0 million in acquisitions. Net sales for the speciality goods trade totalled €375 million (€663 million), down by 43.5%. The decrease was affected by the divestments carried out in 2017. In comparable Car trade terms, net sales grew by 3.5%. Net sales for the machinery trade amounted to €173 million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 (€188 million), up by 4.5% in comparable terms from the previous year. Net sales for the Net sales, € million 893 909 machinery trade in Finland totalled €28 million, down by 13.4% in comparable terms. Net Operating profit, comparable, € million 34.5 33.1 sales from foreign operations totalled €145 million, up 8.9%. Net sales for the leisure trade Operating margin, comparable, % 3.9 3.6 were €202 million (€196 million), up by 2.6%. The net sales for the Asko and Sotka furniReturn on capital employed, comparable, % 21.2 21.5 ture trade, K-maatalous agricultural business, Yamarin boat business and Yamaha represenCapital expenditure, € million 49.0 17.4 tation, all divested in June 2017, totalled €279 million in the comparison year. Personnel, average 835 809 The comparable operating profit for the building and technical trade was €98.4 million (€95.2 million), up by €3.2 million compared to the previous year. The comparable operating profit for Net sales, € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Change, % the building and technical trade excluding the speciality goods trade operations totalled €92.4 K-Auto 831 855 -2.8 million (€78.9 million), up by €13.4 million. Comparable operating profit for the building and AutoCarrera 63 55 +14.1 home improvement trade was €51.9 million (€46.3 million), up by €5.6 million. Comparable Total 893 909 -1.8 operating profit grew in the building and home improvement trade in Finland, Norway and the Baltics. Positive profit development in Norway was affected by the acquisitions carried out. The impact of the properties in the Baltics, divested in May 2017, on Kesko Senukai’s comparable Net sales for the car trade totalled €893 million (€909 million), a decrease of 1.8%. Net operating profit was €-1.7 million. Onninen’s comparable operating profit was €40.5 million sales development was impacted by the implementation of the new WLTP emissions testing (€32.7 million), up by €7.7 million. Onninen’s operating profit grew in Finland, Poland and the in Europe at the beginning of September and the resulting delays in car deliveries. The Baltics. The comparable operating profit for the speciality goods trade was €6.0 million (€16.2 combined market performance of first registrations of passenger cars and vans was +1.3% million), down by €10.2 million. The comparable operating profit for the Asko and Sotka furni(+1.0%). The combined market share of the Volkswagen, Audi, SEAT and Porsche passenture trade, K-maatalous agricultural business and Yamarin boat business and Yamaha represenger cars and vans imported by the car trade was 18.5% (18.6%). tation, all divested in June 2017, totalled €8.7 million in the comparison year. Profitability in the car trade remained good. The comparable operating profit was €34.5 million Operating profit for the building and technical trade totalled €84.9 million (€168.7 million). (€33.1 million), up by €1.4 million. The comparable operating profit for AutoCarrera was €4.4 Items affecting comparability totalled €-13.5 million (€73.5 million). The most significant million (€3.0 million). Operating profit for the car trade was €34.4 million (€33.1 million). 100 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Capital expenditure for the car trade totalled €49.0 million (€17.4 million). Gross capital Main objectives and results achieved in sustainability expenditure comprises primarily cars obtained for the leasing fleet and rental cars sold with repurchase commitments. Key commitments, policies and principles Corporate responsibility is a strategic choice for K Group and integrated into our day-toChanges in Group composition day activities. Kesko’s operations are based on its value, vision and mission. Corporate responsibility work is guided by Kesko’s sustainability strategy, responsibility programme, In June, Kesko Corporation agreed to make Reinin Liha and Kalatukku E. Eriksson part of general corporate responsibility principles, the K Code of Conduct and Kesko’s ethical its foodservice wholesale business Kespro. Reinin Liha Oy’s acquisition was completed on 1 purchasing principles. June 2018 and Kalatukku E. Eriksson Oy’s on 2 July 2018. Key group-level policies guiding Kesko’s operations include Kesko’s risk management In June, Kesko Corporation’s subsidiary Byggmakker Handel AS agreed to acquire Norwepolicy, treasury policy, data protection policy, information security policy, security policy, gian building and home improvement trade companies Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS. environmental and energy policy, HR policy and ethical principles for utilising artificial The acquisition of Skattum Handel AS was completed on 2 July 2018 and the acquisition of intelligence. Gipling AS on 23 July 2018. In 2018, special focus in corporate responsibility work was on data protection issues, as we Kesko assumed ownership of 1A Group, an online retail company operating in the Baltic were obliged to comply with the EU General Data Protection Regulation from 25 May 2018 States, on 1 October 2018. onwards. Consequently, we made sure all personal data was secure and used confidentially. Kesko has established processes for handling requests for action and mechanisms for Impact Impact on Impact on identifying and reporting information leaks. on Group TransImpact Group TransGroup comparable action on Group comparable action net sales operating price net sales operating price Kesko is committed to promoting the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in its € million in 2018 profit in 2018 2018 in 2017 profit in 2017 2017 operations. For Kesko and its stakeholders, the three key goals are Responsible consumpAcquired businesses tion, Decent work and economic growth, and Climate action. In accordance with its human Skattum Handel AS 7/2018 40 2 147 rights commitment, Kesko respects all internationally recognised human rights. and Gipling AS 8/2018 Kalatukku E. Eriksson Oy 15 0 15 7/2018 and Reinin Liha Oy Kesko’s responsibility programme contains both short-term and long-term objectives. The 6/2018 programme has six themes: Good corporate governance and finance, Customers, Society, Total 55 2 162 Working community, Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections, and Environment. Divested businesses K-maatalous 6/2017 149 4 39 Kesko has been reporting on its actions in accordance with the Global Reporting InitiaIndoor Group 6/2017 89 3 67 tive (GRI) guidelines for reporting on sustainable development since the year 2000. The Yamaha and Yamarin 6/2017 41 Sustainability section of Kesko’s Annual Report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Total 279 7 106 Standards: Core option, and covers the key areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility. Kesko’s sustainability principles, management, objectives, processes and During the reporting year, six fully-owned real estate companies and one holding comparesults are described in more detail in Kesko’s Annual Report. ny in Finland were merged with Kesko Corporation. One holding company in Finland was furthermore wound up and its operations discontinued. 101 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko in sustainability indices risk countries. In 2018, Kesko joined the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh As a result of its long-term commitment to corporate responsibility work, Kesko is listed on that aims to improve the safety of clothing factories in the country. several major sustainability indices, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices the DJSI World and DJSI Europe, the FTSE4Good Index, the CDP Climate AList and the STOXX Product safety Global ESG Leaders Index. Kesko and K Group stores together with suppliers are responsible to the products' end-users for ensuring that the products comply with all the requirements of Finnish and EU Kesko ranks 88th on the Global 100 list of the Most Sustainable Corporations in the World legislation, are safe for users and meet quality promises. Kesko's product labelling complies in 2019 (31st in 2018), being the world's most sustainable trading sector company. with legislative requirements and recommendations from authorities. All food product operations have a self-control plan in place, as required by law. In September 2018, Kesko was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices the DJSI World and DJSI Europe. We received the industry best overall score in the Environmental Dimension. The assessment of the health and safety impacts of products is part of the operations of Kesko has previously been included in the indices between 2003 and 2014 and in 2017. the Product Research Unit of Kesko’s grocery trade. The manufacturers of Kesko’s own brand food products are required to have international certifications that assure product Purchasing and human rights safety. The standards approved by Kesko’s grocery trade include BRC, IFS, FSSC 22000 In September 2016, Kesko published its human rights commitment and impact assessment and GlobalGAP. The Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the product safety and in compliance with the UN's Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The human quality of own brands and own imports in the grocery trade. It is a testing laboratory T251 rights assessment is reviewed every three years, with the next review taking place in 2019. which has been accredited by the FINAS accreditation services and approved to comply with the SFS-EN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. In accordance with its human rights commitment, Kesko respects all internationally recognised human rights. Kesko’s purchasing is guided by Kesko’s ethical principles for purEnvironmental issues chasing, which are based on the fundamental rights at work accepted by the International K Group's environmental and energy policy guides the operations of Kesko Group and Labour Organization (ILO), the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and the UN Convention K Group stores in all operating countries. Kesko's key business partners are expected to on the Rights of the Child. observe corresponding environmental management principles. According to Group guidelines, a K Code of Conduct contract clause is to be added to Kesko’s most significant direct environmental impacts are emissions from the production all agreements under which Kesko Group companies purchase products or services from of the electricity and heat consumed on properties, emissions from transports, and waste external parties. produced in warehousing operations and at the stores. The biggest indirect impacts are related to the manufacture, use and disposal of the products sold. In purchasing chains, Kesko pays special attention to human rights issues and working conditions in high-risk countries. Kesko utilises international social responsibility assessment Kesko participates in mitigating climate change by increasing purchases and production of systems for supplier audits in high-risk countries. Kesko’s principle in high-risk countries is renewable energy and by improving energy efficiency. Kesko participates in the 2017-2025 to collaborate only with suppliers that are already included in the scope of social responsiaction plan of the commerce sector Energy Efficiency Agreement, according to which Kesbility audits or that start the process when the cooperation begins. ko commits to reducing its energy consumption through various savings measures by 7.5%. Kesko is a member of amfori and participates in the amfori Business Social Compliance Kesko is the first Finnish company to have set science based targets for reducing emissions Initiative (amfori BSCI). Primarily, Kesko requires amfori BSCI audits from suppliers in highfrom its facilities, transportation, and supply chains. Kesko has committed to reducing its 102 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Direct and indirect emissions by 18% by 2025, using a 2015 base year. Kesko has also ations. Based on a prioritisation of risks, Kesko’s Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) committed to reducing other indirect emissions in its supply chain so that 90% of its key steering group determines the necessary group or division-level compliance programmes, suppliers will set greenhouse gas (GHG) emission targets by 2025. which are confirmed by the Group’s management and reported to the Audit Committee of Kesko's Board of Directors. The GRC steering group monitors changes in risks related to Since the beginning of 2017, all electricity purchased by Kesko in Finland has been procompliance with laws and operating principles, and guides and controls the implementation duced with renewable energy. Solar power plants built at K-store sites are an essential part of the Group’s compliance programmes. of Kesko’s energy strategy. The annual electricity production of the solar power plants used by Kesko at end of 2018 is some 8,000 MWh, making K Group the biggest producer and Prevention of corruption and bribery user of solar power in Finland. The K Code of Conduct is a means to ensure that everyone at Kesko has the same understanding of the values and principles that guide our daily work. The K Code of Conduct has Personnel been published in nine languages and the principles are the same for all Kesko employees The average number of personnel in Kesko Group was 19,995 (22,077) converted into in all operating countries. Clear examples lay out what is expected of Kesko employees and full-time employees. At the end of December 2018, the number of personnel was 23,458 business partners in the areas of human rights, environmental care and fair competition, (24,983), of whom 11,878 (12,327) worked in Finland and 11,580 (12,656) elsewhere. for example. To communicate and implement the principles, some 20 K Code of Conduct ambassadors in different operating countries have been appointed to act as messengers Professional and committed personnel forms the foundation of our operations. Kesko’s HR and contact persons. management is guided by Kesko’s HR policy, the K Code of Conduct, and common operating principles. Kesko's HR principles provide guidelines for the practical implementation of Kesko's attitude towards bribery is absolutely uncompromising. ”We do not offer or accept the HR policy. Each immediate manager acts as the employer's representative in personnel bribes” and ”We comply with the Kesko policies on hospitality and gifts” are key statematters. ments of the K Code of Conduct. To ensure the implementation of Kesko’s strategy, the methods for target setting, perforAll Kesko Group personnel must confirm annually their compliance with the K Code of mance management, personnel development, and remuneration are based on management Conduct. Kesko’s Legal Affairs, Risk Management and Internal Audit organise K Code of by information. Personnel recruitments are based on need, an approved resourcing plan, Conduct training in the subsidiaries. Kesko Group's Internal Audit monitors and secures the and identified upcoming changes. The most suitable person is selected for each job, and functioning and efficiency of management, supervision, risk management and corporate external evaluations are used to support recruitment for specific positions. governance in Kesko Group. Kesko’s Internal Audit pays special attention to the efficiency of controls that prevent malpractice and financial losses. Personnel satisfaction and wellbeing are measured, and development actions are designed at various organisational levels based on the results. Proactive management of personnel Employees can present questions and ideas for development through their manager as well wellbeing and working capacity is used in an effort to reduce the number of sickness abas anonymously or in their own name using an electronic discussion channel. sences and to prevent occupational injuries and premature retirement due to disability. SpeakUp is a confidential reporting channel for both Kesko’s business partners and employCompliance programmes ees, meant for reporting crime and malpractice suspicions when, for one reason or another, Risks related to compliance with laws and operating principles in Kesko are surveyed and the information cannot be passed directly to Kesko's persons in charge. prioritised regularly between the Group’s legal affairs, risk management and business oper103 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Main objectives and results achieved PURCHASING AND HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Objective Method Results 2018 Objective Method Results 2018 The social Full amfori BSCI audits conducted at the 190 (157) factories or farms underwent Reducing the Kesko has committed to the Energy Energy consumption in properties responsibility of the factories and farms of suppliers in highfull amfori BSCI audits environmental Efficiency Agreement for the commerce managed by Kesko in all operating production of own risk countries impact of Kesko’s sector in Finland and to reducing its countries (Q4/2017–Q3/2018): direct imports from operations annual energy consumption by 7.5% 931 (1,012) GWh Amfori BSCI follow-up audits conducted 135 (146) factories or farms underwent high-risk countries between 2017 and 2025 at the factories or farms of suppliers in amfori BSCI follow-up audits has been assured high-risk countries Since the beginning of 2017, Kesko has Renewable electricity purchases: 580 purchased electricity produced with (504) GWh; number of own solar power 100% renewable energy in Finland. In plants 27 (19) and electricity production recent years, Kesko has invested in solar 4.1 (3.0) GWh in Finland PRODUCT SAFETY power plants on store roofs. Objective Method Results 2018 Kesko has set Science Based Targets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions in all operating Products are safe The manufacturers of Kesko’s own 521 (522) suppliers have an audit reducing emissions from its facilities, countries (Q4/2017–Q3/2018): for users and meet brand food products have international certificate transportation, and supply chains. Kesko 124,756 (138,653) tCO2e quality promises certifications assuring product safety has committed to reducing its direct and indirect (scope 1 and 2) emissions by 18% (reporting boundary changed) The Product Research Unit monitors the Product samples analysed by the by 2025, using a 2015 base year. safety and quality of own brand products Product Research laboratory and test and own imports in the grocery trade kitchen: 7,678 (7,350) If a fault is detected in the quality of a Product recalls: 178 (146), of which 46 product on the market, a recall is made (33) K Group’s own brand products; PERSONNEL public recalls of own brand products Objective Method Results 2018 (cases where a fault in the product could endanger consumer health): 2 (4) Kesko has the The K SuccessFactors system is used for Objectives set for approximately 80 professional managing employees’ personal objectives (90) % of the target group and committed agreed upon with their managers personnel required to implement its strategy Personnel satisfaction and commitment Personnel commitment in 2017 was are measured in personnel surveys 78%; in 2018 76 (79) % of personnel conducted every other year (last would recommend K Group as an conducted in 2017). Complementary employer pulse surveys are conducted annually (last conducted in 2018). Active early identification and Sickness absences: 4.7 (4.7) %; intervention are applied to sickness premature retirement due to disability: absences to promote personnel wellbeing 17 (24) and working capacity 104 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY (GOVERNANCE) In 2018, a total of 1.4 million A shares were traded on Nasdaq Helsinki. The exchange Objective Method Results 2018 value of the A shares was €68.4 million. Meanwhile, 52.0 million B shares were traded, with an exchange value of €2,532.5 million. Nasdaq Helsinki accounted for approximately 41% 100% commitment to ”We do not offer or accept bribes” 79 (65) % of personnel signed the compliance with the K Code and ”We comply with the Kesko annual revision of the K Code of of the trading of Kesko’s A and B shares in 2018. Kesko shares were also traded on multilatof Conduct policies on hospitality and gifts” Conduct eral trading facilities, the most significant of which was the Cboe APA (source: Fidessa). are key statements of the K Code of Conduct The Board holds a valid authorisation to decide on the transfer of a maximum of 1,000,000 SpeakUp is a confidential reporting Notifications received via the own B shares held by the Company as treasury shares (2016 Share issue authorisation). channel for employees and SpeakUp channel: 11 (38) On 1 February 2018, the Board decided to grant own B shares held by the Company as business partners treasury shares to persons included in the target group for Kesko’s transitional share-based incentive plan (Bridge Plan) based on this share issue authorisation and the fulfilment of the Bridge Plan performance criteria. This transfer of a total of 66,190 own B shares was comShares, securities market and Board authorisations municated in stock exchange releases on 15 March 2018, 5 April 2018 and 1 June 2018. At the end of 2018, the total number of Kesko Corporation shares was 100,019,752 of On 1 February 2017, Kesko Corporation's Board of Directors made a decision to establish a which 31,737,007, or 31.7%, were A shares and 68,282,745, or 68.3%, were B shares. On new share-based long-term incentive scheme for Kesko's top management and key persons 31 December 2018, Kesko Corporation held 1,001,399 of its own B shares as treasury selected separately. The scheme consists of a performance share plan (PSP) as the main shares. These treasury shares accounted for 1.47% of the total number of B shares, 1.00% structure, and of a restricted share pool (RSP), which is a complementary share plan for of the total number of shares, and 0.26% of votes attached to all shares in the Company. special situations. Besides the PSP, the Board made a decision to establish a share-based The total number of votes attached to all shares was 385,652,815. Each A share carries ten Bridge Plan to cover the transitional phase during which Kesko transfers from a one-year (10) votes and each B share one (1) vote. The Company cannot vote with own shares held performance period to a longer performance period in its long-term incentive scheme by it as treasury shares and no dividend is paid on them. At the end of 2018, Kesko Corpostructure. If the performance criteria set for the 2017-2020 PSP are achieved in full, the ration's share capital was €197,282,584. maximum number of series B shares to be paid based on this plan is 340,000 shares. This number of shares represents gross earnings, from which the applicable withholding tax is The price of a Kesko A share quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki was €44.10 at the end of 2017, deducted and the remaining net amount is paid to the participants in shares. The new shareand €43.60 at the end of 2018, representing a decrease of 1.1%. Correspondingly, the based compensation scheme was communicated in a stock exchange release on 2 February price of a B share was €45.25 at the end of 2017, and €47.10 at the end of 2018, repre2017, and the realisation of the Bridge Plan in a stock exchange release on 1 February 2018. senting an increase of 4.1%. In 2018, the highest A share price was €53.40 and the lowest €41.00. The highest B share price was €56.62 and the lowest €42.92. The Nasdaq Helsinki The Board of Directors of Kesko Corporation decided on 20 March 2018 to initiate a All-Share index (OMX Helsinki) was down by 8.0% and the weighted OMX Helsinki Cap performance share plan (PSP) for 2018-2021. The Board of Directors also decided that the index by 7.7% in 2018. The Retail Sector Index was down by 2.5%. target group for the plan will comprise 130 members of Kesko’s management and other specified key persons. The Board decided to set the development of Kesko Group's tax At the end of 2018, the market capitalisation of the A shares was €1,383.7 million. The free sales (%), Kesko Group's comparable return on capital employed (ROCE, %) and the market capitalisation of the B shares was €3,169.0 million, excluding the shares held by the absolute total shareholder return (TSR, %) of a Kesko B share as the performance criteria parent company. The combined market capitalisation of the A and B shares was €4,552.7 for the 2018 calendar year, matching the 2017 criteria. The performance criteria concern million, an increase of €88.8 million from the end of 2017. the performance year 2018 of the 2017-2020 PSP and 2018-2021 PSP. A maximum total 105 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 of 340,000 Kesko B shares may be granted in relation to the 2018-2021 PSP. This number against or without payment. A share issue can only be without payment if the Company, of shares represents gross earnings, from which the applicable withholding tax is deducted taking into account the best interests of all of its shareholders, has a particularly weighty and the remaining net amount is paid to the participants in shares. Kesko Corporation's financial reason for it. The authorisation also includes the Board's authority to make deciBoard of Directors also decided on initiating an RSP (Restricted Share Pool) plan for sions concerning any other matters related to the share issues. The amount possibly paid 2018–2020. The plan includes a three-year commitment period, after which the potenfor the Company's own shares is recorded in the reserve of invested non-restricted equity. tially granted share awards for an individual plan will be paid to the participants in Kesko B The authorisation is valid until 30 June 2020. Kesko Corporation’s Annual General Meeting shares, provided that their employment or service relationships with Kesko Group continue on 11 April 2018 resolved that approximately 30% of the annual fees to the members of until the payment of the awards. The purpose of the RSP is to serve as a complementary Kesko’s Board of Directors will be paid in B series shares in the Company (Stock exchange long-term share plan to be used as a commitment instrument for selected key persons in release 11 April 2018). Kesko’s Board of Directors decided on 24 April 2018 to implement special situations. In addition to the above employment precondition, Kesko may set particthe resolution of the General Meeting regarding the payment of the share portion of the ipant specific or company specific criteria, the fulfilment of which is a precondition for the annual remuneration by transferring B shares held by the Company as treasury shares to payment of restricted share awards. The total maximum amount of share awards payable the Board members based on the 2016 Share issue authorisation (Stock exchange release under the 2018–2020 RSP is 20,000 Kesko B shares. This number of shares represents 25 April 2018). These shares, totalling 2,759, were transferred to the Board members on gross earnings, from which the applicable withholding tax is deducted and the remaining 27 April 2018. A Board member cannot transfer shares obtained in this manner until either net amount is paid to the participants in shares. Any potential share awards from the RSP three years have passed from the day the member has received the shares or their meminitiated in 2018 will be paid out in the spring of 2021. The new 2018-2021 PSP and 2018bership on the Board has ended, whichever comes first. 2020 RSP were communicated in a stock exchange release on 21 March 2018. The Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018 approved the Board's proposal for its auIn 2018, a total of 7,211 shares granted based on the fulfilment of the performance criteria thorisation to decide on the acquisition of a maximum of 1,000,000 of the Company’s own of the share-based compensation plan in force in 2014-2016 and on the Bridge Plan were B shares (2018 Authorisation to acquire own shares). The B shares will be acquired with returned to the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the share-based comthe Company's distributable unrestricted equity, not in proportion to the shareholdings of pensation scheme. The returns during the reporting year were communicated in stock exchange shareholders, at the market price quoted in public trading organised by Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd releases on 28 February 2018, 30 July 2018, and 7 September 2018. The share-based com( the exchange ) at the time of acquisition. The shares will be acquired and paid for in acpensation plan in force in 2014-2016 was announced in a stock exchange release on 4 February cordance with the rules of the exchange. The acquisition of own shares reduces the amount 2014, and the Bridge Plan was announced in a stock exchange release on 2 February 2017. of the Company's distributable unrestricted equity. The B shares will be acquired for use in the development of the Company's capital structure, to finance possible acquisitions, Kesko's Board of Directors holds a valid authorisation granted by the Annual General Meetcapital expenditure and/or other arrangements within the scope of the Company's business ing held on 4 April 2016 to transfer of a total maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares held by operations, and to implement the Company's commitment and incentive scheme for manthe Company as treasury shares (2016 Share issue authorisation). Based on the authorisaagement and other personnel. The Board will make decisions concerning any other issues tion, own B shares held by the Company as treasury shares can be issued for subscription related to the acquisition of B shares. The authorisation is valid until 30 September 2019. by shareholders in a directed issue in proportion to their existing holdings of the Company’s shares, regardless of whether they own A or B shares. Shares can also be issued in a directThe Board of Directors of Kesko Corporation decided in its meeting on 24 April 2018 to ed issue, departing from the shareholder's pre-emptive right, for a weighty financial reason use the authorisation granted by the General Meeting of 11 April 2018 to acquire B shares for the Company, such as using the shares to develop the Company's capital structure, to in the Company, and established a temporary share buy-back programme for the purpose. finance possible acquisitions, capital expenditure or other arrangements within the scope of The shares were acquired to fulfil obligations related to the Company’s share-based comthe Company's business operations, and to implement the Company's commitment and inmitment and incentive schemes. The Board also decided to implement the resolution made centive scheme. Own B shares held by the Company as treasury shares can be issued either by the General Meeting on 11 April 2018 to pay approximately 30% of the annual fees to 106 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 members of the Board in B series shares in the Company, by using B series shares held by Merlin Vostok LLC, a Russian division of the French Leroy Merlin. Leroy Merlin is the bigthe Company as treasury shares in the payment of the share portion of the remuneration. The gest building and home improvement store chain in Russia. The transaction price paid for acquisitions of the shares began on 26 April 2018 and ended on 18 May 2018. During that the properties in cash was approximately RUB 12 billion (some €169 million). The ownertime, Kesko acquired 500,000 of its own B series shares for an average price per share of ship of the properties was transferred to the buyer in H1/2018. (Stock exchange release €48.83. Following the acquisitions, Kesko held a total of 996,325 of its own B shares, which 16.2.2018) represents approximately 1.00 per cent of all shares in Kesko Corporation and 1.46 per cent of Kesko Corporation’s B series shares. (Stock exchange releases 25.4.2018 and 21.5.2018) Kesko Corporation's Board of Directors decided that the target group for the 2018–2019 performance period of Kesko’s performance and share based commitment and incentive Kesko’s Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018 also approved the Board's proposal plan will comprise approximately 130 members of Kesko’s management and other specified for its authorisation to decide on the issuance of a maximum of 10,000,000 new B shares key persons. The Board also confirmed the criteria for 2018 for both the 2017–2020 plan (2018 Share issue authorisation). The new shares can only be issued against payment. The initiated in 2017 and the 2018–2021 plan. The Board also decided to initiate a restricted new shares can be issued for subscription by shareholders in a directed issue in proportion share-based commitment and incentive plan for 2018–2020. (Stock exchange release to their existing holdings of the Company’s shares regardless of whether they hold A or B 21.3.2018) shares, or, departing from the shareholder's pre-emptive right, in a directed issue if there is a weighty financial reason for the Company, such as using the shares to develop the ComIn the first interim report for 2018, the discontinuation of the building and home improvepany's capital structure and financing possible acquisitions, capital expenditure or other arment trade operations in Russia was presented as discontinued operations in accordance rangements within the scope of the Company's business operations. The Board of Directors with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. The standard will decide the subscription price for the issued shares. The Board will also have the right requires comparison data to be adjusted, thus prompting changes in the presentation of to issue shares for a non-cash consideration. The subscription price is recognised in the redata for 2017. The stock exchange release depicted comparison figures for 2017 for key serve of invested non-restricted equity. The Board will make decisions regarding any other continuing operations segment data. (Stock exchange release 23.3.2018) matters related to the share issues. The authorisation will be valid until 30 June 2021, and it cancelled the authorisation given to the Board by the General Meeting of 13 April 2015 to On 1 June 2018, an acquisition was completed to make Reinin Liha part of Kesko Group's issue a total maximum of 20,000,000 new B shares, which the Board did not use. foodservice wholesale company Kespro. An agreement was also made at the time to acquire Kalatukku E. Eriksson, and the transaction was completed on 2 July 2018. Both will At the end of 2018, the number of shareholders was 40,745, which is 1,577 less than at continue operating as independent companies, and their full staff and operational managethe end of 2017. At the end of December, foreign ownership of all shares was 35.2%, and ment will carry on with their duties. (Press releases 1.6.2018 and 2.7.2018) foreign ownership of B shares 50.3%. Kesko Corporation's subsidiary Byggmakker Handel AS agreed to acquire the Norwegian Flagging notifications building and home improvement trade companies Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS. In 2017, Skattum Handel AS recorded net sales of approximately €94 million and Gipling AS There were no flagging notifications during the financial year. net sales of some €151 million. Both companies operated Byggmakker stores under the retailer business model, and the Byggmakker chain will control the stores following the acKey events during the financial year quisitions. After the completion of the acquisitions, the Byggmakker chain controlled a total of 30 Byggmakker stores, providing even greater potential for growth and increased profitKesko announced it will discontinue its building and home improvement trade operations ability in Norway. The acquisition of Skattum Handel AS was completed on 2 July 2018 and in Russia and sell 12 building and home improvement store properties in Russia to Leroy the acquisition of Gipling AS on 23 July 2018. (Press releases 7.6.2018 and 19.6.2018) 107 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko Senukai agreed to acquire 1A Group, one of the leading online retail market players Kesko Group company K Caara Oy has agreed to acquire Huittisten Laatuauto Oy’s Volkin the Baltic States, with net sales of approximately €41 million in 2017. The acquisition swagen and SEAT business operations in Forssa and Huittinen. The transaction includes makes Kesko Senukai one of the leading e-commerce operators in Estonia, Latvia and Lithnew and used car sales, servicing and after-sales services. (Press release 3.1.2019) uania. The completion of the acquisition was subject to the approval of the local competition authorities and the fulfilment of the other terms and conditions of the transaction. The Kesko Corporation's subsidiary Byggmakker completed the acquisition of the DIY retail transaction was completed on 1 October 2018. (Press release 21.6.2018) business of Sørbø Trelast AS and Tau & Jørpeland Bygg AS. The acquisition comprises two Byggmakker stores and a B2B logistics centre in Norway. (Press release 31.1.2019) Kesko will sell its remaining stake in its Baltic machinery trade subsidiaries and Konekesko Finland’s agricultural machinery trade operations to Danish Agro Group. Danish Agro Resolutions of the 2018 Annual General Meeting and Group has used its call options announced in February 2017 to buy the remaining shares in decisions of the Board's organisational meeting Konekesko’s Baltic subsidiaries and its agricultural machinery trade operations in Finland. As a result, Danish Agro Group will become the full owner of Konekesko’s Baltic companies Kesko Corporation's Annual General Meeting held on 11 April 2018 adopted the finanand Konekesko’s agricultural machinery operations in Finland. The completion of the transaccial statements and consolidated financial statements for 2017 and discharged the Board tions is subject to the approval of competition authorities and the fulfilment of the other terms members and the Managing Director from liability. The General Meeting also resolved to and conditions of the transactions. (Press release 6.7.2018). The transactions were expected to distribute, in accordance with the Board’s proposal, €2.20 per share as dividends, or a total be completed in October 2018 at the latest. The European Commission has partly taken over of €218,945,469.60. The dividend pay date was 20 April 2018. the competition review, and as a result the completion of the transactions has been postponed. The General Meeting resolved that the number of Board members is seven (7). The GenKesko Corporation's subsidiary Byggmakker agreed to acquire the DIY retail business of eral Meeting resolved to elect Jannica Fagerholm, Master of Science (Economics), Peter Sørbø Trelast AS and Tau & Jørpeland Bygg AS. The transaction includes two Byggmakker Fagernäs, Master of Laws (new member), Piia Karhu, Doctor of Science (Economics and stores and a B2B logistics centre. The businesses included in the transaction had total pro Business Administration) (new member), retailer Esa Kiiskinen, Business College Graduate, forma sales of approximately €24 million in 2017. The completion of the transaction was Matti Kyytsönen, Master of Science (Economics), retailer Matti Naumanen, and retailer subject to the approval of Norwegian competition authorities and the fulfilment of the othToni Pokela, eMBA, as Board members for a term of three years ending at the close of the er terms and conditions of the transaction. (Press release 29 October 2018) 2021 Annual General Meeting, as provided in the Articles of Association. The General Meeting resolved to change the remuneration structure of Board members so that a portion Kesko published restated comparison figures for January-September 2018 in accordance of the remuneration is paid as shares in the Company. The purpose of the change is to comwith IFRS 16 Leases, which took effect on 1 January 2019. The standard addresses the mit the Board members to the long-term development of the Company. definition, recognition and measurement of lease agreements and other information given in relation to lease agreements in financial statements. According to the standard, the The General Meeting elected Authorised Public Accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers lessee recognises in its balance sheet right-of-use assets and financial liabilities. (Stock Oy as the Company's Auditor, with Mikko Nieminen, APA, as the Auditor with principal exchange release 19.12.2018) responsibility. Key events after the financial year The General Meeting approved the Board's proposals for its authorisation to decide on the acquisition of a maximum of 1,000,000 of the Company’s own B shares and for its authoriKesko Group company K Caara Oy has agreed to acquire LänsiAuto Oy’s Volkswagen, Audi sation to decide on the issuance of a maximum of 10,000,000 new B shares. and SEAT businesses in Kotka, Kouvola and Lappeenranta. (Press release 2.1.2019) 108 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 The General Meeting also approved the Board’s proposal to authorise the Board to decide The Group's risk map, the most significant risks and uncertainties, as well as material on the donations in a total maximum of €300,000 for charitable or corresponding purposes changes in and responses to them are reported to the Kesko Board's Audit Committee until the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2019, and to decide on the donation recipiquarterly in connection with the review of interim reports, half year financial report and ents, purposes of use and other terms of the donations. financial statements. The Audit Committee Chair reports on risk management to the Board as part of the Audit Committee report. The most significant risks and uncertainties are reAfter the Annual General Meeting, Kesko Corporation's Board of Directors held an organported to the market by the Board in the Report by the Board of Directors and any material isational meeting, in which it elected retailer Esa Kiiskinen (Business College Graduate) as changes in them in the interim reports and the half year financial report. Chairman of the Board and Peter Fagernäs (Master of Laws) as Deputy Chairman. Jannica Fagerholm (M.Sc. Econ.) was elected as Chairman of the Board’s Audit Committee, Matti The following describes the risks and uncertainties assessed as significant. Kyytsönen (M.Sc. Econ.) as Deputy Chairman, and Piia Karhu (Doctor of Science, Economics and Business Administration) as a Committee member. Esa Kiiskinen was elected as Significant risks and uncertainties Chairman of the Board’s Remuneration Committee, Peter Fagernäs as Deputy Chairman, and Matti Kyytsönen as a Committee member. Intensification of price competition in Finnish grocery trade Price competition in Finnish food trade has continued tight as operators strive to increase The resolutions of the Annual General Meeting and the decisions of the Board's organisationtheir market share. Intensifying price competition could weaken profitability for Kesko's al meeting were communicated in more detail in stock exchange releases on 11 April 2018. grocery trade and retailers. Information contained in the notes to the financial statements Business interruptions and information system failures The trading sector is characterised by increasingly complicated and long supply chains and Information on the Group’s personnel is disclosed in note 2.4. a higher dependency on information systems, data communications and external service providers. Disruptions can be caused by hardware failures, software errors or constantly Related party transactions are disclosed in note 5.3. increasing cyber threats. Extended malfunctions in information systems, payment transfers, or in other parts of the supply chain could cause significant losses in sales and weaken Risk Management customer satisfaction. Risk management in Kesko Group is guided by the risk management policy approved by Data breach or critical information falling into the wrong hands Kesko's Board of Directors. The policy defines the goals and principles, organisation, Crimes are increasingly committed through data networks and crime has become more inresponsibilities and practices of risk management in Kesko Group. In the management of ternational and professional. A failure, especially if it affects the security of payment transfinancial risks, the Group's treasury policy, confirmed by Kesko's Board of Directors, is actions and personal data, could cause losses, claims for damages and reputational harm. observed. The management of business operations and common functions are responsible for the execution of risk management. Kesko Group applies a business-oriented and comImplementation of country-specific strategies prehensive approach to risk assessment and management. This means that key risks are in the building and technical trade systematically identified, assessed, managed, monitored and reported as part of business There are risks related to the implementation of the division’s country-specific strategies operations at Group, division, company and function levels throughout the Group. and the creation of business models which may impede the attainment of operational and financial objectives, especially in Sweden. 109 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Cost structure in the building and technical trade division Store sites and properties In the building and technical trade, the market is changing and consequently B2B trade is With a view to business growth and profitability, good store sites are a key competitive facgrowing over B2C trade. There is a risk that operating models and cost-efficiency cannot be tor. The acquisition of store sites can be delayed by town planning and permit procedures adapted sufficiently to changes in different customer segments. and the availability and pricing of sites. Considerable amounts of capital or lease liabilities are tied up in properties for years. As a result of urbanisation, changes in the market situImpact of changes in emissions testing norms on the car trade ation, growing significance of e-commerce, or a chain concept proving inefficient, there is The implementation of the new EU-level emissions testing norm for passenger cars (WLTP) a risk that a store site or a property becomes unprofitable and operations are discontinued has had an impact on the demand and availability of cars. There is a risk that upcoming while long-term liabilities remain. decided changes to emissions testing norms will have a negative impact on new car sales. Responsible operating practices and reputation management Compliance with laws and agreements Various aspects of corporate responsibility, such as ensuring responsibility in the purchasChanges in legislation and authority regulations could necessitate significant changes and ing chain of products, fair and equal treatment of employees, the prevention of corruption, result in additional costs. Compliance with laws and agreements is an important part of and environmental protection, are increasingly important to customers. Any failures in Kesko's corporate responsibility. Non-compliance can result in fines, claims for damages corporate responsibility would result in negative publicity for Kesko and could cause operand other financial losses, and a loss of confidence and reputation. ational and financial damage. Challenges in Kesko’s corporate responsibility work include communicating responsibility principles to suppliers, retailers and customers, and ensuring Product safety responsibility in the purchasing chain of products. A failure in product safety control or in the quality assurance of the supply chain could result in financial losses, the loss of customer confidence and reputation or, in the worst case, Climate change a health hazard to customers. Climate change presents physical and regulatory risks and risks affecting reputational factors. Climate change increases the risk of extreme weather phenomena, which may cause damage Change in the trading sector caused by digitalisation or business interruptions that cannot be prevented or covered with insurances. Droughts, deAs retail undergoes a major transformation, the achievement of business objectives resertification and rising sea levels may impact agricultural production and the availability of raw quires an active approach and strong expertise in the development of digital services and materials and products. Possible emission limitations and taxes may affect the energy markets. online stores that are attractive to customers, and the use of a multichannel approach with supporting customer communications. Challenges in developing online sales include the Reporting to market cost efficiency of logistical operating models and the suitability of existing store sites for Kesko's objective is to produce and publish reliable and timely information. If any information online sales. published by Kesko proved to be incorrect, or communications failed to meet regulations in other respects, it could result in losing investor and other stakeholder confidence and in Employee competencies and working capacity possible sanctions. Significant business arrangements, tight disclosure schedules and the deThe implementation of strategies and the achievement of objectives require competent pendency on information systems create challenges for the accuracy of financial information. and motivated personnel. There is a risk that the trading sector does not attract the most competent people. The acquisitions carried out as well as other significant business and Risks of damage development projects, coupled with an increased need for special competencies increase Accidents, natural phenomena and epidemics could cause significant damage to people, the key-person risk and the dependency on individual expertise. property or business. In addition, risks of damage may cause business interruptions that cannot be prevented. 110 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Outlook Proposal for profit distribution Estimates for the outlook for the net sales and comparable operating profit for Kesko The Board of Directors of Kesko Corporation proposes to the Annual General Meeting to Group's continuing operations are given for the 12-month period following the reporting be held on 8 April 2019 that a dividend of €2.34 per share be paid for the year 2018 based period (1/2019-12/2019) in comparison with the 12 months preceding the end of the on the adopted balance sheet on shares held outside the Company at the date of dividend reporting period (1/2018-12/2018). The outlook is based on IFRS in force on 31 December distribution. The remaining distributable assets will remain in equity. 2018, and does not take account of the impacts of IFRS 16 Leases, which took effect on 1 January 2019. The Board proposes that the dividend be paid in two instalments. The first instalment, €1.17 per share, will be paid to shareholders registered in the Company's register of shareThe general economic situation and the expected trend in consumer demand vary in Kesholders kept by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the first dividend instalment payment record date ko's different operating countries. In Finland, the trading sector is expected to grow. In the 10 April 2019. The Board proposes that the first dividend instalment pay date be 17 April Finnish grocery trade, intense competition is expected to continue, although, as purchasing 2019. power increases, the importance of quality will be emphasised more than previously. In the building and technical trade, the growth in B2B sales is expected to continue stronger than The second instalment, €1.17 per share, will be paid to shareholders registered in the Comthe growth in the retail market. The market is expected to grow in the Nordic and Baltic pany's register of shareholders kept by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the second dividend instalcountries, but at a somewhat slower rate. ment payment record date 10 October 2019. The Board proposes that the second dividend instalment pay date be 17 October 2019. The Board proposes it be authorised to decide, if In comparable terms, the net sales for continuing operations for the next 12 months are necessary, on a new dividend payment record date and pay date for the second instalment expected to exceed the level of the previous 12 months. The comparable operating profit if the rules and statutes of the Finnish book-entry system change or otherwise so require. for continuing operations for the next 12-month period is expected to exceed the level of the preceding 12 months. However, investments in information systems and digital services As at the date of the proposal for the distribution of profit, 5 February 2019, 99,018,353 will burden profitability during the period. In the car trade, profitability is burdened by the shares were held outside the Company, and the corresponding total amount of dividends is shift to WLTP emissions testing, which postpones car delivery times. In the building and €231,702,946.02. technical trade, the share of own retailing has risen following the acquisitions carried out, which increases profit-related seasonal fluctuations. The distributable assets of Kesko Group’s parent company Kesko Corporation total €1,281,451,062.98 of which the profit for the financial year is €211,959,289.00. Updated dividend policy Annual General Meeting In the long-term, Kesko aims to distribute a steadily growing dividend of some 60-100% of its comparable earnings per share, taking into account the company’s financial position and The Board of Directors has decided to convene the Annual General Meeting at Messukeskus strategy. Kesko plans to pay its dividends in two instalments, starting with the dividend paid in Helsinki on 8 April 2019 at 13.00 (EET). Kesko Corporation will publish a notice of the for the year 2018. General Meeting at a later date. According to its previous dividend policy, Kesko distributed at least 50% of its comparable earnings per share as dividends, taking into account, however, the company’s financial position and operating strategy. 111 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Group's key performance indicators Continuing Continuing Group operations Group operations 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Income statement Net sales € million 9,071 8,679 10,180 10,492 10,383 Other performance indicators Change in net sales % -2.6 -4.3 17.3 3.1 -1.0 Capital expenditure € million 194 219 743 334 418 Capital expenditure as percentage of % 2.1 2.5 7.3 3.2 4.0 Operating profit, comparable € million 232.6 244.5 272.9 296.2 332.2 net sales Operating profit as percentage of net % 2.6 2.8 2.7 2.8 3.2 sales, comparable Cash flow from operating activities € million 304 276 170 292 437 Cash flow from investing activities € million -182 217 -501 -72 -373 Operating profit € million 151.4 194.6 146.8 338.6 307.9 Cash flow from operating activities, € million 10 -23 Operating profit as percentage of net sales % 1.7 2.2 1.4 3.2 3.0 discontinued operations Cash flow from investing activities, € million -17 164 discontinued operations Profit for the year (incl. non-controlling € million 108 117 114 284 235 interests) Profit for the year as percentage of net sales % 1.2 1.4 1.1 2.7 2.3 Personnel, average for the year, 19,976 18,956 22,475 22,077 19,995 group Personnel, as at 31 Dec., group 23,794 21,935 27,657 24,983 23,458 Profitability Return on equity, group % 4.7 5.2 5.2 12.3 8.1 Return on equity, comparable, group % 7.6 8.2 9.8 10.9 11.7 Return on capital employed % 6.4 9.3 6.4 15.2 12.9 Return on capital employed, comparable % 9.9 11.7 11.9 13.3 14.0 Funding and financial position Interest-bearing net debt, group € million -99.2 -448.1 123.3 135.9 161.6 Gearing, group % -4.4 -20.0 5.8 6.1 7.4 Equity ratio, group % 54.5 54.7 48.6 50.4 51.4 Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA, group -0.3 -1.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 112 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Share performance indicators Turnover Earnings/share, basic and diluted A share Million 2 2 2 1 1 pcs Continuing operations € 2.75 2.18 B share Million 47 59 52 49 52 Discontinued operations € -0.16 -0.56 pcs Group total € 0.97 1.03 0.99 2.59 1.61 Relative turnover rate Earnings/share, comparable, basic A share % 6.3 7.5 5.4 4.0 4.6 Continuing operations € 2.29 2.47 B share % 69.5 87.0 74.3 70.9 75.9 Group total € 1.65 1.70 2.01 Diluted average number of shares Thousand 99,161 99,114 99,249 99,426 99,182 Equity/share € 22.05 21.82 20.44 21.45 21.06 pcs Dividend/share € 1.50 2.50 2.00 2.20 2.34* Yield of A share for the past five financial years % 8.3 2.3 17.8 18.4 16.0 Payout ratio % 154.7 243.8 201.3 84.9 145.2* Yield of B share Payout ratio, comparable % 91.1 146.7 99.5 96.6 95.8* For the past five financial years % 10.1 3.0 18.6 18.5 17.6 Cash flow from operating activities/share, € 3.07 2.79 1.72 3.03 4.17 adjusted, group total For the past ten financial years % 10.2 7.7 6.6 6.8 15.6 Cash flow from operating activities/share, € 2.94 4.41 * Proposal to the General Meeting adjusted, continuing operations Price/earnings ratio (P/E), A share, adjusted 29.49 30.35 44.14 17.01 27.05 Price/earnings ratio (P/E), B share, adjusted 31.16 31.57 47.80 17.45 29.22 Effective dividend yield, A share % 5.3 8.0 4.6 5.0 5.4* Effective dividend yield, B share % 5.0 7.7 4.2 4.9 5.0* Share price as at 31 Dec. A share € 28.56 31.12 43.85 44.10 43.60 B share € 30.18 32.37 47.48 45.25 47.10 Average share price A share € 29.06 31.85 37.30 43.62 47.21 B share € 29.82 33.52 39.03 44.52 48.68 Market capitalisation as at 31 Dec., A share € million 906 988 1,392 1,400 1,384 Market capitalisation as at 31 Dec., B share € million 2,031 2,182 3,207 3,064 3,169 113 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Net sales by segment Operating profit by segment € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Change, % € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Change Grocery trade, Finland 5,386 5,282 2.0 Grocery trade 219.3 181.3 38.0 Grocery trade, total 5,386 5,282 2.0 Building and technical trade 84.9 168.7 -83.8 of which intersegment trade 6 7 -14.0 Car trade 34.4 33.1 1.2 Common functions and eliminations -30.6 -44.5 13.9 Building and technical trade, Finland 1,972 2,190 -10.0 Continuing operations, total 307.9 338.6 -30.7 Building and technical trade, other 2,131 2,111 0.9 countries* Building and technical trade, total 4,103 4,302 -4.6 Comparable operating profit by segment of which intersegment trade 0 3 -96.3 € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Change Grocery trade 228.0 203.4 24.6 Car trade, Finland 893 909 -1.8 Building and technical trade 98.4 95.2 3.2 Car trade, total 893 909 -1.8 Car trade 34.5 33.1 1.4 of which intersegment trade 2 1 (..) Common functions and eliminations -28.7 -35.6 6.8 Continuing operations, total 332.2 296.2 36.0 Common functions and eliminations 1 -1 (..) Finland, total 8,252 8,380 -1.5 Other countries, total* 2,131 2,111 0.9 Continuing operations, total 10,383 10,492 -1.0 *Net sales in countries other than Finland (..) Change over 100% 114 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Group's performance indicators by quarter 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 Net sales, continuing operations, € million 2,558 2,763 2,596 2,575 2,413 2,673 2,642 2,655 Change in net sales, continuing operations, % 29.1 7.7 -5.3 -5.3 -5.7 -3.3 1.8 3.1 Operating profit, continuing operations, € million 19.4 151.8 96.7 70.8 36.6 81.6 110.0 79.8 Operating margin, continuing operations, % 0.8 5.5 3.7 2.8 1.5 3.1 4.2 3.0 Operating profit, comparable, continuing operations, € million 31.5 83.8 100.5 80.4 40.0 89.0 112.6 90.5 Operating margin, comparable, continuing operations, % 1.2 3.0 3.9 3.1 1.7 3.3 4.3 3.4 Finance income/costs, continuing operations, € million 4.2 -1.1 -0.2 -0.7 0.0 -0.9 -0.3 0.0 Profit before tax, continuing operations, € million 24.3 150.0 96.5 71.7 36.5 78.5 109.1 72.6 Profit before tax, continuing operations, % 0.9 5.4 3.7 2.8 1.5 2.9 4.1 2.7 Return on capital employed, continuing operations, % 3.5 27.1 17.8 12.6 6.3 14.2 18.2 13.0 Return on capital employed, comparable, continuing operations, % 5.7 15.0 18.5 14.3 6.9 15.5 18.7 14.7 Return on equity, % 3.2 24.8 13.9 8.1 1.0 6.4 15.7 10.2 Return on equity, comparable, % 5.1 12.2 14.6 12.2 5.4 12.6 16.5 13.3 Cash flow from operating activities/share, continuing operations, € -0.48 1.32 0.98 1.11 0.40 1.41 1.32 1.29 Equity ratio, % 47.4 47.0 49.1 50.4 49.3 46.2 48.5 51.4 Capital expenditure, continuing operations, € million 75.8 77.7 62.9 117.1 54.5 74.2 221.2 67.7 Earnings/share, basic and diluted, € Continuing operations 0.21 1.29 0.67 0.57 0.32 0.52 0.79 0.54 Discontinued operations -0.03 0.00 0.01 -0.14 -0.24 -0.28 -0.03 -0.02 Group total 0.18 1.29 0.69 0.43 0.08 0.24 0.77 0.52 Earnings/share, basic and diluted, comparable € Continuing operations 0.31 0.61 0.71 0.65 0.35 0.61 0.81 0.70 Equity/share, € 20.98 20.18 20.89 21.45 21.52 19.87 20.78 21.06 115 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Net sales by segment 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ € million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 Grocery trade 1,243 1,327 1,313 1,399 1,276 1,327 1,352 1,430 Building and technical trade 1,073 1,202 1,070 957 877 1,102 1,089 1,035 Car trade 245 234 212 218 259 244 200 190 Common functions and eliminations -2 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 Continuing operations, total 2,558 2,763 2,596 2,575 2,413 2,673 2,642 2,655 Operating profit by segment 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ € million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 Grocery trade 16.7 39.9 59.3 65.4 37.6 48.3 63.5 69.9 Building and technical trade 4.0 114.6 38.0 12.1 -4.2 31.0 44.7 13.5 Car trade 10.0 7.6 8.8 6.7 11.0 8.7 7.8 6.8 Common functions and eliminations -11.4 -10.3 -9.4 -13.4 -7.7 -6.4 -6.1 -10.5 Continuing operations, total 19.4 151.8 96.7 70.8 36.6 81.6 110.0 79.8 Items in operating profit affecting comparability 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ € million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 Grocery trade -9.7 -10.6 -0.2 -1.7 -1.2 -4.5 -1.1 -1.9 Building and technical trade -1.8 79.8 -2.7 -1.8 -2.0 -2.4 -1.3 -7.8 Car trade -0.1 Common functions and eliminations -0.6 -1.3 -1.0 -6.0 -0.3 -0.5 -0.3 -0.8 Continuing operations, total -12.1 67.9 -3.8 -9.5 -3.4 -7.5 -2.7 -10.7 Comparable operating profit by segment 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ € million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 Grocery trade 26.4 50.5 59.4 67.0 38.7 52.8 64.7 71.8 Building and technical trade 5.8 34.8 40.7 14.0 -2.2 33.4 45.9 21.3 Car trade 10.0 7.6 8.8 6.7 11.0 8.7 7.8 7.0 Common functions and eliminations -10.8 -9.0 -8.5 -7.4 -7.4 -5.9 -5.8 -9.6 Continuing operations, total 31.5 83.8 100.5 80.4 40.0 89.0 112.6 90.5 116 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Calculation of performance indicators Profitability Kesko uses alternative performance measures to reflect business performance and profitOperating profit, comparable Operating profit +/– items affecting comparability ability. These indicators should be examined together with the IFRS-compliant performance indicators. Items affecting comparability – gains on disposal + losses on disposal + impairment charges +/structural arrangements Change in comparable net sales is used to reflect changes in the Group’s business volume between periods. The indicator reflects the change in net sales excluding the impact of (Profit/loss before tax − Income tax) x 100 acquisitions and divestments, in local currencies. The comparable net sales have been calReturn on equity, % Shareholders' equity, average of the beginning and end of the financial year culated by including in the net sales the business operations that have been part of Kesko Group in both the financial year as well as the comparison year. Other structural arrangements related to acquisitions and divestments have been adjusted in the same manner as (Profit/loss adjusted for items affecting comparability before tax − Income Return on equity, tax adjusted for the tax effect of the items affecting comparability) x 100 acquisitions. The changes in Suomen Lähikauppa Oy’s store site network in 2017 and 2018 comparable, % Shareholders' equity, average of the beginning and end of the financial year have been handled in this manner. Operating profit x 100 Performance indicators reflecting comparable profit and profitability are used to improve Return on capital employed, % (Non-current assets + Inventories + Receivables + Other current assets the comparability of operational performance between periods. Gains and losses on Non-interest-bearing liabilities) on average for 12 months disposal of real estate, shares and business operations, impairment charges and significant restructuring costs are identified as items affecting comparability. Gains on disposal have Comparable operating profit x 100 been presented within other operating income, and losses on disposal within other operatReturn on capital employed, comparable, % (Non-current assets + Inventories + Receivables + Other current assets ing expenses in the income statement. Non-interest-bearing liabilities) on average for 12 months In addition, the financial performance indicators required by the Decree of the Ministry EBITDA Operating profit + Depreciation and amortisation + Impairment charges of Finance on obligation of securities issuers to disclose periodic information have been presented as alternative performance measures. The management uses these indicators to monitor and analyse business performance, profitability and financial position. 117 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Funding, capital expenditure and financial position Share performance indicators Shareholders' equity x 100 Net profit/loss Share of non-controlling interests of net profit/loss Equity ratio, % Earnings/share, diluted (Balance sheet total − Advances received) Average number of shares adjusted for the dilutive effect Interest-bearing net debt x 100 Net profit/loss − Share of non-controlling interests of net profit/loss Gearing, % Earnings/share, basic Shareholders' equity Average number of shares Interest-bearing net debt Interest-bearing liabilities – Financial assets at fair value through profit or Net profit/loss adjusted for items affecting comparability − Share of loss – Available-for-sale financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Earnings/share, basic, non-controlling interests of net profit/loss adjusted for items affecting comparable comparability Average number of shares Interest-bearing net debt/ Interest-bearing net debt EBITDA EBITDA Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Equity/share Basic number of shares at the balance sheet date Investments in property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, subsidiary Capital expenditure shares, shares in associates and joint ventures and other shares (Dividend/share) x 100 Payout ratio, % (Earnings/share) Share price at balance sheet date Price/earnings ratio (P/E) (Earnings/share) (Dividend/share) x 100 Effective dividend yield, % Share price at balance sheet date Market capitalisation Share price at balance sheet date x Number of shares Cash flow from operating Cash flow from operating activities activities/share Average number of shares Yield of A share and B share Change in share price + Annual dividend yield 118 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Reconciliation of performance indicators to IFRS financial statements € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Continuing operations Items affecting comparability Gains on disposal 6.7 83.4 Losses on disposal -0.1 -1.8 Impairment charges -5.6 -0.5 Structural arrangements -25.3 -38.6 Items in operating profit affecting comparability -24.2 42.5 Items in financial items affecting comparability -6.5 -0.4 Items in income taxes affecting comparability 4.5 3.8 Items in net profit attributable to non-controlling interests affecting comparability -3.2 Total items affecting comparability -29.4 45.9 Operating profit, comparable Operating profit 307.9 338.6 Net of Items in operating profit affecting comparability -24.2 42.5 Operating profit, comparable 332.2 296.2 Profit before tax, comparable Profit before tax 296.8 342.4 Net of Items in operating profit affecting comparability -24.2 42.5 Items in financial items affecting comparability -6.5 -0.4 Profit before tax, comparable 327.5 300.3 Net profit, comparable Comparable profit before tax 327.5 300.3 Net of Income tax 61.9 57.9 Items in income taxes affecting comparability 4.5 3.8 Net profit, comparable 261.1 238.5 119 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 € million 1–12/2018 1–12/2017 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent, comparable Net profit, comparable 261.1 238.5 Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests 19.0 11.0 Items in net profit attributable to non-controlling interests affecting comparability -3.2 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent, comparable 245.3 227.5 Earnings/share, comparable, € Net profit attributable to owners of the parent, comparable 245.3 227.5 Average number of shares, basic, 1,000 pcs 99,182 99,426 Earnings/share, comparable, € 2.47 2.29 Return on capital employed, % Operating profit 307.9 338.6 Capital employed, average 2,378 2,224 Return on capital employed, % 12.9 15.2 Return on capital employed, comparable, % Operating profit, comparable 332.2 296.2 Capital employed, average 2,378 2,224 Return on capital employed, comparable, % 14.0 13.3 Group Return on equity, % Net profit 178.9 268.8 Equity, average 2,215 2,179 Return on equity, % 8.1 12.3 Return on equity, comparable, % Net profit, comparable 258.1 237.5 Equity, average 2,215 2,179 Return on equity, comparable, % 11.7 10.9 Equity ratio, % Shareholders’ equity 2,198 2,232 Total assets 4,303 4,472 Advances received 26 39 Equity ratio, % 51.4 50.4 120 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Reconciliation of performance indicators to IFRS financial statements by quarter 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ € million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 Continuing operations Items affecting comparability Gains on disposal 0.3 81.8 0.6 0.6 2.5 4.3 0.0 0.0 Losses on disposal -0.4 -1.2 -0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Impairment charges -0.5 -3.4 -2.2 Structural arrangements -12.1 -12.6 -4.0 -10.1 -5.8 -8.4 -2.6 -8.5 Items in operating profit affecting comparability -12.1 67.9 -3.8 -9.5 -3.4 -7.5 -2.7 -10.7 Items in financial items affecting comparability -0.4 -6.5 Items in income taxes affecting comparability 2.0 -0.4 0.1 2.1 0.4 2.0 0.3 1.8 Items in net profit attributable to non-controlling interests affecting comparability -3.7 0.5 Total items affecting comparability -10.1 67.5 -3.7 -7.8 -3.0 -9.2 -1.8 -15.4 Operating profit, comparable Operating profit 19.4 151.8 96.7 70.8 36.6 81.6 110.0 79.8 Net of Items in operating profit affecting comparability -12.1 67.9 -3.8 -9.5 -3.4 -7.5 -2.7 -10.7 Operating profit, comparable 31.5 83.8 100.5 80.4 40.0 89.0 112.6 90.5 Profit before tax, comparable Profit before tax 24.3 150.0 96.5 71.7 36.5 78.5 109.1 72.6 Net of Items in operating profit affecting comparability -12.1 67.9 -3.8 -9.5 -3.4 -7.5 -2.7 -10.7 Items in financial items affecting comparability -0.4 -6.5 Profit before tax, comparable 36.3 82.1 100.3 81.6 39.9 86.0 111.8 89.8 Net profit, comparable Profit before tax, comparable 36.3 82.1 100.3 81.6 39.9 86.0 111.8 89.8 Net of Income tax 4.2 17.4 23.6 12.7 7.3 16.3 23.5 14.9 Items in income taxes affecting comparability 2.0 -0.4 0.1 2.1 0.4 2.0 0.3 1.8 Net profit, comparable 30.2 65.1 76.6 66.7 32.2 67.8 88.0 73.1 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent, comparable Net profit, comparable 30.2 65.1 76.6 66.7 32.2 67.8 88.0 73.1 121 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ 1–3/ 4–6/ 7–9/ 10–12/ € million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 Net of Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests -1.0 4.2 6.0 1.8 -2.7 10.9 6.9 3.9 Items in net profit attributable to non-controlling interests affecting comparability -3.7 0.5 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent, comparable 31.2 60.8 70.6 64.9 34.9 60.6 80.6 69.2 Earnings/share, comparable, € Net profit attributable to owners of the parent, comparable 31.2 60.8 70.6 64.9 34.9 60.6 80.6 69.2 Average number of shares, basic, 1,000 pcs 99,308 99,387 99,414 99,426 99,468 99,347 99,237 99,182 Earnings/share, comparable, € 0.31 0.61 0.71 0.65 0.35 0.61 0.81 0.70 Return on capital employed, % Operating profit 19.4 151.8 96.7 70.8 36.6 81.6 110.0 79.8 Capital employed, average 2,224 2,239 2,175 2,248 2,317 2,294 2,413 2,462 Return on capital employed, % 3.5 27.1 17.8 12.6 6.3 14.2 18.2 13.0 Return on capital employed, comparable, % Operating profit, comparable 31.5 83.8 100.5 80.4 40.0 89.0 112.6 90.5 Capital employed, average 2,224 2,239 2,175 2,248 2,317 2,294 2,413 2,462 Return on capital employed, comparable, % 5.7 15.0 18.5 14.3 6.9 15.5 18.7 14.7 Group Return on equity, % Net profit 17.2 132.8 74.1 44.7 5.8 34.3 82.9 55.9 Equity, average 2,155 2,142 2,138 2,204 2,235 2,154 2,118 2,182 Return on equity, % 3.2 24.8 13.9 8.1 1.0 6.4 15.7 10.2 Return on equity, comparable, % Net profit, comparable 27.4 65.2 77.9 67.0 30.4 67.8 87.5 72.4 Equity, average 2,155 2,142 2,138 2,204 2,235 2,154 2,118 2,182 Return on equity, comparable, % 5.1 12.2 14.6 12.2 5.4 12.6 16.5 13.3 Equity ratio, % Shareholders’ equity 2,183 2,100 2,176 2,232 2,238 2,070 2,167 2,198 Total assets 4,638 4,496 4,464 4,472 4,774 4,504 4,498 4,303 Advances received 32 27 32 39 240 28 30 26 Equity ratio, % 47.4 47.0 49.1 50.4 49.3 46.2 48.5 51.4 122 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Analysis of shareholding Analysis of shareholding by shareholder type as at 31 Dec. 2018 Analysis of shareholding by number of shares held as at 31 Dec. 2018 Number of Percentage of Percentage All shares shares, pcs all shares, % All shares Number of of shareShare total, Percentage of Non-financial corporations and housing corporations 27,668,787 27.66 Number of shares shareholders, pcs holders, % pcs shares, % 1−100 15,578 38.23 776,694 0.78 Financial and insurance corporations 3,109,934 3.11 101−500 14,039 34.46 3,711,720 3.71 General government* 4,718,143 4.72 501−1,000 4,853 11.91 3,817,317 3.82 Households 24,192,608 24.19 1,001−5,000 4,889 12.00 10,716,957 10.71 Non-profit institutions** 5,152,908 5.15 5,001−10,000 761 1.87 5,395,567 5.39 Foreign and nominee-registered 35,177,372 35.17 10,001−50,000 517 1.27 10,467,726 10.47 Total 100,019,752 100.00 50,001−100,000 57 0.14 4,124,990 4.12 100,001−500,000 34 0.08 6,009,867 6.01 Number of Percentage of A Percentage of A shares shares, pcs shares, % all shares, % 500,001− 17 0.04 54,998,914 54.99 Non-financial corporations and housing corporations 21,026,307 66.25 21.02 Total 40,745 100.00 100,019,752 100.00 Financial and insurance corporations 1,416,882 4.46 1.42 General government* 542,756 1.71 0.54 Percentage Households 5,854,848 18.45 5.85 A shares Number of of A shareA share total, Percentage of A Number of shares shareholders, pcs holders, % pcs shares, % Non-profit institutions** 2,091,706 6.59 2.09 1-100 3,381 39.70 135,156 0.43 Foreign and nominee-registered 804,508 2.53 0.80 101-500 1,978 23.23 501,660 1.58 Total 31,737,007 100.00 31.73 501-1,000 1,114 13.08 973,836 3.07 1,001-5,000 1,399 16.43 3,339,357 10.52 Number of Percentage of B Percentage of 5,001-10,000 334 3.92 2,345,606 7.39 B shares shares, pcs shares, % all shares, % 10,001-50,000 260 3.05 5,581,837 17.59 Non-financial corporations and housing corporations 6,642,480 9.73 6.64 50,001-100,000 31 0.36 2,179,934 6.87 Financial and insurance corporations 1,693,052 2.48 1.69 100,001-500,000 10 0.12 1,696,087 5.34 General government* 4,175,387 6.11 4.17 500,0019 0.11 14,983,534 47.21 Households 18,337,760 26.86 18.33 Total 8,516 100.00 31,737,007 100.00 Non-profit institutions** 3,061,202 4.48 3.06 Foreign and nominee-registered 34,372,864 50.34 34.37 Total 68,282,745 100.00 68.27 * General government, for example, municipalities, the provincial administration of Åland, authorised pension providers and social security funds ** Non-profit institutions, for example, foundations awarding scholarships, organisations safeguarding certain interests and various charitable associations 123 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Percentage 10 largest shareholders by number of votes as at 31 Dec. 2018 B shares Number of of B sharePercentage of B Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Number of shares shareholders, pcs holders, % B share total, pcs shares, % shares, pcs shares, % votes votes, % 1-100 13,288 38.27 694,405 1.02 1. K-Retailers' Association 4,255,456 4.25 42,554,560 11.03 101-500 12,931 37.25 3,433,778 5.03 2. Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy 3,438,885 3.44 34,388,850 8.92 501-1,000 3,978 11.46 3,041,239 4.45 3. Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy 3,491,771 3.49 27,148,568 7.04 1,001-5,000 3,794 10.93 8,047,412 11.79 4. Valluga-sijoitus Oy 1,340,439 1.34 13,404,390 3.48 5,001-10,000 405 1.17 2,901,572 4.25 5. Foundation for Vocational 1,209,942 1.21 12,099,420 3.14 10,001-50,000 268 0.77 5,224,460 7.65 Training in the Retail Trade 50,001-100,000 24 0.07 1,821,854 2.67 6. Ilmarinen Mutual Pension 2,076,418 2.08 6,957,892 1.80 Insurance Company 100,001-500,000 20 0.06 3,654,574 5.35 7. Heimo Välinen Oy 550,000 0.55 5,500,000 1.43 500,00110 0.03 39,463,451 57.79 8. K-Food Retailers' Club 516,852 0.52 5,168,520 1.34 Total 34,718 100.00 68,282,745 100.00 9. Food Paradise Oy 501,041 0.50 5,010,410 1.30 10. T.A.T. Invest Oy 198,020 0.20 1,931,600 0.50 10 largest shareholders by number of shares held as at 31 Dec. 2018 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of shares, pcs shares, % votes votes, % Management's shareholdings 1. K-Retailers' Association 4,255,456 4.25 42,554,560 11.03 At the end of December 2018, Kesko Corporation's Board members, the President and 2. Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy 3,491,771 3.49 27,148,568 7.04 CEO and the corporations controlled by them held 307,814 Kesko Corporation A shares 3. Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy 3,438,885 3.44 34,388,850 8.92 and 49,718 Kesko Corporation B shares, i.e. a total of 357,532 shares, which represents 4. Ilmarinen Mutual Pension 2,076,418 2.08 6,957,892 1.80 0.36% of the total number of shares and 0.81% of votes carried by all shares of the Company. Insurance Company 5. Valluga-sijoitus Oy 1,340,439 1.34 13,404,390 3.48 At 31 December 2018, the President and CEO held 44,964 Kesko Corporation B shares, 6. Foundation for Vocational 1,209,942 1.21 12,099,420 3.14 which represented 0.04% of the total number of shares and 0.01% of votes carried by all Training in the Retail Trade shares of the Company. At 31 December 2018, the Group Management Board including 7. Varma Mutual Pension 1,130,986 1.13 1,130,986 0.29 the President and CEO held 81 Kesko Corporation A shares and 133,982 Kesko CorporaInsurance Company tion B shares, which represented 0.13% of the total number of shares and 0.03% of votes 8. Oy The English Tearoom Ab 1,000,000 1.00 1,000,000 0.26 carried by all shares of the Company. 9. The State Pension Fund 750,000 0.75 750,000 0.19 10. Heimo Välinen Oy 550,000 0.55 5,500,000 1.43 Does not contain shares held by Kesko Corporation, amounting to 1,001,399 on 31 Dec. 2018. 124 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Consolidated income statement € million Note 1 Jan.–31 Dec.2018 % 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2017 % Continuing operations Net sales 2.1 10,382.8 100.0 10,491.8 100.0 Cost of goods sold -8,989.5 -86.6 -9,025.7 -86.0 Gross profit 1,393.2 13.4 1,466.1 14.0 Other operating income 2.3 789.8 7.6 786.6 7.5 Employee benefit expenses 2.4 -694.1 -6.7 -738.1 -7.0 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 3.3 3.4 -146.9 -1.4 -130.2 -1.2 Other operating expenses 2.4 -1,034.2 -10.0 -1,045.8 -10.0 Operating profit 307.9 3.0 338.6 3.2 Interest income and other finance income 4.4 14.1 0.1 18.5 0.2 Interest expense and other finance costs 4.4 -12.4 -0.1 -13.8 -0.1 Foreign exchange differences 4.4 -2.8 0.0 -2.4 0.0 Total finance income and costs 4.4 -1.1 0.0 2.2 0.0 Share of result of associates and joint ventures -10.1 -0.1 1.6 0.0 Profit before tax 296.8 2.9 342.4 3.3 Income tax 2.6 -61.9 -0.6 -57.9 -0.6 Net profit for the year, continuing operations 234.8 2.3 284.5 2.7 Discontinued operations Net profit for the year from discontinued operations 3.7 -55.9 -0.5 -15.6 -0.1 Net profit for the year 178.9 1.7 268.8 2.6 Net profit for the year attributable to Owners of the parent 159.9 257.8 Non-controlling interests 19.0 11.0 Earnings per share for net profit attributable to owners of the parent Basic and diluted, continuing operations, € 2.7. 2.18 2.75 Basic and diluted, discontinued operations, € 2.7. -0.56 -0.16 Basic and diluted, Group total, € 2.7 1.61 2.59 126 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income € million Note 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2018 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2017 Net profit for the year 178.9 268.8 Continuing operations Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Actuarial gains and losses 3.8 5.6 -1.9 36.0 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Currency translation differences related to a foreign operation 5.6 -10.4 -15.1 Cash flow hedge revaluation 5.6 2.1 0.6 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 5.6 -0.3 Others 5.6 -0.1 -0.3 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, continuing -10.4 20.9 operations Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, discontinued 35.1 -14.2 operations Total comprehensive income for the year 203.6 275.6 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Owners of the parent 186.1 268.8 Non-controlling interests 17.6 6.8 127 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Consolidated statement of financial position € million Note 31 Dec. 2018 % 31 Dec. 2017 % € million Note 31 Dec. 2018 % 31 Dec. 2017 % ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-current assets Equity attributable to owners of Property, plant and equipment 3.3 1,196.4 1,293.1 the parent Intangible assets 3.4 492.1 376.2 Share capital 4.2 197.3 197.3 Shares in associates and joint 3.9 5.2 123.5 117.4 Share premium 4.2 197.8 197.8 ventures Other reserves 4.2 266.9 266.9 Financial assets at fair value through 4.3 4.5 20.8 Currency translation differences 4.2 -24.0 -50.1 profit or loss Revaluation reserve 4.2 1.7 3.5 Available-for-sale financial assets 4.3 4.5 23.0 Retained earnings 1,445.4 1,518.0 Non-current receivables 4.3 4.5 65.7 65.4 2,085.1 48.5 2,133.4 47.7 Deferred tax assets 5.5 5.3 5.6 Non-controlling interests 5.1 113.2 2.6 98.7 2.2 Pension assets 3.8 148.0 207.5 Total equity 2,198.3 51.1 2,232.1 49.9 Total non-current assets 2,051.7 47.7 2,088.3 46.7 Non-current liabilities Current assets Interest-bearing non-current 4.3 4.5 4.6 177.8 129.3 Inventories 3.5 913.0 938.6 liabilities Interest-bearing receivables 3.6 4.5 2.7 1.5 Non-interest-bearing non-current 4.3 4.5 29.4 31.4 Trade receivables 3.6 4.3 4.5 820.3 836.0 liabilities Income tax assets 3.6 0.1 11.1 Deferred tax liabilities 5.5 44.9 52.0 Other non-interest-bearing 3.6 4.5 194.4 196.4 Pension obligations 0.4 0.4 receivables Provisions 3.10 27.1 25.1 Financial assets at fair value through 4.3 4.5 50.9 171.0 Total non-current liabilities 279.6 6.5 238.2 5.3 profit or loss Financial assets at amortised cost 4.3 4.5 90.8 Current liabilities Available-for-sale financial assets 4.3 4.5 94.2 Current interest-bearing liabilities 4.3 4.5 4.6 233.4 404.6 Cash and cash equivalents 107.5 132.7 Trade payables 4.3 4.5 982.7 1,023.7 Total current assets 2,179.7 50.7 2,381.5 53.3 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 4.3 4.5 197.8 227.1 Non-current assets classified as held 3.7 71.5 1.7 1.8 0.0 Income tax liabilities 4.5 16.5 5.6 for sale Accrued liabilities 4.3 4.5 353.9 308.5 Total assets 4,302.9 100.0 4,471.6 100.0 Provisions 3.10 25.2 31.6 Total current liabilities 1,809.5 42.1 2,001.1 44.8 Liabilities related to available-for3.7 15.4 0.4 0.1 0.0 sale non-current assets Total liabilities 2,104.6 48.9 2,239.5 50.1 Total equity and liabilities 4,302.9 100.0 4,471.6 100.0 128 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Consolidated statement of cash flows 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 1 Jan.–31 Dec. € million Note 2018 2017 € million Note 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash flows from investing activities, total -209.0 -88.3 Profit before tax 296.8 343.0 Adjustments Cash flows from financing activities Depreciation according to plan 143.5 130.2 Interest-bearing liabilities, increase (+)/decrease (-) 2.8 -97.6 5.2 Finance income and costs 1.1 -2.2 Repayments of finance lease liabilities 2.8 -4.3 -5.4 Other adjustments 2.8 55.9 -78.0 Interest-bearing receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) 2.8 0.1 0.3 200.5 50.0 Dividends paid -225.4 -203.8 Change in working capital Equity increase 4.2 -24.4 Current non-interest-bearing receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) 46.7 -78.1 Short-term money market investments, increase (-)/decrease (+) 116.5 -36.4 Inventories, increase (-)/decrease (+) -33.9 -12.5 Other items 0.8 -2.9 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities, increase (+)/decrease (-) -24.5 32.2 Net cash flows from financing activities, continuing operations -234.3 -242.9 -11.7 -58.4 Net cash flows from financing activities, discontinued operations Net cash flows from financing activities, total -234.3 -242.9 Interest paid and other finance costs -14.1 -15.5 Interest received 15.6 16.1 Change in cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-29.5 -29.5 sale financial assets Dividends received 0.7 2.2 Income taxes paid -50.5 -45.4 Cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-sale financial 2.8 163.7 198.6 Net cash flows from operating activities, continuing operations 437.1 291.9 assets as at 1 January, continuing operations Net cash flows from operating activities, discontinued operations 3.7 -23.2 9.9 Cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-sale financial 2.8 6.5 2.3 Net cash flows from operating activities, total 413.8 301.7 assets as at 1 January, discontinued operations Currency translation difference adjustment and change in value -1.1 -1.1 Cash flows from investing activities Cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-sale 2.8 139.2 163.7 financial assets as at 31 December, continuing operations Payments for acquisition of subsidiary shares, net of cash acquired 3.2 -164.7 -0.4 Cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-sale 2.8 0.4 6.5 Payments to acquire equity accounted investments 2.8 -9.2 -1.6 financial assets as at 31 December, discontinued operations Payments for property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 2.8 -224.1 -303.1 Proceeds from sale of business operations, net of cash disposed of 3.2 143.9 Proceeds from equity accounted investments 7.5 Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and intangible 18.7 96.6 assets Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets 0.0 0.1 Non-current loan and receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) -1.5 -7.0 Net cash flows from investing activities, continuing operations -373.3 -71.5 Net cash flows from investing activities, discontinued operations 3.7 164.3 -16.8 129 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to owners of the parent Currency Nontranslation Revaluation Treasury Retained controlling Total € million Share capital Reserves differences reserve shares earnings Total interest equity Balance as at 1 January 2018 197.3 464.7 -50.1 3.5 -18.0 1,536.0 2,133.4 98.7 2,232.1 Impact of new IFRS adoption -3.9 3.7 2.6 2.4 0.0 2.4 Adjusted opening balance 1 January 2018 197.3 464.7 -50.1 -0.4 -14.2 1,538.6 2,135.9 98.7 2,234.6 Share-based payments 1.8 1.8 1.8 Acquisition of treasury shares -24.4 -24.4 -24.4 Dividends -221.8 -221.8 -3.9 -225.7 Increase in share capital 0.0 0.7 0.7 Other changes 0.0 0.0 7.7 7.6 0.2 7.8 Transactions with owners, total 0.0 0.0 -22.6 -214.2 -236.8 -3.0 -239.9 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year, continuing operations 215.8 215.8 19.0 234.8 Net profit for the year, discontinued operations -55.9 -55.9 -55.9 Actuarial gains/losses -2.3 -2.3 -2.3 Currency translation differences related to a foreign operation -9.0 0.1 -8.9 -1.4 -10.4 Cash flow hedge revaluation 2.6 2.6 2.6 Others -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 Tax related to other comprehensive income -0.5 0.4 -0.1 -0.1 Comprehensive income, discontinued operations 35.1 35.1 35.1 Total comprehensive income for the period 26.1 2.1 157.9 186.1 17.6 203.6 Balance as at 31 December 2018 197.3 464.7 -24.0 1.7 -36.9 1,482.3 2,085.1 113.2 2,198.3 130 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Attributable to owners of the parent Currency Nontranslation Revaluation Treasury Retained controlling Total € million Share capital Reserves differences reserve shares earnings Total interest equity Balance as at 1 January 2017 197.3 463.4 -23.7 3.2 -23.5 1,412.4 2,029.1 97.3 2,126.3 Share-based payments 5.5 5.5 5.5 Dividends -198.9 -198.9 -4.8 -203.8 Disposal of subsidiary 0.0 -1.4 1.4 0.0 0.0 Disposals of non-controlling interests 21.2 21.2 21.2 Purchases of non-controlling interests 0.0 -0.5 -0.5 Other changes 1.4 0.0 6.4 7.8 0.1 7.9 Transactions with owners, total 1.4 -1.4 5.5 -170.0 -164.4 -5.3 -169.7 Comprehensive income Net profit for the year, continuing operations 273.4 273.4 11.0 284.5 Net profit for the year, discontinued operations -15.6 -15.6 -15.6 Actuarial gains/losses 45.0 45.0 45.0 Currency translation differences related to a foreign operation -10.8 -10.8 -4.3 -15.1 Cash flow hedge revaluation 0.8 0.8 0.8 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets -0.4 -0.4 -0.4 Others -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Tax related to other comprehensive income -0.1 -9.0 -9.1 -9.1 Comprehensive income, discontinued operations -14.2 -14.2 -14.2 Total comprehensive income for the period -25.0 0.3 293.5 268.8 6.8 275.6 Balance as at 31 December 2017 197.3 464.7 -50.1 3.5 -18.0 1,536.0 2,133.4 98.7 2,232.1 Further information on share capital and reserves is disclosed in note 4.2, on components of other comprehensive income in note 5.6 and on share-based compensation plans in note 5.4. 131 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.1 Basic information about the Company 1.2 Basis of preparation 1.3 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions 1.4 Critical judgements in applying accounting policies 1.5 Consolidation principles 1.6 New IFRS standards Accounting policies are stated in each note in sections 2-5. 132 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 1. Accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements The notes to the consolidated financial statements have been grouped into sections based the procedure enacted in EU regulation (EC) 1606/2002, included in the Finnish Accounton their nature. The basis of preparation is described as part of this note (Accounting ing Act and regulations based on it. Accounting standards not yet effective have not been policies for the consolidated financial statements), while the accounting policies directly adopted voluntarily for the consolidated financial statements. The notes to the consolidated related to a specific note are presented as part of the note in question. The notes contain financial statements also include compliance with Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. the relevant financial information as well as a description of the accounting policies and key estimates and judgements applied for the topics of the individual note. As of the start of the financial year, the Group has adopted the new standards IFRS 9 Financial instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the amend1.1 Basic information about the Company ments to the standard IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, effective as of 1 January 2018. Due to changes in IFRS 9 and IFRS 2, the Group’s opening balance sheet of 1 January 2018 has Kesko is a Finnish listed trading sector company. Kesko has approximately 1,800 stores been adjusted. IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial stateengaged in chain operations in the Nordic and Baltic countries, Poland and Belarus. ments, and it had no effect on the opening balance sheet of 1 January 2018. Kesko Group's reportable segments consist of its business divisions, namely the grocery All amounts in the consolidated financial statements are in millions of euros and based on trade, the building and technical trade, and the car trade. original cost, with the exception of items specified below, which have been measured at fair value in compliance with the standards. The Group's parent company, Kesko Corporation, is a Finnish public limited company constituted in accordance with the laws of Finland. The Company's business ID is 0109862-8, 1.3 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions it is domiciled in Helsinki, and its registered address is PO Box 1, FI-00016 KESKO. Copies of Kesko Corporation's financial statements and the consolidated financial statements are The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with international acavailable from Kesko Corporation, PO Box 1, Helsinki, FI-00016 KESKO, visiting address counting standards requires the use of certain estimates and assumptions about the future Sörnäistenkatu 2, Helsinki, and from the internet at www.kesko.fi. that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent liabilities, and income and expense. The actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. The most Kesko's Board of Directors has approved these financial statements for disclosure on 5 Februsignificant circumstances for which estimates have been required are described below. ary 2019. The estimates and judgements made are continuously evaluated, and they are based on 1.2 Basis of preparation historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Kesko's consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved for adoption by the European Union, Measurement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and they comply with the IAS and IFRS standards and respective SIC and IFRIC InterpreAssets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations are measured at their tations effective on 31 December 2018. The International Reporting Standards refer to fair values at the date of acquisition. The fair values on which the allocation of costs and standards and their interpretations approved for adoption within the EU in accordance with liabilities is based are determined by reference to market values to the extent they are avail133 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 able. If market values are not available, the measurement is based on the estimated earnTrade receivables ings-generating capacity of the asset and its future use in Kesko's operating activities. The The Group companies apply a uniform practice to measuring receivables past due. Possible measurement of intangible assets, in particular, is based on the present values of future cash changes in customers' solvency may cause changes in the measurement of trade receivflows and requires management estimates regarding future cash flows and the use of assets. ables in future periods. Impairment test Provisions The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined using calculations The existence of criteria for recognising provisions and the amounts of provisions are debased on value in use. In the calculations, forecast cash flows are based on financial plans termined based on estimates of the existence and amount of the obligation. Estimates may approved by management, covering a period of three years. (Note 3.4) differ from the actual future amount of the obligation and with respect to the existence of the obligation. Employee benefits The Group operates both defined contribution pension plans and defined benefit pension 1.4 Critical judgements in applying accounting policies plans. Items relating to employee benefits are calculated using several factors that require the application of judgement. Pension calculations under defined benefit plans in compliThe Group's management uses its judgement in the adoption and application of accountance with IAS 19 are based on, among others, the following factors that rely on manageing policies in the financial statements. Management has exercised its judgement in the ment estimates (note 3.8): application of accounting policies when, for example, measuring receivables, determining provisions for restructuring and classifying leases. • discount rate used in calculating pension expenses and obligations and net finance cost for the period 1.5 Consolidation principles • future salary level trend Subsidiaries • employee service life. The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Kesko Corporation and subsidiaries controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has more than Changes in these assumptions can significantly impact the amounts of pension obligation half of the voting rights of a subsidiary or otherwise exerts control. An investor controls and future pension expenses. In addition, a significant part of the pension plan assets is an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with invested in real estate and shares, whose value adjustments impact the recognised amount the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. of pension assets. Acquired subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group gains control until the date on which control ceases. The existence of potential voting rights has been considMeasurement of inventories ered when assessing the existence of control in the case that the instruments entitling to The Group regularly reviews inventories for obsolescence and turnover, and for possible potential control are currently exercisable. Subsidiaries are listed in note 5.2. reduction of net realisable value below cost, and records an impairment as necessary. Such reviews require assessments of future demand for products. Possible changes in these Mutual shareholding is eliminated by using the acquisition cost method. The cost of assets acestimates may cause changes in inventory measurement in future periods. quired is determined on the basis of the fair value of the acquired assets as at the acquisition date, the issued equity instruments and liabilities resulting from or assumed on the date of the exchange transaction. The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are measured at the fair value at the acquisition date, gross of non-controlling interest. 134 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Intragroup transactions, receivables and payables, unrealised profits and internal distriThe Group’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statebutions of profits are eliminated when preparing the consolidated financial statements. ment. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying Unrealised losses are not eliminated if the loss is due to the impairment of an asset. Non-conamount of the investment. If the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds trolling interest in the profit for the period is disclosed in the income statement and the its interest in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses. amount of equity attributable to the non-controlling interests is disclosed separately in equity. Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and the joint ventures are eliminated The Group accounts for its real estate company acquisitions as acquisitions of assets. to the extent of the Group’s interests in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Associates Dividends received from joint ventures are deducted from the Group's result and the cost Associates are companies over which the Group has significant influence but not control. In of the shares. An investment in a joint venture includes the goodwill generated by the acKesko Group, significant influence accompanies a shareholding or agreement of between quisition. Goodwill is not amortised. 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost. Mutual real estate companies Mutual real estate companies are consolidated as common functions on a line-by-line basis The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statein proportion to ownership. The Group's share of mutual real estate companies' loans and ment. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying reserves is accounted for separately in the consolidation. amount of the investment. If the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses. Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and proportionately consolidated mutual real estate companies are listed in note 5.2. Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and the associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associates. Unrealised losses are also eliminated, Foreign currency items unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. DiviThe consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is both the functional dends received from associates are deducted from the Group's result and the cost of the currency of the environment in which the Group’s parent operates and the presentation shares. An investment in an associate includes the goodwill generated by the acquisition. currency. On initial recognition, the amounts with respect to the result and financial posiGoodwill is not amortised. tion of the Group companies located outside the euro zone are recorded in the functional currency of each of their operating environments. Joint arrangements Joint arrangements are arrangements in which the sharing of joint control has been conForeign currency transactions are recorded in euros by applying the exchange rate at the tractually agreed between two or more parties. Joint control exists only when decisions date of the transaction. Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. translated into euros using the closing rate. Exchange rate gains and losses on foreign curA joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the rency transactions as well as receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. Investments in joint ventures recognised in the income statement, with the exception of monetary items that form a part are accounted for using the equity method, and on initial recognition, they are recognised of a net investment in a foreign operation and loans designated as hedges for foreign net inat cost. vestments and regarded as effective. These exchange differences are recognised in equity and their changes are presented in other comprehensive income. The exchange differences 135 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 are presented in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation or settlement of Impact of new and amended standards on the opening balance sheet the hedges. The Group has currently no loans designated as hedges for foreign net invest€ million 31/12/2017 Adjustments 01/01/2018 ments. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from operating activities are included ASSETS in the respective items above operating profit. Foreign exchange gains and losses from Current assets foreign exchange forward contracts and options used for hedging financial transactions, Trade receivables 836 -2 834 and from foreign currency borrowings are included in finance income and costs. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 171 10 181 Financial assets at amortised cost 57 57 The income statements of the Group companies operating outside the euro zone have been Available-for-sale financial assets 68 -68 0 translated into euros at the average rate of the financial year, and their balance sheets at Total current assets -2 the closing rate. The foreign exchange difference resulting from the use of different rates, the translation differences arising from the elimination of the acquisition cost of subsidiaries outside the euro zone, exchange differences arising from monetary items that form a part EQUITY AND LIABILITIES of a net investment in a foreign operation and the hedging results of net investments are Equity 2,133 2 2,135 recognised in equity, and the changes are presented in other comprehensive income. In Non-controlling interests 99 0 99 connection with the disposal of a subsidiary, translation differences are recognised in the Total equity 2,232 2 2,235 income statement as part of the gains or losses on the disposal. Non-current liabilities Goodwill arising on the acquisition of foreign operations and the fair value adjustments of Deferred tax liabilities 52 0 52 assets and liabilities made upon their acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of these Total non-current liabilities 0 foreign operations and translated into euros at the closing rate. Current liabilities 1.6 New IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 541 -4 537 and the impact of new and updated standards Total current liabilities -4 As of the start of the financial year, the Group has adopted the new standards IFRS 9 Financial instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the amendments to the standard IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, effective as of 1 January 2018. Due to changes in IFRS 9 and IFRS 2, the Group’s opening balance sheet of 1 January 2018 has been adjusted. IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements, and it had no effect on the opening balance sheet of 1 January 2018. The impact of the changes in standards on the Group’s opening balance sheet and shareholders’ equity, and the changes to accounting policies are presented below. The tables only include the balance sheet items affected by the changes in standards, and thus subtotals are not presented. 136 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Impact of new and amended standards on shareholders’ equity in the opening balance sheet Currency Share translation Revaluation Treasury Retained Non-controlling € million capital Reserves differences reserve shares earnings interests Total Closing balance at 31 December 2017 197 465 -50 3 -18 1,536 99 2,232 Reclassification of financial instruments -4 3 -1 Changes in hedge accounting 0 0 0 Change in provisions for trade receivables -1 0 -1 IFRS 9 adjustments, total -4 3 0 -1 IFRS 2 adjustments 4 4 Adjustments total -4 4 3 0 2 Opening balance at 1 January 2018 197 465 -50 0 -14 1,539 99 2,235 IFRS 9 Financial instruments The Group has adopted the standard IFRS 9 Financial instruments as of 1 January 2018. In hedge accounting, the Group will switch to the requirements of IFRS 9. In the hedging of The standard concerns the classification, measurement and hedge accounting of financial electricity price risk, hedge accounting is applied only to system price. assets and liabilities. The opening balance sheet of 1 January 2018 has been adjusted for the accounting policy changes. According to the new IFRS 9 impairment model, impairments must be recognised on the basis of expected credit losses, while previously, impairment was only recognised when Following the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group’s financial assets have been reclassified into there was objective evidence of impairment. The Group has adopted the standard’s simplithree groups: financial assets measured at amortised cost, financial assets measured at fair fied approach for recognising impairment of trade receivables using the provision matrix. value in other comprehensive income, and financial assets measured at fair value through For the impairment model, the Group has classified Group companies into risk categories profit or loss. Financial assets measured at amortised cost consist of assets that are to be on the basis of their business model and realised historical credit losses. As for other finanheld to maturity and whose cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest. cial assets, the change in impairment model has not had a material impact on the consoliFinancial assets measured at fair value in other comprehensive income comprise derivadated financial statements. tives used for hedging. Financial assets that do not meet the criteria of the other groups are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. Following the adoption of IFRS 9, investments of available-for-sale financial assets in interest-bearing instruments have been reclassified as measured at amortised cost, and investments in funds as measured at fair value through profit or loss. Investments of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss in interest-bearing instruments have been reclassified as measured at amortised cost, and investments in funds are still measured at fair value through profit or loss. 137 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Reclassification of financial assets Financial assets at fair value through Loans and Available-for-sale Derivatives used Financial assets at € million profit or loss receivables financial assets for hedging amortised cost Total Closing balance 31 December 2017 171 1,099 117 0 1,388 Reclassification of investments in funds from available-for-sale to fair value through 44 -44 0 profit or loss Reclassification of investments in interest-bearing instruments from available-for-73 72 -1 sale to amortised cost Reclassification of investments in interest-bearing instruments from fair value -11 11 0 through profit or loss to amortised cost Loans and receivables classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost -1,099 1,099 0 Opening balance 1 January 2018 204 0 0 0 1,182 1,387 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Due to the change, the Group has reclassified the cash-settled portions of its share-based The Group has adopted the standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers compensation plans as equity-settled share-based payments. As a result of the change, as of 1 January 2018. The standard replaced IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IAS 18 such cash-settled share-based payments for which the employer shall deduct, on behalf of Revenue, and related interpretations. The standard did not have a material impact on the the employee, from the share award such number of shares which covers taxes and taxconsolidated financial statements or the accounting policies. Under the standard, revenue like charges paid in cash, shall be classified in their entirety as equity-settled share-based is recognised when the control of goods or services transfers to a customer. A customer payments. obtains control when it has the ability to direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the goods or services. The change concerns the following share-based compensation plans: the 2017 Performance Share Plan (PSP), the 2017 share-based incentive plan (Bridge Plan), and the Kesko Group’s income mainly consists of sales of goods and services to business and Restricted Share Pool (RSP) plan, as well as share-based compensation plans granted after consumer customers under ordinary trading sector terms and conditions. The adoption of 1 January 2018. the new standard has not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements, and the accounting policies for income recognition have not been changed. The adoption of IFRS 16 Leases the standard has also not impacted customer agreements or business operations, and it has IFRS 16 Leases took effect on 1 January 2019. The standard addresses the definition, rechad only a minor impact on business support processes and information systems. ognition and measurement of lease agreements and other information given in relation to lease agreements in financial statements. According to the standard, the lessee recognises IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in its balance sheet right-of-use assets and financial liabilities. The Group has adopted changes to the standard IFRS 2 Share-based Payment as of 1 January 2018. The opening balance sheet of 1 January 2018 has been adjusted for the Kesko Group leases store sites and other properties for use in its business operations in all accounting policy changes. of its operating countries. Kesko has a significant number of lease agreements that before the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases were categorised as operating leases and recognised 138 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 as lease expenditure in the income statement on a time apportionment basis. According to Assets in the consolidated statement of financial position increase by the right-of-use-asset the new standard that took effect on 1 January 2019, assets and liabilities corresponding calculated for the commencement date of each lease agreement, to be depreciated over to the present value of minimum lease payments will be recognised in the balance sheet at their lease term. The amount of interest-bearing liabilities in the consolidated statement of the commencement of most of these leases, meaning assets and liabilities recognised in financial position increases by the discounted amount of lease liabilities. In addition, the imthe balance sheet will increase significantly. At the end of 2018 the lease liability for Kesko plementation of the new standard affects the cash flow from operating activities and cash Group’s properties was €2,934 million, in addition to which the Group had other lease flow from financing activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows, as realised rent liabilities of €24 million. The content of lease agreements recognised in the balance sheet payments are allocated to cash flow from operating activities for the portion corresponding under IFRS 16 Leases differs from the reporting of lease liabilities in the notes to balance to finance costs and to cash flow from financing activities for the portion corresponding to sheet for the 2018 reporting period with regard to, for example, exemptions concerning part payment of debt. The new standard does not have a practical impact on Kesko Group’s short-term leases and asset items of low value. There are also timing-related differences, as cash flows, and the Group’s cash flow as a whole will not change. The standard only changlease liabilities reported under notes to the consolidated financial statements include also es the way different items in the statement of cash flows are presented. The retroactive the nominal amount of liability for lease agreements that will enter into force in the future, implementation of the new accounting standard will result in an equity recording at the while under IFRS 16 Leases, lease agreements are recognised in the balance sheet at the date of transition on 1 January 2018 as the values of assets and liabilities recognised in the commencement date of the agreement. balance sheet differ at the date of transition. According to IFRS 16 Leases, the measurement of the right-of-use assets and the lease In the opening balance of 1 January 2018 drawn in conjunction with the implementation of liabilities is determined by discounting the minimum future lease payments. The Group will IFRS 16 and calculated in accordance with the standard, the Group’s right-of-use-assets total adopt the standard using a retrospective method, and the impact on the date of transition €1,996 million, and the corresponding interest-bearing liabilities €2,214 million. The im(1 January 2018) has been calculated as if the standard had always been in effect. The displementation of the standard results in a €72 million increase in the comparable operating count rate should primarily be the interest rate implicit in the lease, if available. An interest profit for continuing operations in January-September, as the operating profit is burdened rate implicit in the lease is not available for all lease agreements. In such cases, the Group by depreciation instead of rents. The positive impact on operating profit for the whole year will use the incremental borrowing rate, which comprises the reference rate, credit spread 2018 is estimated to amount to some €95-98 million. The interest costs on interest-bearing for the incremental borrowing, and a potential country and currency risk premium. With liabilities calculated in accordance with the standard are recognised in the income statethe retrospective method, the incremental borrowing rate is determined and the minimum ment, and these interest expenses are estimated to amount to some €99-101 million for lease payments discounted at the commencement date of each lease agreement. IFRS 16 2018. Consequently, the net impact of the implementation of the standard on the Group’s Leases includes exemptions for lease agreements with a term of less than 12 months and profit before taxes is estimated to amount to some €-3--5 million for 2018. The estimates for asset items of low value, which the Group will adopt. The lessor’s reporting remains given will become more specific once IFRS 16-compliant comparison figures for the whole unchanged, meaning lease agreements are still divided into finance lease agreements and 2018 reporting period are ready. Unaudited information on Kesko Group’s restated comoperating leases. parison figures and the impact on the Group’s key performance indicators for January-September 2018 with regard to the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases were published in a The new standard has a significant impact on the Group’s income statement and balance stock exchange release on 19 December 2018. IFRS 16-compliant comparison figures for sheet and on some performance indicators. The implementation of IFRS 16 increases the whole 2018 reporting period will be published before the publication of the Q1/2019 significantly the Group’s EBITDA and comparable EBITDA and operating profit and cominterim report, in April 2019 at the latest. parable operating profit when the lease expenditure recognised in the income statement is replaced by depreciation of right-of-use-assets and interest expenses for liability recognised in finance costs. In addition, change in deferred tax is recognised in income taxes. 139 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Consolidated statement of financial position, condensed Opening Opening Opening Opening balance sheet Impact of balance 1 Jan. balance sheet Impact of balance 1 Jan. € million 1 Jan. 2018* IFRS 16 2018 restated € million 1 Jan. 2018* IFRS 16 2018 restated ASSETS Non-current liabilities Non-current assets Interest-bearing liabilities 129 129 Property, plant and equipment 1,293 1,293 IFRS financial liabilities 1,922 1922 Intangible assets 376 376 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 31 31 Right-of use assets 1,996 1,996 Deferred tax liabilities 52 -40 12 Shares in associates and joint ventures and other 140 140 Pension obligations 0 0 financial assets Provisions 25 25 Loans and receivables 71 3 74 Total 238 1,883 2,121 Pension assets 207 207 Total 2,088 1,999 4,087 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 405 405 Current assets IFRS financial liabilities 291 291 Inventories 939 939 Trade payables 1,024 1,024 Trade receivables 834 834 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 537 8 545 Other receivables 209 209 Provisions 32 -8 24 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 181 181 Total 1,998 291 2,289 Financial assets at amortised cost 46 46 Liabilities related to available-for-sale non-current 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents 170 170 assets Total 2,380 2,380 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 2 2 Total equity and liabilities 4,470 1,999 6,469 * The impacts of the new and amended IFRS 9 and IFRS 2 on the Group’s opening balance sheet are includTotal assets 4,470 1,999 6,469 ed in the opening balance sheet of 1 Jan. 2018. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 2,135 -169 1,966 Non-controlling interests 99 -6 93 Total equity 2,235 -175 2,059 140 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 2. FINANCIAL RESULTS Net sales, Comparable continuing operations operating profit, continuing operations € million € million 12,000 400 10,492 10,383 332.2 2.1. Kesko's divisions 10,000 296.2 300 2.2. Items affecting comparability 8,000 6,000 200 2.3. Other operating income 4,000 2.4. Operating expenses 100 2,000 2.8% 3.2% 2.5. Foreign exchange differences recognised 0 0 in operating profit 2017 2018 2017 2018 2.6. Income tax 2.7. Earnings per share 2.8. Notes related to the statement of cash flows Cash flow from Comparable operating activities, earnings/share, continuing operations continuing operations € million € 500 3.0 437 2.47 400 2.5 2.29 292 2.0 300 1.5 200 1.0 100 0.5 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 141 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 2.1 Kesko's divisions Accounting policies The liabilities of capital employed consist of trade payables, the share of other non-interThe Group's reportable segments are composed of the Group's divisions, namely the est-bearing liabilities and provisions. The Group’s real estate assets and the revenue and grocery trade, the building and technical trade, and the car trade. costs generated from them have been allocated to the divisions. Division information is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting Capital employed does not include deferred tax assets and liabilities, financial assets provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, at fair value through profit or loss with the exception of fair value of foreign exchange responsible for allocating resources to the divisions, has been identified as the Group forward contracts recognised in the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents, or interManagement Board. The reportable operating segments derive their net sales from the est-bearing liabilities. grocery trade, the building and technical trade, and the car trade. Sales between divisions are charged at prevailing market rates. Revenue recognition policies Net sales comprise the sale of goods, services and energy. The contribution of the sales The Group Management Board assesses the divisions' performances based on operating of services and energy to total net sales is not significant. profit, comparable operating profit, and comparable return on capital employed. Exceptional transactions outside the ordinary course of business are treated as items affecting For net sales, sales revenue is adjusted for indirect taxes, sales adjustment items and the comparability and are allocated to the divisions. The Group identifies gains and losses exchange differences of foreign-currency-denominated sales. Sales adjustment items inon the disposal of real estate, shares and business operations, impairments and significlude loyalty award credits relating to the K-Plussa customer loyalty scheme, recognised cant restructurings as items affecting comparability. Gains on disposals are presented as part of sales transactions. Income from corresponding sales is recognised when the in the income statement within other operating income, and losses on disposals within award credits are redeemed or expire. Contract liability is recognised in the balance other operating expenses. In other respects, the Management Board’s performance sheet. Loyalty award credits affect the net sales of those divisions which grant K-Plussa monitoring is in full compliance with IFRS reporting. Finance income and costs are not alcustomer loyalty award credits in Finland and are engaged in retailing. located to the divisions as the Group’s cash and cash equivalents and financial liabilities are managed by the Group Treasury. Changes in the fair values of intra-Group foreign The Group sells products to retailers and other retail dealers and engages in own retailexchange forward contracts entered into and realised gains and losses are reported as ing. Income from sales of goods and services is recognised when the customer obtains part of other operating income and expenses to the extent that they hedge the divisions’ control of the goods or services. A customer obtains control when it has the ability to foreign exchange risk. direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the goods or services. As a rule, income from sales of goods can be recognised at the time of transfer. Income from services is The assets and liabilities of a division's capital employed consist of operating items that recognised after the service has been performed. Sales to retailers and other retail dealcan be justifiably allocated to the divisions. The assets of capital employed comprise ers are based on invoicing. Retail sales are mainly in cash or by credit card. property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, interests in associates and joint ventures and other investments, pension assets, inventories, trade receivables and other Interest income is recognised on a time apportionment basis using the effective interest non-interest-bearing receivables, interest-bearing receivables and assets held for sale. method. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 142 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko’s business models acquiring 1A Group, one of the leading online retail market players in the Baltic States. Kesko’s principal business model in the Finnish market is the chain business model, in which Onninen is one of the leading suppliers of HEPAC and electrical products and related independent K-retailers run retail stores in Kesko's chains. Kesko manages the operations service providers in the Baltic Sea region and Scandinavia. The group specialises in the B2B of the chains made up of the stores. Chain operations ensure higher competitiveness and trade and has around 150 places of business in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland and the a strong operational basis for K-retailers in terms of purchasing goods, building selections, Baltic countries. marketing and price competition. Outside Finland, Kesko mainly engages in own retailing and B2B trade. Retailer operations accounted for 46% of the Group’s net sales in 2018 The specialty trade included in the building and technical trade division comprises machin(44%). B2B trade is a significant, growing part of business operations. B2B trade accounted ery trade in Finland and the Baltic countries and leisure trade in Finland. The chains in the for 36% (35%) of the Group’s net sales in 2018. Kesko’s own retailing accounted for 18% leisure goods trade are Intersport, Budget Sport, The Athlete’s Foot and Kookenkä. Kesko (21%) of the Group’s net sales. has stated it will sell its remaining shares in the Baltic machinery trade companies and Konekesko Finland’s agricultural machinery trade operations to Danish Agro Group. Of Grocery trade the leisure trade businesses, the K-maatalous business was divested on 1 June 2017, and The grocery trade comprises the wholesale and B2B trade of groceries and the retailing of the Asko and Sotka furniture business and the Yamaha representation were divested on 30 home and speciality goods in Finland. Kesko's grocery trade operates under the K-retailer June 2017. business model. There are approximately 1,200 K-food stores operated by K-retailers in Finland. These stores form the K-Citymarket, K-Supermarket, K-Market and Neste K groOn 16 February 2018, Kesko announced it would be discontinuing its building and home cery retail chains. The transfer of the Suomen Lähikauppa stores acquired in 2016 to retailimprovement trade operations in Russia. The divested Russian operations are reported as ers was completed by the end of June 2018. Kespro is the foodservice (formerly HoReCa) discontinued operations and are not included in the figures for the Group’s continuing opprovider and wholesaler in Finland. Kespro’s foodservice offering was expanded with the erations or the figures for the building and technical trade. The figures for the comparison acquisitions of Reinin Liha and Kalatukku E. Eriksson, completed on 1 June 2018 and 2 July period have been adjusted accordingly. 2018, respectively. K-Citymarket's home and speciality goods trade operates in home and speciality goods retailing in Finland. Car trade The car trade comprises the business operations of K-Auto, K-Caara and AutoCarrera. The Building and technical trade car trade imports and markets Volkswagen, Audi, Seat and Porsche passenger cars and The building and technical trade operates in the wholesale, retail and B2B trade in FinVolkswagen and MAN commercial vehicles in Finland. K-Auto also engages in car retailing land, Sweden, Norway, the Baltic countries, Poland and Belarus. In the building and home and provides after-sales services at its own retail outlets. improvement trade, Kesko is responsible for the chains’ concepts, marketing, purchasing and logistics services and the store site network in all operating countries and for retailer Common functions resources in Finland where the retailer business model is employed. Kesko itself acts as a Common functions comprise Group support functions. retail operator in Sweden, Norway, the Baltic countries and Belarus. The retail store chains are K-Rauta (Finland and Sweden), Byggmakker (Norway), K-Senukai (the Baltic countries) and OMA (Belarus). The building and home improvement stores serve both consumers and business customers. 29 stores in the Byggmakker chain became part of Kesko Group following the completion of the acquisitions of Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS on 2 July and 23 July 2018, respectively. Kesko Senukai strengthened its online retailing by 143 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko's divisions 2018 Profit, continuing operations Comparable return on capital employed by segment, continuing operations 2018 Building and Common % € million Grocery trade technical trade Car trade functions Total 30 Division net sales 5,385.7 4,102.6 893.1 27.9 10,409.3 25.1% of which intersegment sales -5.8 -0.1 -1.6 -19.0 -26.5 21.2% Net sales from external customers 5,379.9 4,102.5 891.4 8.9 10,382.8 20 14.0% 10.3% Change in net sales in local currency excluding 5.1 2.7 -1.8 (..) 3.5 10 acquisitions and disposals, % Change in net sales, % 2.0 -4.6 -1.8 (..) -1.0 0 Grocery trade Building and Car trade Continuing technical trade operations Other division income 609.5 154.7 9.4 17.8 791.4 of which intersegment income -0.8 -0.6 -0.2 -1.6 Other operating income from external 608.7 154.1 9.4 17.5 789.8 customers Capital expenditure by segment, continuing operations 2018 Depreciation and amortisation -67.0 -38.0 -12.2 -26.3 -143.5 € million Impairment 0.0 -3.4 -3.4 500 Operating profit 219.3 84.9 34.4 -30.6 307.9 417.6 400 Items affecting comparability -8.7 -13.5 -0.1 -1.9 -24.2 300 Comparable operating profit 228.0 98.4 34.5 -28.7 332.2 200.7 200 124.1 Finance income and costs -1.1 100 49.0 43.8 Investments accounted for using the equity -10.1 0 method Grocery Building Car trade Common Continuing trade and operations operations Profit before tax 296.8 technical trade (..) change over 100% 144 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Assets and liabilities Building Building and Common and Common Grocery technical Car operaEliminaGrocery technical Car operaElimina€ million trade trade trade tions tions Total € million trade trade trade tions tions Total Property, plant, equipment 944.1 535.5 122.5 88.0 -1.6 1,688.5 Trade payables 482.9 466.2 24.3 14.2 -4.8 982.7 and intangible assets Other non-interest-bearing 233.4 206.1 78.8 62.5 -12.0 568.8 Interests in associates and 7.5 9.1 0.0 128.3 -0.6 144.3 liabilities joint ventures and other Provisions 8.9 6.7 35.8 0.9 52.2 investments Liabilities related to assets 14.9 14.9 Pension assets 29.5 10.8 107.7 148.0 held for sale Inventories 219.4 542.0 151.5 913.0 Liabilities included in capital 725.1 693.9 138.9 77.6 -16.7 1,618.7 Trade receivables 341.8 435.3 43.7 5.3 -5.8 820.3 employed Other non-interest-bearing 58.3 116.2 11.3 22.8 -11.3 197.3 receivables Unallocated items Interest-bearing receivables 0.3 0.1 65.2 65.6 Interest-bearing liabilities 411.2 Non-current assets classified 0.0 60.6 0.5 -0.1 61.0 Other non-interest-bearing 29.2 as held for sale liabilities Assets included in capital 1,600.9 1,709.8 329.0 417.7 -19.4 4,038.0 Deferred tax liabilities 44.9 employed Liabilities related to assets 0.5 held for sale, discontinued Unallocated items operations Deferred tax assets 5.3 Total liabilities 725.1 693.9 138.9 77.6 -16.7 2,104.6 Financial assets at fair value 50.9 through profit or loss Total capital employed as 875.8 1,015.9 190.0 340.2 -2.7 2,419.3 Financial assets at 90.8 at 31 December, continuing amortised cost operations Cash and cash equivalents 107.5 Average capital employed, 908.2 951.2 162.7 356.4 -0.6 2,377.9 continuing operations Non-current assets classified 10.4 as held for sale, discontinued operations Number of personnel as at 7,971 13,559 824 1,047 23,401 Total assets 1,600.9 1,709.8 329.0 417.7 -19.4 4,302.9 31 December, continuing operations Average number of 6,094 11,663 835 987 19,579 personnel, continuing operations 145 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko's divisions 2017 Profit, continuing operations Comparable return on capital employed by segment, continuing operations 2017 Grocery Building and Car Common % € million trade technical trade trade functions Total 30 Division net sales 5,282.0 4,301.9 909.4 32.9 10,526.2 25.7 of which intersegment sales -6.7 -2.6 -0.6 -24.5 -34.4 21.5 Net sales from external customers 5,275.3 4,299.3 908.8 8.5 10,491.8 20 13.3 10.3 Change in net sales in local currency excluding 2.4 1.4 1.0 -3.4 1.9 10 acquisitions and disposals, % Change in net sales, % 0.9 9.6 7.1 (..) 4.8 0 Grocery trade Building and Car trade Continuing Other division income 546.0 231.4 4.2 10.5 792.1 technical trade operations of which intersegment income -4.2 -1.9 0.5 -5.6 Other operating income from external 541.6 229.5 4.2 11.1 786.6 customers Capital expenditure by segment, continuing operations 2017 Depreciation and amortisation -62.7 -40.3 -9.4 -17.7 -130.2 € million Impairment 0.0 0.0 400 Operating profit 181.3 168.7 33.1 -44.5 338.6 333.5 300 Items affecting comparability -22.1 73.5 -8.9 42.5 224.4 200 Comparable operating profit 203.4 95.2 33.1 -35.6 296.2 100 63.7 Finance income and costs 2.2 17.4 28.1 Investments accounted for using the equity 1.6 0 method Grocery Building Car trade Common Continuing trade and operations operations Profit before tax 342.4 technical trade (..) change over 100% 146 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Assets and liabilities Building Building and Common and Common Grocery technical Car operaEliminaGrocery technical Car operaElimina€ million trade trade trade tions tions Total € million trade trade trade tions tions Total Property, plant, equipment 903.8 435.8 93.4 71.5 0.6 1,505.0 and intangible assets Trade payables 509.5 458.8 22.0 13.8 -4.9 999.4 Interests in associates and 7.7 10.4 0.0 123.0 -0.6 140.5 Other non-interest-bearing 242.0 183.2 70.2 54.1 -9.4 540.0 joint ventures and other liabilities investments Provisions 11.6 4.7 39.4 1.1 56.7 Pension assets 40.6 16.2 150.6 207.5 Liabilities related to assets 0.1 0.1 Inventories 219.6 517.5 166.4 0.0 903.4 held for sale Trade receivables 344.3 439.0 44.7 7.7 -7.5 828.1 Liabilities included in capital 763.1 646.8 131.6 69.0 -14.3 1,596.2 Other non-interest-bearing 79.4 103.1 8.7 26.4 -7.0 210.6 employed receivables Interest-bearing receivables 0.6 0.6 63.0 64.2 Discontinued operations, 30.1 Non-current assets classified 1.3 0.5 1.8 liabilities of capital employed as held for sale (note 3.7) Assets included in capital 1,595.9 1,523.9 313.1 442.8 -14.5 3,861.1 Eliminations between -2.6 employed continuing and discontinued operations of liabilities of capital employed Discontinued operations, 210.3 assets of capital employed (note 3.7) Unallocated items Eliminations between -3.3 Interest-bearing liabilities 533.9 continuing and discontinued Other non-interest-bearing 29.9 operations of assets of capital liabilities employed Deferred tax liabilities 52.0 Total liabilities 763.1 646.8 131.6 69.0 -14.3 2,239.5 Unallocated items Deferred tax assets 5.6 Total capital employed as at 832.8 877.1 181.5 373.8 -0.2 2,265.0 Financial assets at fair value 171.0 31 December through profit or loss Average capital employed 791.3 923.5 154.1 353.7 1.6 2,224.2 Available-for-sale financial 94.2 assets Cash and cash equivalents 132.7 Number of personnel as at 8,584 12,779 818 864 23,045 31 December Total assets 1,595.9 1,523.9 313.1 442.8 -14.5 4,471.6 Average number of 6,733 11,967 809 872 20,382 personnel 147 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Geographical information, continuing operations Net sales by country, continuing operations The Group operates in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Belarus. The grocery trade operates in Finland. The building and technical trade operates Finland 79% in Finland, Sweden, Norway, the Baltic countries, Poland and Belarus, and the car trade Sweden 3% operates in Finland. The Russian operations of the building and technical trade division have Norway 6% been presented under discontinued operations also for the comparison data. €10,383 Estonia 2% million Latvia 2% Net sales, assets, capital expenditure and personnel are presented by location. Other counLithuania 5% tries include Belarus and Poland. Belarus 1% Poland 2% Other Total, 2018 Nordic Baltic continuing € million Finland countries countries Others Eliminations operations Net sales 8,260.7 940.6 824.3 367.2 -10.1 10,382.8 Assets included in 3,053.1 435.1 384.0 165.8 4,038.0 capital employed Capital expenditure 225.6 161.4 28.1 2.5 417.6 Average number of 9,822 1,598 4,740 3,419 19,579 personnel Other Total, 2017 Nordic Baltic continuing € million Finland countries countries Others Eliminations operations Net sales 8,391.3 1,046.8 717.0 348.4 -11.8 10,491.8 Assets included in 3,088.9 297.2 312.9 162.1 3,861.1 capital employed Capital expenditure 299.2 3.3 21.5 9.5 333.5 Average number of 10,691 1,460 4,793 3,438 20,382 personnel Net sales are nearly completely derived from sales of goods. The amount derived from sales of services is minor. Kesko Group does not have income derived from a single customer amounting to more than 10% of Kesko Group’s total income. 148 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 2.2 Items affecting comparability Accounting policies The most significant items affecting comparability were the €7.6 million costs related to Exceptional transactions outside the ordinary course of business are treated as items conversions of Suomen Lähikauppa's chains and changes in the store site network, the affecting comparability and they have been allocated to divisions. The Group identifies €8.1 million costs in building and technical trade related to acquisitions and divestments gains and losses on disposal of real estate, shares and business operations, impairment and structural changes in the Swedish operations, and gains and losses on disposal of real charges and significant restructuring costs as items affecting comparability. Gains on estate and other non-current assets and impairment charges, totalling €-3.8 million. disposal have been presented within other operating income, and losses on disposal within other operating expenses in the income statement. Impairment charges have been In 2017, the most significant items affecting comparability were the €49.7 million gain presented within depreciation, amortisation and impairment in the income statement. on the divestment of real estate in the Baltics, the €21.4 million expenses related to the conversion of the Suomen Lähikauppa chains, the €12.3 million gain on the divestment of the K-maatalous agricultural business, as well as the gain on the divestment of the Asko and € million, continuing operations 2018 2017 Sotka furniture trade amounting to €19.0 million. Items affecting comparability Gains on disposal 6.7 83.4 Losses on disposal -0.1 -1.8 Impairment charges -5.6 -0.5 Structural arrangements -25.3 -38.6 Items in operating profit affecting comparability, total -24.2 42.5 Items in financial items affecting comparability -6.5 -0.4 Items in income taxes affecting comparability 4.5 3.8 Items in net profit attributable to non-controlling interests affecting -3.2 comparability Items affecting comparability, total -29.4 45.9 149 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Reconciliation of performance indicators to IFRS financial Reconciliation of performance indicators to IFRS financial statements, € million, continuing operations 2018 2017 statements, € million, continuing operations 2018 2017 Operating profit, comparable Operating profit 307.9 338.6 Earnings per share, comparable, € Net of Net profit attributable to the owners of the parent, comparable 245.3 227.5 Items in operating profit affecting comparability -24.2 42.5 Average number of shares, basic, 1,000 pcs 99,182 99,426 Operating profit, comparable 332.2 296.2 Earnings per share, comparable, € 2.47 2.29 Profit before tax, comparable Return on capital employed, comparable, % Profit before tax 296.8 342.4 Operating profit, comparable 332.2 296.2 Net of Capital employed, average 2,378 2,224 Items in operating profit affecting comparability -24.2 42.5 Return on capital employed, comparable, % 14.0 13.3 Items in financial items affecting comparability -6.5 -0.4 Profit before tax, comparable 327.5 300.3 Net profit, comparable Profit before tax, comparable 327.5 300.3 Net of Income tax 61.9 57.9 Items in income tax affecting comparability 4.5 3.8 Net profit, comparable 261.1 238.5 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent, comparable Net profit, comparable 261.1 238.5 Net of Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests 19.0 11.0 Items in net profit attributable to non-controlling interests affecting -3.2 comparability Net profit attributable to owners of the parent, comparable 245.3 227.5 150 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Reconciliation of performance indicators to IFRS financial statements , € million, Group 2018 2017 Return on equity, % Calculation of performance indicators Net profit 178.9 268.8 Equity, average 2,215 2,179 Operating profit, comparable Return on equity, % 8.1 12.3 Operating profit +/– items affecting comparability Return on equity, comparable, % Earnings per share, comparable, € Net profit, comparable 258.1 237.5 Net profit/loss adjusted for items affecting comparability Share of non-controlling interests of net profit/ loss adjusted for items affecting comparability Equity, average 2,215 2,179 Average number of shares Return on equity, comparable, % 11.7 10.9 Return on capital employed, comparable, % Equity ratio, % Comparable operating profit x 100 Shareholders’ equity 2,198 2,232 (Non-current assets + Inventories + Receivables + Other current assets Non-interest-bearing liabilities) Total assets 4,303 4,472 on average for the reporting period Advances received 26 39 Equity ratio, % 51.4 50.4 Return on equity, % (Profit/loss before tax Income tax) x 100 Shareholders' equity, average of the beginning and end of the reporting period Return on equity, %, comparable (Profit/loss adjusted for items affecting comparability before tax Income tax adjusted for the tax effect of items affecting comparability) x 100 Shareholders' equity, average of the beginning and end of the reporting period Equity ratio, % Shareholders’ equity x 100 (Total assets – Advances received) 151 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 2.3 Other operating income 2.4 Operating expenses Accounting policies Accounting policies Other operating income includes income other than that associated with the sale of Other operating expenses include expenses other than the cost of goods sold, such as goods or services, such as lease income, store site and chain fees and various other seremployee benefit expenses, lease expenditure, marketing costs, property and store site vice fees and commissions. Other operating income also includes gains on the disposal maintenance costs and information system expenses. Other operating expenses also of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets as well as gains on disposal of include losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, businesses and realised and unrealised gains on derivatives used for hedging foreign losses on disposal of business operations as well as realised and unrealised losses on derivcurrency risks associated with commercial transactions. atives used for hedging foreign currency risks associated with commercial transactions. € million 2018 2017 Employee benefit expenses Income from services 611.3 550.3 € million 2018 2017 Lease income 44.3 39.9 Salaries and fees -567.1 -594.9 Gains on disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible 5.0 54.2 Social security costs -47.5 -48.4 assets Pension costs Gains on disposal of businesses 4.3 31.4 Defined benefit plans 0.0 -3.2 Realised gains on derivative contracts and changes in fair value 4.8 2.2 Defined contribution plans -73.0 -81.8 Others 120.2 108.5 Share-based payment -6.5 -9.8 Total, continuing operations 789.8 786.6 Total, continuing operations -694.1 -738.1 Income from services mainly comprises chain and store site fees paid by chain companies. Information on the employee benefits of the Group’s management personnel and other related party transactions are presented in note 5.3, and information on share-based comOther operating income includes €8.0 million (€86.6 million) of items affecting comparability. pensation in note 5.4. More information on items affecting comparability is presented in note 2.2. Average number of the Group personnel 2018 2017 Grocery trade 6,094 6,733 Building and technical trade 11,663 11,967 Car trade 835 809 Common functions 987 872 Total, continuing operations 19,579 20,382 Discontinued operations 416 1,695 Total, Group 19,995 22,077 152 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Other operating expenses Auditors' fees € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Lease expenditure -466.6 -463.2 Fees to PwC chain companies Marketing costs -210.4 -206.3 Audit 0.9 1.0 Property and store site maintenance expenses -119.0 -124.6 Tax consultation 0.2 0.1 ICT expenses -96.1 -92.2 Other services 0.6 1.2 Losses on disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible -1.7 -2.4 Total 1.7 2.2 assets Losses on disposal of business operations -1.4 Other audit firms 1.2 1.2 Realised losses on derivative contracts and changes in fair value -3.8 -3.7 Other operating expenses -136.5 -152.1 Fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy for services other than audit to Kesko Group Total, continuing operations -1,034.2 -1,045.8 companies totalled €0.8 million. Expenses by type, continuing operations 2.5 Foreign exchange differences recognised in operating profit 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Sales -0.1 0.0 Other income 4.8 1.9 €1,728 €1,784 million million Purchases -0.3 -0.8 Other expenses -3.8 -3.7 Total, continuing operations 0.5 -2.6 Personnel costs 40% (41%) Rents and store site costs 34% (33%) ICT costs 6% (5%) Marketing and loyalty costs 12% (12%) Other costs 8% (9%) 153 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 2.6 Income tax Accounting policies € million 2018 2017 The taxes recognised in the consolidated income statement include the Group compaCurrent tax -71.8 -54.8 nies' taxes on current net profits on an accrual basis, prior period tax adjustments and Tax for prior years -0.2 -0.4 changes in deferred taxes. The Group companies' taxes have been calculated from the Deferred tax 10.1 -2.7 taxable income of each company determined by local jurisdiction. The tax impact of Total, continuing operations -61.9 -57.9 items recognised in other comprehensive income has been recognised correspondingly in other comprehensive income. Reconciliation between tax expense shown in the income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on all temporary differences arising bestatement and tax calculated at parent's rate tween the tax bases and carrying amounts of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liability € million 2018 2017 has not been calculated on goodwill insofar as goodwill is not tax deductible. Deferred Profit before tax 296.8 342.4 tax on subsidiaries' undistributed earnings is not recognised unless a distribution of Tax at parent's rate 20.0% -59.4 -68.5 earnings is probable, causing tax implications. Effect of foreign subsidiaries' different tax rates 4.2 2.2 Effect of tax-free income 1.9 15.4 Deferred tax has been determined using the tax rates enacted at the balance sheet Effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes -6.7 -0.6 date, and as the rates changed, at the known new rate. A deferred income tax asset is Effect of tax losses -0.6 -5.9 recognised to the extent that it is probable that it can be utilised against future taxable Effect of consolidation 0.2 0.3 income. The Group's deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when they Tax for prior years -1.2 -0.4 relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. Effect of change in tax rate 0.2 -0.3 Others -0.6 -0.1 The most significant temporary differences arise from defined benefit pension plans, Tax charge, continuing operations -61.9 -57.9 property, plant and equipment (depreciation difference), provisions and measurements at fair value of asset items in connection with acquisitions. The impact of the corporation tax rate change, effective from 1 January 2019 in Norway, on taxes for the financial year 2018 was €0.2 million. The impact of the corporation tax rate changes, effective from 1 January 2018 in Norway and Latvia, on taxes for the financial year 2017 was €-0.3 million. 154 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 2.7 Earnings per share 2.8 Notes related to the statement of cash flows Accounting policies Capital expenditure and non-cash financing activities Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attribut€ million 2018 2017 able to the parent’s equity holders by the weighted average number of shares outstandTotal acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 236.2 326.0 ing during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weightTotal acquisitions of subsidiaries and investments in associates and 181.3 2.0 ed average number of all shares to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. other investments Total capital expenditure 417.5 328.0 of which cash payments 375.9 305.1 2018 2017 Loans relating to acquired companies and cash and cash equivalents 29.5 1.0 Net profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the 159.9 257.8 Payments arising from prior period investing activities -16.3 -9.6 parent, € million Capital expenditure financed with finance lease or other liability 28.4 31.5 Total, continuing operations 417.5 328.0 Number of shares Weighted average number of shares outstanding 99,181,927 99,426,302 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding 99,181,927 99,426,302 Adjustments to cash flows from operating activities € million 2018 2017 Earnings per share from net profit attributable to equity holders Adjustment of non-cash transactions in the income statement and of the parent items presented elsewhere in the statement of cash flows: Basic and diluted, continuing operations, € 2.18 2.75 Change in provisions -3.1 1.5 Basic and diluted, discontinued operations, € -0.56 -0.16 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 10.1 -1.6 Basic and diluted, Group total, € 1.61 2.59 Impairments 3.4 0.0 Credit losses 5.2 4.9 Comparable earnings/share, basic, continuing operations, € 2.47 2.29 Gains on disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible -9.3 -91.2 assets and business operations Reconciliation for comparable earnings is presented in note 2.2. Losses on disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible 1.7 4.0 assets and business operations Share-based compensation -2.8 -2.6 Defined benefit pensions 57.1 1.7 Others -6.5 5.4 Total, continuing operations 55.9 -78.0 The group ‘Others’ within the adjustments to cash flows from operating activities includes the adjustment of unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses on purchases and sales, and the adjustment of other transactions of a non-cash nature. 155 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Cash and cash equivalents within the statement of cash flows € million 2018 € million 2017 Financial assets at amortised cost (maturing in less than 3 months), 31.7 Available-for-sale financial assets (maturing in less than 3 months) 37.5 continuing operations Cash and cash equivalents 132.7 Financial assets at amortised cost (maturing in less than 3 months), Borrowings repayable within one year (including overdraft) -404.6 discontinued operations Borrowings repayable after one year -129.3 Cash and cash equivalents, continuing operations 107.5 Cash and debt, net -363.7 Cash and cash equivalents, discontinued operations 0.4 Total 139.6 € million 2018 Cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at amortised cost (maturing 139,6 € million 2017 in less than 3 months) Available-for-sale financial assets (maturing in less than 3 months), 34.0 Gross debt fixed interest rates -241,7 continuing operations Gross debt variable interest rates -169,5 Available-for-sale financial assets (maturing in less than 3 months), 3.5 discontinued operations Cash and debt, net -271,7 Cash and cash equivalents, continuing operations 129.7 Cash and cash equivalents, discontinued operations 3.0 € million 2017 Total 170.2 Cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale financial assets (maturing 170,2 in less than 3 months) In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include those recognised in the Gross debt fixed interest rates -363,6 balance sheet and portions of available-for-sale financial assets with maturities of less than Gross debt variable interest rates -170,3 three months from acquisition. Cash and debt, net -363,7 Reconciliation of cash and debt € million 2018 Financial assets at amortised cost (maturing in less than 3 months) 31.7 Cash and cash equivalents 107.9 Borrowings repayable within one year (including overdraft) -233.4 Borrowings repayable after one year -177.8 Cash and debt, net -271.7 156 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Other assets Finance-related debt Financial assets at Finance leases due Finance leases due Borrowings due Borrowings due € million Cash and overdraft amortised cost within 1 year after 1 year within 1 year after 1 year Total Cash and debt, net as at 1 Jan. 2018 132.7 37.5 -3.5 -7.0 -401.1 -122.3 -363.7 Cash flows -30.1 -5.3 1.3 3.7 169.8 -53.1 86.3 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 7.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 6.6 Disposals of subsidiaries 0.0 Acquisitions finance leases and lease incentives 0.0 0.1 0.2 Foreign exchange adjustments -1.7 -0.4 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.8 -1.1 Cash and debt, net as at 31 Dec. 2018 107.9 31.7 -2.1 -3.2 -231.4 -174.6 -271.7 Other assets Finance-related debt Available-for-sale Finance leases due Finance leases due Borrowings due Borrowings due € million Cash and overdraft financial assets within 1 year after 1 year within 1 year after 1 year Total Cash and debt, net as at 1 Jan. 2017 141.3 59.6 -2.9 -5.7 -153.1 -352.9 -313.8 Cash flows -8.4 -22.1 1.7 5.4 -235.5 230.6 -28.3 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 1.0 -13.1 -12.1 Disposals of subsidiaries -1.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.2 Acquisitions finance leases and lease incentives -2.3 -6.8 -9.1 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.7 Cash and debt, net as at 31 Dec. 2017 132.7 37.5 -3.5 -7.0 -401.1 -122.3 -363.7 157 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 3. CAPITAL EMPLOYED Comparable return on capital employed, Capital expenditure, continuing operations continuing operations % € million 15 14.0 500 13.3 3.1 Capital employed and working capital 418 400 334 3.2 Business acquisitions and disposals of assets 10 300 3.3 Property, plant and equipment 200 5 3.4 Intangible assets 100 3.5 Inventories 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 3.6 Trade and other current receivables 3.7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale and related liabilities Working capital, 3.8 Pension assets continuing operations 3.9 Shares in associates and joint ventures € million 3.10 Provisions 500 402 400 377 300 200 100 0 2017 2018 158 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 3.1 Capital employed and working capital Capital employed Working capital € million Note 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 € million Note 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Property, plant and equipment 3.3 1,196.4 1,140.7 Inventories 3.5 913.0 903.4 Intangible assets 3.4 492.1 364.3 Trade receivables 3.6 820.3 827.9 Interests in associates and joint ventures 3.9 123.5 117.4 Income tax assets 3.6 0.1 11.1 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4.3 20,8 Other non-interest-bearing receivables 3.6 194.4 197.1 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 4.3 23,0 Trade payables 4.3 4.5 -982.7 -999.4 Non-current receivables 4.3 65.7 65.4 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 4.3 4.5 -197.8 -225.5 Pension assets 3.8 148.0 207.5 Income tax liabilities 4.5 -16.5 -5.6 Current interest-bearing receivables 4.5 2.7 1.5 Accrued liabilities 4.3 4.5 -353.9 -307.0 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 3.7 61.0 1.8 Total, continuing operations 376.8 402.0 Non-interest-bearing non-current liabilities 4.5 -0.2 -1.5 Discontinued operations, working capital assets 3.7 46.0 Pension obligations -0.4 -0.4 Eliminations between continuing and discontinued 3.7 -3.3 operations of working capital assets Provisions 3.10 -52.2 -56.7 Discontinued operations, working capital liabilities 3.7 -30.1 Liabilities related to available-for-sale non-current assets 3.7 -14.9 -0.1 Eliminations between continuing and discontinued 3.7 2.6 Working capital 376.8 402.0 operations of working capital liabilities Total, continuing operations 2,419.3 2,265.0 Group total 376.8 417.1 Discontinued operations, assets of capital employed 3.7 210.3 Eliminations between continuing and discontinued 3.7 -3.3 operations of assets of capital employed Working capital, continuing operations Discontinued operations, liabilities of capital employed 3.7 -30.1 € million Eliminations between continuing and discontinued 3.7 2.6 376.8 402.0 operations of liabilities of capital employed 2,000 Group total 2,419.3 2,444.4 913.0 903.4 1,000 Accrued liabilities are mainly due to the timing of purchases and employee benefit expenses. Inventories 1,014.8 1,036.1 Interest free receivables 0 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities also include an item of €29.2 million (€29.9 Interest free liabilities -1,551.0 -1,537.4 million) not allocated to divisions, related to the accrual of a gain on a real estate sale to a -1,000 joint venture. The item is not included in capital employed. -2,000 2018 2017 159 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 3.2 Business acquisitions and disposals of assets 2018 Skattum Handel AS Kalatukku E. Eriksson € million and Gipling AS Oy and Reinin Liha Oy Consideration paid 147 15 Acquisitions in 2018 Provisionally determined fair values of assets acquired In June, Kesko Corporation agreed to acquire Reinin Liha and Kalatukku E. Eriksson as part and liabilities assumed as at the date of acquisition of its foodservice wholesale business Kespro. Reinin Liha Oy’s acquisition was completed Intangible assets 8 8 on 1 June 2018 and Kalatukku E. Eriksson Oy’s on 2 July 2018. The combined debt-free Property, plant, equipment and investments 6 6 transaction price of the acquisitions, structured as share purchases, was €15 million. Inventories 31 2 Receivables 36 4 In June, Kesko Corporation’s subsidiary Byggmakker Handel AS agreed to acquire the Deferred tax asset 1 Norwegian building and home improvement trade companies Skattum Handel AS and Cash and cash equivalents 5 1 Gipling AS. The acquisition of Skattum Handel AS was completed on 2 July 2018 and the Total assets 86 21 acquisition of Gipling AS on 23 July 2018. The combined debt-free transaction price of the acquisitions, structured as share purchases, was NOK 1,467 million (€147 million). Trade payables, other payables, provisions 31 6 In October, Kesko Group company Kesko Senukai acquired the Latvian 1A Group, one of Deferred tax liability 1 2 the leading online retail companies in the Baltic region. 1A Group’s 2017 net sales totalled Total liabilities 32 8 some €41 million, and the company has operations in Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania. Net assets acquired, total 54 13 Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS have been operating Byggmakker stores under the Goodwill 93 2 retailer business model. After the completion of the acquisitions, the Byggmakker chain controls a total of 30 Byggmakker stores, providing even greater potential for growth and Cash flow impact of acquisition increased profitability in Norway. In addition, 35 Byggmakker stores operate under the Consideration paid -153 -15 retailer business model. Cash and cash equivalents acquired 6 1 Unpaid share 2 The table provides a summary of the consideration paid, the values of assets acquired and Cash flow impact of acquisition -147 -12 liabilities assumed by Kesko Group at the date of acquisition, and the cash flow impact of the acquisitions. The impact of Skattum Handel AS and Gipling AS on net sales for July-December was €40 The preliminary fair value of the intangible assets acquired (including customer relationmillion. The impact on the comparable operating profit for July-December was €2.2 million. ships) at the date of acquisition totals €8 million. The balance sheet value of current trade If the acquisitions had taken place on 1 January 2018, according to management estimates, receivables equals their fair value. The €93 million goodwill arising from the acquisition the impact on Group net sales would have been approximately €71 million, and the impact on reflects market share and business knowledge as well as the synergies expected to be comparable operating profit would have been €5.9 million. In determining the net sales and achieved in purchasing, selections, logistics, ICT systems and operational efficiency. The comparable operating profit, the management estimates that recorded fair values would have Group profit for 2018 includes acquisition-related costs of €1.8 million. The costs are been the same on the date of acquisition had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2018. presented as items affecting comparability. 160 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kalatukku E. Eriksson Oy and Reinin Liha Oy Disposals of assets 2017 Kalatukku E. Eriksson is a strong operator in fish products. Reinin Liha specialises in fresh, In May 2017, Kesko sold seven store sites used by Kesko Senukai in Estonia and Latvia to unpacked meat and service. With the acquisitions of Reinin Liha and Kalatukku E. Eriksson, the property investment company UAB Baltic Retail Properties. At the same time, Kesko Kespro will be able to offer, alongside its traditional wholesale selection, specialist fresh acquired a 10% shareholding in the property investment company. food products and expertise on a considerably wider scale. In June 2017, Konekesko Ltd, a Kesko Corporation subsidiary, sold its Yamarin boat The table provides a summary of the consideration paid, the values of assets acquired and business to Inhan Tehtaat Oy Ab, a subsidiary owned by Yamaha Motor Europe N.V. At the liabilities assumed by Kesko Group at the date of acquisition, and the cash flow impact of same time, the transfer of the representation of Yamaha's recreational machinery in Finland the acquisitions. from Konekesko Ltd to Yamaha Motor Europe N.V. was also completed. The preliminary fair value of the intangible assets acquired (including customer relationIn June 2017, Kesko Corporation sold Indoor Group, which is responsible for the Asko and ships and trademarks) at the date of acquisition totals €8 million. The balance sheet value Sotka furniture trade, to a company owned by Sievi Capital Oyj, three franchising entrepreof current trade receivables equals their fair value. The €2 million goodwill arising from the neurs from the Sotka chain and Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company. The debt free acquisition reflects the synergies expected to be achieved from joint customer relationprice of the sale, structured as a share transaction, was €67 million. ships, logistics, ICT and administration. The Group profit for 2018 includes acquisition-related costs of €0.9 million. The costs are presented as items affecting comparability. In June 2017, Kesko Corporation sold its K-maatalous business to Swedish Lantmännen ek för. The debt free price of the sale, structured as a share transaction, was €38.5 million. The impact of Reinin Liha and Kalatukku E. Eriksson on the net sales and operating profit Net assets of subsidiaries sold for June-December was minor. € million 2018 2017 Acquisitions in 2017 Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 66.1 In 2017, Kesko Group did not have acquisitions to be accounted for as business combinaInventories 61.3 tions. Receivables 69.4 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 Disposals of assets 2018 Deferred taxes -7.8 In February 2018, Kesko Corporation agreed to sell 12 K-Rauta properties in the St. Liabilities -117.7 Petersburg and Moscow regions to the Russian division of the French Leroy Merlin. The Provisions -0.4 Russian building and home improvement trade operations are reported as discontinued Net assets total 72.2 operations – more detailed information is provided in note 3.7. In addition, the real estate divestment in the Baltics completed on 24 May 2017 had a €14.0 million impact on the Group's net assets. 161 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 3.3 Property, plant and equipment Accounting policies The Group has not capitalised interest costs incurred as part of the acquisition of assets, Property, plant and equipment mainly comprise land, buildings, machinery and equipbecause the Group does not have qualifying assets. ment. Property, plant and equipment are carried at historic cost net of planned depreciPreation and possible impairment. The property, plant and equipment of acquired subsidiarMachinery Other payments and ies are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition. 2018 Land and and tangible construction Total € million waters Buildings equipment assets in progress 2018 Subsequent costs relating to items of property, plant and equipment are included in the asset’s Cost carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset only when it is probable that future ecoCost as at 1 January 313.7 1,279.2 520.8 60.4 50.0 2,224.0 nomic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can Exchange differences -0.6 -2.3 -2.0 -0.3 -0.1 -5.3 be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate Additions 12.9 56.1 108.3 0.7 25.1 203.1 asset is derecognised when replaced. The machinery and equipment of buildings are treated as Acquisitions 0.1 5.0 6.2 0.0 11.4 separate assets and any significant expenditure related to their replacement is capitalised. All Deductions -4.7 -14.6 -61.1 -0.3 -4.1 -84.7 other repair, service and maintenance expenditures of items of property, plant and equipment Transfers between items -60.7 -117.1 -12.7 -30.9 -36.9 -258.2 Cost as at 31 December 260.8 1,206.4 559.5 29.6 34.0 2,090.2 are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. Accumulated Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line depreciation and method over their estimated useful lives. Land is not depreciated. impairment charges Accumulated depreciation -7.0 -517.8 -371.9 -34.3 -931.0 The most common estimated useful lives are: and impairment charges as at 1 January Buildings 10−33 years Exchange differences 0.7 1.5 0.2 2.4 Components of buildings 8−10 years Accumulated depreciation 0.1 6.2 38.2 0.2 44.7 Machinery and equipment 3−8 years on deductions Cars and transport equipment 5 years Accumulated depreciation 0.9 66.9 15.8 16.6 100.2 on transfers The residual values and useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at Depreciation and 0.0 -55.3 -52.9 -2.0 -110.3 impairment charges for least at the end of each financial year. If the estimates of useful life and the expected the year pattern of economic benefits are different from previous estimates, the change in the Accumulated depreciation -6.0 -499.3 -369.4 -19.2 -893.8 estimate is accounted for. and impairment charges as at 31 December Depreciation of property, plant and equipment ceases when an item is classified as a non-current asset held for sale. Carrying amount as at 1 306.8 761.4 148.9 26.0 50.0 1,293.1 January Gains and losses on disposals of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the Carrying amount as at 31 254.8 707.1 190.1 10.4 34.0 1,196.4 income statement and stated as other operating income and expenses. December 162 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 PreProperty, plant and equipment include the following amounts Machinery Other payments and of machinery and equipment leased under finance leases: 2017 Land and and tangible construction in Total € million waters Buildings equipment assets progress 2017 € million 2018 2017 Cost Cost 42.6 28.5 Cost as at 1 January 302.8 1,058.9 530.7 58.4 101.1 2,052.0 Accumulated depreciation -24.0 -18.3 Exchange differences -5.4 -15.2 -4.1 -2.8 -0.4 -27.9 Carrying amount 18.6 10.2 Additions 13.0 185.6 75.1 4.3 29.3 307.4 Acquisitions 2.8 8.6 0.0 0.0 11.4 Deductions -0.8 -6.1 -75.4 -0.3 -6.4 -89.0 3.4 Intangible assets Disposals -1.2 -12.9 -12.5 -0.1 -0.1 -26.8 Transfers between items 2.5 60.2 7.0 0.9 -73.6 -3.0 Cost as at 31 December 313.7 1,279.2 520.8 60.4 50.0 2,224.0 Accounting policies Accumulated depreciation Goodwill and trademarks and impairment charges Goodwill is not amortised but is instead tested for impairment annually and whenever Accumulated depreciation -6.1 -485.6 -378.7 -31.2 -901.6 there is an indication of impairment. For testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to the and impairment charges as cash generating units. Goodwill is measured at initial cost and that acquired prior to 1 at 1 January January 2004, at deemed cost net of impairment. Any negative goodwill is immediately Exchange differences 0.0 5.9 2.9 1.4 10.2 recognised as income. For goodwill, a recognised impairment loss is not reversed. Accumulated depreciation 0.3 4.8 50.3 0.2 55.6 on deductions Accumulated depreciation -1.1 7.5 9.0 0.1 15.6 Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised. They are tested for and impairment charges on impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment. These intangible disposals assets include trademarks capitalised upon acquisition, recorded at their fair values at Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 on transfers the acquisition date. Depreciation and 0.0 -50.4 -55.5 -4.9 -110.7 impairment charges for Other intangible assets the year The cost of intangible assets with definite useful lives are recorded in the balance sheet Accumulated depreciation -7.0 -517.8 -371.9 -34.3 -931.0 and recognised as expenses during their useful lives. Such intangible assets include softand impairment charges as at 31 December ware licences, customer relationships and licences measured at the fair value at the date of acquisition, and leasehold interests that are amortised during their probable lease Carrying amount as at 1 296.6 573.3 152.0 27.2 101.1 1,150.4 terms. January Carrying amount as at 31 306.8 761.4 148.9 26.0 50.0 1,293.1 December 163 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 The estimated useful lives are: asset should not exceed the carrying amount of the asset without impairment loss recogSoftware and licences 3−5 years nition. For goodwill, a recognised impairment loss is not reversed under any circumCustomer and supplier relationships 10 years stances. Licences 20 years Other Research and development expenses 2018 intangible PrepayTotal The costs of research and development activities have been expensed as incurred, € million Goodwill Trademarks assets ments 2018 because the Group does not have development costs eligible for capitalisation. DevelCost opment costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in Cost as at 1 January 237.5 89.3 222.6 17.0 566.5 subsequent periods. Exchange differences -3.5 -0.3 -0.6 -4.5 Additions 110.9 30.4 12.6 153.9 Software Acquisitions 5.3 14.0 19.3 Costs directly attributable to the development of new software are capitalised as part of Deductions -19.9 -2.1 -21.9 the software cost. On the balance sheet, software is included in intangible assets and its Transfers between items -14.5 -2.5 -9.7 -26.7 cost is amortised over the useful life of the software. Costs associated with maintaining Cost as at 31 December 330.4 94.3 244.0 17.9 686.6 the software are recognised as an expense as incurred. Accumulated amortisation Impairment of non-financial assets and impairment charges At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an Accumulated amortisation -65.2 -7.2 -117.8 0.0 -190.2 and impairment charges as at asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset 1 January is estimated. The recoverable amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite Exchange differences 0.0 0.1 0.6 0.7 useful lives is assessed every year whether or not there is an indication of impairment. In Accumulated amortisation -1.0 16.6 15.6 addition, an impairment test is performed whenever there is an indication of impairment. and impairment charges on disposals The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs to sell and value Accumulated amortisation on 14.5 1.9 16.4 deductions and transfers in use. Often, it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount for an individual asAmortisation and impairment 0.0 -36.9 -36.9 set. Then, as in the case of goodwill, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash charges for the year generating unit to which the goodwill or asset belongs. Accumulated amortisation -51.7 -7.1 -135.7 0.0 -194.5 and impairment charges as at 31 December An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. An impairCarrying amount as at 1 172.3 82.2 104.7 17.0 376.2 ment loss recognised for an asset in prior years is reversed, if the revaluation shows an January increase in the recoverable amount. However, the reversal of an impairment loss of an Carrying amount as at 31 278.7 87.2 108.3 17.9 492.1 December 164 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Other Goodwill and intangible rights by division 2017 intangible PrepayTotal € million Goodwill Trademarks assets ments 2017 Discount Discount Cost Traderate Traderate marks Goodwill (WACC) marks Goodwill (WACC) Cost as at 1 January 249.6 131.0 284.0 18.3 682.9 € million 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Exchange differences -0.2 -2.6 -4.0 0.0 -6.9 Grocery trade, chain 76.1 6.0 76.1 6.0 Additions 1.0 17.7 14.2 32.9 operations Acquisitions 0.0 0.0 Grocery trade, Kespro 5.3 2.0 6.0 Deductions -80.6 -0.5 -81.1 Building and technical trade Disposals -12.9 -39.1 -12.4 0.0 -64.3 Byggmakker, Norway 23.6 93.4 7.0 23.9 7.0 Transfers between items 18.0 -14.9 3.0 Onninen 58.3 55.1 7.3 58.3 55.1 7.2 Cost as at 31 December 237.5 89.3 222.6 17.0 566.5 Kesko Senukai, Baltics 32.0 7.0 21.1 7.0 Car trade 20.0 7.0 20.0 7.0 Accumulated amortisation Total 87.2 278.7 82.2 172.3 and impairment charges Accumulated amortisation -59.7 -7.8 -184.9 0.0 -252.3 and impairment charges as at Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested annually for possible impairment and 1 January whenever there is an indication of impairment. Exchange differences 0.2 0.6 2.9 3.7 Accumulated amortisation on 80.6 80.6 The useful lives of trademarks (brands) included in intangible assets have been classified deductions and transfers as indefinite, because it has been estimated that the period over which they generate cash Accumulated amortisation 8.8 12.0 20.8 inflows is indefinite. This is because no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are and impairment charges on disposals expected to generate net cash inflows for the Group can be seen. Trademarks are part of Amortisation and impairment -14.5 -28.5 -43.0 assets acquired in connection with acquisitions. charges for the year Accumulated amortisation -65.2 -7.2 -117.8 0.0 -190.2 Cash generating units have been identified at maximum at the level of reported divisions. and impairment charges as at 31 December WACC is determined after tax. The rate is used in impairment testing. Carrying amount as at 189.9 123.3 99.1 18.3 430.5 1 January Impairment test for goodwill and intangible assets In impairment testing, the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit's business operCarrying amount as at 172.3 82.2 104.7 17.0 376.2 ations is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow 31 December projections based on financial plans approved by management, covering a period of three years. The key assumptions used for the plans are total market growth and profitability Other intangible assets include other non-current expenditure, of which €70.3 million trends, changes in store site network, product and service selection, pricing and move(€62.5 million) are software and licence costs. ments in operating costs. Cash flows beyond this period have been extrapolated mainly based on 1.5-2.0% (1.5–2.0%) forecast growth rates, allowing for country-specific differences. 165 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 The discount rate used is the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after tax, specified 3.5 Inventories for each division and country and adjusted for tax effect in connection with the test. The WACC formula inputs are risk-free rate of return, market risk premium, industry-specific beta factor, target capital structure, borrowing cost and country risks. Discount rates remained Accounting policies at the level of the previous year. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less direct costs Impairment losses necessary to make the sale. The cost is determined using weighted average costs. The There were no impairment charges recognised on goodwill or intangible rights in the financost of certain categories of inventory is determined using the FIFO method. The cost cial year 2018. During the 2017 financial year, a €14.5 million goodwill impairment was of finished goods comprises all costs of purchase including freight. The cost of self-conrecorded for K-rauta Rus (building and technical trade). structed goods comprises all costs of conversion including direct costs and allocations of variable and fixed production overheads. The cost excludes borrowing costs. Sensitivity analysis The key variables used in impairment testing are the EBITDA margin and the discount rate. The most sensitive to movements in assumptions is the car trade related goodwill: if the € million 2018 2017 residual EBITDA decreased by more than 1.2 percentage points, an impairment would be Goods 904.9 931.7 recognised. Regarding the other cash generating units, according to management’s estiPrepayments 8.1 6.9 mates, a foreseeable change in any key variable would not create a situation in which the Total 913.0 938.6 unit’s recoverable amount would be lower than its carrying amount. Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 39.3 44.3 Goodwill and trademarks 3.6 Trade and other current receivables € million Grocery trade, retail chain Accounting policies operations 76.1 Trade receivables are recognised in the amounts of initial sale. According to the new Grocery trade, Kespro 7.3 € 365.9 Onninen 113.4 IFRS 9 impairment model, impairments must be recognised on the basis of expected million Byggmakker 117.0 credit losses. The Group has adopted the standard’s simplified approach for recognising Kesko Senukai Baltics 32.0 impairment of trade receivables using the provision matrix. For the impairment model, Car trade 20.0 Group companies have been classified into risk categories on the basis of their business model and realised historical credit losses. In addition, impairment is recognised, if there is other evidence of a debtor's insolvency, bankruptcy or liquidation. Impairment is recognised as an expense in other operating expenses. If an amount previously written off is subsequently settled, it is recognised as a reduction of other operating expenses. 166 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 € million 2018 2017 3.7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets Interest-bearing receivables classified as held for sale and related liabilities Finance lease receivables 0.0 0.0 Interest-bearing loans and receivables 2.7 1.5 Accounting policies Total interest-bearing receivables 2.7 1.5 Non-current assets (or a disposal group) are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through the disposal of the assets and the sale Trade receivables 820.3 836.0 is highly probable. If their carrying amount will be recovered principally through their Income tax assets 0.1 11.1 disposal rather than through their continuing use, they are measured at the lower rate of the carrying amount and fair value net of costs to sell. Other non-interest-bearing receivables Non-interest-bearing loans and receivables 22.1 21.8 The comparative information in the income statement is adjusted for operations classiPrepaid expenses 172.3 174.5 fied as discontinued during the latest financial period being reported. Consequently, the Total other non-interest-bearing receivables 194.4 196.4 result of discontinued operations is presented as a separate line item also for the comTotal 1 017.5 1 045.0 paratives. In the financial year 2017 the Group had no discontinued operations. Discontinued operations A total amount of €5.2 million (€4.9 million) of trade receivables has been recognised In February 2018, Kesko Corporation agreed to sell 12 K-Rauta properties in the St. Peterswithin credit losses in the income statement. The credit risk is described in more detail in burg and Moscow regions to the Russian division of the French Leroy Merlin. The business note 4.3. operations conducted in the properties and stocks were not included within the scope of the transaction; instead, the operations were discontinued during the first year-half. The Prepaid expenses mainly comprise allocations of purchases. ownership of the properties was transferred to the buyer during the second quarter of 2018. The two building and home improvement store properties in the Moscow region The fair values of current trade and loan receivables, and those of current interest-bearing excluded from the transaction were sold in December 2018. receivables are estimated to equal the carrying amounts due to their short maturities. The divestment of the properties resulted in a positive cash flow of €171 million for Kesko Corporation in February. The divestment of the properties resulted in a net €16 million sales gain for discontinued operations. The operative result after taxes for the operations was €-1.7 million. In addition, a cost of €23 million related to the discontinuation of operations was recorded as were translation differences of €-39 million related to the equity financing of Russian subsidiaries. The divestment of properties and discontinuation of operations also resulted in a €8 million tax cost. The divested Russian building and home improvement trade operations are reported as discontinued operations and are not included in the figures for the Group’s continuing 167 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 operations in this financial statement. The comparison data for the 2017 income statement, Assets and liabilities of the Russian building and home improvement trade statement of cash flows and certain performance indicators have been adjusted. The net € million 2018 2017 sales for the Russian building and home improvement trade was €184 million in 2017 and ASSETS the comparable operating profit €0.6 million. Intangible assets 12 Tangible assets 0 152 Result for the Russian building and home improvement trade Deferred tax assets 7 € million 2018 2017 Total 0 171 Income 46 203 Expense -48 -217 Current assets Profit/loss before tax -1 -15 Inventories 35 Income tax 0 -1 Trade receivables 0 8 Net profit/loss after tax -2 -16 Other receivables, non-interest-bearing 10 3 Loss on discontinued Russian building and home improvement trade -46 Loan receivables, interest-bearing 5 before tax Cash and cash equivalents 0 7 Income tax -8 Total 10 57 Loss on discontinued Russian building and home improvement trade -54 Total assets 10 229 after tax Net loss for the period from discontinued operations -56 Comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 35 € million 2018 2017 Comprehensive income from discontinued operations -21 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 6 Total 6 Current liabilities Trade payables 0 25 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 0 5 Other liabilities, interest-bearing 96 Provisions 0 Total 1 127 Total liabilities 1 133 168 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Cash flows for the Russian building and home improvement trade 3.8 Pension assets € million 2018 2017 Net cash flows from operating activities -23 10 Net cash flows from investing activities 164 -17 Accounting policies Net cash flows from financing activities The Group operates both defined contribution pension plans and defined benefit pension plans. The contributions payable under defined contribution plans are recognised Increase in liquid assets 141 -7 as expenses in the income statement for the period to which the payments relate. In defined contribution plans, the Group does not have a legal or constructive obligation to Assets held for sale pay further contributions, in case the payment recipient is unable to pay the retirement Kesko has stated it will sell its remaining shares in the Baltic machinery trade companies benefits. and Konekesko Finland’s agricultural machinery trade operations to Danish Agro Group. The assets and liabilities of the Baltic machinery trade and Finnish agricultural machinery In defined benefit plans, the Group may incur obligations or assets after the payment trade operations have been classified as “held for sale” as of June 2018. of the contribution. The pension obligation represents the present value of future cash flows from the benefits payable. The present value of pension obligations has been During the reporting period, Kesko Group company Konekesko Oy divested its Still forklift calculated using the projected unit credit method. Pension costs are expensed during business. The carrying amount of approximately €1 million of the assets of the divested employees' service lives based on actuarial calculations. The discount rate assumed in business is included in the data for the comparison year. calculating the present value of the pension obligation is the market yield of high-quality corporate bonds. Their maturity substantially corresponds to the maturity of the pension liability. The assets corresponding to the pension obligation of the retirement benefit € million 2018 2017 plan are carried at fair values at the balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are Intangible assets 0.0 recognised in comprehensive income in the income statement. Land 0.9 0.3 Buildings and real estate shares 1.6 0.2 Machinery and equipment 1.0 0.0 The Group operates several pension plans in different operating countries. In Finland, the statutory pension provision of personnel is provided through pension insurance compaOther tangible assets 0.0 nies and the voluntary supplementary pension provision is mainly provided through Kesko Inventories 53.7 1.3 Pension Fund. The statutory pension provision provided through pension insurance compaTrade receivables 3.6 nies is a defined contribution plan. The supplementary pension provision provided through Other receivables 10.1 Kesko Pension Fund is a defined benefit plan. Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 Non-current assets held for sale 71.5 1.8 Pension plans in foreign subsidiaries are managed in accordance with local regulations and Trade payables -9.9 practices, and they are defined contribution plans. Other liabilities -4.1 -0.1 Provisions -1.5 Liabilities related to non-current assets held for sale -15.4 -0.1 169 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko Pension Fund The defined benefit asset recognised in the Kesko Pension Fund is a pension provider of its members providing supplementary retirebalance sheet is determined as follows: ment benefits to employees who are beneficiaries of the Pension Fund's department A. € million 2018 2017 Department A was closed on 9 May 1998. As the conditions set out in the Fund's rules are Present value of defined benefit obligation -254.2 -266.6 met, beneficiaries between 60 and 65 years of age are granted an old-age pension. The Fair value of plan assets 402.2 474.1 amount of retirement benefit granted by the Fund is the difference between the employee's Net assets recognised in the balance sheet 148.0 207.5 retirement benefit based on his/her pensionable salary calculated in accordance with the Fund's rules and the statutory pension. In addition to the individually calculated pensionMovement in the net assets recognised in the balance sheet: able salary, the retirement benefit amount of each beneficiary is impacted by the duration As at 1 January 207.5 164.7 of his/her membership of the Pension Fund. At the end of 2018, the Pension Fund had Income/cost recognised in the income statement 0.0 -3.2 2,581 beneficiaries, of whom 579 were active employees and 2,002 were retired employRemeasurement -2.3 45.0 ees. Kesko Group's contribution to the Pension Fund's obligation is 96.9% (96.9%). The Return of surplus assets -58.1 notes present Kesko Group's interest in the Pension Fund except for the analysis of assets Contributions to plan and plan costs 1.0 1.1 by category and the maturity analysis of the obligation. As at 31 December 148.0 207.5 In addition to its rules, the Pension Fund's operations are regulated by the Employee Benefit Funds Act, the decrees under the Act and official instructions, and the Fund's operations Present value of are controlled by the Financial Supervisory Authority. The regulations include stipulations defined benefit Fair value of € million obligation plan assets Total on the calculation of pension obligation and its coverage, for example. The pension obligaAs at 1 January 2018 -266.6 474.1 207.5 tion shall be fully covered by the plan assets, any temporary deficit is only allowed excepCurrent service cost -4.0 -4.0 tionally. In addition, the regulations include detailed stipulations on the acceptability of the Past service cost -0.3 -0.3 covering assets and the diversification of investment risks. Gains or losses on settlement 0.0 0.0 During the reporting period, Kesko Pension Fund paid in total €58.1 million in return of surInterest cost/income -5.4 9.8 4.4 plus assets to Finnish Group companies. Kesko Group does not expect to pay contributions -9.7 9.8 0.0 to the Pension Fund in 2019. Remeasurement Return on plan assets -10.7 -10.7 Gain/loss from changes in demographic 0.0 assumptions Gain/loss from changes in financial assumptions 3.9 3.9 Experience gains/losses 4.4 4.4 8.3 -10.7 -2.3 Contributions to plan and plan costs 1.0 1.0 Return of surplus assets -58.1 -58.1 Benefit payments 13.8 -13.8 0.0 As at 31 December 2018 -254.2 402.2 148.0 170 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Present value of Plan assets were comprised as follows in 2017 defined benefit Fair value of € million Quoted Unquoted Total € million obligation plan assets Total Europe As at 1 January 2017 -302.3 467.1 164.7 Equity instruments 97.3 60.0 157.3 Current service cost -4.8 -4.8 Debt instruments 25.0 31.3 56.3 Past service cost -1.3 -1.3 Investment funds 117.5 15.9 133.4 Gains or losses on settlement 0.4 0.4 Properties 87.6 87.6 Interest cost/income -4.4 6.9 2.5 United States -10.0 6.9 -3.2 Equity instruments 5.3 5.3 Remeasurement Investment funds 35.1 35.1 Return on plan assets 13.2 13.2 Other countries Gain/loss from changes in demographic 0.0 assumptions Investment funds 14.0 14.0 Gain/loss from changes in financial assumptions 29.0 29.0 Total 294.2 194.8 489.0 Experience gains/losses 2.8 2.8 31.8 13.2 45.0 € million 2018 2017 Contributions to plan and plan costs 1.1 1.1 Kesko Corporation shares included in fair value 0.0 21.9 Benefit payments 14.1 -14.1 0.0 Properties leased by Kesko Group included in 124.5 122.2 As at 31 December 2017 -266.6 474.1 207.5 fair value Plan assets were comprised as follows in 2018 Principal actuarial assumptions: € million Quoted Unquoted Total 2018 2017 Europe Discount rate 2.09% 2.08% Equity instruments 63.9 61.5 125.4 Salary growth rate 2.18% 2.23% Debt instruments 60.5 10.1 70.6 Inflation 1.59% 1.69% Investment funds 61.3 13.4 74.7 Pension growth rate 1.86% 1.97% Properties 88.6 88.6 Average service expectancy, years 8 9 United States Equity instruments 2.6 2.6 Investment funds 34.3 34.3 Other countries Investment funds 18.6 18.6 Total 241.3 173.6 414.9 171 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Weighted average duration of pension obligations and expected return on investment activity is 5.0%. The risks involved in investment activity are managed maturity analysis of undiscounted pension obligations by continuously monitoring market developments and analysing the adequacy of the return 2018 2017 and risk potential of the investments. The returns compared to chosen reference indices Weighted average duration of pension obligations, years 14 14 and the breakdown of investments are reported on a monthly basis. In 2018, the realised return on investing activity was -0.3%. Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension obligations, € million If the return on investment assets underperforms the discount rate applied to the calcuLess than 1 year 13.8 14.9 lation of the present value of defined pension obligation, a deficit in the plan may arise. Between 1−10 years 114.2 117.8 The diversification of assets is aimed to reduce this risk in varying financial conditions. If a Between 10−20 years 103.1 107.7 deficit is created in the pension plan, such that the pension obligation is not fully covered, Between 20−30 years 68.8 73.3 Pension Fund members are obligated to pay contributions to the Fund in order to cover Over 30 years 56.1 63.8 the obligation. Calculated in compliance with the IAS 19 standard, the amount of plan Total 356.0 377.5 assets exceeded the plan obligation by €147.6 million as at 31 December 2018. Local rules concerning the Pension Fund may also create a contribution obligation in situations in which the IAS 19 obligation is fully covered. In such a case, the amount of contributions charged Finnish pension reform increases the amount of pension assets according to IAS 19. The statutory pension provision in Finland has been amended, effective from 1 January 2017. The objective of the amendments is to extend working life so that the financing of Obligation related risks the statutory earnings-related pension scheme and sufficient pension provision can be enIn addition to the general level of interest rates, the defined benefit obligation is impacted sured also going forward. The rules of the Pension Fund were changed before the amendby changes in the statutory pension provision, future salary increases, index-based pension ments came into effect, so that the Pension Fund's supplementary retirement benefit does increases and changes in life expectancy. The pension promise made to the Fund's bennot compensate for the lowering of the statutory pension provision resulting from the rise eficiaries is tied to the amount of pensionable salary and it is a lifelong benefit. The total of the statutory pension age. pension amount consists of the statutory pension and the supplementary pension provided by the Fund. Salary increases will increase the future pension amount. Changes in statutory Risks related to pension plan pension provision, such as an increase in the retirement age or a reduction of pension provision, which are compensated to pensioners by the supplementary pension and, consequently, Asset related risks the changes would increase the defined benefit obligation. The amount of future pensions is The Pension Fund's investment assets comprise properties, shares and equity funds, adjusted annually with an index-based increase in accordance with the terms and conditions private equity funds and both long-term and short-term money market investments. The of the plan. The extension of life expectancy will result in an increase in plan obligation. Pension Fund's investment policy defines the investment restrictions pertaining to classes of assets and the allowed investees. The investment plan, annually confirmed by the PenChanges in the general level of interest rates and the market yield of high-quality bonds sion Fund board, sets the investment allocation and return targets for the year ahead. The have an impact on the present value of the defined benefit obligation. When the level of objective of investing activity is to secure a return on the investments and their convertibilinterest rates falls, the present value of the defined benefit obligation rises. Because the ity into cash, as well as ensuring appropriate diversity and diversification of investments. Pension Fund's investment assets are invested and their return targets are set for long On an annual basis, the objective is to exceed the Pension Fund's obligation expenses and terms, changes in the annual return on investments do not necessarily correlate in the short costs, so that contributions need not be charged to the members. The long-term target term with changes in the discount rate applied to the defined benefit obligation. 172 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Sensitivity analysis 3.9 Shares in associates and joint ventures The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is presented in the following table. Associates and joint ventures Impact on Impact on Associates and joint ventures are handled as equity accounted investments. defined benefit defined benefit Change in obligation, obligation, Actuarial assumption assumption increase decrease € million 2018 2017 2018 Carrying amount as at 1 January 117.4 107.9 Discount rate 0.50% -6.56% 7.37% Share of the net profit for the financial year -4.3 0.9 Salary growth rate 0.50% 1.19% -1.14% Additions 17.6 8.6 Pension growth rate 0.50% 5.90% -5.30% Deductions 3.6 Impairment charges -10.8 2017 Carrying amount as at 31 December 123.5 117.4 Discount rate 0.50% -6.80% 7.60% Salary growth rate 0.50% 1.30% -1.20% The shares in associates and joint ventures are not quoted publicly. Pension growth rate 0.50% 6.00% -5.50% Kesko and Oriola's joint venture, the Hehku wellbeing chain, had an impact of €-11.2 milThe impacts of sensitivity analysis have been calculated so that the impact of a change in lion, which includes discontinuation costs for the joint venture. the assumption is calculated while assuming that all other assumptions are constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may correlate Disclosures on associates and joint ventures and the Group’s ownership with each other. The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using interest in their aggregated assets, liabilities, net sales and net profits/losses the same method as when calculating the pension obligation recognised within the stateThe joint ventures consolidated using the equity method, Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy and ment of financial position. Mercada Oy, own properties which have been leased for use by the Group. Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy and Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu Oy sell their services to Kesko’s and K-retailers’ retail companies. Hehku Kauppa Oy is a Kesko and Oriola joint venture. A decision has been made to discontinue its operations. The other associates mainly comprise business property companies which have leased their properties for use by Kesko Group. Associates that operate as mutual real estate companies have been consolidated in the financial statements in proportion to their ownership interests. UAB Mokilizingas was divested in May 2018. 173 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Net profit Mutual real estate companies for the The figures in the table below are the Group’s share of real estate companies’ assets and 2018 financial Ownership € million Assets Liabilities Net sales year interest, % liabilities and net profit, included in the consolidated statement of financial position and Mercada Oy, Helsinki 693.6 609.5 49.9 11.9 33.3 income statement. Mutual real estate companies have been handled as common functions. Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy, 249.9 113.8 12.4 7.6 49.0 Helsinki € million 2018 2017 UAB Mokilizingas, Vilnius, 1.8 0.2 12.8 Non-current assets 34.8 36.3 Lithuania Current assets 0.8 0.9 Hehku Shop Ltd, Espoo 6.4 2.3 7.7 -18.9 50.0 Valluga-sijoitus Oy, Helsinki 34.4 0.0 2.4 46.2 Total 35.7 37.2 Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, 101.2 0.2 1.7 7.4 34.3 Helsinki Non-current liabilities 1.9 2.2 Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu 8.6 1.9 10.6 0.8 30.0 Current liabilities 5.2 5.3 VTP Oy, Helsinki Total 7.1 7.6 Others 13.3 10.2 4.2 -0.1 Total 1,107.4 738.0 88.3 11.4 Net assets 28.6 29.6 Net profit Income 2.7 2.3 for the 2017 financial Ownership Costs 3.8 3.5 € million Assets Liabilities Net sales year interest, % Net profit -1.1 -1.2 Mercada Oy, Helsinki 686.5 613.7 50.1 26.2 33.3 Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy, 252.6 124.1 12.3 6.8 49.0 Helsinki UAB Mokilizingas, Vilnius, 54.2 45.4 5.9 1.6 12.8 Lithuania Hehku Shop Ltd, Espoo 1.8 0.8 -2.3 50.0 Valluga-sijoitus Oy, Helsinki 32.2 0.1 2.1 46.2 Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, 94.1 0.6 1.5 6.8 34.3 Helsinki Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu 7.6 1.8 9.6 0.3 30.0 VTP Oy, Helsinki Others 4.6 3.3 0.2 0.0 Total 1,133.5 789.8 79.6 41.5 174 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 3.10 Provisions Accounting policies A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation Onerous Warranty Other € million leases provisions provisions Total as the result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying Provisions as at 1 Jan. 2018 7.6 25.6 23.4 56.7 economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and that a reliable estimate Foreign exchange effects 0.0 0.0 0.0 can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provision amounts are reviewed on each Additional provisions 10.4 9.0 10.2 29.7 balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. Changes in proUnused amounts reversed -10.4 -7.2 -17.6 visions are recorded in the income statement in the same item in which the provision was originally recognised. The most significant part of the Group's provisions relates to Amounts charged against provision -8.6 -0.7 -6.4 -15.7 warranties given to products sold by the Group and to onerous lease contracts. Changes in the Group structure -0.7 -0.1 -0.8 Provisions as at 31 Dec. 2018 9.5 22.8 19.9 52.2 A warranty provision is recognised when a product covered by warranty provisions is sold. The provision amount is based on historical experience about the level of warranty Analysis of total provisions expenses. Leases become onerous and a provision is recognised for them, if the leased Non-current 3.5 13.3 10.3 27.1 premises remain vacant, or if they are subleased at a rate lower than the original. A proCurrent 6.0 9.5 9.6 25.2 vision is recognised for the estimated loss from vacant leased premises over the remaining lease term and for losses from subleased premises. The provisions for onerous leases relate to lease liabilities for premises vacated from the Group’s operating activities, and to net rental losses on subleased premises. A provision has been recognised for warranties and care plans of vehicles and machines sold by the Group companies. Changes in Group structure include transfers to liabilities related to non-current assets classified as held for sale, and the impacts of acquisitions and divestments. 175 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 4. CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCIAL RISK Comparable return on equity Interest-bearing net liabilities % € million 15 200 4.1 Capital structure management 10.9 11.7 160 161.6 135.9 4.2 Shareholders' equity 10 120 4.3 Financial risks 80 5 4.4 Finance income and costs 40 4.5 Financial assets and liabilities by 0 0 category 2017 2018 2017 2018 4.6 Finance lease liabilities 4.7 Lease liabilities 4.8 Other contingent liabilities Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA Gearing % 0.5 8 7.4 0.4 0.4 6.1 6 0.3 0.3 4 0.2 0.1 2 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 176 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 € million 2018 2017 4.1 Capital structure management Interest-bearing liabilities 411.2 533.9 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 50.9 171.0 Kesko Group’s objectives in capital management include target rates set for the Group’s Financial assets at amortised cost 59.1 solvency and liquidity. The Group’s capital structure (equity-to-debt ratio) is managed at Available-for-sale financial assets 56.8 Group level. The targets for the Group’s solvency and liquidity are set with the purpose Cash and cash equivalents 139.6 170.2 of securing the Group’s liquidity in all market situations, enabling the implementation of Interest-bearing net debt 161.6 135.9 Group strategy, and increasing shareholder value. The targets have been set for the performance indicator ‘interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA’. Some of the Group’s interest-bearing Operating profit 262.6 324.6 liabilities include covenants, whose terms and conditions have been taken into account in + depreciation, amortisation and impairment 151.3 153.7 the above target rate. The Group does not have a credit rating from any external credit rating institution. EBITDA 413.9 478.3 The target levels for Kesko Group’s performance indicators are approved by the Board of Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA 0.4 0.3 Directors. On 26 May 2015, the Board approved, as a part of the Group's medium term financial objectives, the following values for the performance indicators: 'comparable return Gearing, % on capital employed', 'comparable return on equity' and 'interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA'. Interest-bearing net debt x 100 Equity Level achieved Level achieved Target level in 2018 in 2017 Following the adoption of IFRS 9, investments of available-for-sale financial assets in interComparable return on capital 14% 14.0 13.3 est-bearing instruments have been reclassified as measured at amortised cost, and investemployed, continuing operations ments in funds as measured at fair value through profit or loss. Investments of financial asComparable return on equity 12% 11.7 10.9 sets measured at fair value through profit or loss in interest-bearing instruments have been Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA < 2.5 0.4 0.3 reclassified as measured at amortised cost, and investments in funds are still measured at fair value through profit or loss. 4.2 Shareholders' equity Accounting policies The Group classifies the instruments it has issued either in equity or in financial liabilities based on their nature. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Expenses related to the issuance or acquisition of equity instruments are presented as an allowance for equity. If Kesko Corporation acquires equity instruments of its own, their cost is deducted from equity. 177 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors to the General Meeting has not been Treasury shares deducted from equity. Instead, dividends are recognised on the basis of the resolution by Authorised by the General Meeting, the Board acquired a total of 500,000 of the Company’s the General Meeting. own B shares during the 2018 financial year. The Board also acquired a total of 1,200,000 of the Company’s own B shares during the financial years 2011 and 2014. The shares are held by the Company as treasury shares and the Company’s Board is entitled to transfer them. The At the end of December 2018, the total number of Kesko Corporation shares was acquisition cost of the B shares held by the Company and acquired during the 2018 financial 100,019,752, of which 31,737,007, or 31.7%, were A shares and 68,282,745, or 68.3%, year was €24.4 million, and the acquisition cost of the shares acquired during the 2011 were B shares. All issued shares have been fully paid. The maximum number of A shares and 2014 financial years was €23.5 million. These costs have been deducted from retained is 250 million and the maximum number of B shares is also 250 million, so that the total earnings in equity. Information on share-based payments has been given in note 5.4. number of shares is 400 million at maximum. Each A share carries ten (10) votes and each B share one (1) vote. The total number of votes attached to all shares was 385,652,815. At the end of December 2018, Kesko Corporation's share capital was €197,282,584. kpl B shares held by the Company as at 31 563,137 Changes in share capital Dec. 2017 Transfer, share-based compensation plan -68,949 Number of shares Acquired during the period 500,000 Reserve of invested Returned during the period 7,211 nonB shares held by the Company as at 31 1,001,399 Share restricted Share Dec. 2018 Share capital equity premium Total capital A B Total € million € million € million € million 1 January 31,737,007 67,536,636* 99,273,643* 197.3 22.8 197.8 417.8 2017 Dividends Transfer of 182,972 182,972 After the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors has proposed that €2.34 per share treasury be distributed as dividends. A dividend of €2.20 per share was distributed on the profit for shares 2017. 31 December 31,737,007 67,719,608* 99,456,615* 197.3 22.8 197.8 417.8 2017 Transfer of 61,738 61,738 Equity and reserves treasury Equity consists of share capital, share premium, reserve of invested non-restricted equity, shares other reserves, revaluation reserve, currency translation differences and retained earnings Acquisition -500,000 -500,000 net of treasury shares. In addition, the portion of accumulated depreciation difference and of treasury shares optional provisions net of deferred tax liabilities are included in equity. 31 December 31,737,007 67,281,346* 99,018,353* 197.3 22.8 197.8 417.8 2018 Share premium The amount exceeding the par value of share received by the Company in connection with Number of 317,370,070 67,281,346 384,651,416 share subscriptions was recorded in the share premium in cases where options had been votes granted under the old Limited Liability Companies Act (29 Sept. 1978/734). As at the end *Excluding treasury shares which totalled 1,001,399 (563,137) at the end of the financial year. of the financial year, the share premium was €197.8 million. 178 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Reserve of invested non-restricted equity sidiaries in their functional currencies. For subsidiaries with significant external ownership, The reserve of invested non-restricted equity, €22.8 million, includes the other equity-rethe Group has not guaranteed financial liabilities in excess of its ownership interest. lated investments and share subscription prices to the extent not designated to be included in share capital. Foreign exchange risks Kesko Group conducts business operations in eight countries, in addition to which it makes Other reserves purchases from numerous countries. In consequence, the Group is exposed to various foreign Other reserves, a total of €244.2 million, have mainly been created and increased as a exchange risks arising from net investments in foreign operations (translation risks) and from result of resolutions by the General Meeting. Other reserves mainly comprise contingency assets, liabilities and forecast transactions (transaction risks) denominated in foreign currencies. reserves to a total amount of €242.3 million at the end of the financial year. The Group companies’ financial resources are arranged in their functional currencies. The Currency translation differences parent company bears the ensuing foreign exchange risk and hedges the risk exposure Currency translation differences arise from the translation of foreign operations’ financial stateusing derivatives or borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies. The Belaruments. Exchange differences arising from monetary items that form a part of a net investment sian currency BYN is not a freely convertible currency and hedging the associated exposure in a foreign operation or exchange differences from loans designated as hedges for foreign net to foreign exchange risk is not possible. investments and regarded as effective, are also included in currency translation differences. The change in currency translation differences is stated within comprehensive income. Translation risks The Group is exposed to foreign currency translation risks relating to net investments in Revaluation reserve subsidiaries outside the euro zone held on the balance sheet. This balance sheet exposure The revaluation reserve includes the effective portion of the change in the fair value of derivahas not been hedged. The hedge can be designated if equity is repatriated, or if a currency tives for which cash flow hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedges include electricity deis expected to be exposed to a significant devaluation risk. The most significant translation rivatives and interest rate derivatives hedging the Private Placement note interest. The change exposures are the Norwegian krone and the Swedish krona. The exposure does not include in the reserve is stated within comprehensive income. The result of cash flow hedging has been the non-controlling interest in equity. Relative to the Group's volume of operations and the presented in note 4.3 Financial risks. In 2017, before the implementation of IFRS 9, the revaluabalance sheet total, the foreign currency translation risk is low. tion reserve also included the change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial instruments. Group's translation exposure as at 31 Dec. 2018 € million NOK SEK RUB PLN BYN 4.3 Financial risks Net investment 100.3 69.7 10.4 22.8 9.1 With respect to financial risk management, the Group observes a uniform treasury policy Group's translation exposure as that has been approved by the Company's Board of Directors. Compliance with this policy at 31 Dec. 2017 € million NOK SEK RUB PLN BYN and developments in the Group’s financial situation are monitored by the Board’s Audit Net investment 82.1 85.0 140.9 22.6 8.7 Committee. The Group Treasury is centrally responsible for obtaining financial resources for the Group, for liquidity management, relations with providers of finance, and the management of financial risks. In the main, the Group’s financial resources have been obtained The following table shows how a 10% change in the Group companies’ functional currenthrough the parent company, and the Group Treasury arranges financial resources for subcies would affect the Group’s equity. 179 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Sensitivity analysis, impact on cash flows. The presentation does not illustrate the Group’s actual foreign exchange risk equity as at 31 Dec. 2018 after hedgings. When forecast amounts are included in the transaction exposure, the most € million NOK SEK RUB PLN BYN significant difference from the table below is in the USD exposures. As at 31 December Change +10% -9.1 -6.3 -0.9 -2.1 -0.8 2018, the exposure with respect to USD was €-48.3 million. Change -10% 11.1 7.7 1.2 2.5 1.0 Group's transaction exposure as Sensitivity analysis, impact on at 31 Dec. 2018 equity as at 31 Dec. 2017 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN € million NOK SEK RUB PLN BYN Group's transaction risk -17.0 14.3 41.7 24.1 -0.2 19.2 Change +10% -7.5 -7.7 -12.8 -2.1 -0.8 Hedging derivatives 21.0 -13.7 -40.7 -16.3 Change -10% 9.1 9.4 15.7 2.5 1.0 Open exposure 4.0 0.6 1.0 7.8 -0.2 19.2 Transaction risks Group's transaction exposure as at 31 Dec. 2017 International purchasing activities and foreign currency denominated financial resources € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN arranged by the parent to subsidiaries expose the Group to transaction risks relating to sevGroup's transaction risk -6.2 7.6 2.8 27.8 11.3 14.5 eral currencies. The currency-specific transaction risk exposure comprises foreign currency Hedging derivatives 21.7 -9.1 -4.6 -14.4 -8.6 denominated receivables and liabilities in the balance sheet, forecast foreign currency Open exposure 15.5 -1.5 -1.8 13.5 2.7 14.5 cash flows, and foreign subsidiaries’ liabilities and receivables with respect to the parent. The risk is commercially managed by, for example, transferring exchange rate changes to selling prices, or by replacing suppliers. The remaining exposures are hedged using foreign A sensitivity analysis of the transaction exposure shows the impact on profit or loss of a +/currency derivatives. The subsidiaries report their foreign exchange exposures to the Group 10% exchange rate change in intra-Group receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign Treasury on a monthly basis. currencies and foreign currency derivatives and borrowings used for hedging. In the main, the subsidiaries hedge their risk exposures with the Group Treasury, which in turn Sensitivity analysis, impact on hedges risk exposures using market transactions within the limits confirmed for each currenpre-tax profit as at 31 Dec. 2018 cy. Intra-Group derivative contracts are allocated to the segments in segment reporting. € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN Change +10% -0.4 -0.1 -0.1 -0.7 0.0 -1.7 The Group does not apply hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9 to the hedging of Change -10% 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.0 2.1 transaction risks relating to purchases and sales. In initial measurement, derivative instruments are recognised at fair value and subsequently in the financial statements, they are Sensitivity analysis, impact on remeasured at fair value. The change in fair value of foreign currency derivatives used for pre-tax profit as at 31 Dec. 2017 hedging purchases and sales is recognised in other operating income or expenses. € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN Change +10% -1.4 0.1 -0.5 -1.2 -0.2 -1.3 The Group monitors the transaction risk exposure in respect of existing balances and Change -10% 1.7 -0.2 0.6 1.5 0.3 1.6 forecast cash flows. The following table analyses the transaction exposure excluding future 180 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Liquidity risk The Group's solvency was excellent throughout the financial year 2018. As at 31 DecemLiquidity risk management aims to maintain sufficient liquid assets and credit facilities in ber 2018, liquid assets totalled €250 million (€398 million). Interest-bearing liabilities were order to ensure the ongoing availability of sufficient financial resources for the Group’s €411 million (€534 million) and interest-bearing net debt €162 million (€136 million) as at operating activities. 31 December 2018. 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 € million < 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total < 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total Maturities of financial liabilities and related finance costs Borrowings from financial institutions 5.7 7.7 0.2 13.7 6.4 8.9 0.1 15.5 finance costs 0.4 0.6 0.0 1.0 0.8 1.1 0.0 1.9 Private Placement notes (USD) 20.1 20.1 20.0 20.0 finance costs 0.6 0.6 1.3 0.6 1.9 Bonds 224.8 224.8 finance costs 6.2 6.2 Pension loans 23.9 103.0 57.2 184.0 10.5 66.2 26.9 103.5 finance costs 2.3 6.2 1.7 10.1 1.0 2.5 0.6 4.1 Finance lease liabilities 2.4 3.4 0.0 5.9 3.5 7.5 0.1 11.0 finance costs 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.3 Payables to K-retailers 119.3 119.3 113.3 113.3 finance costs Other interest-bearing liabilities 61.4 6.5 67.9 37.8 1.7 6.5 46.0 finance costs 0.4 1.0 0.1 1.5 0.3 1.1 0.1 1.6 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 0.9 2.7 25.8 29.4 0.8 4.0 26.5 31.2 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payables 982.8 982.8 1 023.7 1 023.7 Accrued expenses 353.9 353.9 308.5 308.5 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 171.7 171.7 188.6 188.6 Financial liabilities in the balance sheet include €2.7 million (€3.4m) in items related to derivatives. 181 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 € million < 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total < 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total Cash flows of derivatives Payables Foreign exchange forward contracts outside hedge accounting 128.9 128.9 78.1 78.1 Net settlement of payables Interest rate derivatives 0.8 3.1 1.3 5.3 0.2 1.3 1.5 Electricity derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.6 Foreign currency derivatives 0.1 0.1 Receivables Foreign exchange forward contracts outside hedge accounting 130.5 130.5 76.2 76.2 Net settlement of receivables Electricity derivatives 1.2 1.1 0.0 2.3 0.2 0.2 0.4 Derivatives relating to Private Placement notes Foreign currency derivatives 0.9 0.9 Interest rate derivatives 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.3 The cash flows of Private Placement notes and related currency and interest rate derivatives At the balance sheet date, the total equivalent of undrawn committed long-term credit facilities are settled on a net basis. The interest rate derivative liability related to the arrangement is was €200 million (€200 million). According to the terms and conditions of loan agreements, at presented within other interest-bearing liabilities in the statement of financial position. The change of control, the lenders have the right to terminate the credit facility and loan amounts amount of interest-bearing liability in the balance sheet arising from this credit facility totals possibly drawn. According to the terms and conditions of the loan facility, the change of €20.1 million (€20.1 million). ownership to retailers or an association of retailers does not constitute a change of control. In addition, the Group’s uncommitted financial resources available contained commercial paper The terms and conditions of the Private Placement credit facility and the committed programmes denominated in euros totalling an equivalent of €449 million (€449 million). In adfacilities include ordinary financial covenants. The requirements of these covenants have dition, in January 2019, the Group companies held a total of €324 million available for re-borbeen met. The borrowing terms include a financial covenant defining the ratio between net rowing in a pension insurance company. Part of the pension insurance premiums paid annually debt and EBITDA, which remained far from the maximum throughout the financial year. by the Group companies are funded and the accumulated funds can be re-borrowed with a term At change of control, Kesko is obligated to offer a repayment of the whole loan capital to of 1−10 years in accordance with regulations confirmed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the note holders. According to the terms and conditions of the loan facility, the change of Health. Any amount of borrowing requires the posting of adequate collateral. ownership to retailers or an association of retailers does not constitute a change of control. Interest rate risk on borrowings and sensitivity analysis Payables to K-retailers consist of two types of interest-bearing liabilities by Kesko to K-reChanges in the interest rate level have an impact on the Group’s interest expense. The poltailers: retailers’ prepayments to Kesko and Kesko’s chain rebate liabilities to retailers. icy for hedging interest rate risk is aimed at balancing the effects of changes in the interest rate level on profit or loss for different financial periods. 182 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 The interest rate risk is centrally managed by the Group Treasury, which adjusts the durathese investments for 2018 was 0.1% (1.0%) and the duration was 1.3 years at the end of tion by using interest rate derivative contracts. The target duration is three years, which the financial year. The maximum credit risk is the fair value of these investments in the balis allowed to vary between one and a half and four years. The actual duration during the ance sheet at the balance sheet date. The table below analyses financial instruments carried financial year was 1.8 (1.8) years on average. at fair value by valuation method. The implementation of IFRS 9 changed the classification of financial assets and financial liabilities (note 4.5). On 11 September 2012, Kesko Corporation issued a €250 million bond. The bond carries a fixed coupon interest at 2.75% and it was due for payment on 11 September 2018. Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities Fair value as at 31 Dec. 2018 € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total On 10 June 2004, Kesko Corporation issued a USD Private Placement in a total amount Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss of USD 120 million in the United States. The facility has three tranches with bullet repayMoney market funds 50.9 50.9 ments, of which USD 60 million was paid on 10 June 2014, USD 36 million was paid on 10 Private equity funds and other shares and interests 20.8 20.8 June 2016 and USD 24 million will be due on 10 June 2019. Total 50.9 20.8 71.7 Kesko Corporation's USD Private Placement credit facility qualifies for hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss against both foreign exchange and interest rate risk and it has been hedged by currency Derivative financial assets 5.6 5.6 swaps and interest rate swaps with the same amounts and maturities as the borrowing. As a result, the borrowing is fully hedged against foreign exchange and interest rate risk. During Derivative financial liabilities 2.7 2.7 the financial year, there was no ineffectiveness to be recorded in the income statement from this credit facility. Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities Fair value as at 31 Dec. 2017 € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total The sensitivity analysis for changes in interest rate level in respect of commercial paper Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss liabilities realised during the financial year has used average balance values. At the balance Money market funds 159.9 159.9 sheet date of 31 December 2018, the effect of variable rate borrowings on the pre-tax Commercial papers 6.0 6.0 profit would have been €-/+1.7 million (€-/+1.7 million), if the interest rate level had risen or Bank certificates of deposit and deposits 5.0 5.0 fallen by 1 percentage point. Total 159.9 11.0 171.0 Private Placement notes and pension loans, €204.9 million in aggregate, have fixed rates, Derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss and their effective interest cost was 1.7%. At the end of the financial year, the average rate Derivative financial assets 0.7 0.7 of variable-interest-rate borrowings from financial institutions, payables to retailers and Derivative financial liabilities 3.4 3.4 other interest-bearing liabilities was 0.2%. Most of the borrowings are euro-denominated and the Private Placement notes are USD-denominated. Available-for-sale financial assets Financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value Private equity funds and other shares and interests 23.0 23.0 The Group’s liquid assets have mainly been invested in the debt instruments of major Commercial papers (maturing in less than 3 months) 37.5 37.5 Finnish companies, in certificates of deposit and deposits with banks operating in Kesko’s Bonds and corporate bond funds 56.8 56.8 market area, in bonds of selected companies and in corporate bond funds. The return on Total 56.8 37.5 23.0 117.3 183 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Level 1 instruments are traded in active markets and their fair values are directly based on Current available-for-sale financial assets quoted market prices. The fair values of level 2 instruments are derived from market data. € million 2017 The fair value of level 3 instruments is not based on observable market data (inputs not Carrying amount as at 1 January 156.8 observable). Changes -62.9 Changes in fair value 0.3 Changes in level 3 instruments Carrying amount as at 31 December 94.2 € million 2018 2017 Private equity funds and other shares and interests as at 1 January 23.0 15.1 Purchases 0.5 9.3 The current available-for-sale financial assets include investments in commercial papers, Refunds received -0.9 -0.5 certificates of deposits and other interest rate instruments. Gains and losses through profit or loss -4.8 -0.4 In the sensitivity analysis of floating rate receivables, average annual balances of invested Changes in fair values 2.9 -0.6 assets have been used. The receivables include customer financing receivables, finance Private equity funds and other shares and interests as at 31 December 20.8 23.0 lease receivables, other interest-bearing receivables, and within investments, commercial papers and money market funds. The sensitivity of money market funds has been deterLevel 3 includes private equity funds and other shares and interests. These investments mined based on duration. If the interest rate level had changed by +/-1 percentage point, have been classified as financial assets through profit or loss. Level 3 financial assets are the effect of these items on the pre-tax profit would have been €+/1.7 million (€+/-2.3 measured based on computations received from the companies. An income of €2.9 million million). In the comparison year, the effect on equity would have been +/€1.3 million. has been recorded on these investments for the financial year 2018. Maturity of non-current receivables Current interest-bearing receivables and sensitivity analysis The objective is to invest liquidity consisting of financial assets in the money markets using Maturity analysis of noncurrent receivables as at efficient combinations of return and risk. At regular intervals, the Group’s management ap31 Dec. 2018 proves the investment instruments and limits for each counterparty among those analysed € million 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024− Total by the Group Treasury. The risks and actual returns on investments are monitored regularly. Non-interest-bearing non2.3 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.2 2.8 current receivables Loans and receivables from 0.0 57.5 57.5 Financial assets at amortised cost associates and joint ventures € million 2018 Other non-current 0.2 0.0 5.0 0.0 0.0 5.3 Carrying amount as at 1 January 83.0 receivables Changes 7.8 Total 2.5 0.3 5.1 0.0 57.8 65.7 Carrying amount as at 31 December 90.8 The carrying amount of non-interest-bearing non-current receivables equals their fair value. The financial assets at amortised cost include current investments in commercial papers, certificates of deposits and other interest rate instruments. 184 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Maturity analysis of nonThe ageing analysis of trade receivables as at 31 December was as follows: current receivables as at 31 Dec. 2017 € million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023− Total Ageing analysis of trade receivables € million 2018 2017 Non-interest-bearing non2.2 0.1 0.0 0.4 2.7 current receivables Trade receivables fully performing 732.0 742.2 Loans and receivables from 0.0 57.5 57.5 1−7 days past due trade receivables 30.9 32.3 associates and joint ventures 8−30 days past due trade receivables 23.4 22.5 Other non-current 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.0 5.1 31−60 days past due trade receivables 9.3 12.0 receivables over 60 days past due trade receivables 24.7 27.1 Total 2.3 0.1 0.0 0.0 62.9 65.4 Total 820.3 836.0 Credit and counterparty risk Within trade receivables, €348.0 million (€346.9 million) were from chain retailers. The The divisions' business entities are responsible for the management of the credit risk assocollateral for chain retailer receivables is an overdraft facility granted by a Kesko associate, ciated with amounts due from customers. The Group has a credit policy and its implemenVähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, with the maximum always limited to the realisable value of the tation is controlled. The aim is to ensure the collection of receivables by carefully assessing countersecurity from the K-retailer's company and its entrepreneur to Vähittäiskaupan customers’ creditworthiness, by specifying customer credit terms and collateral requireTakaus Oy. At the end of the financial year, the aggregate value of countersecurities was ments, by effective credit control and credit insurances, as applicable. In Finland, the main €197.1 million (€211.5 million). In addition, the collateral for receivables includes other part of the Group’s business activities is carried out in cooperation with retailers. According collaterals, such as business mortgages and other pledged assets. to retailer agreements, retailers shall arrange overdraft facilities to be held as collateral for their trade payables by the relevant Kesko subsidiary. Trade receivables include an impairment charge to a total of €24.3 million (€23.2 million). The aggregate amount of credit losses and impairments recognised in the profit for the According to the new IFRS 9 impairment model, impairments must be recognised on the financial year was €5.2 million (€4.9 million). basis of expected credit losses, while previously, impairment was only recognised when there was objective evidence of impairment. The Group has adopted the standard’s simpliThe amount of receivables with renegotiated terms totalled €5.1 million (€5.9 million). fied approach for recognising impairment of trade receivables using the provision matrix. For the impairment model, the Group has classified Group companies into risk categories Financial credit risk on the basis of their business model and realised historical credit losses. As for other finanFinancial instruments involve the risk of non-performance by counterparties. Kesko enters cial assets, the change in impairment model has not had a material impact on the consoliinto foreign currency and other derivative contracts only with creditworthy banks. Liquid dated financial statements. funds are invested, in accordance with limits set annually for each counterparty, in instruments with good creditworthiness. Company and bank-specific euro and time limits are set for money market investments. These limits are reviewed during the year depending on the market situation. 185 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Commodity risks and their sensitivity analysis Derivatives The Group uses electricity derivatives for the purpose of balancing out energy costs. 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 The electricity price risk is assessed for five-year periods. The changes in the fair values of Positive Negative Positive Negative fair value fair value fair value fair value derivatives hedging the price of electricity supplied during the financial year are recognised Fair values of derivative contracts (balance sheet (balance (balance (balance within adjustments to purchases. Hedge accounting is applied to contracts hedging future € million value) sheet value) sheet value) sheet value) purchases. In hedge accounting, the Group switched to hedging the electricity system price Interest rate derivatives 0.4 -2.4 1.7 -1.9 in compliance with IFRS 9. The effective portion of the change in the value of derivatives Foreign currency derivatives 3.2 -0.8 0.4 -2.3 that qualify for hedge accounting is recognised in the revaluation reserve of equity. The Electricity derivatives 2.3 -0.0 0.3 -0.6 change in the revaluation reserve recognised in equity is presented in the statement of comprehensive income under Revaluation of cash flow hedge. Notional principal amounts of derivative contracts 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Result of cash flow hedging € million Notional principal amount Notional principal amount As a result of hedge accounting applied to electricity, an amount of €2.2 million (€-1.1 Interest rate derivatives 350.2 250.2 million) was removed from equity and included in the income statement as purchase cost Foreign currency derivatives 149.2 96.8 adjustment, and €4.6 million (€-0.1 million) was recognised in equity, respectively. Their Electricity derivatives 11.0 6.2 combined effect on the revaluation reserve for the year was €2.3 million (€1.0 million) before accounting for deferred tax assets. The derivative contracts include interest rate swaps relating to a foreign currency borrowA fair value change of €0.2 million (€-0.3 million) was recognised in equity for the USDing facility with a gross notional principal amount of €40.2 million and a fair value of €-0.2 denominated Private Placement facility before accounting for deferred taxes. In addition, million (€-0.4 million), and currency swaps with a notional principal amount of €20.1 million a €0.2 million (€0.2 million) interest expense adjustment for interest rate derivatives was and a fair value of €0.9 million (€-0.1 million). recognised in the income statement. The fair values of derivatives are presented as gross amounts. Kesko has entered into As at the balance sheet date, a total quantity of 265,075 MWH (268,656 MWH) of elecnetting arrangements under ISDA contracts with all counterparties engaged in transactions tricity had been purchased with electricity derivatives and 718,428 MWH under fixed price with derivatives. All of these contracts provide for mutual posting of collateral. The threshpurchase agreements. The 1–12 month hedging level was 68% (77%), the 13–24 month old level for collateral posting had not been exceeded at the balance sheet date. Analysed level was 53% (50%), the 25–36 month level was 43% (39%), and the 37–48 month level by counterparty, derivative financial liabilities could be set off in a total of €1.7 million. was 27% (25%). The maximum credit risk from derivatives is the fair value of the balance sheet at the reThe sensitivity analysis of electricity derivatives assumed that derivatives maturing in less porting date. than 12 months have an impact on profit. If the market price of electricity derivatives changed by -/+20% from the balance sheet date 31 December 2018, it would contribute €-/+0.8 million (€-/+1.0 million) to the 2019 income statement and €-/+1.2 million (€-/+0.3 million) to equity. The impact has been calculated before tax. 186 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 4.4 Finance income and costs The realised result of interest rate derivatives used for hedging a USD-denominated Private Placement credit facility is recognised in net terms in interest expense with the loan interest. € million 2018 2017 Following the adoption of IFRS 9, investments of available-for-sale financial assets in interInterest income and other finance income est-bearing instruments have been reclassified as measured at amortised cost, and investInterest income on financial assets at amortised cost 0.9 ments in funds as measured at fair value through profit or loss. Investments of financial asInterest income on loans and receivables 10.2 9.9 sets measured at fair value through profit or loss in interest-bearing instruments have been Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss -0.7 0.3 reclassified as measured at amortised cost, and investments in funds are still measured at Interest income on available-for-sale financial assets 1.2 fair value through profit or loss under IFRS 9. Gains on disposal of financial assets at amortised cost 0.1 Gains on disposal of financial assets at fair value through profit or 2.9 loss 4.5 Financial assets and liabilities by category Gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2.6 Other finance income 0.7 4.5 Total interest income and other finance income 14.1 18.5 Accounting policies Financial assets Interest expense and other finance costs Following the adoption of the new IFRS 9, the Group will reclassify financial assets into Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost -9.2 -11.3 three groups. Financial assets are classified either as financial assets measured at amLossess on disposal of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.0 ortised cost, at fair value through profit or loss or at fair value in other comprehensive Losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.0 income, depending on the business model objectives and contractual cash flows. Other finance costs -3.2 -2.5 Total interest expense and other finance costs -12.4 -13.8 Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date. Financial assets are classified as non-current, if they have a maturity of more than 12 months Exchange differences after the balance sheet date. If financial assets are expected to be settled within 12 Exchange differences and changes in fair values of derivatives, -2.8 -2.4 months, they are classified as current. borrowings denominated in foreign currencies not qualifying for hedge accounting, and cash at bank Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the finanTotal exchange differences -2.8 -2.4 cial asset have expired or have been transferred from the Group, and when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred from the Group. Total finance income and costs -1.1 2.2 Financial assets at amortised cost and financial assets at fair value are only invested in The interest expense includes €0.1 million (€0.3 million) of interests on finance leases reccreditworthy counterparties. The impairment model for expected credit losses in line ognised as expenses for the period. with the standard requires credit losses to be recognised with a forward-looking approach. As for other financial assets, lacking historical credit losses, counterparty risk is monitored actively and credit losses are recognised if risk is observed. 187 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Financial assets at amortised cost operating income or expenses. Concerning derivatives hedging financial transactions, Financial assets at amortised cost consist of assets that are to be held to maturity and the amount to be recognised in the income statement is included in financial items. whose cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest. Financial assets at amortised cost also include trade receivables and other receivables. When a hedging arrangement is entered into, the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, as well as the objectives of the Group's risk management Financial assets at fair value are documented. The effectiveness of the hedge relationship is tested regularly and the Financial assets at fair value in other comprehensive income comprise derivatives that effective portion is recognised, according to the nature of the hedged item, against the meet the hedge accounting criteria. Financial assets that do not meet the criteria of the change in the fair value of the hedged item, in translation differences in equity, or in other groups are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. the revaluation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised, according to its nature, either in financial items or other operating income and expenses. The effective portion Cash and cash equivalents of changes in the fair value of instruments used for hedging cash flows, such as longCash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and deposits with banks. The cash and term credit facilities, is recognised in the revaluation reserve. A change in the fair value cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet also include amounts relating to the of foreign currency derivatives relating to the credit facility is recognised in borrowings, retail operations of the division companies, used as cash floats in stores, or amounts and a change in the fair value of interest rate derivatives in other non-interest-bearing being transferred to the respective companies. receivables or liabilities. Financial liabilities Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or Financial liabilities have initially been recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs. when the contract is terminated or exercised. Any cumulative gain or loss existing in In the financial statements, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using equity at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction has occurred. the effective interest rate method. Arrangement fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities and financial liabilities are amortised over the period of the facility to which it Measurement principles relates. Financial liabilities having maturities of more than 12 months after the balance The fair value of forward rate agreements is determined by reference to the market pricsheet date are classified as non-current liabilities. Those maturing within 12 months es at the balance sheet date. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated on the baafter the balance sheet date are classified as current liabilities. sis of the present value of future cash flows, using the market prices at the balance sheet date. The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts is determined by measuring Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting the forward contracts at the forward rate at the balance sheet date. Currency options When derivative contracts are entered into, they are recognised at fair value and in the are measured using the counterparty's price quotation, but the Group also verifies the financial statements, they are re-measured at their fair value. The recognition of changes price by applying the Black−Scholes method. Electricity derivatives are measured at fair in the fair value of derivatives depends on whether the derivative instrument qualifies for value using the market quotations at the balance sheet date. hedge accounting or not and, if so, on the hedged item. When entered into, derivative contracts are treated either as fair value hedges of receivables or liabilities, or in the Hedging a net investment in foreign operations case of interest rate risk and electricity price risk, as cash flow hedges, as hedges of net During the financial year, the Group has not hedged net investments in foreign opinvestments in a foreign entity, or as derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge acerations. If a hedge is initiated, the Group applies hedge accounting in accordance counting criteria. If the hedge accounting criteria are not met, the results of instruments with IFRS 9 to hedge foreign currency net investments in foreign operations. Foreign hedging a commercial foreign exchange risk are recognised in profit or loss within other exchange forward contracts or foreign currency borrowings are used as hedging 188 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 instruments. Spot price changes in foreign exchange forward contracts are recognised Embedded derivatives in translation differences under equity, and disclosed in other comprehensive income. The Group has prepared method descriptions for identifying embedded derivatives and The premiums of forward contracts are recognised as income under financial items. applies fair value measurement to them. In Kesko Group, embedded derivatives can be The exchange difference of foreign currency borrowings is recognised in translation included in binding commercial contracts denominated in a currency which is not the differences under equity. When a foreign operation is partially or wholly disposed of functional currency of either party and not commonly used in the economic environment or wound up, cumulative gains or losses from the hedging instruments are recognised in which the transaction takes place. The fair value of embedded derivatives is deterin profit or loss. mined using the market prices at the measurement date and the change in fair value is recognised in the income statement. As at 31 December 2018 Financial assets/ Carrying amounts of liabilities at fair value Financial assets/liabilities Derivatives used assets/liabilities as per Balance, € million through profit or loss at amortised cost for hedging balance sheet Fair value Non-current financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 20.8 20.8 20.8 Non-current non-interest-bearing receivables 1.8 1.8 1.8 Derivatives 1.0 1.0 1.0 Total non-current non-interest-bearing receivables 1.8 2.8 2.8 Total non-current interest-bearing receivables 62.8 62.8 62.8 Total non-current financial assets 20.8 66.4 1.0 88.3 88.3 Current financial assets Trade and other non-interest-bearing receivables 1,014.9 1,014.9 1,014.9 Derivatives 2.4 1.3 3.6 3.6 Total trade and other non-interest-bearing receivables 2.4 1,014.9 1.3 1,018.5 1,018.5 Current interest-bearing receivables 1.8 1.8 1.8 Derivatives 0.9 0.9 0.9 Total current interest-bearing receivables 1.8 0.9 2.7 2.7 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 50.9 50.9 50.9 Financial assets at amortised cost 90.8 90.8 90.8 Total current financial assets 53.3 1,107.5 2.1 1,162.9 1,162.9 Carrying amount by category 74.1 1,173.9 3.2 1,251.2 1,251.2 189 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Financial assets/ Carrying amounts of liabilities at fair value Financial assets/liabilities Derivatives used assets/liabilities as per Balance, € million through profit or loss at amortised cost for hedging balance sheet Fair value Non-current financial liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 177.8 177.8 179.7 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 29.4 29.4 29.4 Total non-current financial liabilities 207.2 207.2 209.1 Current financial liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 233.4 233.4 234.0 Trade payables 982.7 982.7 982.7 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 197.6 197.6 197.6 Derivatives 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total other non-interest-bearing liabilities 197.6 0.2 197.8 197.8 Accrued expenses 351.4 351.4 351.4 Derivatives 2.5 2.5 2.5 Total accrued expenses 2.5 351.4 353.9 353.9 Total current non-interest-bearing liabilities 2.5 0.2 551.7 551.7 Total current financial liabilities 2.5 1,765.1 0.2 1,767.8 1,768.4 Carrying amount by category 2.5 1,972.4 0.2 1,975.1 1,977.5 190 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Accounting policies for financial assets as at 31 December 2017 market funds, as well as investments in other interest-bearing instruments with maturities of over three months, as defined by the Group's treasury policy. The interest income Financial assets from these financial assets and changes in their fair values, as well as any commissions The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: returned by the funds are presented on a net basis in the interest income of the relevant financial assets at fair value through profit or loss class in the income statement. available-for-sale financial assets loans and receivables In addition, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include all derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting in compliance with IAS 39. Derivatives are carried The classification at initial recognition depends on the purpose for which the financial at fair value using prices quoted in active markets. The results of derivatives used for asset was acquired. hedging purchases and sales are recognised in other operating income or expenses. The result of derivatives used for hedging financial items is recognised in financial items, Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date. Financial unless the derivative has been designated as a hedging instrument. assets are classified as non-current, if they have a maturity of more than 12 months after the balance sheet date. If financial assets are expected to be settled within 12 months, Available-for-sale financial assets they are classified as current. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets designated as available for classified as current. sale at the date of initial recognition. Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date and the changes in their fair values are recognised in Financial assets are derecognised in the balance sheet when the rights to receive cash equity and presented in other comprehensive income. The fair value of publicly quoted flows from the financial asset have expired or have been transferred from the Group, financial assets is determined based on their market value. Financial assets not quoted and when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred from the Group. publicly are measured at cost if their fair values cannot be measured reliably. At each date of the financial statements, the Group assesses whether there is evidence Dividends from equity investments included in available-for-sale financial assets are that a financial asset is impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount recognised in financial items in the income statement. The interest income from availof the asset is estimated. The recoverable amount is the fair value based on the marable-for-sale financial assets is recognised in the financial items of the relevant class. ket price or the present value of cash flows. The fair value of financial assets is deterWhen an available-for-sale financial asset is sold, the accumulated changes in fair value mined on the basis of a maturity based interest rate quotation. An impairment loss is recognised in equity are included in other financial income/expenses in the income recognised if the carrying amount of financial assets exceeds the recoverable amount. statement. Impairment losses are recognised within the financial items of the income statement. Loans and receivables Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables are non-derivative assets with fixed or measurable payments, and Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include instruments initially classithey are not quoted in active markets. Loans and receivables also include trade receivfied as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (the fair value option). These ables and other receivables. They are recognised at amortised cost using the effective instruments are managed based on fair value and they include investments in money interest rate method. 191 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 As at 31 December 2017 Carrying amounts Financial assets/ Financial of assets/ liabilities at fair value Loans and Available-for-sale liabilities at Derivatives used liabilities as per Balance, € million through profit or loss receivables financial assets amortised cost for hedging balance sheet Fair value Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 23.0 23.0 23.0 Non-current non-interest-bearing receivables 2.6 2.6 2.6 Derivatives 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total non-current non-interest-bearing receivables 2.6 0.1 2.7 2.7 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 62.7 62.7 62.7 Total non-current financial assets 65.3 23.0 0.1 88.4 88.4 Current financial assets Trade and other non-interest-bearing receivables 1,031.8 1,031.8 1,031.8 Derivatives 0.4 0.2 0.6 0.6 Total trade and other non-interest-bearing receivables 0.4 1,031.8 0.2 1,032.4 1,032.4 Interest-bearing receivables 1.5 1.5 1.5 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 171.0 171.0 171.0 Available-for-sale financial assets 94.2 94.2 94.2 Total current financial assets 171.3 1,033.3 94.2 0.2 1,299.1 1,299.1 Carrying amount by category 171.3 1,098.6 117.3 0.3 1,387.5 1,387.5 192 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Carrying amounts Financial assets/ Financial of assets/ liabilities at fair value Loans and Available-for-sale liabilities at Derivatives used liabilities as per Balance, € million through profit or loss receivables financial assets amortised cost for hedging balance sheet Fair value Non-current financial liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 129.2 129.2 132.8 Derivatives 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 129.2 0.1 129.3 132.9 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 31.0 31.0 31.0 Derivatives 0.4 0.4 0.4 Total non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 31.0 0.4 31.4 31.4 Total non-current financial liabilities 160.2 0.5 160.7 164.3 Current financial liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 404.6 404.6 403.6 Trade payables 1,023.7 1,023.7 1,023.7 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 188.0 188.0 188.0 Derivatives 0.6 0.6 0.6 Total other non-interest-bearing liabilities 188.0 0.6 188.6 188.6 Accrued expenses 306.3 306.3 306.3 Derivatives 2.3 2.3 2.3 Total accrued expenses 2.3 306.3 308.5 308.5 Total current non-interest-bearing liabilities 2.3 1,517.9 0.6 1,520.8 1,520.8 Total current financial liabilities 2.3 1,922.5 0.6 1,925.4 1,924.4 Carrying amount by category 2.3 2,082.7 1.1 2,086.1 2,088.7 Prepaid expenses and accrued expenses do not include income tax assets of €6.0 million The fair values of borrowings have been calculated based on the present value of future (€11.1 million) or income tax liabilities of €16.8 million (€5.6 million). Prepayments received cash flows using the 0.0%−1.5% market rates of interest of the balance sheet date. The fair of €26.0 million (€38.5 million) are not categorised as financial liabilities and are not includvalue of current interest-bearing liabilities has been estimated to approximately equal their ed in the table above. balance sheet value. The maturity structure of non-current borrowings has been presented in note 4.3. 193 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 4.6 Finance lease liabilities Accounting policies proceeds exceeding the carrying amount are not immediately recognised as income. InThe Group acts as both lessor and lessee of real estate and machines. Leases in which stead, the amount is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet and amortised over the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are not transferred to the lessee are classified period of the lease. If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an operating lease and as operating leases. Lease payments related to them are recognised in the income statethe transaction was executed at fair value, any profit or loss is recognised immediately. ment on a straight-line basis over the lease term. If the selling price is less than fair value, any profit or loss is recognised immediately, Leases that substantially transfer all risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the unless the loss is compensated by future lease payments at below market price, in which Group are classified as finance leases. An asset leased under a finance lease is reccase the loss is deferred and amortised over the period for which the asset is expected ognised in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value at the inception date and the to be used. If the selling price exceeds fair value, the excess over fair value is deferred present value of minimum lease payments. The lease obligations of finance leases are and amortised over the period for which the asset is expected to be used. If fair value recorded in interest-bearing liabilities in the balance sheet. Lease payments are recat the time of a sale and leaseback transaction is less than the carrying amount of the ognised as finance costs and a decrease in the liability. Assets acquired under finance asset, a loss equal to the amount of the difference between the carrying amount and fair leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term. value is recognised immediately. In sale and leaseback transactions, the selling price and the future lease payments are usually interdependent. If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any 2018 2017 Present value of Present value of Minimum lease Future finance minimum lease Minimum lease Future finance minimum lease € million payments charges payments payments charges payments Lease payments to be paid Within 1 year 2.4 0.1 2.3 3.5 0.0 3.5 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 3.6 0.1 3.5 7.7 0.3 7.4 Later than 5 years 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Total lease payments 6.1 0.2 5.9 11.3 0.3 11.0 Financial lease liabilities mainly comprise cars and warehouse technology leased by the Group from finance companies. 194 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 4.7 Lease liabilities Group as lessor Minimum lease payments received under non-cancellable operating lease agreements: Group as lessee € million 2018 2017 Minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease agreements: Within 1 year 15.6 11.4 € million 2018 2017 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 32.1 26.5 Within 1 year 409.3 390.9 Later than 5 years 19.8 19.0 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 1,367.8 1,283.9 Total 67.6 56.8 Later than 5 years 1,203.8 1,238.0 Total 2,980.9 2,912.9 Aggregate contingent rents charged to the income statement 0.2 1.4 Expected future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 61.0 60.9 Kesko leases premises to entrepreneurs other than K-retailers in order that the total service sublease agreements offer of a store site supports its profit generation potential. Such premises typically include so-called store entrance stores at large retail outlets. Lease and sublease payments recognised for the financial year: Minimum lease payments 414.3 406.8 Sublease income 24.9 21.8 4.8 Other contingent liabilities The 2018 income statement includes capital lease payments and maintenance rentals on € million 2018 2017 real estate under operating leases, and other rentals to a total amount of €466,6 million Collateral given for own commitments (€463.2 million). Maintenance rentals are not included in minimum lease payments. Pledges 138.0 92.6 Mortgages 206.1 84.5 Kesko leases retail and logistics premises for its operating activities. Most of the leases Guarantees 10.1 6.0 are index-linked and in conformity with local market practice. Some of the property leases Other commitments and contingent liabilities 55.8 59.8 contain extension options. Collateral given for others Guarantees 3.5 0.3 Other commitments and contingent liabilities 19.6 20.5 The guarantees given do not include guarantees related to the items presented within liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position or as a lease liability in note 4.7. Guarantee maturities are €4 million in 2019 and €10 million in 2020−2023. 195 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 5. OTHER 5.1 Group composition 5.2 Subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and proportionately consolidated mutual real estate companies 5.3 Related party transactions 5.4 Share-based compensation 5.5 Deferred tax 5.6 Components of other comprehensive income 5.7 Legal disputes and possible legal proceedings 5.8 Events after the balance sheet date 196 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 5.1 Group composition Material non-controlling interest Kesko Senukai Group, which is part of Kesko Group, has a material non-controlling interest. The subgroup's parent, UAB Kesko Senukai Lithuania, is a subsidiary of Kesko Corporation Group composition and it is domiciled in Vilnius, Lithuania. Kesko Group's ownership interest in Kesko Senukai Kesko Group has 99 (97) subsidiaries. The Group has the majority of voting rights in all Group is 50.0% increased by one share (50.0% increased by one share). Kesko Group has the companies. Kesko Group's subgroup, Kesko Senukai, has a material non-controlling interest right to nominate the majority of Board members and the Board Chairman. The Board con(see section Material non-controlling interest). trols the company's operational activities and makes decisions on the use of resources. The share of non-controlling interests of the net profit of Kesko Senukai Group was €15.4 million Information about the Group composition as at the balance sheet date: (€8.5 million) and in equity, the share was €107.6 million (€97.0 million). Number Number Number Number Summarised financial information on subsidiary of whollyof whollyof partlyof partlyCountry of Most owned owned owned owned with material non-controlling interest insignificant subsidiaries subsidiaries subsidiaries subsidiaries Kesko Senukai Kesko Senukai Division corporation subsidiaries 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group Group Grocery trade Finland K-Market Oy 23 26 5 5 € million 2018 2017 Building and Finland, Onninen 37 39 26 19 Current assets 276.8 238.8 technical trade Sweden, Group, Non-current assets 92.2 52.7 Norway, Byggmakker Current liabilities 146.9 114.1 Estonia, Group, Latvia, Kesko Non-current liabilities 30.1 31.7 Lithuania, Senukai Net sales 729.1 628.9 Poland, Group Net profit/loss 27.6 17.1 Belarus Parent company owners' share of net profit/loss 24.3 16.1 Car trade Finland K-Auto Oy 7 6 Non-controlling interests' share of net profit/loss 3.3 1.0 Others Finland 1 2 Comprehensive income for the period 25.6 10.7 Parent company owners' share of comprehensive income for the 23.6 13.8 Kesko has simplified its group structure in 2016-2017. In the financial year 2017, Kesko period Food Ltd, K-citymarket Oy and Kespro Ltd merged into the Kesko Group parent company Non-controlling interests' share of comprehensive income for the 2.0 -3.1 period Kesko Corporation. In the financial year 2016, K-talouspalvelukeskus Oy, K-Plus Oy, K-inDividends paid to non-controlling interests -0.6 -1.7 stituutti Oy, Rautakesko Ltd, Musta Pörssi Ltd and Keslog Ltd merged into Kesko Corporation. Net cash generated from operating activities 19.7 13.4 Net cash used in investing activities -8.7 -16.8 In addition, the Group has partly owned mutual real estate companies. The Group's subsidiaries, equity-accounted investments and mutual real estate companies consolidated using Net cash used in financing activities -12.6 17.5 the proportionate method are listed in note 5.2. The amounts above are before intra-Group eliminations. 197 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 5.2 Subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and proportionately consolidated mutual real estate companies Subsidiaries Group's Parent's Group's Parent's ownership ownership ownership ownership Owned by the parent Domicile interest, % interest, % Owned by the parent Domicile interest, % interest, % Ankkuri-Energia Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Klintcenter Ab Mariehamn 100.00 100.00 Asunto Oy Kirkkonummen Västeruddintie 33 Kirkkonummi 100.00 100.00 K-Market Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Barker-Littoinen Oy Espoo 100.00 100.00 Konekesko Ltd Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Byggmakker Handel AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 100.00 KR Fastigheter AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 100.00 Fiesta Real Estate AS Tallinn, Estonia 100.00 100.00 K-rauta AB Stockholm, Sweden 100.00 100.00 Intersport Finland Ltd Helsinki 100.00 100.00 K-rauta Rus OOO St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 100.00 Kalatukku E. Eriksson Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 KS Holding UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 100.00 100.00 K Auto Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Liiketalo Oy Kaijonkeskus Oulu 50.01 50.01 Kenkäkesko Ltd Helsinki 100.00 100.00 LLC LR Rustaveli StP St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 100.00 Kesko Export Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Mežciems Real Estate SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 100.00 Kesko Food Russia Holding Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Onninen Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Kesko Real Estate Latvia SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 100.00 Rake Eiendom AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 100.00 Kesko Real Estate OOO St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 100.00 Reinin Liha Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Kesko Senukai Lithuania UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 50.00 50.00 Tampereen Länsikeskus Oy Tampere 100.00 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Helsingin Itäkeskus Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Vaajakosken Liikekeskus Oy Jyväskylä 100,00 100,00 Kiinteistö Oy Hiukkavaaran Kauppa Oulu 100.00 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Hämeenlinnan Visamäentie 16 Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Kolmisopentie 3 Kuopio 100.00 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Lappeenrannan Oksasenkatu 4 Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Lappeenrannan Rakuunaparkki Lappeenranta 56.50 56.50 Kiinteistö Oy Liike-Jaako Rovaniemi 67.88 67.88 Kiinteistö Oy Sarviniitynkatu 4 Kerava 100.00 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Sunan Hallitalo Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Tarkkaiikka Oulu 100.00 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Voisalmen Liiketalo Helsinki 100.00 100.00 198 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Group's Parent's Group's Parent's ownership ownership ownership ownership Owned by other Group companies Domicile interest, % interest, % Owned by other Group companies Domicile interest, % interest, % 1A Grupa SIA Riga, Latvia 25.50 MD Galerija Azur SIA Riga, Latvia 50.01 1A.EE Oü Tallinn, Estonia 25.50 Mobilukss SIA Riga, Latvia 25.50 1A.LT Vilnius, Lithuania 25.50 Nomine UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 50.01 Antigravity Payment System UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 25.50 Norgros AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 Oy Autocarrera Ab Helsinki 100.00 Olarin Autokiinteistö Oy Espoo 100.00 Daugavpils project 1 SIA Daugavpils, Latvia 50.01 OMA OOO Minsk, Belarus 25.00 Delta turtas UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 50.01 Onninen AB Solna, Sweden 100.00 Gipling AS Steinkjer, Norway 100.00 Onninen AS Skedsmo, Norway 100.00 Hasti-Ari AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 Onninen AS Tallinn, Estonia 100.00 Inovatyvus prekybos sprendimai UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 25.51 Onninen LLP Aktau, Kazakhstan 100.00 Jyrängön Palvelukeskus Oy Heinola 50.45 Onninen OOO St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 K Auto Leasing Oy Helsinki 100.00 Onninen Russia Holding Oy Helsinki 100.00 K Caara Oy Helsinki 100.00 Onninen SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 K rauta SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 Onninen Sp. z o.o. Warsaw, Poland 100.00 Kesko Senukai Digital UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 25.50 Onninen UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 100.00 Kesko Senukai Estonia AS Tallinn, Estonia 50.00 Peltosaaren Liikekeskus Oy Riihimäki 59.67 Kesko Senukai Latvia AS Riga, Latvia 50.00 Penktoji Projekto Bendrové UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 25.50 Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy Helsinki 100.00 Profelco Oy Vantaa 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Kokkolan Kaanaanmaantie 2-4 Kokkola 64.78 Punane Project Oü Tallinn, Estonia 50.01 Kiinteistö Oy Piispansilta Espoo 100.00 Rake Bergen AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Vantaan Kiitoradantie 2 Vantaa 100.00 Romos Holdingas UAB Kaunas, Lithuania 25.00 Kiinteistö Oy Vantaan Simonsampo Vantaa 100.00 Senukai UAB Kaunas, Lithuania 49.61 Kiinteistö Oy Visuveden Liiketalo Ruovesi 100.00 Senuku Tirdzniecibas Centrs SIA Riga, Latvia 25.50 Konekesko Eesti AS Tallinn, Estonia 55.00 Skattum Handel AS Gjøvik, Norway 100.00 Konekesko Latvija SIA Riga, Latvia 55.00 SPC Holding UAB Kaunas, Lithuania 50.00 Konekesko Lietuva UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 55.00 TM Christensen VVS Detaljer AS Oslo, Norway 100.00 KR Fastigheter i Järfälla AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 Trøgstadveien 13 AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 KR Fastigheter i Linköping AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 KR Fastigheter i Täby AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 K-rauta Fastigheter i Malmö AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 K-Rauta Holding Finland Oy Helsinki 100.00 Ksenukai Digital Oü Tallinn, Estonia 25.50 199 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Associates and joint ventures Proportionately consolidated mutual real estate companies Associates and joint ventures are consolidated using the equity method. Group's Parent's ownership ownership Group's Parent's Owned by the parent and others Domicile interest, % interest, % ownership ownership Asunto Oy Harjutie Espoo 46.22 46.22 Owned by the parent Domicile interest, % interest, % Asunto Oy Kajaanin Louhikatu 2 Kajaani 42.96 42.96 Graanin Liikekeskus Oy Mikkeli 50.00 50.00 Asunto Oy Soukan Itäinentorni Espoo 46.60 46.60 Hehku Shop Ltd Espoo 50.00 50.00 Asunto-Oy Punkalaitumen Pankkitalo Punkalaidun 33.82 Kiinteistö Oy Itäaukio Lahti 26.20 26.20 Itäkeskuksen Pysäköintitalo Oy Helsinki 36.16 36.16 Kiinteistö Oy Janakkalan Linnatuuli Janakkala 29.86 29.86 Kiinteistö Oy Lahden Lyhytkatu 1 Lahti 50.00 50.00 Kiinteistö Oy Joensuun Kaupunginportti Joensuu 22.77 22.77 Kiinteistö Oy Lukonmäen Palvelukeskus Tampere 34.54 Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy Helsinki 49.00 49.00 Kiinteistö Oy Pälkäneen Liikekeskus Pälkäne 84.14 84.14 Mercada Oy Helsinki 33.33 33.33 Kiinteistö Oy Ulvilan Hansa Ulvila 42.41 42.41 Valluga-sijoitus Oy Helsinki 46.15 46.15 Kiinteistö Oy Vantaanportin Liikekeskus Vantaa 27.81 27.81 Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy Helsinki 34.35 34.35 Koskelan Ostokeskus Oy Oulu 29.32 Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy Helsinki 30.00 30.00 Laajasalon Liikekeskus Oy Helsinki 50.35 50.35 Lapin Tehdastalo Oy Tampere 21.24 21.24 Group's Parent's Munkkivuoren Ostoskeskus Oy Helsinki 30.65 30.65 ownership ownership Talo Oy Kalevanpuisto Kuopio 47.60 47.60 Owned by other Group companies Domicile interest, % interest, % Voisalmen Ostoskeskus Oy Lappeenranta 50.00 Fintorus Oy Lappeenranta 21.40 Proffsenteret AS Ringerike, Norway 34.11 Rakentamisen MALL Oy Helsinki 25.00 Suomen LVIS-Tietoverkko Oy Vantaa 20.00 200 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 5.3 Related party transactions The following transactions were carried out with related parties: The Group’s related parties include its management personnel (the Board of Directors, the Associates and joint Board and President and CEO and the Group Management Board), companies controlled by them, ventures management Pension Fund subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and Kesko Pension Fund. The subsidiaries, associates Income statement € million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 and joint ventures are listed in a separate note (note 5.2). Sales of goods 8.9 0.1 81.6 79.6 Sales of services 5.1 3.9 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.3 The related party transactions disclosed consist of such transactions carried out with related Purchases of goods -0.5 -7.6 -7.8 parties that are not eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Purchases of services -0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 0.0 Operating income 1.1 1.5 14.5 13.1 0.0 Some members of the Kesko Board are K-retailers. The Group companies sell goods and Operating costs -52.3 -53.0 -2.6 -2.9 -6.3 -11.1 services to companies controlled by them. Goods and services have been sold to related Finance income 5.7 5.6 parties on normal market terms and conditions and at market prices. Associates and joint Board and ventures management Pension Fund The joint ventures consolidated using the equity method, Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy and Balance sheet Mercada Oy, own properties which have been leased for use by the Group. Vähittäiskaupan € million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Takaus Oy and Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu Oy sell their services to Kesko’s and K-retailers’ Current receivables 2.4 0.5 6.2 5.9 0.0 retail companies. Hehku Kauppa Oy is a Kesko and Oriola joint venture. A decision has been Non-current receivables 57.7 57.7 made to discontinue its operations. The other associates mainly comprise business properCurrent liabilities 26.9 24.1 1.3 0.9 4.1 9.7 ty companies which have leased their properties for use by Kesko Group. Associates that operate as mutual real estate companies have been consolidated in the financial statements in proportion to their ownership interests. At the balance sheet date, receivables arisen from Kesko's sales to companies controlled by the Board members were €6.2 million (€5.9 million). The receivables are collateralised by a commercial credit granted by Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, a Kesko associate, with the Kesko Pension Fund is a stand-alone legal entity which manages the majority of the pension maximum amount always limited to the maximum realisable value of the countersecurity assets related to the voluntary pensions of the Group’s employees in Finland. At the end of from the K-retailer company and entrepreneur to Vähittäiskaupan Takaus. At the end of the 2018, the pension assets did not include Kesko Corporation shares. At the end of 2017, the financial year, the countersecurity was valued at €4.8 million (€5.5 million). pension assets included Kesko Corporation shares with a value of €21.9 million. Properties owned by Pension Fund have been leased to Kesko Group. Other current liabilities include, for example, chain rebate payables to companies controlled by the Kesko Board members. Chain rebates are paid retrospectively based on criteria During the financial years 2018 and 2017, Kesko Group did not pay contributions to Pension related to the amount of actual annual purchases and the quality of operations. Fund. 201 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 During the reporting period, Kesko Pension Fund paid in total €58.1 million in return of surcontracts. Three Group Management Board members are provided with a defined contriplus assets to Finnish Group companies. In 2017 Kesko bought two properties from Kesko bution supplementary pension. President and CEO Mikko Helander's old-age pension age Pension Fund for a transaction price of €46.5 million, including asset transfer tax. is 63 and the amount of his old-age pension is 60% of his pensionable earnings for the final 10 years in accordance with the Employees' Pensions Act (TyEL). The pension is based on Management's employee benefits a defined benefit plan. The cost of the supplementary pension for the period, calculated on The top management comprises the Board of Directors and the Group Management Board. an accrual basis, was €1.1 million (€0.9 million) and the related pension asset in the balance The compensation paid to them for their employee services consists of the following items: sheet was €0.4 million (€0.6 million). The pension cost of the President and CEO's statutory pension provision was €0.2 million (€0.3 million). Monetary salaries, fees, fringe benefits and share-based compensation Share awards €1,000 2018 2017 During the 2018 reporting period, members of the Group Management Board were Mikko Helander President and CEO 2,299.7 2,849.4 granted 51,931 shares based on the 2017 Bridge Plan, while the maximum number of Group Management other members 4,188.6 6,185.1 shares to be granted was 114,200. The number of shares represents gross earnings, from Board which withholding tax is deducted. During the 2017 reporting period, 56,684 shares were granted based on the 2016 plan, in addition to which a cash component at maximum equal Esa Kiiskinen Board Chairman 126.5 87.5 to the value of the shares was paid to cover the taxes and tax-like charges incurred under Toni Pokela Board member 59.3 43.0 the award. Matti Kyytsönen Board member 61.8 45.5 Matti Naumanen Board member 59.3 43.0 Termination benefits Jannica Fagerholm Board member 79.3 48.0 If the service contract of the President and CEO or some other Group Management Board Peter Fagernäs Board Deputy Chairman (since 11 April 63.0 member is terminated by the Company, he/she is entitled to a monetary salary and fringe 2018) benefits for the period of notice and a separate non-recurring termination compensation Piia Karhu Board member (since 11 April 2018) 49.5 determined on the basis of the executive's monetary salary and fringe benefits for the Mikael Aro Board Deputy Chairman (until 11 Apr. 17.0 60.0 month of notice. The termination compensation is not part of the executive's salary and 2018) it is not included in the determination of the salary for the period of notice, termination Anu Nissinen Board member (until 11 Apr. 2018) 12.8 44.5 compensation or, in case of retirement, pensionable salary. If an executive resigns, he/ Total 7,016.8 9,406.1 she is only entitled to a salary for the period of notice and fringe benefits. When a service relationship terminates due to retirement, the executive is paid a pension based on his/her Approximately 30% of the annual fees for Board members was paid in shares in the Compaservice contract without other compensations. ny and the remaining fee amount was paid in cash. Shareholdings Retirement benefits At 31 December 2018, the President and CEO held 44,964 Kesko Corporation B shares, The statutory pension provision for the President and CEO and other members of the which represented 0.04% of the total number of shares and 0.01% of votes carried by all Group Management Board is provided through a pension insurance company. Four Group shares of the Company. As at 31 December 2018, the Group Management Board, including Management Board members are provided with a supplementary pension based on a the President and CEO, held 81 Kesko Corporation A shares and 133,982 Kesko Corporadefined benefit plan in line with the rules of Kesko Pension Fund and personal service tion B shares, which represented 0.13% of the total number of shares and 0.03% of votes carried by all shares of the Company. 202 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 5.4 Share-based compensation Share-based commitment and incentive scheme Kesko’s long-term share-based commitment and incentive scheme consists of three sharebased compensation plans, under which the Board can annually decide on the initiation of Accounting policies new share plans. The primary plan, the Performance Share Plan (PSP), consists of annually The costs relating to share-based payments are recorded in the income statement and commencing individual share plans, each with a two-year performance period and a twothe corresponding liability for share-based payments settled in cash is recognised in the year commitment period following the potential payment of a share award, during which balance sheet. The liability in the balance sheet is measured at fair value at each balance the shares must not be pledged or transferred, but the other rights attached to the shares sheet date. For equity-settled share-based payment transactions, an increase correremain in force. If a person's employment or service relationship terminates prior to the sponding to the expensed amount is recorded in equity. expiry of a commitment period, the person must, as a rule, return the shares under transfer restriction to Kesko or its designate for no consideration. Kesko Group's tax free sales The Company's Board of Directors has granted a share-based compensation plan to (%), Kesko Group's comparable return on capital employed (ROCE,%) and the absolute management under which an award consisting of B series shares and an amount in cash total shareholder return (TSR, %) of a Kesko B share are the performance criteria for the is paid upon fulfilling the plan’s terms. The fair value of the award paid in shares is the PSPs initiated in 2017 and 2018. The recipient of the shares is free to use them once the value of the share at the grant date and it is recognised as an expense on a straightcommitment period of the share plan ends, provided that the person is still employed by line basis over the vesting and commitment period of the plan. The expensed amount Kesko Group. The number of shares granted based on the share-based compensation is based on the Group's estimate of the amount of award payable in shares at the end plan represents gross earnings, from which the applicable withholding tax is deducted and of the vesting period. The effects of non-market conditions are not included in the fair the remaining net amount is paid to the participants in shares. Kesko Corporation’s Board value of the awards. Instead, they are accounted for in the assumptions of the number decides annually whether to initiate a new plan. of shares expected to vest at the end of the vesting period. A cash component is paid to cover the taxes and tax-like charges incurred under the award. The cash component is The one-off transitional Bridge Plan for 2017 had a one-year performance period (1 Jan. recognised as an expense during the vesting period. Changes in estimates are recorded 2017 – 31 Dec. 2017) followed by a three-year commitment period (1 Jan. 2018 – 10 Feb. in the income statement. 2021). Apart from that, the rules of the plan are the same as for the PSP. The Bridge Plan aimed at covering the transitional phase from Kesko's previous long-term commitment and Following the change in IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, effective as of 1 January 2018, incentive scheme, which was based on one-year performance periods, to the new comthe Group has reclassified the cash-settled portions of its share-based compensation mitment and incentive scheme adopted in 2017 with two-year performance periods. RSP schemes as equity-settled share-based payments. As a result of the change, such (Restricted Share Pool) is a secondary share plan for special situations, to be decided upon cash-settled share-based payments for which the employer shall deduct, on behalf of separately. The plan consists of annually commencing individual share plans that each have the employee, from the share award such number of shares which covers taxes and a three-year commitment period, after which the potentially promised share awards for an tax-like charges paid in cash, shall be classified in their entirety as equity-settled shareindividual plan will be paid to the participants, provided that their employment or service based payments. The change concerns the following share plans: the 2017 PSP, the 2017 relationship with Kesko Group continues until the payment of the awards. Bridge Plan, and the 2017 RSP, as well as share plans initiated after 1 January 2018. The 2014-2016 share-based compensation scheme had three one-year performance periods: calendar years 2014, 2015 and 2016. A commitment period of three calendar years following each performance period was attached to the shares granted, during which 203 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 the shares could not be pledged or transferred, but the other rights attached to the shares Performance Performance Performance Assumptions applied in determining the fair value period period period remained in force. If a person's employment or service relationship terminates prior to the of share award: 2018-2019 2017-2018 2017 Bridge expiry of a commitment period, the person must, as a rule, return the shares under transfer PSP, RSP, Bridge plan PSP and RSP PSP plan restriction to Kesko or its designate for no consideration. In the 2014-2016 plans, in addiNumber of share awards granted, maximum, pcs 331,300* 325,300* 325,300* tion to the shares granted, a cash component at maximum equal to the value of the shares Changes in the number of shares granted, pcs -4,000 -57,100 -26,600 was paid to cover the taxes and tax-like charges incurred under the award. Actual amount of share award, pcs 65,652 Number of plan participants at end of financial year 137 111 125 The purpose of the share-based compensation schemes is to promote Kesko's business and Share price at balance sheet date, € 47.10 45.25 45.25 increase the Company's value by aligning the objectives of the shareholders and executives. Assumed fulfilment of performance criteria, % 40.0 43.4 46.7 The schemes also aim to commit the grantees to Kesko Group and give them the opportuEstimated number of share awards returned prior to 2.5 2.5 2.5 nity to receive Company shares upon fulfilling the objectives set in the share-based comthe end of commitment period, % pensation plan. *Gross number of shares from which the applicable withholding tax is deducted and the remaining net amount is paid in shares. The assumptions used in accounting for the share-based compensation plan are presented in the following tables. Share award grant dates and fair values: Vesting period Vesting period Vesting period 2014-2016 share-based payments plans 2016 2015 2014 Share award grant dates and fair values, Grant dates 3 Feb. 2016 9 Feb. 2015 3 Feb. 2014 performance period 2018: 2017 Grant date fair value of share award, € 32.45 30.74 25.66 PSP, RSP and Bridge plan 2018 PSP 2018 RSP 2017 PSP 2017 PSP Bridge Plan Share price at grant date, € 34.95 32.24 27.06 Grant dates 20 Mar. 2018 20 Mar. 2018 1 Feb. 2017 1 Feb. 2017 1 Feb. 2017 Share-based compensation plan duration Grant date fair value of share 46.48 48.00 44.67 44.80 44.67 award, € Vesting period start date 1 Jan. 2016 1 Jan. 2015 1 Jan. 2014 Share price at grant date, € 48.68 50.20 46.67 47.00 46.67 Vesting period end date 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Share-based compensation Commitment period end date 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 plan duration Performance period start date 1 Jan. 2018 1 Jan. 2017 1 Jan. 2017 Performance period end date 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 2019 Commitment period start date 1 Jan. 2020 1 Jan. 2018 1 Jan. 2019 1 Jan. 2017 1 Jan. 2018 Commitment period end date 10 Feb. 2022 15 Mar. 2021 10 Feb. 2021 15 Mar. 2020 10 Feb. 2021 204 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Assumptions applied in determining the fair value 5.5 Deferred tax of share award: Vesting period Vesting period Vesting period 2014-2016 share-based payments plans 2016 2015 2014 Number of share awards granted, maximum, pcs 263,000 262,800 278,400 Movements in deferred tax in 2018 Changes in the number of shares granted, pcs -9,800 -3,600 -2,000 Tax Actual amount of share award, pcs 192,822 139,724 120,022 Income charged/ Number of plan participants at end of financial year 131 142 143 1 Jan. statement credited Exchange Other 31 Dec. € million 2018 charge to equity differences changes 2018 Share price at balance sheet date, € 47.48 32.37 30.18 Deferred tax assets Assumed fulfilment of vesting criteria, % 56.7 53.4 43.4 Provisions 9.8 -0.3 9.5 Estimated number of share awards returned prior to 5.0 5.0 5.0 Defined benefit pension 0.1 0.0 0.1 the end of commitment period, % plans Tax loss carry-forwards 23.1 1.9 -0.3 -1.9 22.8 The impact of the above share-based compensation plans on the Group's profit for 2018 Other temporary 16.8 -0.2 0.3 -0.7 -3.5 12.7 differences was €-6.5 million (€-9.8 million). Total 49.8 1.4 0.3 -1.1 -5.4 45.0 As at 31 December 2018, the amount to be recognised as expense for the financial years 2019−2021 is estimated at a total of €-7.3 million. The actual amount may differ from the Deferred tax liabilities estimate. Difference between 31.5 2.5 -0.6 -3.8 29.6 accounting depreciation and tax depreciation Fair value allocation 18.8 0.1 -0.1 1.3 20.1 Defined benefit pension 40.7 -10.7 -0.4 29.7 plans Other temporary 5.2 -0.6 0.2 -0.2 0.7 5.3 differences Total 96.2 -8.7 -0.2 -0.8 -1.9 84.7 Net deferred tax 46.4 39.6 liability Balance sheet division of net deferred tax liability € million 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets 5.3 5.6 Deferred tax liabilities 44.9 52.0 Total 39.6 46.4 205 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Other temporary differences within deferred tax assets include €2.0 million of deferred tax Tax losses carried forward for which tax assets have assets arising from compliance with the Group’s accounting principles and €4.0 million of not been recognised expire as follows: deferred tax assets resulting from timing differences between local accounting principles and taxation. € million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024− Total 0.1 0.1 1.0 1.6 172.0 174.8 Movements in deferred tax in 2017 Tax Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised for taxes that would be payable on subsidIncome charged/ 1 Jan. statement credited Exchange Other 31 Dec. iaries’ undistributed earnings, because the subsidiaries’ distributions are at the discretion of € million 2017 charge to equity differences changes 2017 the Group, and a distribution of profits with tax effect is not probable in the near future. Deferred tax assets Provisions 10.0 -0.2 9.8 Defined benefit pension 0.1 0.0 0.1 5.6 Components of other comprehensive income plans Tax loss carry-forwards 25.6 -2.4 -0.1 0.0 23.1 Other temporary differences 19.4 -1.5 -0.1 -0.7 -0.2 16.8 Tax Tax Total 55.1 -4.2 -0.1 -0.8 -0.2 49.8 2018 charge/ After 2017 charge/ After € million Before tax credit tax Before tax credit tax Items that will not be Deferred tax liabilities reclassified subsequently Difference between 30.9 1.0 -0.4 31.5 to profit or loss accounting depreciation and Actuarial gains and losses -2.3 0.4 -1.9 45.0 -9.0 36.0 tax depreciation Items that may be Fair value allocation 23.5 -0.4 -0.5 -3.9 18.8 reclassified subsequently Defined benefit pension 33.1 -1.3 9.0 40.7 to profit or loss plans Currency translation -10.4 -10.4 -15.1 -15.1 Other temporary differences 9.9 -0.7 0.0 -0.1 -3.9 5.2 differences relating to a foreign operation Total 97.4 -1.4 9.0 -0.9 -7.8 96.2 Cash flow hedge 2.6 -0.5 2.1 0.8 -0.2 0.6 revaluation Net deferred tax liability 42.3 46.4 Revaluation of available-0.4 0.1 -0.3 for-sale financial assets Others -0.1 -0.1 -0.3 -0.3 Tax loss carry-forwards Total, continuing -10.2 -0.1 -10.4 30.0 -9.1 20.9 As at 31 December 2018, the Group’s unused tax losses carried forward were €174.8 miloperations lion, for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised, because at the balance sheet Discontinued operations 35.1 35.1 -14.2 -14.2 date, the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is not probable. Group total 24.9 -0.1 24.7 15.8 -9.1 6.7 206 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 5.7 Legal disputes and possible legal proceedings Group companies are parties to certain trials or legal disputes related to the Group's business operations. According to management's estimate, their outcome will probably not have any material impact on the Group's financial position. The Group is also party to possible legal proceedings, either as plaintiff or defendant, the outcome of which is difficult to forecast. 5.8 Events after the balance sheet date Kesko Group company K Caara Oy has agreed to acquire LänsiAuto Oy’s Volkswagen, Audi and SEAT businesses in Kotka, Kouvola and Lappeenranta. (Press release 2 January 2019) Kesko Group company K Caara Oy has agreed to acquire Huittisten Laatuauto Oy’s Volkswagen and SEAT business operations in Forssa and Huittinen. The transaction includes new and used car sales, servicing and after-sales services. (Press release 3 January 2019) Kesko Corporation's subsidiary Byggmakker completed the acquisition of the DIY retail business of Sørbø Trelast AS and Tau & Jørpeland Bygg AS. The acquisition comprises two Byggmakker stores and a B2B logistics centre in Norway. (Press release 31 January 2019) 207 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Parent company's financial statements (FAS) Parent company's income statement € 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2018 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2017 Net sales 4,978,145,962.28 4,546,014,549.58 Other operating income 647,958,938.08 957,239,419.90 Materials and services -4,354,234,332.77 -3,999,992,238.07 Employee benefit expenses -276,407,553.63 -292,237,926.43 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -81,515,728.01 -64,691,857.88 Other operating expenses -689,375,528.78 -581,088,865.22 Operating profit 224,571,757.17 565,243,081.88 Finance income and costs -21,802,538.58 -71,760,675.11 Profit before appropriations and taxes 202,769,218.59 493,482,406.77 Appropriations Change in depreciation reserve -5,999,575.17 -4,820,340.90 Group contribution 78,635,864.70 47,337,019.21 Profit before taxes 275,405,508.12 535,999,085.08 Income taxes -63,446,219.12 -40,943,927.77 Profit for the financial year 211,959,289.00 495,055,157.31 208 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Parent company's balance sheet € 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 € 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 ASSETS RECEIVABLES NON-CURRENT ASSETS Long-term INTANGIBLE ASSETS Receivables from subsidiaries 178,774,050.29 168,035,008.16 Intangible rights 8,128,559.02 13,028,438.27 Receivables from associates 57,605,471.31 57,617,471.31 Other intangible assets 138,491,710.44 111,897,224.51 Loan receivables 5,158,542.00 5,000,000.00 Prepayments 12,993,020.11 16,015,144.73 Other receivables 6,207,944.39 5,237,960.95 159,613,289.57 140,940,807.51 247,746,007.99 235,890,440.42 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Short-term Land and waters Trade receivables 371,547,340.31 373,594,000.87 Owned 172,241,827.54 168,837,197.54 Receivables from subsidiaries 642,884,942.51 675,384,765.34 Leasehold interests and connection fees 1,948,263.42 1,524,238.07 Receivables from associates 1,445,407.99 3,044,550.12 Buildings Loan receivables 1,334,500.22 743,587.07 Owned 344,641,067.56 344,012,526.20 Other receivables 7,021,688.77 7,326,678.80 Machinery and equipment 77,275,608.72 65,603,590.38 Prepayments and accrued income 76,972,059.17 103,271,251.54 Other tangible assets 7,342,344.76 7,981,818.89 1,101,205,938.97 1,163,364,833.74 Prepayments and construction in progress 24,843,274.21 21,303,057.62 INVESTMENTS 628,292,386.21 609,262,428.70 Other investments 139,678,745.75 259,111,541.02 INVESTMENTS Investments in subsidiaries 888,538,761.72 805,999,408.32 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 55,329,096.57 75,212,606.84 Investments in associates 82,209,122.85 83,982,695.77 TOTAL ASSETS 3,556,918,763.87 3,623,294,944.46 Other investments 13,826,612.84 14,785,256.50 984,574,497.41 904,767,360.59 CURRENT ASSETS INVENTORIES Finished products/goods 240,478,801.40 234,744,925.64 240,478,801.40 234,744,925.64 209 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 € 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES CAPITAL AND RESERVES Share capital 197,282,584.00 197,282,584.00 Share premium 197,498,010.90 197,498,010.90 Reserve of invested non-restricted equity 22,753,307.40 22,753,307.40 Other reserves 243,415,795.55 243,415,795.55 Retained earnings 803,322,671.03 548,730,492.69 Profit for the financial year 211,959,289.00 495,055,157.31 1,676,231,657.88 1,704,735,347.85 APPROPRIATIONS Depreciation reserve 113,089,488.31 106,651,164.74 PROVISIONS Other provisions 5,218,250.05 9,894,444.82 LIABILITIES Non-current Private Placement notes 20,083,682.01 Pension loans 160,145,000.00 92,136,875.00 Other creditors 4,822,996.00 3,511,411.00 164,967,996.00 115,731,968.01 Current Bonds 20,083,682.01 225,005,000.00 Pension loans 22,941,875.00 8,648,750.00 Advances received 13,485,074.15 24,169,912.84 Trade payables 573,034,271.45 588,622,363.88 Payables to subsidiaries 501,797,147.84 428,755,044.00 Payables to associates 26,938,671.50 24,100,220.87 Other payables 224,194,396.53 195,351,522.98 Accruals and deferred income 214,936,253.15 191,629,204.47 1,597,411,371.63 1,686,282,019.04 TOTAL LIABILITIES 3,556,918,763.87 3,623,294,944.46 210 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Parent company's cash flow statement € 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2018 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2017 € 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2018 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Profit before appropriations 202,769,218.59 493,482,406.77 Interest-bearing liabilities, increase (+)/decrease (-) -54,237,730.95 -268,123,604.86 Adjustments Short-term interest-bearing receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) 368,581.36 125,198,252.65 Depreciation according to plan 81,515,728.01 64,691,857.88 Short-term money market investments, increase (-)/decrease (+) 116,459,434.77 -36,407,333.34 Finance income and costs 21,802,538.58 71,760,675.11 Dividends paid -218,945,469.60 -198,932,108.72 Other adjustments 31,906,258.66 -406,115,335.96 Group contributions received and paid 78,635,864.70 47,337,019.21 337,993,743.84 223,819,603.80 Acquisition of treasury shares -24,412,806.00 Change in working capital Other items 402,045.12 -3,244,788.93 Current non-interest-bearing receivables, increase (-)/decrease -9,020,672.35 -161,680,563.29 Net cash used in financing activities -101,730,080.60 -334,172,563.99 (+) Inventories increase (-)/decrease (+) -5,733,875.76 -6,091,469.70 Change in cash and cash equivalents -22,882,779.05 -9,236,454.56 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities, increase (+)/decrease (-) 25,642,307.85 293,051,955.47 10,887,759.74 125,279,922.48 Cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-sale 109,183,741.58 106,569,989.39 financial assets as at 1 Jan. Interests paid and other finance costs -46,517,834.41 -17,045,129.76 Cash and cash equivalents transferred in merger 11,850,206.75 Interests received 20,602,046.52 23,874,783.91 Cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-sale 86,300,962.53 109,183,741.58 financial assets as at 31 Dec. Dividends received 61,535,360.40 30,309,924.47 Income tax paid -48,029,655.86 -29,272,453.12 -12,410,083.35 7,867,125.50 Net cash generated from operating activities 336,471,420.23 356,966,651.78 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of other investments -10,668.96 -2,500.00 Purchases of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets -121,023,284.92 -145,763,474.03 Acquisitions of subsidiaries -120,671,597.18 -37,274,243.48 Acquisitions of associates -9,200,000.00 -1,641,250.00 Sales of subsidiaries, net of cash 103,066,291.87 Proceeds from disposal of other investments 24,700.00 112,984.89 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant, equipment and 4,953,757.95 10,181,110.33 intangible assets Long-term receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) -11,697,025.57 39,290,538.07 Net cash used in investing activities -257,624,118.68 -32,030,542.35 211 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Notes to the parent company's financial statements Note 1. Principles used for preparing the financial statements Kesko Corporation's financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the FinnThe most common estimated useful lives are: ish Accounting Standards (FAS). Buildings 10−33 years During the financial year 2017, K-citymarket Oy, Kespro Ltd and Kesko Food Ltd merged Fixtures and fittings 8 years into Kesko Group’s parent company Kesko Corporation. Machinery and equipment 25% reducing balance method Transportation fleet 5 years Due to the mergers, data from the previous financial year are not comparable with the data IT equipment 3–8 years from financial year 2018. Other tangible assets 5−14 years Non-current assets Land and connection fees have not been depreciated. The total of depreciation according to plan and the change in depreciation reserve comply with the Finnish Business Tax Act. Intangible assets The change in depreciation reserve has been treated as appropriations. Intangible assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less depreciation according to plan and possible amortisations. Valuation of inventories Depreciation plan Inventories are stated, using the moving-average cost method, at lower of direct purchase Other capitalised expenditure 5−20 years cost, replacement cost and probable selling price. IT software and licences 3−5 years Valuation of financial assets Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated in the balance sheet at cost less depreciation Marketable securities have been valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. according to plan and possible amortisations. Foreign currency items Depreciation plan Depreciation according to plan is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write off the Foreign currency transactions have been recorded in euros using the rate of exchange at cost of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives. the date of transaction. Foreign currency receivables and payables have been translated into euros using the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date. If a receivable or a payable is tied to a fixed rate of exchange, it has been used for translation. Exchange rate differences have been recognised in profit or loss. 212 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Derivative contracts Pension plans Interest rate derivatives Personnel's statutory pension provision is organised through pension insurance companies Interest rate derivatives are used to modify the durations of borrowings. The target duration and the voluntary supplementary pension provision is mainly organised through Kesko is three years and it is allowed to vary between one and a half and four years. Cash flows Pension Fund. Pension costs are recognised as expense in the income statement. arising from interest rate derivatives are recognised during the financial year as interest income or expenses, according to the maturity date. In the financial statements, outstanding Provisions interest rate forward contracts, interest rate future contracts, interest rate option contracts and interest rate swap contracts are stated at market values, but unrealised revaluation is Provisions stated in the balance sheet include items committed to under agreements or not stated as income. Any valuation losses are included in interest expenses. otherwise but not yet realised. Changes in provisions are included in the income statement. Rent liabilities for vacant rented premises no longer used for the Group's business operaForeign currency derivatives tions, as well as losses resulting from renting the premises to third parties, are included in Foreign currency derivatives are used for hedging against translation and transaction risks. provisions. Foreign currency derivatives are used for hedging against commercial foreign exchange risk. Foreign exchange forward contracts are valued using the forward exchange rate of the Income tax balance sheet date. The exchange differences arising from outstanding derivative contracts are reported in financial items and adjustment items of sales and purchases. If a derivative Income tax includes the income tax payments for the period calculated based on the profit has been used for hedging a foreign-currency-denominated asset, the change in value for the period, and taxes payable for prior periods, or tax refunds. Deferred taxes are not has been recognised against that of the asset item. The premiums of option contracts are included in the parent company's income statement and balance sheet. included in the balance sheet accruals until they expire, or if a value change at the balance sheet date so requires, recognition in profit or loss. Commodity derivatives Ankkuri-Energia Oy, a Kesko Corporation subsidiary, uses electricity derivatives to balance the energy costs of the Group and its retailers. Kesko Corporation is an external counterparty in electricity derivatives with a bank, and enters into corresponding internal hedge with Ankkuri-Energia Oy. At no stage does Kesko Corporation have derivative positions, and thus there are no effects on profit or loss. The electricity price risk is reviewed on a 5-year time span. With respect to derivatives hedging the price of electricity supplied during the financial year, change in fair value is recognised at Kesko under finance income and cost. Unrealised gains and losses on contracts hedging future purchases are not recognised in profit or loss. 213 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Notes to the income statement Note 2. Net sales by division Salaries and fees to the management € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Managing Director 2.3 2.8 Grocery trade 4,058.0 3,493.7 Members of the Board of Directors 0.5 0.4 Building and home improvement trade 892.2 1,019.3 Total 2.8 3.2 Others 27.9 32.9 Total 4,978.1 4,546.0 An analysis of the management's salaries and fees is included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Note 3. Other operating income Note 5. Depreciation, amortisation € million 2018 2017 and impairment Gains on sales of real estate and shares 4.9 61.6 Rent income 59.2 62.0 € million 2018 2017 Fees for services 444.1 367.6 Depreciation according to plan -79.2 -62.2 Profits from mergers 0.1 350.0 Impairment, non-current assets -2.3 -2.5 Others 139.7 116.1 Total -81.5 -64.7 Total 648.0 957.2 Note 4. Employee benefit expenses Note 6. Other operating expenses € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Rent expenses -302.0 -267.9 Salaries and fees -273.1 -240.9 Marketing expenses -140.7 -130.8 Social security costs Maintenance of real estate and store sites -78.9 -62.1 Pension costs 6.9 -41.0 Losses on disposals of non-current assets -3.2 -1.2 Other social security costs -10.2 -10.3 Telecommunication expenses -73.6 -63.0 Total -276.4 -292.2 Losses from mergers -33.2 0.0 Kesko’s pension costs include a €53.3 million return of surplus assets by Kesko Pension Other operating expenses -57.8 -56.1 Fund. The average number of personnel at Kesko Corporation was 7,174 (6,576) people. Total -689.4 -581.1 214 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Auditors' fees Note 8. Appropriations € million 2018 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers, Authorised Public € million 2018 2017 Accountants Difference between depreciation according to plan and depreciation -6.0 -4.8 Audit 0.3 0.3 in taxation Tax consultation 0.1 0.1 Group contributions received 84.9 77.7 Other services 0.3 1.1 Group contributions paid -6.3 -30.3 Total 0.7 1.5 Total 72.6 42.5 Note 7. Finance income and costs Note 9. Changes in provisions € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Income from long-term investments Transferred in mergers 1.7 Dividend income from subsidiaries 67.3 30.3 Other changes -4.7 -0.9 Dividend income from others 0.0 2.4 Total -4.7 0.7 Gains on disposal of shares 0.1 Gains on sales of investments 4.7 2.0 Income from long-term investments, total 72.0 34.7 Note 10. Income taxes Other interest and finance income From subsidiaries 8.2 10.8 € million 2018 2017 From others 30.5 18.7 Income taxes on group contributions -15.7 -9.5 Interest and finance income, total 38.6 29.5 Income taxes on ordinary activities -47.6 -30.8 Impairment of investments held as non-current assets Taxes for prior years -0.1 -0.7 Impairment of shares -80.1 -96.9 Total -63.4 -40.9 Changes in fair value 0.0 0.2 Impairment and changes in fair value of investments held as non-80.1 -96.7 current assets, total Interest and other finance costs Note 11. Deferred taxes To subsidiaries -25.9 -12.9 To others -26.4 -26.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been recorded on the balance sheet. The Interest and finance costs, total -52.3 -39.2 deferred tax liability on accumulated appropriations is €22.6 million. The amount of other Total -21.8 -71.8 deferred tax liabilities or assets is not material. 215 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Notes to the balance sheet Note 12. Intangible assets € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Intangible rights Accumulated depreciation as at 1 Jan. -139.0 -67.8 Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 26.2 15.3 Transferred in mergers 0.0 -114.3 Increases 1.3 0.7 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 11.8 63.2 Transferred in mergers 15.5 Depreciation and amortisations for the financial year -30.9 -20.1 Decreases -1.8 -11.5 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 Dec. -158.1 -139.0 Transfers between items 0.0 6.1 Book value as at 31 Dec. 138.5 111.9 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 25.8 26.2 Prepayments Accumulated depreciation as at 1 Jan. -13.2 -7.6 Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 16.0 8.3 Transferred in mergers -11.8 Increases 7.7 13.0 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 1.4 11.4 Transferred in mergers 0.0 5.9 Depreciation and amortisations for the financial year -5.9 -5.1 Decreases -2.1 -0.1 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 Dec. -17.6 -13.2 Transfers between items -8.6 -11.1 Book value as at 31 Dec. 8.1 13.0 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 13.0 16.0 Book value as at 31 Dec. 13.0 16.0 Other intangible assets Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 250.8 83.5 Increases 45.2 35.9 Transferred in mergers 0.4 188.3 Decreases -11.5 -64.2 Transfers between items 11.7 7.3 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 296.6 250.8 216 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Note 13. Property, plant and equipment € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Land and waters, owned Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 168.8 85.9 Machinery and equipment Increases 2.1 4.4 Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 265.4 51.0 Transferred in mergers 0.3 79.5 Increases 33.5 25.9 Decreases -2.9 Transferred in mergers 0.4 220.8 Transfers between items 1.1 2.1 Decreases -22.0 -34.4 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 172.2 168.8 Transfers between items 2.0 2.2 Book value as at 31 Dec. 172.2 168.8 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 279.4 265.4 Land and waters, leasehold interests Accumulated depreciation as at 1 Jan. -199.8 -39.0 Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 1.5 0.1 Transferred in mergers -0.1 -174.8 Increases 0.4 0.4 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 21.8 33.3 Transferred in mergers 1.1 Depreciation for the financial year -23.9 -19.3 Decreases 0.0 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 Dec. -202.1 -199.8 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 1.9 1.5 Book value as at 31 Dec. 77.3 65.6 Book value as at 31 Dec. 1.9 1.5 Other tangible assets Buildings Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 18.0 9.5 Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 563.2 316.4 Increases 0.6 0.5 Increases 10.4 67.5 Transferred in mergers 0.4 7.1 Transferred in mergers 8.3 165.4 Decreases 0.0 0.0 Decreases -0.1 -2.1 Transfers between items 0.1 0.8 Transfers between items 2.2 15.9 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 19.0 18.0 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 584.0 563.2 Accumulated depreciation as at 1 Jan. -10.0 -4.3 Accumulated depreciation as at 1 Jan. -219.1 -154.7 Transferred in mergers -0.2 -4.2 Transferred in mergers -1.3 -49.1 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 0.0 0.0 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers 0.1 0.9 Depreciation for the financial year -1.5 -1.5 Depreciation for the financial year -19.0 -16.3 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 Dec. -11.7 -10.0 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 Dec. -239.4 -219.1 Book value as at 31 Dec. 7.3 8.0 Book value as at 31 Dec. 344.6 344.0 217 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Prepayments and construction in progress Investments in associates Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 21.3 9.3 Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 84.0 78.3 Increases 15.8 6.2 Increases 9.3 1.7 Transferred in mergers 35.9 Transferred in mergers 4.5 Decreases -4.0 -6.8 Decreases -11.0 -0.5 Transfers between items -8.3 -23.2 Book value as at 31 Dec. 82.2 84.0 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 24.8 21.3 Book value as at 31 Dec. 24.8 21.3 Other investments Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 14.8 10.2 Increases 0.0 0.1 Note 14. Investments Transferred in mergers Decreases -1.0 7.4 -2.6 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 13.8 15.2 € million 2018 2017 Investments in subsidiaries Impairment for the period -0.3 Acquisition cost as at 1 Jan. 966.8 835.1 Impairment as at 31 Dec. 0.0 -0.3 Increases 123.1 38.0 Book value as at 31 Dec. 13.8 14.8 Transferred in mergers 177.4 146.9 Decreases -198.2 -53.3 Acquisition cost as at 31 Dec. 1,069.0 966.8 An analysis of Kesko Corporation's ownership interests in other companies as at 31 December 2018 is presented in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Impairment as at 1 Jan. -160.8 -29.3 Transferred in mergers -34.6 -63.0 Accumulated impairments on decreases 84.2 28.1 Impairment for the period -69.3 -96.6 Impairment as at 31 Dec. -180.5 -160.8 Book value as at 31 Dec. 888.5 806.0 218 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Note 15. Receivables Prepayments and accrued income € million 2018 2017 Receivables from subsidiaries Taxes 0.0 4.1 Fees for services 3.2 3.7 € million 2018 2017 Employee benefit expenses 7.2 10.8 Long-term Purchases 28.1 29.4 Loan receivables 178.8 168.0 Others 38.5 55.3 Long-term, total 178.8 168.0 Total 77.0 103.3 Short-term Trade receivables 137.9 126.1 Loan receivables 356.6 430.0 Note 16. Shareholders' equity Prepayments and accrued income 148.4 119.3 Short-term, total 642.9 675.4 Reserve of Total 821.7 843.4 invested nonShare Share Contingency restricted Retained Total € million capital premium fund equity earnings equity Receivables from associates and joints ventures Balance as at 1 197.3 197.5 243.4 22.8 740.0 1,400.9 € million 2018 2017 January 2017 Long-term Dividends -198.9 -198.9 Loan receivables 57.5 57.5 Treasury shares 7.9 7.9 Other receivables 0.1 0.1 Transfer to -0.3 -0.3 donations Long-term, total 57.6 57.6 Profit for the year 495.1 495.1 Balance as at 31 197.3 197.5 243.4 22.8 1,043.8 1,704.7 Short-term receivables 1.4 3.0 December 2017 Total 59.1 60.7 Dividends -218.9 -218.9 Treasury shares -21.4 -21.4 Kesko Corporation has advanced a long-term loan to its joint venture, Mercada Oy, in the Transfer to -0.1 -0.1 donations amount of €56.0 million. Profit for the year 212.0 212.0 Balance as at 31 197.3 197.5 243.4 22.8 1,015.3 1,676.2 December 2018 219 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Restricted equity 2018 2017 Board's authorisations to acquire and issue own shares Share capital 197.3 197.3 Share premium 197.5 197.5 The Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018 approved the Board's proposal for its authorisation to decide on the acquisition of a maximum of 1,000,000 of the Company’s Total 394.8 394.8 own B shares. The authorisation is valid until 30 September 2019. The Board also has an authorisation, granted by the Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018 and valid until 30 June 2021, to issue a maximum of 10,000,000 new B shares. This authorisation cancelled Non-restricted equity 2018 2017 the authorisation granted by the Annual General Meeting of 13 April 2015 to issue a total Contingency fund 243.4 243.4 maximum of 20,000,000 new B shares, which would have been in force until 30 June 2018. Reserve of invested non-restricted equity 22.8 22.8 Furthermore, Kesko’s Annual General Meeting of 4 April 2016 authorised the Company’s Retained earnings 1,015.3 1,043.8 Board to decide on the transfer of a total maximum of 1,000,000 of own B shares held by Total 1,281.5 1,310.0 the Company as treasury shares. The authorisation is valid until 30 June 2020. Treasury shares Calculation of distributable profits 2018 2017 Other reserves 266.2 266.2 Authorised by the General Meeting, the Board acquired a total of 500,000 of the ComRetained earnings 803.3 548.7 pany’s own B shares during the 2018 financial year. The Board also acquired a total of Profit for the year 212.0 495.1 1,200,000 of the Company’s own B shares during the financial years 2011 and 2014. The Total 1,281.5 1,310.0 shares are held by the Company as treasury shares and the Company’s Board is entitled to transfer them. The acquisition cost of B shares held by the Company and acquired during the 2018 financial year was €24.4 million, and the acquisition cost of shares acquired Breakdown of parent company shares Kpl during the 2011 and 2014 financial years was €23.5 million. These costs have been deA shares 31,737,007 ducted from retained earnings in equity. B shares 68,282,745 Total 100,019,752 Shares Own B shares held by the Company as at 31 Dec. 2017 563,137 Transferred, share-based compensation scheme -68,949 Votes attached to shares Number of votes Acquired during the financial year 500,000 A share 10 Returned during the financial year 7,211 B share 1 Own B shares held by the Company as at 31 Dec. 2018 1,001,399 220 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Note 17. Provisions Note 19. Current liabilities € million 2018 2017 € million 2018 2017 Provisions for leases 2.3 4.5 Liabilities to subsidiaries Other provisions 2.9 5.4 Trade payables 140.2 128.5 Total 5.2 9.9 Other payables 293.8 235.7 Accruals and deferred income 67.8 64.5 Total 501.8 428.8 Note 18. Non-current liabilities Liabilities to associates On 10 June 2004, Kesko Corporation issued a Private Placement of USD 120 million in the Trade payables 0.0 0.0 US. The facility has three tranches with bullet repayments, of which the first tranch (USD Accruals and deferred income 0.0 0.2 60 million) was due in 2014 and the second (USD 36 million) in 2016. The third tranch will Other payables 26.9 23.9 be due in 2019 (USD 24 million). Kesko has hedged the loan with currency and interest rate Total 26.9 24.1 swaps and will apply hedge accounting to the facility. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives hedging the private placement was €0.9 million Accruals and deferred income and the fair value of the interest rate derivatives was €-0.2 million. The loan capital is €20.1 Employee benefit expenses 87.8 71.3 million and the fixed interest rate is 6.2%. Accruals and deferred income from purchases 35.2 41.6 Taxes 11.4 On 11 September 2012, Kesko Corporation issued a €250 million bond. The bond carries a Transaction prices 2.2 1.8 fixed coupon rate of 2.75%. The bond was due on 11 September 2018. Fees for services 2.1 1.2 Others 76.3 75.8 Total 214.9 191.6 Note 20. Interest-free liabilities € million 2018 2017 Current liabilities 1,096.6 1,076.9 Non-current liabilities 0.0 0.0 Total 1,096.6 1,076.9 221 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Note 21. Guarantees, liability The measurement of derivatives is based on direct market data, in other words, they are classified at level 2. The maximum credit risk of these derivatives corresponds to their fair engagements and other liabilities value at the balance sheet date. The results of derivatives are recognised in financial items. € million 2018 2017 Real estate mortgages Company's transaction For own debt 176 54 exposure as at 31 Dec. 2018 For subsidiaries 11 11 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB Transaction risk -21.9 13.4 42.5 23.2 2.7 Pledged shares 9 9 Hedging derivatives 21.0 -13.7 -40.7 -16.3 -2.3 Exposure -0.9 -0.3 1.8 6.9 0.4 Guarantees For subsidiaries 49 78 Company's transaction exposure as at 31 Dec. 2017 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB Other liabilities and liability engagements Transaction risk -18.5 5.3 1.9 25.0 11.9 For own debt 27 35 Hedging derivatives 21.7 -9.1 -4.6 -14.4 -8.6 Exposure 3.2 -3.9 -2.6 10.6 3.2 Rent liabilities on machinery and fixtures Falling due within a year 9 9 Falling due later 12 12 The sensitivity analysis of transaction exposure shows the profit impact of a +/-10% exchange rate change on the Company's foreign currency denominated acquisitions and hedging foreign currency derivatives. Rent liabilities on real estate Falling due within a year 290 283 Falling due later 1,868 1,936 Sensitivity analysis, impact on pre-tax profit as at 31 Dec. 2018 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB Foreign currency risks Change +10% 0.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.6 0.0 Change -10% -0.1 0.0 0.2 0.8 0.0 The result of the Company's operating activities is affected by the amount of working capital financing granted by the Company to its foreign subsidiaries and in part also, in its capacity as the Group's parent company, the subsidiaries' hedgings against their parent. Sensitivity analysis, impact on pre-tax profit as at 31 Dec. 2017 The foreign currency exposure is hedged using foreign currency derivatives in accordance € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB with the confirmed foreign currency risk policy. The fair value of foreign currency derivatives Change +10% -0.3 0.4 0.2 -1.0 -0.3 is calculated by measuring them based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. Change -10% 0.4 -0.4 -0.3 1.2 0.4 222 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Derivatives Note 22. Cash and cash equivalents 31 Dec. 2018 Positive fair 31 Dec. 2018 Negative 31 Dec. 2017 Positive fair 31 Dec. 2017 Negative within the statement of cash flows Fair values of value fair value value fair value derivative contracts (balance sheet (balance (balance (balance € million value) sheet value) sheet value) sheet value) € million 2018 2017 Currency derivatives 3.3 0.8 0.4 -2.4 Available-for-sale financial assets 31.0 34.0 Cash and cash equivalents 55.3 75.2 Total 86.3 109.2 Notional amounts of derivative contracts 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 € million Notional amount Notional amount In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes those recognised in the Currency derivatives 155.9 103.6 balance sheet and portions of available-for-sale financial assets with maturities of less than three months from acquisition. All currency derivatives mature in 2019. Note 23. Related parties € million 2018 Fair value 2017 Fair value Liabilities arising from derivative Kesko Corporation's related parties include the Company's management (the Board of Diinstruments rectors, the President and CEO and the Group Management Board), companies controlled Values of underlying instruments by them, subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and Kesko Pension Fund. The subsidiaries, as at 31 Dec. associates and joint ventures are listed in a separate note in the consolidated financial Interest rate derivatives 70 0.1 70 0.3 statements (note 5.2). Interest rate swaps 280 -2.0 180 -0.5 Some members of the Kesko Board are K-retailers. Kesko Corporation sells goods and Foreign currency derivatives services to companies controlled by them. Goods and services have been sold to related Forward and future contracts 136 1.5 84 -1.9 parties on normal market terms and conditions and at market prices. Outside the Group 129 1.6 77 -1.9 Inside the Group 7 -0.1 7 0.0 Currency swaps 20 0.9 20 -0.1 Commodity derivatives Electricity derivatives 22 0.0 12 0.0 Outside the Group 11 2.3 6 -0.3 Inside the Group 11 -2.3 6 0.3 223 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Signatures Signatures for financial statements and report by the Board of Directors The Auditor's note Helsinki, 5 February 2019 Our auditor's report has been issued today. Helsinki, 5 February 2019 Esa Kiiskinen Peter Fagernäs PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised public accountants Jannica Fagerholm Piia Karhu Matti Kyytsönen Mikko Nieminen Authorised Public Accountant Matti Naumanen Toni Pokela Mikko Helander President and CEO 224 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Auditor’s report (Translation from the Finnish Original) Our audit approach To the Annual General Meeting of Kesko Oyj Overview Report on the audit of the financial statements Overall materiality • We determined that overall group materiality € 15 million. We have assessed that in Kesko Group audit material are misstatements whose Opinion Materiality impact individually or in aggregate is at the level of 5% of comparable In our opinion profit before tax. • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position and financial Group Group audit scope performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by scoping • We performed an audit in Kesko Group companies that are most the EU significant based on the financial position and result. • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and financial Key audit position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements in matters Key audit matters Finland and comply with statutory requirements. • Goodwill and trademarks – management impairment testing Our opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee. • Inventories What we have audited As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the We have audited the financial statements of Kesko Oyj (Business ID: 0109862-8) for the year ended 31 December 2018. financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in The financial statements comprise: respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. • the consolidated income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, statement of cash flows, statement of changes in equity, and notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies Materiality • the parent company’s income statement, balance sheet, statement of cash flows and notes. The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable • assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud Basis for opinion or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the report. overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the financial statements as a whole. Independence We determined that overall group materiality is € 15 million. We chose comparable profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements by users, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We chose a level of 5%, which is within the range of acceptable that are applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in quantitative materiality thresholds in auditing standards. accordance with these requirements. To the best of our knowledge and belief, the non-audit services that we have provided to the parent company and to Group audit scope the group companies are in accordance with the applicable law and regulations in Finland and we have not provided Kesko operates in the grocery trade, the building and technical trade and the car trade. In 2018, Kesko operated in nine non-audit services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The non-audit services that countries. During the year it withdrew from the Russian market. We tailored the scope of our audit, taking into account we have provided are disclosed in note 2.4 to the consolidated financial statements. the structure of the Kesko Group, the industry and the accounting processes and controls. We performed an audit in Kesko Group companies that are most significant based on the financial position and result. We have performed audit procedures in eight of Kesko’s operating countries: in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Belarus. 225 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 By performing those procedures, we have obtained sufficient and appropriate evidence regarding the financial The Group regularly reviews inventories for obsolescence We reviewed on a sample basis inventory write-off information of Kesko Group’s legal companies and operations which provides a basis for our opinion on the and turnover, and for possible reduction of net realisable calculations and reconciled source data to inventory consolidated financial statements. value below cost, and records an impairment as necessary. accounting. We tested by sample basis formulas of Such reviews require assessments of future demand for valuation reports to ensure that formulas lead to the products. correct result. Key audit matters The cost of finished goods comprises all costs of purchase In our evaluation over the vendor allowances we Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the including freight. Inventory cost is adjusted by vendor walked through the Group monitoring processes, financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial allowances. The Group uses judgment to what extent identified key controls and tested efficiency of those. statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. allowances clauses laid out in purchase agreements are We tested on a sample basis vendor allowances fulfilled at the financial statements period end date. calculations and reconciled input information to As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other clauses laid out in purchase agreements and financial In our audit we focused on the assessment of net matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to year purchases information. In addition, we reconciled realisable value and underlying assumptions. In addition, fraud. comparable reporting date vendor allowance accruals we focused on assessment of fulfilment of vendor to materialised allowances to evaluate the quality of agreement clauses at the financial statements period end Key audit matter How our audit addressed the process and accuracy of the accruals. date. in the audit of the Group the Key audit matter We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial statements. Goodwill and trademarks – management We reviewed financial plans prepared by the impairment testing management and compared to the financial plans approved by the Board of Directors. There are no significant risks of material misstatement referred to in Article 10(2c) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 Refer to note 3.4 Intangible assets. We evaluated appropriateness of value-in-use valuation with respect to the consolidated financial statements or the parent company financial statements. Kesko Group balance sheet includes goodwill in amount method used and traced input information to the of € 278.7 million (2017: 172.3) and trademarks € 87.2 source. million (2016: 82.2). Kesko Group management carries out impairment test of We challenged the management on assumptions used Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director goodwill and trademarks annually. Impairment test result in value-in-use calculations. In evaluating one of the for the financial statements key assumptions, Weighted Average Cost of Capital, is based on management estimates, e.g. market growth The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial we utilised PwC valuation experts. We performed back and profitability trends estimates, changes in store site statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) testing comparing forecasts used in previous years network, product and service selection, pricing and as adopted by the EU, and of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and testing to actual results as it would give an indication movements in operating costs. regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. of the quality of the forecasting process. In our audit we focused on the methodologies and The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is In addition, we assessed the adequacy of the necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to assumptions used in management impairment testing. disclosures, particularly on sensitivities. fraud or error. We specially focused on those cash generating units, whose value-in-use and carrying value difference have In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing been smallest in previous years and therefore sensitive to the parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating changes in estimations. to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The financial statements are prepared using the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent company or the group or to cease Inventories In our evaluation of the Group reviews on inventory operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. net realisable value, we walked through monitoring Refer to note 3.5 Inventories. processes over inventory obsolescence and turnover and Kesko Group balance sheet includes inventory in amount processes of net realisation calculation. We identified Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements of € 913.0 million (2016: 938.6). key controls and tested efficiency of those. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. realisable value. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 226 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: Other reporting requirements • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and Appointment appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy was first appointed as auditor of Kesko Oyj by the Annual General Meeting on 26 April fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 1976 and our appointment represents a total period of uninterrupted engagement of 43 years. Back then Authorised misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Public Accountant, employed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, was appointed. Kesko Oyj became publicly listed company on 15 May 1960. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. Other information • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other information related disclosures made by management. comprises the report of the Board of Directors and the information included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. We have obtained the report of the Board of Directors prior • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern to the date of this auditor’s report and the Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after that date. basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the report of future events or conditions may cause the parent company or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. the Board of Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and In our opinion whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so that the financial statements give a true and fair view. • the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify We have nothing to report in this regard. during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical Other Statements requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may We support that the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements should be adopted. The proposal reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the profit shown in the balance sheet is in compliance with the Limited From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We parent company should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such Helsinki 5 February 2019 communication. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Mikko Nieminen Authorised Public Accountant 227 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 CORPORATE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2018 230 REMUNERATION STATEMENT 2018 Introduction 247 248 GOVERNANCE Introduction 231 Decision-making procedure concerning Descriptions concerning corporate governance 232 remuneration 248 This section contains Kesko’s Corporate Governance Statement and Remuneration Statement. Kesko Group’s corporate governance system 233 Main principles of remuneration 248 Board of Directors 233 Board of Directors 248 Managing director (President and CEO) President and CEO and and his duties 238 other Group Management Board 248 Group Management Board 239 Remuneration report 252 Description of internal control procedures and Board of Directors and its Committees 252 the main features of risk management systems 240 President and CEO 254 Group’s financial reporting 240 Other Group Management Board members 254 Internal control 242 Valid authorisations for the Board of Directors Risk management 243 concerning remuneration and their use 255 Other information to be provided in the CG statement 245 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GROUP Internal audit 245 MANAGEMENT BOARD Related party transactions 245 Board of Directors 256 Main procedures relating to insider administration 245 Group Management Board 260 Auditing 246 229 STRATEGIA KESTÄVÄ KEHITYS TILINPÄÄTÖS HALLINNOINTI KESKON VUOSI 2018 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2018 230 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Introduction This Corporate Governance Statement has been CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODES KESKO COMPLIES WITH AND DEPARTS FROM reviewed at the meeting of the Audit Committee of Kesko Corporation’s Board of Directors on 5 February 2019. Corporate Governance Code Kesko commits to comply with The Corporate Governance Code effective from 1 January 2016 (“Corporate Governance Code”) This is the Corporate Governance Statement in accordance Website where the Corporate Governance Code cgfinland.fi/en/corporate-governance-code/ with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code issued by is publicly available the Securities Market Association effective from 1 January 2016. Kesko Corporation issues the statement separately Corporate Governance Code recommendations from which the Recommendation 6 (Term of Office of the Board of Directors) from the Report by the Board of Directors. This statement company departs and the other information to be disclosed in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, and the Company’s Explanation of and grounds for the departure The term of office of Kesko's Board of Directors departs from the onefinancial statements, the Report by the Board of Directors, • grounds for the departure year term pursuant to Recommendation 6 (Term of Office of the Board and the Auditor’s Report are available on Kesko’s website of Directors) of the Corporate Governance Code. The term of office of • decision-making concerning the departure the Company’s Board of Directors is determined in accordance with the at kesko.fi/en/investor/corporate-governance. • when the company plans to adopt the recommendation (in case Company’s Articles of Association. The General Meeting decides on of temporary departure) amendments to the Articles of Association. According to the Company’s • when necessary, the company must describe the procedure Articles of Association, the term of office of a Board member is three (3) Kesko Corporation (”Kesko” or ”the Company”) is implemented in place of the recommendation and explain years, starting at the close of the General Meeting electing the member a Finnish limited liability company in which the duties how such a procedure establishes the objective of the and expiring at the close of the third (3rd) Annual General Meeting after and responsibilities of management bodies are defined recommendation or the code or how the procedure promotes the election. according to the regulations observed in Finland. The the implementation of appropriate corporate governance in the A shareholder who, together with related entities, represents over 10% of company votes attached to all Kesko shares, has informed the Company's Board of parent company Kesko and its subsidiaries form Kesko Directors that it considers the term of office of three (3) years good for the Group. The Company is domiciled in Helsinki. Company's long-term development and has not seen any need to shorten the term stated in the Articles of Association. In Kesko, decision-making and corporate governance are in compliance with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, regulations concerning publicly listed companies, Kesko’s Articles of Association, the charters of Kesko’s Board of Directors and its Committees, and the rules and guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. 231 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Descriptions Kesko Group’s Governance Model concerning corporate General Meeting governance ELECTS ISSUES AN AUDIT REPORT Shareholders ELECTS Kesko Group’s corporate Auditor Board of Directors governance system The highest decision-making power in Kesko is exercised Audit Committee by the Company's shareholders at the Company's General Meeting. At the Annual General Meeting, the Company’s Remuneration Committee shareholders elect the Company’s Board of Directors and the Auditor. Kesko Group is managed by the Board of Directors ELECTS SUPERVISES REPORTS and the Managing Director, who is the President and CEO. The CONTROLS President and CEO is appointed by the Board of Directors. The Company uses a so-called one-tier governance model. President and CEO Internal Audit Group Management Board The Annual General Meeting is held annually by the end of June, on a date designated by the Company's Board of Directors. The most significant matters falling within the Building and Grocery Trade Car Trade decision-making power of the General Meeting include Technical Trade the election of the Board members and the Auditor, the adoption of the financial statements, the resolution on discharging the Board members and the Managing Director the Act, certain decisions – such as decisions to amend the General Meeting documents, including the Board of Directors’ from liability, and the resolution on the distribution of the articles of association and decisions on directed share issues – proposals to the General Meeting, are made available to Company's assets, such as distribution of profit. require a qualified majority of two-thirds of the votes cast and shareholders no later than three weeks prior to the General represented at the meeting. The Limited Liability Companies Meeting on its website at www.kesko.fi. The notice of the The Company has share series A and B, which differ with Act provides that specific shareholders or all shareholders meeting is also published in a stock exchange release. respect to the number of votes attached to the shares. An A must consent to a decision limiting the rights arising from share carries ten (10) votes and a B share carries one (1) vote shares or increasing the obligations of shareholders. The Company aims for all members of Kesko's Board of at the General Meeting. When votes are taken, the proposal Directors, the President and CEO, and the Auditor to be for which more than half of the votes were given will primarily Shareholders are invited to attend the General Meeting present at the Annual General Meeting. The minutes of be the resolution of the General Meeting, as prescribed by by a Notice of the General Meeting published on the the General Meeting are made available to shareholders at the Limited Liability Companies Act. However, pursuant to Company’s website. The notice of the meeting and other Kesko’s website at www.kesko.fi within two weeks of the 232 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 General Meeting. The resolutions of the General Meeting shareholders, and external advisors are used as necessary Matti Kyytsönen, Matti Naumanen and Toni Pokela. Between are also published in a stock exchange release without delay in surveying potential members who meet the set criteria. 1 January and 11 April 2018, the Board members were after the meeting. The Chairman of the Board interviews potential members Esa Kiiskinen (Chair), Mikael Aro (Deputy Chair), Jannica and provides an opinion to the significant shareholders. Fagerholm, Matti Kyytsönen, Matti Naumanen, Anu Nissinen Board of Directors and Toni Pokela. Board composition and shareholdings Formation and term of office of The Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018 resolved that In accordance with the Articles of Association, the term of the Board of Directors the Board of Directors is composed of seven (7) members. office of the current members of the Board of Directors will According to the Articles of Association, Kesko's Board of expire at the close of the 2021 Annual General Meeting. Directors is composed of a minimum of five (5) and a maximum As of the Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018, the of eight (8) members. All Board members are elected by the Board members have been Esa Kiiskinen (Chair), Peter The Board’s composition and shareholdings on 31 General Meeting. There is no special committee or board Fagernäs (Deputy Chair), Jannica Fagerholm, Piia Karhu, December 2018 are depicted in the table below. engaged in the nomination of Board member candidates or their election at the General Meeting, as the number of Board members is resolved and the members are elected by majority Board composition and shareholdings on 31 Dec. 2018 votes at the General Meeting based on shareholders’ proposals. Year of Board member Committee Kesko shares held on 31 Dec. The Board elects the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman from Nimi birth Education Principal occupation since membership 2018 among its members for the whole term of office of the Board. Esa Kiiskinen 1963 Business College Food retailer 2009 Remuneration 1,350 A shares held by him (Chair) Graduate Committee 106,000 A shares held by (Chair) entities controlled by him According to the Articles of Association, the term of office 673 B shares held by him of a Kesko Board member is three (3) years, starting at Peter Fagernäs 1952 Master of Laws Chairman of the Board, 2018 Remuneration 1,000 A shares held by him the close of the General Meeting electing the member (Deputy Chair) Hermitage & Co Oy Committee 417 B shares held by him and expiring at the close of the third (3rd) Annual General (Deputy Chair) Meeting after the election. Jannica 1961 Master of Managing Director, 2016 Audit Committee 1,417 B shares held by her Fagerholm Science Signe and Ane (Chair) (Economics) Gyllenberg Foundation In the preparation of the proposal for the Board composition, Piia Karhu 1976 Doctor of Science, Senior Vice President, 2018 Audit Committee 313 B shares held by her Kesko applies a practice in which significant shareholders Economics and Business Finnair Plc prepare for the General Meeting the proposals concerning Administration the Board of Directors, including the proposal for the number Matti 1949 Master of Chairman of the Board, 2015 Audit Committee 1,308 B shares held by him Kyytsönen Science Silverback (Deputy Chair) of Board members, the proposal for the remuneration of the (Economics) Consulting Oy Remuneration Board members, and when necessary, the proposal for the Committee Board members. The proposal by significant shareholders Matti 1957 Trade Technician Retailer 2016 2,400 A shares held by him is based on the Board’s self-assessment, in which the Naumanen 17,664 A shares held by entities controlled by him performance and contribution of each Board member is also 313 B shares held by him assessed, in addition to the competencies and experience Toni Pokela 1973 eMBA Food retailer 2012 179,400 A shares held by needed in the Board composition. Conclusions based on entities controlled by him the self-assessment are communicated to the significant 313 B shares held by him 233 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Independence Description of the operations of the Board of • deciding on management authorisation rules All members of Kesko's Board of Directors are nonDirectors and the main contents of its charter • deciding on the essential structure and organisation of executive directors. The Board evaluates the independence Kesko's Board of Directors is responsible for the the Group of its members on a regular basis in accordance with Company's corporate governance and for the proper Recommendation 10 of the Corporate Governance Code. organisation of its operations. The Board is responsible for • appointing and dismissing the Company's President and the proper organisation of the Company's accounting and CEO, approving his/her managing director's service The Board carried out an independence evaluation in its financial management controls. The Board of Directors contract and deciding on his/her remuneration and organisational meeting held after the Annual General has confirmed a written charter of the Board of Directors’ other financial benefits Meeting of 11 April 2018. Based on that independence duties, the matters it deals with, its meeting practice and • deciding on the appointments of the Group evaluation, the Board considered Toni Pokela not to be its decision-making procedure. Management Board members responsible for lines of independent of the Company's significant shareholder, the business, on their remuneration and financial benefits K-Retailers’ Association, of which Pokela is the Chairman of the In accordance with the charter, the Board deals with Board. In its independence evaluation, the Board considered and makes decisions on matters that are financially, • deciding on the principles of Kesko's commitment and the majority of the Board members to be independent of the operationally or fundamentally significant to the Group. incentive schemes and monitoring their implementation Company. A Board member is obliged to provide the Board According to the charter, the Board of Directors’ duties • making possible proposals to the General Meeting for with necessary information for the evaluation of independence. include: share issue and acquisition authorisations, and making decisions on granting shares or share options under The Board members’ independence is depicted in the table • deciding on the Group strategy and confirming the share-based commitment and incentive schemes, and below. divisions’ strategies on the terms and conditions for granting them • confirming the Group's budget and rolling forecast, Board members’ independence in 2018 • establishing a dividend policy and being responsible for including a capital expenditure plan Independent shareholder value performance Independent of a significant • approving the Group's treasury and investment policy of the Company shareholder • confirming the Company's values Esa Kiiskinen (Chair) No*** Yes • confirming the Group's risk management policy and • reviewing Kesko’s Annual Report Peter Fagernäs (Deputy Chair)* Yes Yes reviewing the Group's most significant risks and uncertainties • being responsible for the other statutory duties Jannica Fagerholm Yes Yes prescribed to the Board of Directors by the Limited Piia Karhu* Yes Yes • confirming the Group’s insurance principles Liability Companies Act or some other, and for duties Matti Kyytsönen Yes Yes • reviewing and adopting the consolidated financial prescribed by the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. Matti Naumanen No*** Yes statements, half year financial reports and interim Toni Pokela No*** No**** reports and related stock exchange releases and the The duty of Kesko's Board of Directors is to promote Mikael Aro (Deputy Chair)** Yes Yes Report by the Board of Directors the interests of Kesko and all of its shareholders. In the Anu Nissinen** Yes Yes company, the Board members do not represent the parties • deciding on strategically or financially significant * Board member since 11 April 2018, ** Board member until 11 April that have proposed their election as Board members. A individual capital expenditure, acquisitions, divestments 2018, *** Each of the companies controlled by Kiiskinen, Naumanen Board member is disqualified from participating in the and Pokela has a chain agreement with Kesko Corporation., or other arrangements, and commitments handling of any matter between him/her (including entities **** Pokela is the Chairman of the Board of Kesko's significant shareholder K-Retailers’ Association. 234 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 over which he/she exercises control) and the Company. of previously acquired companies and their integration into Board member based on a predetermined discussion When a vote is taken, the Board's decision will be the Kesko Group, the implementation of divestments decided, agenda. Topics covered in the assessment included opinion of the majority and if a vote results in a tie, the and progress in the Group’s data protection project. The Group strategy, reporting, risk management, efficiency decision will be the opinion supported by the Chair. If the Board reviewed, for example, Kesko’s Annual Report and of Board and Committee work, Group management votes taken at an election of a person end in a tie, the goodwill impairment testing, and decided on mergers to and contingency planning for Group management, result will be decided by drawing lots. simplify the Group structure, the establishment of a new and individual Board member assessments. The Board share-based compensation plan, on using the authorisation reviewed a summary of the discussion results in its Board of Directors’ operations in 2018 granted by the General Meeting to acquire a maximum meeting. Focus areas included strategy-driven corporate In 2018, the Board held 10 meetings. The Board members' of 500,000 B shares in the Company, on new financing leadership, the temporal aspect of strategy review, the attendance rate at the Board meetings was 100%. Board arrangements, and on the use of donation funds approved scope of market and competitor information, the increased meetings regularly discuss the review by the President by the General Meeting. importance of cyber security in risk management, and an and CEO on key topical issues, as well as the reports open and appreciative working atmosphere for the Board by the Chairmen of the Board's Audit Committee and The Board carried out a self-assessment. It was conducted and its Committees. In addition to the summary, each Remuneration Committee on Committee meetings via discussions between the Board’s Chairman and each Board member received personal feedback. preceding the Board meetings. The Auditor presents its findings to the Board once a year in connection with the review of the financial statements. Attendance at meetings by members of the Board and its Committees in 2018 Board Attendance As in previous years, in 2018, the Board reviewed member Committee Audit Remuneration the financial reports and monitored the Group's since membership Board Committee Committee financial situation, approved the most significant Esa Kiiskinen (Chair) 2009 Remuneration Committee (Chair) 10/10 3/3 capital expenditure and divestments and new financing Peter Fagernäs (Deputy Chair)* 2018 Remuneration Committee (Deputy Chair) 7/7 1/1 arrangements, monitored the progress of Group-level Jannica Fagerholm 2016 Audit Committee (Chair) 10/10 5/5 projects and approved the interim reports, the half year Piia Karhu* 2018 Audit Committee 7/7 4/4 financial report and the financial statements before they Matti Kyytsönen 2015 Audit Committee (Deputy Chair) 10/10 5/5 1/1 were published. Remuneration Committee Matti Naumanen 2016 10/10 In 2018 the Board, among other things, clarified and specified the Kesko Group strategy approved in spring Toni Pokela 2012 10/10 2015 and monitored its execution, and decided on Mikael Aro (Deputy Chair)** 2015 Audit Committee (Deputy Chair) 3/3 1/1 2/2 acquisitions and divestments in line with the confirmed Remuneration Committee (Deputy Chair) strategy, including the acquisitions of Kalatukku E. Anu Nissinen** 2015 Remuneration Committee 3/3 2/2 Eriksson Oy, Gipling AS, Skattum Handel AS, and the DIY * Board member since 11 April 2018 retail business of Sørbø Trelast AS and Tau & Jørpeland ** Board member until 11 April 2018 Bygg AS. The Board monitored the financial performance 235 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Principles concerning diversity General Meeting the proposals concerning the Board members represent multiple disciplines and diversity, and Kesko’s Board of Directors approved on 25 October 2016 of Directors, including the proposal for the number of several members also have experience in international the diversity policy, which has been published on the Board members, the proposal for the remuneration of business operations (for the personal details of the website at kesko.fi/en/investor/corporate-governance/ the Board members, and when necessary, the proposal Board members, see the table ”Board composition and board-and-its-committees/diversity-policy, in the following for the Board members. shareholdings”). Several Board members have experience form: in the trading sector and the principal occupation of three Planning the Board composition of the seven Board members is acting as a K-retailer. Diversity is an essential component of Kesko’s The composition of Kesko’s Board of Directors shall success, the achievement of Kesko’s strategic support Kesko’s current and future business operations. Board Committees objectives and good governance at Kesko. This diversity The Board members are appointed on their merits. Kesko has a Board’s Audit Committee and Remuneration policy describes the objectives in the achievement of One of the essential features in the Board composition Committee, both of which are composed of three (3) Board diversity in the operations and composition of Kesko is that the Board members’ educational backgrounds, members. At the close of the Annual General Meeting, Corporation’s Board of Directors. experience, professional competencies and age and the Board elects from among its members the Committee gender distribution support Kesko’s business objectives Chairmen, Deputy Chairmen and members for one year at Board size and the election of its members and enable efficient Board work for Kesko. The Board a time. According to the Articles of Association, the term of members shall also be able to devote a sufficient amount office of a Kesko Board member is three (3) years, of time to Board work. All members of the Audit Committee are independent starting at the close of the General Meeting electing of the Company and of the Company’s significant the member and expiring at the close of the third Kesko aims to achieve a balanced gender distribution shareholders. In the election of the Audit Committee (3rd) Annual General Meeting after the election. in the composition of its Board of Directors. The members, the competence requirements for Audit According to the Articles of Association, Kesko's composition of the Board shall reflect experience in Committee members have been taken into account. Board of Directors is composed of a minimum of five both national and international business operations. The (5) and a maximum of eight (8) members. A sufficient educational background of the Board members shall All members of the Remuneration Committee are number of Board members promotes the diversity of represent multiple disciplines and diversity. In addition, independent of the Company's significant shareholder and the Board composition, as the areas of expertise and Kesko’s Board shall include members with strong its majority is also independent of the Company. In the competencies of the Board members are mutually experience in the trading sector and in-depth knowledge election of the Remuneration Committee members, the complementary and the Board’s independence of the retailer business. The achievement of objectives competence requirements for Remuneration Committee requirements are satisfied. is monitored annually and reported in the corporate members have been taken into account. governance statement. The Board members are elected by majority votes at The Committees regularly assess their operations and the General Meeting based on shareholders’ proposals. Monitoring the implementation of working methods and carry out a related self-assessment The Board elects the Chairman and the Deputy diversity policy objectives in 2018 once a year. The Board has confirmed written charters Chairman from among its members for the whole In 2018, two of the seven Board members were women, in for the Committees, which contain the main duties and term of office of the Board. In the preparation of the other words, the proportion of the gender with the smaller operating principles of the Committees. proposal for the Board composition, Kesko applies a representation on the Board was approximately 29%. The practice in which significant shareholders prepare to the educational backgrounds and experience of the Board 236 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 The Committees have no independent decision-making • monitoring and evaluating the Company’s process for During the year, the Committee reviewed the reports power. Instead, the Board makes decisions on matters financial reporting on the Group's financial situation, including the financial based on the Committees’ preparatory work. The statements release, the half year financial report and • monitoring and evaluating the efficiency of the Committee Chairman reports on the Committee's work the interim reports and updated forecasts, and made Company's internal control, internal audit and risk at the Board meeting following the Committee's meeting. a recommendation to the Board on the review of the management systems Minutes of the Committee meetings are submitted for reports and the financial statements release. The information to the Board members. • reviewing the Company’s Corporate Governance Committee reviewed the reports of the Group's external Statement and internal audits and risk management and the Kesko's Board of Directors has not established any other Corporate Governance Statement. The Audit Committee • approving the operating instructions, annual audit plan, committees in addition to the Audit and Remuneration also reviewed goodwill impairment testing and the budget and resources for the Company's internal audit Committees, nor or has the General Meeting appointed Group’s risk reporting in the financial statements. function and reviewing the reports submitted to the any committees or boards. Committee The Audit Committee monitored the implementation of Audit Committee • monitoring the statutory audit of the financial the audit plan for internal audit, the Group’s preparation The Board's organisational meeting, held after the Annual statements and the consolidated financial statements for the implementation of new IFRS standards and General Meeting of 11 April 2018, elected the following their impact on the Group’s reporting, the Group’s • monitoring and evaluating the independence of the Board members as the Audit Committee members: preparations for the implementation of the new EU Company's audit firm general data protection regulation, the development of • Jannica Fagerholm (Chair) • monitoring and evaluating related (non-audit) services associated companies, and additional services purchased to Kesko by the audit firm and its network audit from firms of auditors. The Committee also monitored • Matti Kyytsönen (Deputy Chair) companies and evaluated the Auditor's independence and the non• Piia Karhu auditing consultation services provided by the Auditor to • preparing a proposal for a resolution on the election the Group. The Audit Committee prepared and submitted of the Company's Auditor and communicating with the During the period before the 2018 Annual General a proposal to Kesko’s Annual General Meeting 2018 for Company's Auditor. Meeting (1 January 11 April 2018) the Audit Committee the election of Auditor. The Committee also approved the members were Jannica Fagerholm (Chair), Mikael Aro 2019 audit plan, personnel resources and budget for the In 2018, the Audit Committee held five meetings. Its (Deputy Chair) and Matti Kyytsönen. Group’s internal audit. members' attendance rate at the Committee meetings was 100%. At the Committee meetings, the Group's Chief According to its charter, the duties of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee assessed its operations as part Financial Officer, the Group Controller and the director in include: of the Board’s self-assessment. Topics that emerged in charge of internal audit regularly reported on their areas the assessment included the Committee’s significant of responsibility to the Committee. The Committee also • monitoring Kesko Group's financial and funding role in monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s receives reports on Kesko Group's funding situation, taxation, situation risk management, and successful reporting on lowinformation management, risk management and insurances. profitability units. • monitoring and evaluating the Company’s process for The Auditor is present at the Committee meetings and financial statements reporting presents its audit plan and report to the Audit Committee. 237 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Remuneration Committee • development of remuneration schemes and their The Committee monitored and evaluated the implementation The Board's organisational meeting, held after the preparation to the Board of Directors, including: of the reform of management’s total remuneration. In Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018, elected the addition, the Committee reviewed, among other things, • evaluating the remuneration of the President and following Board members as the Remuneration Committee Kesko’s Remuneration Statement. The Remuneration CEO and other management, and ensuring the members: Committee assessed its operations as part of the Board’s appropriateness of the remuneration schemes self-assessment. The Committee did not hold any meetings • Esa Kiiskinen (Chair) • preparing possible share or share-based under the new composition established after the 2018 commitment and incentive schemes Annual General Meeting before conducting the self• Peter Fagernäs (Deputy Chair) assessment. The new Committee members considered the • preparing the distribution of shares or share • Matti Kyytsönen induction they had been given successful, and based on that, options under the share or share-based assessed that the Group’s remuneration scheme was good. commitment and incentive schemes, and preparing During the period before the 2018 Annual General their terms and conditions Meeting (1 January 11 April 2018) the Remuneration Managing director (President and CEO) Committee members were Esa Kiiskinen (Chair), Mikael • reviewing the Remuneration Statement in connection and his duties Aro (Deputy Chair) and Anu Nissinen. with the financial statements Kesko has a managing director who is the President and • answering questions related to the Remuneration According to its charter, the duties of the Remuneration CEO. Kesko’s President and CEO is Mikko Helander, Statement at the General Meeting; questions are Committee include: Master of Science in Technology (b. 1960). He became primarily answered by the Committee Chair Kesko’s President and CEO on 1 January 2015. Helander • preparing for the Board matters pertaining to the • preparing the principles for the performance and was also a member of the Group Management Board remuneration and other financial benefits of the result criteria of the remuneration schemes, and and Kesko’s Executive Vice President during the period President and CEO and his/her managing director's monitoring their implementation and evaluating their between 1 October 2014 and 31 December 2014, and he service contract impact on Kesko's long-term financial success. has been the Chairman of the Group Management Board since 1 January 2015. • preparing matters pertaining to the remuneration and In 2018, the Remuneration Committee held three other financial benefits of the Group Management meetings. Its members' attendance rate at the The President and CEO's duty is to manage Kesko Group’s Board members responsible for lines of business; Committee meetings was 100%. The Committee operations in accordance with the instructions and orders decisions on the remuneration and financial benefits prepared, among other things, proposals to the Board issued by the Company’s Board of Directors and to report of the Group Management Board members other than for Kesko’s 2018-2021 share-based compensation to the Board developments in the Company's business those responsible for lines of business are made by the plan, for the performance criteria and target values and operations and financial situation. He is also responsible President and CEO within the limits set by the Chairman the target group for share awards, for the principles for organising the Company's day-to-day governance and of the Remuneration Committee of Group performance bonuses for 2018 and 2019, for the company’s accounting complying with legislation • preparing matters pertaining to the appointment of as well as for the performance bonuses to be paid for and financial matters being organised in a reliable a President and CEO and the Group Management 2017 to the President and CEO and Group Management manner. The President and CEO also chairs the Group Board members responsible for lines of business, and Board members responsible for lines of business. Management Board. identifying their potential successors, 238 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 The President and CEO is elected by the Board of Group Management Board performance and matters reviewed by Kesko's Board of Directors. The Board has decided the terms and conditions Directors, in whose preparation it also participates. The of the President and CEO's service contract. A written Kesko Group has a Group Management Board, the Group Management Board meets 14–18 times a year. managing director's service contract, approved by the Chairman of which is Kesko's President and CEO. The Board, has been made between the Company and the Group Management Board does not have any powers President and CEO. under law or the Articles of Association. The Group Management Board’s duty is to discuss Group-wide As at 31 December 2018, Helander held a total of development projects and Group-level policies and 44,964 Kesko B shares. Helander’s shareholdings as at procedures. In addition, the Group Management 31 December 2018 are also presented in the table under Board discusses, among other things, the Group's and “Group Management Board”. the division parent companies' business plans, profit Group Management Board members, areas of responsibility and shareholdings on 31 Dec. 2018 Group Management Board member since Area of responsibility Kesko shares held on 31 Dec. 2018 Mikko Helander, President and CEO 01/10/2014 Kesko’s President and CEO 44,964 B shares held by him Jorma Rauhala, President, building and technical trade division, Deputy CEO 05/02/2013 Building and technical trade 24,300 B shares held by him Ari Akseli, President, grocery trade division 15/11/2017 Grocery trade 8,596 B shares and 81 A shares held by him Johan Friman, President of K Auto Oy 01/01/2017 Car trade 3,363 B shares held by him Jukka Erlund, EVP, Chief Financial Officer 01/11/2011 Finance and accounting, IT, Risk Management, M&A 20,203 B shares held by him Mika Majoinen, EVP, Group General Counsel 01/01/2018 Legal affairs 11,070 B shares held by him Matti Mettälä, EVP, Human Resources, Corporate Responsibility 01/10/2012 Human resources, Corporate Responsibility 12,884 B shares held by him and Regional Relations and Regional Relations Anni Ronkainen, EVP, Chief Digital Officer 20/04/2015 Chief Digital Officer 8,602 B shares held by her 239 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Description of internal control procedures and the main features of risk management systems Group’s financial reporting Kesko Group's management model Kesko’s management model Kesko's financial reporting and planning are based on ER JANUA EMB RY the Kesko Group management model. The Group units’ DEC financial results are reported and analysed internally within Budget and FE R BR the Group on a monthly basis and disclosed quarterly BE risk assessment U M in interim reports, the half year financial report and the VE AR NO Y financial statements release. Financial forecasts are Q4 financial updated quarterly, in addition to which significant changes statements report are taken into account in the monthly performance nthly reportin BER Mo g forecasts. The Group’s and its units’ strategies and related MA long-term financial plans are updated annually. Annual Report OCTO RCH N O Q3 interim report IMPLEMEN Rolling forecast and Value TEGY PROCE Roles and responsibilities TA risk assessment RA TI Vision SS Kesko Group’s financial reporting and its supervision ST are organised on three levels. Businesses analyse and TE G IC Mission Q1 interim report report their figures to the divisions, which then report the BER Rolling forecast RA Strategy updating division-specific figures to Group Accounting. Analyses and risk assessment APRI TEM ST begins and controls for ensuring the accuracy of reporting are L SEP Mo used on each of the three reporting levels. The accuracy of nthly re p orting reporting is ensured with automated and manual controls Strategy updating at every reporting level. The implementation of the continues analyses and controls is supervised on a monthly basis at T US Rolling M company, business, division and Group levels. Q2 half year forecast Y A G AU financial report and risk assessment JULY E JUN 240 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Planning and performance reporting management also includes Group-level monitoring of sales accounting policies in compliance with the new standard, The Group's financial development and achievement of on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis. and financial management personnel was trained in financial objectives are monitored by financial reporting reporting in line with the new standard. On 19 December covering the entire Group. Monthly performance Public performance reporting 2018, Kesko issued a stock exchange release with reporting includes actual Group, division and business Public performance reporting comprises interim reports, comparison figures for consolidated financial statements specific results, changes compared to the previous year, a half year financial report, the financial statements for 2018 in relation to the adoption of IFRS 16. comparison with forecasts, and forecasts for the next release, the annual financial statements, and monthly 12 months. The Group’s short-term financial planning sales reports. The same principles and control methods Key actions in 2019 is based on annual budgeting and quarterly updated are applied to public performance reporting as to monthly IFRS 16 (Leases) will be implemented in the Group’s forecasts extending over the following 12 to 15 months. performance reporting. The Audit Committee reviews financial reporting as of the beginning of 2019. The The key financial indicators are sales performance for the interim report, the half year financial report and the implementation of the new IFRS 16 constitutes the biggest growth and comparable operating profit and comparable financial statements and gives a recommendation on their individual change in Kesko’s financial reporting since return on capital employed for profitability, monitored by review to the Board of Directors. The Board approves the transition to IFRS reporting. The harmonisation and monthly internal reporting. Information on the Group’s the interim report, the half year financial report and the automation of core financial management processes will financial situation is provided in interim reports, a half year financial statements before they are published. continue via separate projects in 2019. financial report and the financial statements release. The Group’s sales figures are published monthly. Key actions in 2018 Accounting policies and financial The harmonisation of the financial management processes management IT systems Performance reporting to the of Group companies in Finland continued in 2018. Car Kesko Group complies with International Financial Group’s top management trade division companies K Auto Oy and K Caara Oy Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved for adoption by the Performance reporting to the Group’s top management adopted the Group’s shared financial management European Union. The accounting policies applied by the comprises monthly reports on the Group’s, divisions’, system. The five companies acquired during the year were Group have been compiled into an accounting manual, businesses’ and subsidiaries’ sales, profits and capital integrated into Kesko Group’s financial reporting. The updated as the standards are amended. The manual employed, as well as the Group's financial items, cash remaining stores acquired with Suomen Lähikauppa with contains guidelines for separate companies and the flows and balance sheet position. The businesses are continuing operations were transferred from Kesko to parent company, as well as guidelines for the preparation primarily responsible for financial reporting and the retailers during the first half of 2018. As a result, Kesko of the consolidated financial statements. Kesko Group’s accuracy of figures. The controlling function of each discontinued its own retailing operations in the K-Market financial management information is generated from division analyses the whole division’s figures for which the chain in its grocery trade division, and the stores are now division-specific enterprise resource planning systems division's financial management is responsible. The Group operated under the retailer business model. via a centralised and controlled shared interface into the is responsible for the whole Group’s figures. Key items in Group’s centralised consolidation system to produce the the income statement, capital employed and balance sheet The Group prepared for the implementation of IFRS 16 Group’s key financial reports. The key systems used in the are analysed monthly at business, division and Group level, (Leases), which will come into effect on 1 January 2019, generation of financial information have been certified and based on a documented division of duties and predefined by creating a common lease agreement management secured by back-up systems, and they are controlled and reports. This makes real-time information on the financial and lease accounting system for the Group’s leases as checked regularly to ensure reliability and continuity. situation constantly available and enables real-time part of the financial management systems. The Group’s responses to possible flaws. Performance reporting to accounting manual was updated in accordance with 241 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Internal control management and control discussions with the Group and the effectiveness and efficiency of Kesko's internal control, division managements. Every Kesko employee is obliged reports on it to the President and CEO and the Audit Internal control is an integral part of management and of to comply with the K Code of Conduct and inform their Committee of Kesko Corporations’ Board of Directors, ensuring the achievement of business objectives. Through supervisors of any grievances. and assists management and Kesko companies in the efficient internal control, deviations from objectives development of the internal control system. The Audit can be prevented or detected as early as possible, so Kesko's common functions guide and support the divisions Committee of Kesko’s Board of Directors has confirmed that corrective measures can be taken. Internal control and subsidiaries with policies, principles and guidelines the principles of Kesko’s internal control, which are based tools include, for example, policies and principles, pertaining to their respective areas of responsibility. on good control principles widely accepted internationally work instructions, approval authorisations, manual and Kesko Group's internal audit function assesses and verifies (COSO 2013). automatic controls integrated in information systems, monitoring reports and inspections and audits. The objective of internal control in Kesko Group is to ensure Roles and responsibilities in Kesko Group’s internal control the profitability, efficiency, continuity and freedom from disruptions of operations, the reliability of financial and operational reporting both externally and internally, Responsibility for the organisation of control compliance with laws and agreements and Kesko’s values and operating principles, as well as safeguarding assets, Board of Directors and President and CEO expertise and information. Principal responsibility The planning of control measures begins with the Steering and support Divisions, chains/ responsibility definition of business objectives and the identification companies and assessment of risks that threaten the objectives. The definition of objectives and the assessment of risks should Common functions Assurance responsibility take account of not only operational objectives, but also the requirements for compliance of operations with the law Finance and and for the accuracy of the information used in decisionAccounting making and reporting. Control measures are targeted Market Grocery trade K Communications based on risks selected as appropriate so as to keep risks Customers Building and Public Affairs under control. technical trade Competitors Legal Affairs Internal Audit Car trade The Board of Directors and the President and CEO Risk Management are responsible for organising internal control. The K Digital management of each division, company and unit is K IT responsible for ensuring that efficient and effective control HR procedures are in place. The next year’s focus areas for risk management and control are discussed in annual risk 242 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Risk management Risk management steering model Kesko’s risk management is proactive and an integral Board of Directors part of day-to-day management. The objective of risk Audit Committee management is to support the implementation of Kesko’s strategy. Risk management in Kesko Group is guided by the risk management policy confirmed by Kesko's Board of President and CEO Directors. The policy defines the goals and principles, organisation, responsibilities and practices of risk management in Kesko Group. In the management of financial risks, the Group's treasury policy, confirmed by Kesko's Board of Directors, is observed. Governance, Risk & Compliance Steering Group The management of business operations and common functions are responsible for the execution of risk management. In each division, the finance director is responsible for the execution of risk management. The Risk Management Steering Group risk management unit coordinates the risk management process and is responsible for risk reporting and executes risk identification, the determination of risk management responses and their implementation jointly with the businesses and common functions. Every member of Business risks (strategic, operational and financial risks) Kesko personnel must know and manage the risks in his/ her area of responsibility. Kesko Group applies a business-oriented and comprehensive approach to risk assessment and management. This means that key risks are identified, Building and Car trade assessed, managed, monitored and reported as part of Grocery trade technical trade business operations at Group, division, company and function levels throughout the Group. K IT / K Digital / Finance and Accounting / HR / K Communications / Public Affairs / Legal Affairs / Risk Management / Internal Audit 243 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko has a uniform risk assessment and reporting model. responses to them are reported to the Kesko Board's Focus areas for risk management in 2019 Risk identification is based on business objectives and Audit Committee in connection with reviewing the Focus areas for risk management include the opportunities and the defined risk appetite. Risks are interim reports, the half year financial report and the systematisation of cyber risk management and its prioritised on the basis of their significance by assessing financial statements. The Audit Committee also evaluates integration into the Group risk management steering their impacts in euros and the probability of their realisation. the efficiency of Kesko’s risk management system. model, enforcing risk management in operations outside When assessing the impact of realisation, the impacts on The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports on risk Finland, and improving the efficiency of processes reputation, the wellbeing of people and the environment are management to the Board of Directors as part of the Audit related to updates and changes to the Group’s insurance assessed in addition to the impacts in euros. Committee Report. coverage. The management of regulatory risks will be improved by developing Kesko’s compliance operations Risk identification and assessment play a key role in Kesko's Board reviews Kesko Group’s most significant with Group Legal Affairs. The development and assurance Kesko's strategy work and operations planning. In addition, risks and uncertainties. The Board reports on the most of the effectiveness of actions related to risk reduction risk assessments are made of significant projects related to significant risks and uncertainties to the market in the and determination will continue. Measures to improve capital expenditure, business arrangements or changes in Report by the Board of Directors and on material changes the cost-efficiency of security technology and services operations. The risk assessments of divisions and common in them in the half year financial report and the interim will continue through concentration of purchases. In functions that include a risk map, risk management reports. addition, the corporate security unit actively takes part in responses, responsible persons and schedules are the implementation of security arrangements on the new reviewed regularly by the respective division’s or common Risk management responses in 2018 K-Kampus. function’s management. In 2018, key focus areas for risk management were the development of a cyber risk management and the Risks and risk management responses are reported in implementation of related projects, as well as changes accordance with Kesko’s reporting responsibilities. The to insurance coverage based on Kesko’s analysed risk divisions and the common functions report on risks and tolerance. Kesko’s business continuity planning was changes in risks to the Group's risk management function. developed and updated continuity plans were tested in Risks are reviewed by the risk management steering business continuity and crisis management exercises. In group, which includes representatives of the divisions and corporate security, improvement of the cost-efficiency of the common functions. On that basis, the Group’s risk security technology and services continued through the management function prepares the Group’s risk report, concentration of purchases. Corporate security also strived which is reviewed by the Governance, Risk and Compliance to improve awareness of cyber security threats among (GRC) steering group, after which Kesko´s President and personnel members through spam and malware attacks CEO approves the risk report. simulated by service partners. Information security training was organised for the whole personnel. A positive trend The Group's risk map, the most significant risks and continued in terms of damage and there were no major uncertainties, as well as material changes in and individual instances of damage. 244 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Other information as necessary for added resources or for the purpose of conducting audit operations which require special related party transactions are not material to the Company and do not deviate from the Company’s normal business to be provided in expertise. Audits can also make use of the expertise and work contribution of Kesko Group's other specialists. operations and they have been made on market or market equivalent terms. the CG statement Internal audit operations in 2018 Main procedures relating to Key focus areas for internal audit in 2018 were the progress insider administration made in the implementation of Kesko’s strategies, and Internal audit projects and changes related to business operations, financial Kesko’s insider guidelines management, information security and data protection. Kesko complies with Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd’s guidelines Kesko's internal audit function is responsible for the for insiders in force at any given time. In addition, Kesko Group's independent evaluation and assurance function, Focus areas for internal audit in 2019 Corporation’s Board of Directors has confirmed specific which systematically examines and verifies the efficiency In 2019, key focus areas for internal audit will be the insider guidelines for the Company, complementing of risk management and the managing, control and progress made in the implementation of Kesko’s strategies, Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd’s guidelines for insiders. governance of risks, as required of a listed company. acquisitions and divestments made, projects related to The Audit Committee of Kesko's Board of Directors has IT and digitalisation, and the execution of data protection Closed period confirmed the operating instructions for Kesko's internal and information security and projects and changes related The closed period of 30 calendar days before the audit function. to those. publication of interim reports, the half year financial report and the financial statements release, as provided by the The internal audit function is organised under Kesko's Related party transactions Market Abuse Regulation (”MAR”), is applied to specific President and CEO and the Audit Committee, and it members of management at Kesko. During the closed reports on its findings and recommendations to the Audit According to the Corporate Governance Code, the period, the management is prohibited from trading in Committee, the President and CEO, the management Company shall evaluate and monitor transactions Kesko’s financial instruments. The Company has imposed of the audited operation, and the Auditor. The function concluded between the Company and its related parties a 30-day closed period preceding the quarterly financial covers all Kesko's divisions, companies and functions. and ensure that any conflicts of interest are taken into performance disclosures also on persons involved in Auditing is based on risk analyses, as well as risk account appropriately in the Company’s decision-making the preparation of Kesko’s interim reports, the half year management and control discussions conducted with the process. The Company shall keep a list of related parties. financial report and financial statements. Information on Group's and divisions' management. Meetings with the closed periods is provided annually on Kesko’s website and Auditor are arranged on a regular basis in order to ensure The Company shall report the decision-making procedure in a calendar release. sufficient audit coverage and to eliminate overlapping applied in connection with related party transactions that operations. are material to the Company and that either deviate from Management transactions the Company’s normal business operations or are not As the public insider register was discontinued, the An internal audit plan, subject to approval by the President made on market or market equivalent terms. Company’s obligation to disclose the transactions of the and CEO and the Audit Committee, is prepared annually. Company’s management and persons closely associated The audit plan is modified on a risk basis, if necessary. Kesko Group’s related party transactions are reported with them changed as of 3 July 2016. At Kesko, Kesko The internal audit function purchases external services in note 5.3 to the consolidated financial statements. The Corporation’s Board of Directors, the President and CEO 245 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 and other Group Management Board members have been Auditing Company’s financial statements and regularly reports on defined to be subject to the requirement to announce its findings to the Audit Committee of Kesko’s Board of their transactions. Transactions by Kesko’s management According to the Articles of Association, Kesko has one (1) Directors. The Annual General Meeting of 2018 elected and persons closely associated with them are disclosed in Auditor, which shall be an audit firm authorised by Finland Authorised Public Accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers accordance with MAR. Chamber of Commerce. The Audit Committee submits a Oy as the Company’s Auditor. The Auditor with principal proposal to the Annual General Meeting for the Company’s responsibility for the Company is APA Mikko Nieminen. Control and training Auditor. The Audit Committee also monitors and evaluates Kesko’s Legal Affairs Services controls compliance with the Auditor’s operations and services annually. The term During 2018, APA Mikko Nieminen acted as the Managing insider guidelines and maintains the Company’s insider of office of the Auditor is the Company’s financial year and Director of PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as well as the lists and a list of managers and persons closely associated the Auditor’s duties end at the close of the Annual General Auditor with principal responsibility for two listed Finnish with them. The duties of Kesko’s Legal Affairs Services in Meeting following the Auditor’s election. As a rule, an audit companies, Kesko Corporation and Finnair Plc. the area of insider administration include the following: company belonging to the same network of audit companies as the audit firm elected by Kesko’s General Meeting APA Mikko Nieminen has been the Auditor with principal • internal communication on insider matters as Auditor, will be elected as the Auditor of each of the responsibility for the Company since 13 April 2015. Group’s foreign subsidiaries. • training on insider matters The Annual General Meeting resolved that the Auditor's • drawing up and maintaining insider lists and submitting The Auditor provides Kesko’s shareholders with the fee is paid and expenses are reimbursed according to them on request to the Financial Supervisory Authority statutory Auditor’s Report in connection with the invoices approved by the Company. • ensuring that any person on the insider list acknowledges the duties entailed according to Article 18(2) of the Market Abuse Regulation Auditors’ fees in 2017–2018 (€1,000) • maintaining a list of management and persons 2018 2017 closely associated with them obligated to notify their Kesko Other Group Kesko Other Group transactions Corporation companies Total Corporation companies Total Auditing 273 619 892 309 671 980 • notifying management of their obligations under Article 19(5) of the Market Abuse Regulation Tax consultation 80 90 170 50 26 76 IFRS consultatiton 45 0 45 42 0 42 • controlling insider matters Other services 253 290 543 1,066 67 1,133 • keeping abreast of any changes to the regulation Total 651 999 1,650 1,476 764 2,231 concerning insider matters. 246 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2018 REMUNERATION STATEMENT 247 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Introduction regarding the remuneration of the President and CEO and the Group Management Board members responsible for 2018 resolved to change the remuneration structure of Board members so that approximately 30% of the annual lines of business. As for the other Group Management fees are paid in shares in the Company and the remainder Board members, Kesko's Board of Directors makes in cash. A Board member cannot transfer shares obtained This Remuneration Statement has been reviewed at decisions on the performance bonus principles and share as remuneration for Board work until either three years the meeting of the Remuneration Committee of Kesko awards. Other decisions regarding remuneration are made have passed from the day the member has received the Corporation’s Board of Directors on 5 February 2019. by the President and CEO, based on preparatory work by shares or until their membership on the Board has ended, the head of HR, within the limits set by the Chairman of the whichever comes first. The purpose of the change is to This is the Remuneration Statement in accordance with Board's Remuneration Committee. commit the Board members to the long-term development the Finnish Corporate Governance Code issued by the of the Company. Meeting fees are paid in cash. Daily Securities Market Association effective from 1 January The Board of Directors decides on the principles of Kesko’s allowances and the reimbursements of travel expenses 2016. This statement and the other information to be remuneration schemes and monitors the realisation of are paid to the Board members in accordance with the disclosed in accordance with the Corporate Governance the remuneration schemes of the President and CEO general travel rules of Kesko. Members of the Board do not Code are available on Kesko’s website at www.kesko.fi/ and the other Group Management Board members. The participate in the other remuneration schemes or pension en/investor/corporate-governance. Board also decides, within the limits of the authorisation plans of the Company. granted by the General Meeting, on the distribution of shares and terms and conditions thereof, under the President and CEO and Decision-making share compensation or share-based compensation schemes. Valid authorisations for the Board of Directors other Group Management Board procedure concerning concerning remuneration and their use are described in the Remuneration Report. General The remuneration scheme for the President and CEO and remuneration the other Group Management Board members consists of a fixed monetary salary (monthly salary), fringe benefits Main principles of (free car and mobile phone benefit), a performance bonus based on criteria decided annually (short-term incentive remuneration The Annual General Meeting decides on the remuneration and commitment scheme), a share compensation scheme and other financial benefits of the members of Kesko (long-term commitment and incentive scheme) and Corporation's (“Kesko”) Board of Directors and its Committees retirement benefits for management. In addition, a health annually. Significant shareholders prepare for the General insurance, life insurance and leisure travel insurance Meeting the proposals concerning the Board of Directors, Board of Directors have been taken out for President and CEO Helander. including the proposal for the number of Board members, Termination benefits have been agreed upon with the the proposal for the remuneration of the Board members, The remuneration of the members of the Board of President and CEO and the other Group Management and when necessary, the proposal for the Board members. Directors and its Committees comprises annual and Board members. meeting fees decided by the General Meeting. Previously, Based on the Remuneration Committee's preparatory fees to members of Kesko’s Board were paid in cash. The total remuneration for Kesko’s President and CEO work, Kesko's Board of Directors makes decisions However, Kesko’s Annual General Meeting of 11 April and the other Group Management Board members 248 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 is compared to that of similar positions in other large on the profit impact of their position, the maximum There is also a transitional Bridge Plan for 2017 and an companies in Finland. Remuneration elements are performance bonus corresponds to 33-50% of their RSP (Restricted Share Pool) plan for special situations. compared to those of peer companies to ensure the monetary salary for the calendar year, excluding fringe Share awards based on the plans are paid in Kesko B competitiveness and appropriateness of total remuneration benefits. When determining the performance bonus for shares. The recipient of the shares is free to use them once for each position. a Group Management Board member, monetary salary the commitment period of the share plan ends, provided for the calendar year is determined based on the fixed that the person is still employed by Kesko Group. Performance bonus scheme monetary salary of the last month of the calendar year (Short-term commitment and incentive scheme) the performance of which is the basis for the bonus. The purpose of the share-based compensation scheme is Kesko employs annually determined performance bonuses Performance bonuses are paid by the end of April, after to promote Kesko's business and increase the Company's for short-term remuneration. Kesko's Board of Directors the completion of the annual financial statements following value by aligning the objectives of the shareholders and makes decisions on performance bonus scheme criteria the year of determination. executives. The plan also aims to commit people to Kesko for management annually. One performance bonus criteria Group and give them the opportunity to receive Company for all Group Management Board members is the Group’s If exceptional events with significant impact on operations shares upon fulfilling the objectives set in the share-based comparable operating profit. The targets for Group take place during the financial year, or if the market compensation scheme. Management Board members responsible for divisions situation or the Company’s productivity trend so requires, stress the division’s comparable operating profit, return on the application, target setting and payment rules of the The maximum gross amount of share award paid for each capital employed (ROCE %) and business-specific sales or performance bonus scheme can be changed by a decision performance period is 400% of the monetary salary of the market share indicator. For the other Group Management by Kesko’s Board also in individual cases. last calendar year of the performance period for which the Board, members profit targets include the Group’s award is paid. return on capital employed (ROCE %) and the Group’s At its discretion, the Board may decide not to pay a sales target, in addition to the Group’s operating profit performance bonus, or decide to recover a bonus that has The primary share plan (PSP) consists of individual target. Each member of the Group Management Board already been paid, if the bonus recipient has been found annually commencing share plans, each with a two-year furthermore has individual targets. The performance guilty of malpractice or an action in breach of Kesko’s ethical performance period and a two-year commitment period bonus criteria and their weights vary depending on duties. or responsibility principles or guidance that, as a whole, following the payment of the potential share award. At least 70% of the performance bonus is tied to the cannot be considered insignificant, or if there are weighty Kesko’s Board decides annually whether to initiate a new fulfilment of financial targets. grounds for assuming that the recipient is guilty of such acts. plan. The PSP initiated at the start of 2018 consists of a two-year performance period (1 Jan. 2018–31 Dec. Kesko's Board and Remuneration Committee monitor Share-based commitment and incentive scheme 2019) followed by a two-year commitment period (1 Jan. and evaluate the fulfilment of the performance and profit (Long-term commitment and incentive scheme) 2020–10 Feb. 2022). During the commitment period, the criteria and their impact on the Company’s long-term In February 2017, Kesko’s Board of Directors decided on shares cannot be pledged or transferred, but the other financial success. a new long-term share-based commitment and incentive rights attached to the shares remain in force. If a person's scheme for top management and selected key persons. employment or service relationship terminates prior to The maximum performance bonus for Kesko's President The scheme consists of three share-based compensation the expiry of a commitment period, the person must, and CEO corresponds to 67% of his monetary salary plans, under which the Board can annually decide on the as a rule, return the shares under transfer restriction to for the calendar year, excluding fringe benefits. For the initiation of new share plans. The primary share-based Kesko or its designate for no consideration. In individual other Group Management Board members, depending compensation plan is the Performance Share Plan (PSP). cases, the Board may decide that the person can keep the 249 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 shares under return obligation, or some of them. If the Share plan Bridge Plan 2017 PSP 2017–2020 PSP 2018–2021 grantee retires during the commitment period, he/she is Number of participants in the beginning of the plan 140 140 130 entitled to keep the shares and other securities already Maximum number of gross B shares granted received. Kesko Group's tax free sales (%), Kesko Group's Total 340,000 340,000 340,000 comparable return on capital employed (ROCE,%) and the Allocated in the beginning of the plan absolute total shareholder return (TSR, %) of a Kesko B President and CEO 38,000 38,000 38,000 share are the performance criteria for the PSPs initiated in Other Group Management Board members 96,800 96,800 94,000 2017 and 2018. Actual earnings 46,7 %* 55,05%* The one-off transitional Bridge Plan for 2017 had a onePerformance period ends 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 year performance period (1 Jan. 2017 – 31 Dec. 2017) Shares transferred 2018 2019 2020 followed by a three-year commitment period (1 Jan. 2018 Commitment period ends 10 Feb. 2021 10 Feb. 2021 10 Feb. 2022 – 10 Feb. 2021). Apart from that, the rules of the plan are * For the Bridge Plan, the actual gross earning of B shares (amount of shares): total 133,751, the President and CEO 17,746, and other Group the same as for the PSP. The Bridge Plan aimed at covering Management Board 34,185. For PSP 2017-2020, the actual gross earning of B shares (amount of shares): total 142,850 the President and CEO the transitional phase from Kesko's previous long-term 20,919, and other Group Management Board 40,300. Gross earning means that the applicable withholding tax is deducted from the earnings, and commitment and incentive scheme, which was based on the remaining net amount is paid to the participants in shares. one-year performance periods, to the new commitment and incentive scheme adopted in 2017 with two-year Kesko's share-based compensation plans 2018 performance periods. PSP RSP (Restricted Share Pool) is a secondary share plan initiated 10/02/2021 in 2017 for special situations, to be decided upon separately. The 2017 plan consists of annually commencing individual share Bridge 10/02/2021 plans that each have a three-year commitment period, Plan after which the potentially promised share awards for an PSP individual plan will be paid to the participants, provided initiated 10/02/2022 that their employment or service relationship with Kesko in 2018 Group continues until the payment of the awards. 2017 initiated 15/03/2020 RSP In RSP plans, share promises have not been given to the 2018 President and CEO or the other Group Management initiated 15/03/2021 Board members. The maximum number of shares to be RSP granted is 20,000 shares in plans 2017 and 2018. The commitment period for the 2017 RSP will end on 15 March 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2020, and the commitment period for the 2018 RSP on 15 March 2021. Performance period Commitment period Share promise Free transferability of shares 250 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Kesko applies a share ownership recommendation amount of old-age pension is 66% of pensionable earnings old-age pension or some other pension, the executive is policy to the members of Kesko's Group Management for the ten (10) years preceding the retirement. Their paid, in addition to the salary for the period of notice, a Board. According to the recommendation, each Group supplementary pensions are determined based on the compensation corresponding to the combined amount of Management Board member shall maintain a holding of at rules of Kesko Pension Fund and their personal service 6-12 months' monetary salary and fringe benefits. least 50% of the net shares they have received under the contracts. Their supplementary pensions are based on a Company's share-based compensation schemes until their defined benefit plan. The old-age pensions of the other holding of Kesko shares corresponds to at least their fixed Group Management Board members are determined gross annual salary. based on the general provisions applicable to employees’ pensions in Finland (the Finnish Employees’ Pensions At its discretion, the Board may decide not to pay a Act, TyEL). In addition, they have a defined contribution performance bonus, or decide to recover a bonus that has supplementary pension. already been paid, if the bonus recipient has been found guilty of malpractice or an action in breach of Kesko’s Termination benefits ethical or responsibility principles or guidance that, as a whole, cannot be considered insignificant, or if there are Termination benefit for President and CEO weighty grounds for assuming that he/she is guilty of The period of notice for President and CEO Helander is such acts. twelve (12) months if the managing director’s service contract is terminated by the Company and six (6) Retirement benefits months if Helander resigns. If the Company terminates the contract for a reason other than a material breach Retirement benefits for President and CEO of contract by the President and CEO, and the President Old-age pension for the President and CEO begins at and CEO does not retire on an old-age pension or some 63 and the amount has been agreed to be 60% of the other pension, the President and CEO is paid, in addition President and CEO’s pensionable earnings in accordance to the salary for the period of notice, a compensation with the Finnish Employees' Pensions Act (TyEL) for the corresponding to the combined amount of 12 months' ten (10) calendar years preceding the retirement. The monetary salary and fringe benefits. pension is based on a defined benefit plan. Termination benefit for Group Retirement benefits for Group Management Board members other Management Board members other than the President and CEO than the President and CEO The period of notice for the other Group Management The old-age pension age for Group Management Board Board members is six (6) months if the service contract members is 63 years. is terminated by the Company, and six (6) months if the executive resigns. If the Company terminates the contract In 2018, four Group Management Board members were for a reason other than a material breach of contract by members of Kesko Pension Fund (three in 2017). Their the executive, and the executive does not retire on an 251 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Remuneration report This remuneration report provides information on the Annual remuneration to Board members (€) remuneration and other financial benefits paid to members 2018 2017 of the Board of Directors, the President and CEO and the Chair 97,000 80,000 other members of Group Management Board during the Deputy Chair 60,000 50,000 financial year 2018. Fees paid during the 2017 financial Member 45,000 37,000 year are presented as comparison data. Board member who is the Audit Committee Chair 60,000 Board of Directors and its Committees The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved to change Meeting fees / meeting (€) the remuneration structure of Board members so that 2018 2017 approximately 30% of the annual fees will be paid in Board meeting B series shares in the Company. After the transfer of Chair 1,000 500 shares, the remaining remuneration amount is paid in cash. Member 500 500 A Board member cannot transfer shares obtained in this Committee meeting manner until either three years have passed from the day the member has received the shares or their membership Committee Chair who is not the Chair or 1,000 1,000 Deputy Chair of the Board on the Board has ended, whichever comes first. The Member 500 500 purpose of the change is to commit the Board members to the long-term development of the Company. Meeting fees are paid in cash. Previously, fees to Board members were paid in cash in their entirety. Members of the Board do not have share compensation schemes nor do they participate in the Company’s other remuneration schemes or pension plans. The Annual General Meeting also decided to raise the Board’s annual fees, which had been unchanged since 2009. Daily allowances and the reimbursements of travel expenses are paid to the Board members in accordance with the general travel rules of Kesko. 252 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Annual remuneration and meeting fees paid to Board members for Board and Committee work in 2018* Annual remuneration, € Meeting fees, € Number of B shares transferred based on Board term Board term Audit Remuneration the annual remuneration 2017-2018 2018-2019 Board Committee Committee Total, € 2018-2019**** Kesko shares held on 31 Dec. 2018 Esa Kiiskinen (chairman) 20,000 97,000 8,000 1,500 126,500 673 1,350 A shares held by him 106 000 A shares held by entities controlled by him 673 B shares held by him Peter Fagernäs 60,000 3000 63,000 417 1, 000 A shares held by him (dep. ch.)** 417 B shares held by him Jannica Fagerholm 9,250 60,000 5,000 5,000 79,250 417 1,417 B shares held by her Piia Karhu** 45,000 3,000 1,500 49,500 313 313 B shares held by her Matti Kyytsönen 9,250 45,000 5,000 2,500 61,750 313 1,308 B shares held by him Matti Naumanen 9,250 45,000 5,000 59,250 313 2,400 A shares held by him 17,664 A shares held by entities controlled by him 313 B shares held by him Toni Pokela 9,250 45,000 5,000 59,250 313 179,400 A shares held by entities controlled by him 313 B shares held by him Mikael Aro (dep. ch.)*** 12,500 2,000 1,000 1,500 17,000 Anu Nissinen*** 9,250 2,000 1,500 12,750 Total 78,750 397,000 38,000 10,000 4,500 528,250 2,759 * Reported on a cash basis ** Board member since 11 April 2018 *** Board member until 11 April 2018 **** Kesko treasury shares' transfer date 27 April 2018 253 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 President and CEO Salaries, bonuses and fringe and retirement Salaries, bonuses and fringe benefits Mikko Helander has been the Company’s President and benefits for the President and CEO for Group Management Board members CEO and the Chairman of the Group Management Board Description 2018 2017 other than President and CEO since 1 January 2015. Remuneration for the President and Fixed monetary salary €952,500 €934,500 Description 2018 2017 CEO is based on the managing director's service contract Performance bonus €450,000 €490,000 Fixed monetary salary €1,963,590 €2,153,076 approved by the Company’s Board, in line with the Board Performance bonus €417,400 €353,375 Share awards* €868,998 €1,398,030 decisions prepared by the Remuneration Committee. Share awards* €1,673,996 €3,528,362 Car and mobile phone benefits €28,158 €26,907 Car and mobile phone benefits €133,582 €150,334 Total: €2,299,656 €2,849,437 Other Group Management Board members Total: €4,188,568 €6,185,147 In addition to President and CEO Helander, the Group Paid in supplementary pension plan €1,350,000 €1,350,000 Management Board members in 2018 were: *The euro value of the share awards has been calculated using the *The euro value of the share awards has been calculated using the trade-weighted average share price of the dates of assignment, trade-weighted average share price of the dates of assignment, • Jorma Rauhala, President, building and technical trade 15 March 2018 and 15 March 2017. The euro values of the share 15 March 2018 and 15 March 2017. The euro values of the share division, Deputy to the President and CEO awards are gross amounts, from which the applicable withholding tax awards are gross amounts, from which the applicable withholding tax has been deducted and the remaining net amount has been paid in has been deducted and the remaining net amount has been paid in • Ari Akseli, President, grocery trade division shares. Net amount of transferred Kesko B shares was 8,873 shares shares. Net amount of transferred Kesko B shares was 17,095 shares in 2018 and 34,470 shares in 2017. in 2018 and 16,086 shares in 2017. • Johan Friman, President of K Auto Oy • Jukka Erlund, EVP, Chief Financial Officer • Mika Majoinen, EVP, Group General Counsel Shareholdings of President and CEO and other Group Management Board members • Matti Mettälä, EVP, Human Resources, Corporate Kesko shares held on 31 Dec. 2018 Kesko shares held on 31 Dec. 2017 Responsibility and Regional Relations Mikko Helander, President and CEO 44,964 B shares held by him 36,091 B shares held by him Jorma Rauhala, President, building and technical trade 24,300 B shares held by him 20,564 B shares held by him • Anni Ronkainen, EVP, Chief Digital Officer division, Deputy CEO Ari Akseli, President, grocery trade division 8,596 B shares and 81 A shares held by him 7,568 B shares and 81 A shares held by him Johan Friman, President of K Auto Oy 3,363 B shares held by him None Jukka Erlund, EVP, Chief Financial Officer 20,203 B shares held by him 16,840 B shares held by him Mika Majoinen, EVP, Group General Counsel 11,070 B shares held by him * Matti Mettälä, EVP, Human Resources, Corporate 12,884 B shares held by him 10,782 B shares held by him Responsibility and Regional Relations Anni Ronkainen, Executive Vice President, 8,602 B shares held by her 6,500 B shares held by her Chief Digital Officer * Group Management Board member since 1 Jan. 2018 254 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Valid authorisations for the Board of Directors were returned to the Company during 2017 and 7,211 in to finance possible acquisitions, capital expenditure and/ concerning remuneration and their use 2018 in accordance with the terms and conditions of the or other arrangements within the scope of the Company's Kesko’s Annual General Meeting of 4 April 2016 share-based compensation scheme. The returns during business operations, and to implement the Company's authorised the Company’s Board to decide on the transfer 2018 were communicated in stock exchange releases on commitment and incentive scheme for management and of a total maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares held 28 February 2018, 30 July 2018, and 7 September 2018. other personnel. The Board will make decisions concerning by the Company as treasury shares (2016 Share issue any other issues related to the acquisition of B shares. The authorisation). Based on the authorisation, shares can The Board decided to implement the resolution made authorisation is valid until 30 September 2019. also be issued in a directed issue, departing from the by the Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018 to pay shareholder's pre-emptive right, for a weighty financial approximately 30% portion of the annual fees of Board On 24 April 2018, Kesko’s Board decided, based on the reason for the Company, such as implementing the members in B shares in the Company, by using the 2016 2018 Authorisation to acquire own shares, to acquire Company's commitment and incentive scheme. Shares share issue authorisation to transfer 2,759 Kesko B shares B series shares in Kesko Corporation, and established can be issued either against or without payment. A share held by the Company as treasury shares to the members a share buy-back programme for the purpose (stock issue can only be without payment if the Company, taking of the Board. In line with the resolution of the Annual exchange release 25 April 2018). Under the share buyinto account the best interests of all of its shareholders, General Meeting, the number of shares corresponded back programme, Kesko acquired 500,000 of its own B has a particularly weighty financial reason for it. The to approximately 30% of the annual fees for each Board series shares to implement the commitment and incentive authorisation also includes the Board's authority to make member, calculated on the closing price of the share on the scheme for management and personnel (stock exchange decisions concerning any other matters related to the date of the Board’s meeting 24 April 2018. The decision release 21 May 2018). share issues. The authorisation is valid until 30 June 2020. was communicated in a stock exchange release issued on 25 April 2018, and the transfer of shares in a stock Based on the 2016 Share issue authorisation, the Board exchange release issued on 27 April 2018. decided to transfer own B shares held by the Company as treasury shares. Consequently, 65,652 shares were The Annual General Meeting of 11 April 2018 approved transferred on 15 March 2018, 351 shares on 5 April the Board's proposal for its authorisation to decide 2018, and 187 shares on 1 June 2018 to members of on the acquisition of a maximum of 1,000,000 of management and key personnel included in the target the Company’s own B shares (2018 Authorisation to group for the 2017 performance period of the transitional acquire own shares). The B shares will be acquired with share-based commitment and incentive plan (Bridge Plan) the Company's distributable unrestricted equity, not in (stock exchange releases 1 February 2018, 15 March proportion to the shareholdings of shareholders, at the 2018, 5 April 2018 and 1 June 2018). Based on the 2016 market price quoted in public trading organised by Nasdaq Share issue authorisation, in 2017 the Board granted a Helsinki Ltd ( the exchange ) at the time of acquisition. total of 192,822 Kesko B shares held by the Company as The shares will be acquired and paid for in accordance treasury shares to persons included in the target group with the rules of the exchange. The acquisition of own for the 2016 performance period of Kesko's share-based shares reduces the amount of the Company's distributable compensation scheme 2014-2016 (stock exchange release unrestricted equity. The B shares will be acquired for use 15 March 2017). Of the shares granted, 9,850 shares in the development of the Company's capital structure, 255 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Board of Directors Esa Peter Kiiskinen Fagernäs Chair Deputy Chair (Chair of the (Deputy Chair of Remuneration the Remuneration Committee) Committee) b. 1963, Business b. 1952, College Graduate. Master of Laws. Independence: He is considered by the Board Retail Trade: Chair of the Board 2008–2012; Saija ja Independence: He is considered by the Board to be Main positions of trust: Oy Hermitage Ab: not to be independent of the Company (chain Esa Kiiskinen Oy: Chair of the Board 1995–; Finnish independent of the Company and of its significant Chairman of the Board 2003–, Taaleri Plc: agreement) but to be independent of its significant Commerce Federation: member of the Board shareholders. Chairman of the Board 2007–, Amanda Capital shareholders. 2008–2012; K-Retailers' Association: Chair of the Plc: member of the Board 2007–2011, Winpak Board 2008–2012; Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Ltd: member of the Board 2006–2011, Fortum Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Oy: member of the Board 2008–2012. Corporation: Chairman of the Board 2004–2009. Principal occupation: Chairman of the Board Principal occupation: Food retailer. Board member since: 30 March 2009. Board member since: 11 April 2018. Main employment history: Hermitage & Co Main employment history: K-food retailer Kesko shares held: Oy: Chairman of the Board 2003–, Pohjola Kesko shares held: since 1990. Group Plc: Chairman of the Board 2001–2003, • 31 December 2017: a total of 107,350 A shares Conventum Ltd: CEO 1996-1999 and Chairman of • 8 January 2018: None. Main positions of trust: Taaleri Plc: member of the held by him and entities controlled by him. the Board 1999–2002, Merita Bank Ltd: member • 31 December 2018: 417 B shares and 1,000 A Board 2014–; Confederation of Finnish Industries of management board 1995–1996, Prospectus • 31 December 2018: a total of 673 B shares held shares held by him. EK: Chair of the Delegation for Entrepreneurs Ltd: CEO 1993–1995, Kansallis-Osake-Pankki: 2012–2014; Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: by him and a total of 107,350 A shares held by him and entities controlled by him. 1977–1993. Vice-Chair of the Board 2012–2014; Finnish Family Firms Association: member of the Board 2011– 2012; The Foundation for Vocational Training in the 256 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Jannica Piia Fagerholm Karhu (Chair of the Audit (member of the Audit Committee) Committee) b. 1961, Master of b. 1976, Doctor of Science (Economics). Science, Economics and Business Administration. Independence: She is considered by the Board Supervisory Board 2010–; The Society of Swedish Independence: She is considered by the Board Main positions of trust: Finnair Kitchen Ltd: to be independent of the Company and of its Literature in Finland, member of the Board 2015–, to be independent of the Company and of its Chairman of the Board 2017–, Finnair Travel significant shareholders. member of the Financial Board 2001-2015; Eira significant shareholders. Retail Oy: Chairman of the Board 2016–, SMT Oy: Hospital Ltd: member of the Board 2010–; Hanken member of the Board 2015–2016, Finnair Aircraft Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. School of Economics: member of the Board 2008–; Domicile: Kauniainen, Finland. Finance Ltd: member of the Board 2015–2016. Principal occupation: Managing Director. Aktia Abp: member of the Board 2012–2013; Principal occupation: Senior Vice President Partiosäätiö foundation: member of the Board Board member since: 11 April 2018. Main employment history: Signe and Ane 1997–2013. Main employment history: Finnair Plc: Senior Kesko shares held: Gyllenberg Foundation: Managing Director 2010-; Vice President, Customer Experience and member SEB Gyllenberg Private Bank: Managing Director Board member since: 4 April 2016. of the Executive of Executive Board since 2016. • 4 January 2018: None 1999-2010; Handelsbanken Liv Finland: Country Kesko shares held: Various leadership positions at Finnair Plc since • 31 December 2018: 313 B shares held by her. Director 1998-1999. 2013. Previously worked as a management • 31 December 2017: None. consultant for 12 years at Ernst & Young and Main positions of trust: Sampo plc: member of Capgemini. • 31 December 2018: 1,417 B shares held by her. the Board 2013–; Teleste Corporation: member of the Board 2013–; Kelonia Ab, member of the Board 2010–; Veritas Pension Insurance, member of the 257 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Matti Matti Kyytsönen Naumanen (Deputy Chair of the b. 1957, Audit Committee, trade technician. member of the Remuneration Committee) b. 1949, Master of Science (Economics). Independence: He is considered by the Board to be KP Tekno Oy: member of the Board 2006–; Port of Independence: He is considered by the Board Board member since: 4 April 2016. independent of the Company and of its significant Helsinki Ltd: member of the Board 2015–; Esperi not to be independent of the Company (entity shareholders. Care Oy: member of the Board 2008–2016; Oy controlled by him has a chain agreement with a Kesko shares held: Center–Inn Ab: member of the Board 2007–2012; Kesko Group company) but to be independent of • 31 December 2017: a total of 20,064 A shares Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Kiinteistöpalvelut ry: Chair of the Board 1996–2001 its significant shareholders. held by him and entities controlled by him. Principal occupation: Silverback Consulting Oy: and 2005–2006; Palvelutyönantajat ry: member Domicile: Joensuu, Finland. • 31 December 2018: a total of 313 B shares held Chair of the Board. of the Board 1996–2001; Confederation of Finnish by him and a total of 20,064 A shares held by Industries (EK): member of the Board 2005–2006; Principal occupation: Retailer. Main employment history: ISS Palvelut Oy: him and entities controlled by him. The Unemployment Insurance Fund: member and Managing Director 1992–2006; Esselte Oy: Chair of the Supervisory Board 1999–2006; Varma Main employment history: K-retailer since 1982. Managing Director 1984–1992; Oy Perkko: Mutual Pension Insurance Company: member of Managing Director 1983–1984; Tietoura–Yhtiöt Main positions of trust: The K-Retailers’ the Supervisory Board 1998–2006. Oy: Marketing Director 1981–1983; Oy Foto– Association’s Agricultural and Building and Nyblin Ab: Finance and Marketing Manager Board member since: 13 April 2015. Home Improvement Retailers’ Club: Chair of the 1977–1981; Insinööritoimisto Oy Vesto: Accounting Board 2009–2016. Former positions of trust: The Kesko shares held: K-Retailers’ Association: member of the Board Manager 1974–1976; Oy Mobil Oil Ab: Financial Analyst 1973–1974. • 31 December 2017: 995 Kesko B shares held by 2009–2016; registered association Nurmeksen him. Yrittäjät: Chair of the Board; registered association Main positions of trust: Eltel AB: member of the Joensuun Yrittäjät: Chair of the Board. • 31 December 2018: 1,308 Kesko B shares held Board 2007–2017; Lindström Invest Oy: member of the Board 2009– and Chair of the Board 2017–; by him. 258 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Toni Pokela b. 1973, Retailer, EMBA. Independence: He is considered by the Board 2017–; K-Retailers' Association: Chair of the not to be independent of the Company (chain Board 2016–, member of the Board 2008–2012; agreement) and of significant shareholders (Chair Chairman of the Finnish Tennis Federation 2017–, of the Board of a significant Company shareholder, board member of the Finnish Tennis Federation the K-Retailers’ Association). 2014–2016; K-instituutti Oy: Deputy Chair of the Board 2010–2012; Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy: Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. member of the Board 2010–2012; K-Food Retailers' Principal occupation: Food retailer. Club: Chair of the Board 2010–2012; Deputy Chair 2008–2010; Finnish Grocery Trade Association: Main employment history: K-food retailer since member of the Board 2010–2011. 1997. Board member since: 16 April 2012. Main positions of trust: Pokela Oy Iso Omena: member of the Board and Managing Director Kesko shares held: 1998–; Iso Omenan Yrittäjäyhdistys ry: Chair of the • 31 December 2017: a total of 179,400 A shares Board 2003–; Foundation for Vocational Training in held by entities controlled by him. the Retail Trade: Chair of the Board 2016–; Finnish • 31 December 2018: a total of 313 B shares held Commerce Federation: member of the Board 2017– ; Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: member by him and a total of 179,400 A shares held by of the Skilled Workforce Committee 2014–2016, entities controlled by him. member of the Delegation for Entrepreneurs 259 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Group Management Board Mikko Jorma Helander Rauhala President and CEO President, building and technical trade, b. 1960, Vuorineuvos Deputy to Kesko’s (an honorary title President and CEO. granted by the President of the b. 1965, Master of Republic of Finland), Science (Economics). Master of Science (Technology). Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Employment history: employed by Kesko Domicile: Espoo, Finland. Member of the Group Management Board since: Corporation since 2014. Kesko Corporation's 5 February 2013. Other major duties: Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Managing Director and Kesko Group's President Other major duties: The Finnish Grocery Trade Insurance Company: Chair of the Board 2016– and CEO since 1 January 2015. Kesko Corporation's Association: Chair of the Board 2017 (until Kesko shares held: and member of the Board 2015– ; Confederation Executive Vice President 2014. Metsä Board 20.11.2017) and 2013-2014; member of the Board • 31 December 2017: 20,564 B shares. of Finnish Industries EK: member of the Board Corporation: Chief Executive Officer 2006–2014; 2013-2016; the Association of Finnish Advertisers: 2016– and Deputy Chair of the Board 2016 and member of the Board 2014-2017 (until 24.11.2017). • 31 December 2018: 24,300 B shares. Metsä Tissue Corporation: Chief Executive Officer 2019–; Finnish Commerce Federation: Chair of the 2003–2006; Various management positions at Board 2018–, member of the Board 2015–2017 and Employment history: employed by Kesko Valmet Corporation between 1993 and 2003; Corporation since 1992. President of Kesko’s Deputy Chair of the Board 2015; Finland Chamber Managing Director of Kasten Hövik 1990–1993. of Commerce: member of the Board 2016–; Finnish building and technical trade since 15 November Business and Policy Forum EVA: member 2015–; Member of the Group Management Board since: 2017. Senior Vice President, grocery trade division Finnish Fair Corporation: Board member 2015–; 1 October 2014. 2015–2017. President of Kesko Food Ltd 2013–2017. East Office of Finnish Industries Oy: member of the Vice President for the K-citymarket chain's food Board 2015–2018. Kesko shares held: trade 2012–2013; Managing Director of Kespro Ltd 2007–2012; Purchasing Director of Kespro Ltd • 31 December 2017: 36,091 B shares. 2003–2007. • 31 December 2018: 44,964 B shares. 260 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Ari Johan Akseli Friman President, President, car trade. grocery trade. b. 1965, Master of b. 1972, Master of Science (Economics). Science (Economics). Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Member of the Group Management Board since: Domicile: Espoo, Finland. 1995–1997 and Marketing Director of the importer 15 November 2017. 1995; Bilia Oy: Sales Manager, Dealer Manager and Other major duties: The Finnish Grocery Trade Other major duties: Association of Automobile Fleet sales 1991–1994. Association: Member of the Board 2019–, Chair Kesko shares held: Importers in Finland: member of the Board 2017–; of the Board 20.11.2017–31.12.2018, AMS Advisor LeasePlan Belgium: member of the Board 2010– Member of the Group Management Board since: • 31 December 2017: 81 A shares, 7,568 B shares. Board: member 2013–; IGS Advisor Board: 2016; LeasePlan Denmark: member of the Board 1 January 2017. member 2016– ; Ruokatieto: Vice Chairman of the • 31 December 2018: 81 A shares, 8,596 B shares. 2011–2016; VMF Verband markenunabhängiger Board 2016–, member of the Board 2013–2015; Fuhrparkmanagementgesellschaften, Kesko shares held: Association for Finnish Work: member of the Deutschland: member of the Board 2006–2016. • 31 December 2017: No shares. Executive Committee 2014–. Employment history: employed by Kesko • 31 December 2018: 3,363 B shares. Employment history: Employed by Kesko Corporation since 2017. Senior Vice President, Corporation since 1995. President of Kesko’s car trade division since 1 January 2017. LeasePlan grocery trade division since 15 November 2017. Deutschland GmbH: Managing Director Vice President for Commerce, Kesko’s grocery 2006–2016; LeasePlan Finland Oy: Managing trade 2013–2017; President, Anttila Oy 2010–2013; Director 1997–2006; Inchcape Motors Finland President, K-citymarket Oy 2008–2013. Oy: Managing Director of the Retail business 261 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Jukka Matti Erlund Mettälä Executive Vice Executive Vice President, CFO. President, Human Resources, Corporate b. 1974, Master of Responsibility and Science (Economics), Regional Relations. eMBA. b. 1963, Master of Laws. Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Member of the Group Management Board since: Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Director 2001–2002; Builders’ and Agricultural 1 November 2011. Supplies Division: Project Manager 1999–2000; Other major duties: Finnish Commerce Other major duties: Unemployment Insurance Kesko Hardware and Builders’ Supplies: Vice Federation: Chair of the Tax and Economic Policy Kesko shares held: Fund (TVR): member of the Supervisory Board President for the Rautia chain 1998–1999; Builders’ Committee 2011–; Confederation of Finnish 2018–; Huoltoupseeriyhdistys ry: member of and Agricultural Supplies Division: Retail Services • 31 December 2017: 16,840 B shares. Industries EK: member of the Economy and Tax delegation 2013–; Foundation for Vocational Manager 1996–1998; Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy: Committee 2012–; Suomen Luotto–osuuskunta: • 31 December 2018: 20,203 B shares. Training in the Retail Trade: member of the Board Retail Services Manager 1994–1996; Kesko Ltd's member of the Board 2012–; Varma Mutual Pension 2005–. Credit Department: Credit Manager 1991–1992; Insurance Company: member of the Supervisory Kesko Ltd's Credit Department: Legal Counsel Board 2018–. Employment history: employed by Kesko Corporation 1990–2005 and since 2012. Executive 1990–1991. Employment history: employed by Kesko Vice President, Human Resources, Corporate Member of the Group Management Board since: Corporation since 2004. Senior Vice President, Responsibility and Regional Relations as of 1 1 October 2012. CFO since 1 November 2011. Kesko Food Ltd's January 2018. Senior Vice President, Human Vice President for Finance 2010–2011; Kesko Resources 2015–2017. Senior Vice President, Kesko shares held: Corporation's Vice President, Corporate Controller Human Resources and Stakeholder Relations • 31 December 2017: 10,782 B shares. 2007–2010; Kesko Corporation's Corporate 2012–2014. K–retailers' Association: Managing Business Controller 2004–2007. Director 2005–2012; Kesko Hardware and • 31 December 2018: 12,884 B shares. Builders’ Supplies: Vice President for Finance 2002–2005; Rautakesko Ltd: Development 262 KESKO'S DIRECTION SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIALS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE KESKO'S YEAR 2018 Mika Anni Majoinen Ronkainen Executive Vice Executive Vice President, Group President, Chief General Counsel. Digital Officer. b. 1963, b. 1966, Master of Master of Laws. Science (Economics). Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Member of the Group Management Board since: Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Employment history: employed by Kesko 1 January 2018. Corporation since 2015. Chief Digital Officer as Other major duties: ICC: member of the Advisory Other major duties: Fennia Mutual Insurance from 20 April 2015. Google Finland Ltd: Country Board 2019-, Finnish Commerce Federation: Kesko shares held: Company: member of the Board 2019–; Invesdor Manager Finland 2009–2015; Industry Head, member of the Legal Affairs Committee 2018–, Oy: member of the Board 2018–; Finnish Chamber Multi–sector 2008–2009; McCann Worldgroup • 1 January 2018: 9,669 B shares. Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: member of of Commerce: Chairman of the start–up committee Helsinki Oy: CEO 2006–2008; Satama Finland Oy: the Legal Affairs Committee 2018–. • 31 December 2018: 11,070 B shares. 2018–, The Association of Finnish Advertisers: Business Group Director 2001–2006. member of the Board 2018; Business Finland: Employment history: Employed by Kesko member of the Digital Advisory Board 2017–; Member of the Group Management Board since: Corporation since 1990. Group General Counsel as Asiakastieto Group Plc: member of the Board 20 April 2015. of 1 January 2018. Executive Vice President, Group 2015–; Nordic Morning Plc: member of the Board General Counsel, Company Secretary for Kesko’s 2015–; Robit Plc: member of the Board 2015–2017; Kesko shares held: Board of Directors and Group Management Sunduka Ltd: member of the Board 2015–2017; • 31 December 2017: 6,500 B shares. Board 2005–2017, division lawyer for Rautakesko Institute of Marketing: member of the Board Ltd 2001–2005, lawyer for the Builders’ and • 31 December 2018: 8,602 B shares. 2010–2015; the American Chamber of Commerce Agricultural Supplies Division 1998–2001, in Finland (AmCham Finland): member of the Board development manager at Kesko Corporation’s 2011–2015; Marketing Executives Group: member Legal Affairs Department 1996–1998, lawyer at of the Board 2009–2011. Kesko Corporation’s Legal Affairs Department 1990–1996. 263
