June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 About Tiny Giants Tiny Giants is a 3D communication studio based in Enschede (Netherlands) that empowers brands with animations, concept visualisation and storytelling. Too often when good ideas are brought into the world they get lost in translation; whether from one domain to another or from designer to customer. With our passion for 3D, we aspire to create a meaningful impact on how society visually communicates and educates, helping the right values to reach their audience. We try to achieve this with modelling, creating animations, and using new media to tell your stories and empower your brand. We emphasise on experience; by combining creativity, the right skill-sets and a little bit of homework, a suitable atmosphere can be created for your particular audience. We dream to innovate visual communication and strive to collaborate on a personal level. Our initiative to team up with other creative entities helps us to show core values in the right light. The achievements of Tiny Giants range from conceptualisation to realisation, empowering organisations and corporates, as well as experiences in the fields of art and music. Our cultural diversity and open mind-set allow us to successfully reach our goal together. +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 Two years ago, we joined the United Nations Global Compact. Our team consists of young, ambitious individuals with multicultural backgrounds. We were introduced to the UN Global Compact by a partner of ours who is a member of the UN GC. Their strong belief in the importance of this movement for creating a better future together helped us clearly see the similarities between our vision and the vision of the UN GC. “Too often when good ideas are brought into the world they get lost in translation; whether from one domain to another or from designer to customer.” We believe that this same obstacle creates miscommunication when communicating the Global Sustainable Development Goals between nations, cultures and religions. Helping different parties from UN GC to communicate with one another could help overcome this in order to support the “2030 Development Agenda”. Not only is it an issue within the UN GC communication but also society needs to be more aware of the importance of big institutions and organizations working together to achieve united goals. This mindset and our passion for visual communication motivate us to be a valuable addition to the United Nations Global Compact. Since our participation as a UN GC member we have been giving our best to not just experience an overwhelming first year running Tiny Giants, but also in parallel our first year in the UN GC network. We are proud of our achievements so far and as our Chief Executive Sebastian Helmig is confirming in his following statement, we just got started and will continue our support! STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 14th of June 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Tiny Giants reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Sebastian Helmig CEO, Tiny Giants +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 Description of Action #1 Supported STG’s: supporting all STG’s through increasing awareness Project: Dynamics of Inclusive Prosperity https://www.eur.nl/onderzoek/erasmus-initiatives/dynamics-inclusive-prosperity The Erasmus Initiative ‘Dynamics of Inclusive Prosperity’ focuses on enabling as many people as possible to benefit from increasing prosperity, whilst minimizing the negative consequences. Increased prosperity requires constant coordination of the changing needs and values of governments, businesses, citizens and entrepreneurs. In order to chart this dynamic field, scholars from Erasmus School of Law, Rotterdam School of Management and the Erasmus School of Philosophy are entering into a multidisciplinary partnership. Greater prosperity increases stability within a society. Wealthy countries generally have a high level of social security, good quality health care, good education and offer numerous opportunities for personal development. At the same time, growing prosperity also results in abuse, environmental degradation and social crises. All over the world, social inequality and youth unemployment are rising and women are paid less than men for the same jobs. Global phenomena – such as the emergence of the sharing economy with companies like Airbnb and Uber, the aftermath of the financial crises and tax evasion by large companies – create a whole series of new business, philosophical and legal questions. With the shift in roles and responsibilities within the public and private domains, the traditional image of a regulatory government facing an innovative industry seems less and less accurate. The Support of Tiny Giants: Tiny Giant Co-Founder Arian Hohmann was invited as a special guest to the conference to share his creative point of view on how to achieve inclusive prosperity using visual imagery. He left with an important message for 2019: +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 “This is me as Tiny Giants and Young Professional of Global Compact Network Netherlands next to Lise Kingo CEO & Executive Director, United Nations Global Compact and Frans van Houten CEO at Royal Philips. What we were doing is rounding up the first conference day at Dynamics of Inclusive Prosperity working on sustainable prosperity organized by the Erasmus University Rotterdam Rotterdam and World Economic Forum by simply letting our creativity flow and speak like normal people, personal and honest to ourselves. The combination of world-leading CEOs and educational institutes including their students finally allowed cut the bulls**t discussions and highlighted how every one of us can activate inclusive prosperity with the right balance of empathy and self-reflection. I took that mindset with me into 2019, focusing on the fact that despite your titles and positions we all have the potential and magic to make a truly good change in our world. I continue embracing the acceptance that it all starts with wanting to achieve for others around you what you want to achieve for yourself! The #1 mindset to success! Please look back at your January. How many of your new goals include the prosperity of others? Arian Hohmann +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 Description of Action #2 Supported STG’s: Project: Solar Boat Twente Partnership https://www.solarboattwente.nl/partners/ Having developed their very own electric boat Solar Team Twente is encouraging young generations to innovate towards a sustainable future for us all Solar Boat Twente encourages environmental awareness by the application of renewable energy in the maritime sector. The coming year a multidisciplinary team of dedicated and +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 enthusiastic students will focus on building a reliable solar boat. By pushing the limits of technological innovation, the team embraces a great challenge: designing and building the motorboat of tomorrow. We will participate in the Monaco Solar Boat Challenge in 2019. The Support of Tiny Giants: “Invest into a more sustainable future with everything you got! Money? Services? Simply like and share sustainable stories? Pick the maximum contribution you can provide! It should be just as important as your corporate vision!” – Tiny Giants We at Tiny Giants know that especially today's young minds and their initiatives deserve our attention when it comes to shaping the future! As their design partner, Tiny Giants supported Solar Boat Twente by supplying them with all necessary visual communication assets to communicate their mission and attract more support and partnerships. The Tiny Giants Co-Founders being proud of having supported this movement Description of Action #3 Supported STG’s: Project: DGTL and Apenkooi Events, The Food Line Up and Instock Collaboration +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 https://dgtl.nl/sustainability DGTL is highly aware of its environmental impacts and has one very clear goal; to become the world’s first circular festival in 2020. To meet this goal, the festival fundamentally redesigns its event. All year round, DGTL searches for the latest technological breakthroughs and innovations to close material loops, eliminate CO2 emissions and increase environmental awareness. In 2019, the festival refined some of its circular best-practices of 2018, while also kicking off new sustainability projects. CIRCULAR FOODCOURT 3.0 An annually, 1.3 billion tons of food is lost or wasted, which comes down to about ⅓ of all food produced for human consumption. This year, DGTL changed the narrative by taking their sustainability efforts outside the boarders of DGTL festival. Together with The Food Line Up and Instock, DGTL has worked out a blueprint for a circular food system at the festival. Instead of basing our menu on what visitors want to eat, we created a menu based on food surplus waste. By using “imperfect food” from local suppliers we will be closing local food loops. This means that this year, they will be cooking with food that has been thrown away and prepare the dishes according to circular principles. The Support of Tiny Giants: In collaboration with DGTL winner of the International Greener Festival Award and Apenkooi Events Amsterdam we produced appealing videos to increase awareness of food waste and show with DGTL how to set an example in taking responsibility and the right initiative when serving sustainable food to visitors of their event. +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 Impressions of the Tiny Giants production that supports this collaboration: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=01Gg_uW_7XA Description of Action #4 Supported STG’s: supporting all STG’s through increasing awareness Project: Social Impact Day Twente Partnership https://socialimpactdaytwente.nl/ +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 The Support of Tiny Giants: During the event the following was said on stage: ‘It is not just all about earning money, it is also about the question: will society become morally better and cleaner with it?' This question should be the first question in any decision taken by any industry that impacts our world today and tomorrow. Tiny Giants is proud of having contributed as a visual partner to the Social Impact Day Twente. ‘We just started’ Tiny Giants consist of a team with less than 20 members and purely works in the digital domain. Our team exists for just 3.5 years and therefore still needs to grow and tackle the following targets with a positive incentive for the future: Human Rights • Keep on ensuring workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary working conditions • Keep on protecting workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats • Take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products. • Not participating in any form of forced or bonded labour • Complying with minimum wage standards • Ensuring that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Environment • Avoiding environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) • Ensuring emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health • Not using chemical and other dangerous substances • Anti Corruption • Assessing the risk of corruption when doing business • Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behaviour” in contracts with business partners • Ensuring that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights Wageningen University & Research is a collaboration between Wageningen University and the Wageningen Research foundation. The mission of Wageningen University & Research is ‘To explore the potential of nature to improve the quality of life’. Over 6,500 employees and 12,000 students from more than hundred countries work everywhere around the world in the domain of healthy food and living environment for governments and the business community-at-large. The strength of Wageningen University & Research lies in its ability to join the forces of specialised research institutes and the university. It also lies in the combined efforts of the various fields of natural and social sciences. This union of expertise leads to scientific breakthroughs that can quickly be put into practice and be incorporated into education. The domain of Wageningen University & Research consists of three related core areas: Food and food production Living environment Health, lifestyle and livelihood Tiny Giants is collaborating with Wageningen University & Research for the coming 2 years on how to enhance their communication visually in order to achieve more support and investment for their agriculture initiative which thrive to enable the basic human right of having access to food globally. Internally we at Tiny Giants respect and defend very single Human Right within and outside our organisation and networks. • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour Tiny Giants is currently consisting of very young and ambitious members which all have the exact same conditions, support and even financial gain as our highest executive. This is a company culture that we think is unusual today, but a healthy rebellion that we hope future labour industries will give a chance to adopt. Besides that we invest into the next generation of labour by giving guest lectures at Universities and schools and welcoming internships during which we share the United Nation Global Compacts importance and out involvement since there should not be a single company existing that has a young audience but does not spread the urgency of the STGs. +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl June 14, 2019 Communication on Progress from June 2018 to June 2019 • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment Besides all of our external efforts mentioned in this COP even our internal daily existence is by definition supportive towards the environment: 1. We banned plastic from our workspaces 2. Our company building is a sustainable reconstruction of an environmentally damaging factory 3. The only recourses that we consume in order to perform our services is electricity • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption Tiny Giants Co-Founder became board member of Platform Enterprising Twente, the highest overseeing board of enterprises and entrepreneurship of the entire region Twente. As the voice of entrepreneurship in Twente the boards responsibility is to strengthen and balance the relationship between the regional small and big companies in order to guarantee a transparent, fair and most importantly corruption free economies: https://www.twente.com/platform-ondernemend-twente The Future United Nations Global Compact ‘Young Professional Program' http://www.gcnetherlands.nl/nieuws/projecten/106-project-young-professional-program Global Compact Network the Netherlands initiated the Young Professional Program. Fifteen young people working in various positions at various companies participated in the Global Compact Network Netherlands, committed one day per month for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). After the introductory day which immediately yielded much inspiration, the youths in two groups started to work out a practical hands-on project under the guidance of coaches from the member companies KPMG and Witteveen + Bos. During the Masterclass SDG’s which was also organized by Global Compact Network in Netherlands on June 20th 2018, they shared their dream for 2030, the year when the SDG’s should be globally fulfilled. They were also inspired by the UN Global Compact New York. This project is running for already 3 years and is planning to grow with new members. Tiny Giants aims to have achieved global impact by collaborating committed with the Young professional team and lunching the official program globally by this year of 2019, hand in hand with the UNGC-New York. +31622966469 info@tinygiants.nl www.tinygiants.nl
