Period covered by the Communication on Progress (COP) From: 13/6-2018 To: 13/6-2019 Statement of continued support by the chief executive 13/6-2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sociability re-affirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Further we focus our development efforts to most effectively contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). Particularly contribution to achieving the SDG 4 cuts across our activities and development initiatives. To us the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights is as well fundamental for the support we provide to our clients – corporations, universities, business associations along with our own initiatives. Hence we acknowledge the responsibility of corporates to respect the human rights and the state duty to protect the human rights. Why we strive to involve, influence and build capacity of these sectors to respond to their responsibility and duties and to collaborate in mutual respect across sectors. In this annual Communication on Progress report, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and development initiatives, our culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Elizabeth Boye Managing partner Description of actions Sociability has, with the principles of the UN Global Compact policy at our core, a zero-tolerance policy for corruption and violation of the human rights. As a smaller business unit we are in a favourable position to exercise full management control of risks for being involved in and effective fight corruption. We are making sure that extortion and bribery are not a part of our acquisition procedures or promotional activities we engage in with our corporate clients, authorities, development banks or other clients and business partners. Besides serving our individual clients, Sociability actively engages in and develops programs with the aim to address adverse impacts and properly include disadvantaged groups in global commodity value chains. We team up with companies, academia and business associations and other not-for-profit organisations to design and implement programs that advance responsible business practice now and in future. The environment principles form part of our core services. Sociability still works to advance zero-waste circles in the coconut sector in Kenya and the stakeholders in the shea nuts sector in Ghana. Last year Sociability published teaching material on the renowned publisher Gyldendal. Due to support from Danida it is made available for free to all schools in Denmark targeting pupils in grade 8-10 on how environmental and social sustainability is challenged and supported in Global Value Chains – the human/labour rights violations, the environmental impact and about aspects of corruption – in the global value chains for smart phones, garments, vegetables, king prawns and soy. See: https://samfundsfag.gyldendal.dk/en/Indgange/Forlob/Globale_vaerdikaeder.aspx This project year extended this year to a much more advanced teaching material for all Danish high schools targeting A-level students published and promoted on the same terms by Gyldendal. See: http://samfundsfagsportalen.gyldendal.dk/a_niveau/tema/vaerdikaeder Both are as all our work related to the Sustainable Development Goals and each case relate to specific selected goals and in general and particularly aim at: • Providing knowledge about the complexity of consumer good production and the economic, social and environmental effects. • Provoking students to take a stand; and • Inspire to act in own capacity or together with others in ways the single students find relevant to contribute to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. Sociability coordinated and supported the Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) of the coffee value chain for one of the largest Danish co-operative retail? Societies Coop and their subsidiary African Coffee Roasters Ltd in Kenya, the HRIA report is now published. Read more about this work and read the report via our website: https://sociability.dk/expertise/human-rights-due-diligence/ Sociability has continued to build capacity for influential organisations to solidify responsible and sustainable business practices. Sociability has for instance been a valuable resource for the development of Nordzucker’s sustainable sourcing concept. With our vast experience on social and sustainability issues in third world countries we have been instrumental in developing risk assessment concepts, carrying out social audit trainings for in-house auditors as well as developing practical checklists and guidance for our social and sustainability auditors. We continued to inform strategic decision making by delivering tailor made sustainability risk barometers for prominent Danish retailers on cane sugar, cinnamon and vanilla. Through the project “Step Up”, we have, as a service provider to Dansk Association of Fashion & Textile (DM&T), strengthened the management capacities within the field of strategic CSR capabilities in their Bangladeshi partner BGMEA’s production and lately in partnership with DM&T and BGMEA University for Fashion and Technology (BUFT) in the StepUp+ project Sociability has been developing the capacity building program and deliver it for strengthening the capacity of BUFT faculty to educate future garment factory owners in responsible business operation in addition to incorporating CSR across all course curricula. Measurement of outcomes Building awareness and capacity for policy making and responsible business and consumer conduct is translated into measurable results within 3-5 years after the conclusion of the intervention. Concretely we estimate that 75.000 coffee farmers will benefit directly and positively from our work with Coop on the HRIA and the follow up on the same that is now on-going. Through our work with the garment industry in Bangladesh with DM&T and BGMEA in the StepUp project and lately also with BUFT on the StepUp+ project, Sociability contributed to the development of 5 Good Practice Factories, that will be thoroughly described and disseminated as good practice cases to as many sector stakeholders in Bangladesh and among DM&T member brands in Denmark as possible. Danida will as well promote the cases on their media platforms. This is in addition to the positive indirect effect that the capacitated member advisory staff of BGMEA will create when applying the tools they aquired to advise the exporting member factories to build the business case for responsible business practice. Further 20 BUFT faculty members has acquired knowledge to educate the future factory owners, management and middle management staff and 9 courses curricula have been adjusted to include CSR relevant for that course/technical field/topic. All with the ultimate outcomes of enhancing both practice and framework conditions for responsible RMG industry in the Bangladesh. What is next? In our near future, Sociability should like to see our project on sustainable coconut production in Kenya receive funding and take flight, which will benefit at least 1000 farmers and SME’s. We aim to launch a production of coconuts, wherein the entire coconut is put to use along the value chain all in co-operation with smalland medium-sized farms, in order to facilitate the means for Kenyan individuals to sustain themselves and their families through environmentally, economically and developmentally friendly measures. A similar concept is developed for Shea nut, taking its point of departure in Ghana. Furthermore, we would like to continue our active work in DIEH (Danish Initiative for Ethical Trade), conduct even more research to provoke and inform responsible decision making and develop projects in order to promote responsible business practices. Our Managing Partner, Elizabeth Boye, is determined to continue her lecturing and supervision of master students at Copenhagen Business School along with developing research projects on advancement of responsible business practises. Sociability will work to promote the Global Compact principles and and Sustainable Development Goals in Danish Schools and high schools, and will seek opportunities to advance it’s effect by: • Developing national campaigns with Danish Schools and High Schools, possibly in collaboration with Verdenstimen. • Developing an international version for pupils and students in countries along the value chains (from Western consumer markets to Global South sourcing countries) at like to see the high school equivalent of our educational material on global value chains and corporate social responsibility, concluded and launched shortly. Sociability offers training and advisory in how to translate the SDG’s and underlying Human Rights into business development opportunities. We do this to provide decision makers with the needed tools for making a difference regarding human and labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption.
