Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach SUSTAINABILITY BETTER MEANS BUSINESS Sustainability Report 2018 © Copyright 2018 by ERM Worldwide Group Limited and/or its affiliates (‘ERM’). All Rights Reserved. No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, without prior written permission of ERM. Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Contents CEO message 2 Megatrends4 Climate change 5 Digital transformation 6 Population growth 7 Emerging middle classes 8 Addressing sustainable development through SDGs 9 Our impact 10 Tackling climate change 11 Tech-enabled innovation 16 Sustaining growth 20 Sustainable consumption 25 SDG contribution 33 Programs & practices 37 Our people 38 Health and safety 42 Governance45 Environment48 Society51 ERM Foundation 56 Performance60 Future targets 64 FY18 data background 65 Reporting approach 66 Value chain 68 Stakeholder engagement 69 Materiality71 Assurance73 ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 1 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach CEO message VIDEO Global market forces increasingly ERM: Bridging the gap require businesses to balance In 2017, ERM conducted research on climate risk with 120 Chief Financial Officers and Chief Sustainability Officers. We found that their planetary and societal companies recognize the pressing need to develop responses responsibilities with the inevitable to climate risk, but lack the tools to model future impacts, and to report these with confidence. As authors of the Technical tension to meet shareholder Supplement on Scenario Analysis for the Taskforce on Climaterelated Financial Disclosure (TCFD), ERM is at the forefront commercial expectations. of helping companies address climate risk. Our approach Watch the video combines technical excellence, a strong understanding of Keryn James societal expectations, and business acumen together with the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER client’s internal functions including investor relations, finance, The focus is shifting risk, strategy, procurement, environment, health and safety, There is momentum and others to advise clients on the financial impacts of climate In the past year, we have witnessed the change on their business, including scenario analysis. Global market forces increasingly require businesses to balance continued realignment of the relationship their planetary and societal responsibilities with the inevitable We also apply this approach when working with sectors and between business and sustainability. tension to meet shareholder commercial expectations. companies committed to the SDGs and seeking ways to interpret and deliver on these goals within the context of their Companies are not only focused on Recent statements from leading investors, regulators, own business. We have worked with the World Business understanding and managing the impact they business leaders and other stakeholders recognize this Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) on guidelines to have on the environment and society, but changing context. develop SDG sector roadmaps, and we are now working with increasingly developing strategies to address Investors are realizing that company risk and growth are a number of sectors on their approaches to the implementation the impact of the environment and society on increasingly tied to environmental, social and governance (ESG) of the SDGs. Our integrated methodology is also effective when the company itself. understanding and management. Issues including climate risk, working with companies and organizations wanting to deliver human rights, supply chain management, diversity and safety and measure their environmental, social and economic impacts are now Board-level topics. These challenges are complex, through their SDG commitments. requiring a depth and breadth of understanding, technical This applied approach to sustainable development is expertise and commercial awareness to deliver integrated incorporated into our business strategy and enables us to work solutions, and create long-term business value. with business over the full life cycle of their assets from new The Business and Sustainable Development Commission market entry, to capital projects, operational management and identified the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a key ultimately retirement. Environmental, health and safety, social driver of economic growth – an estimated $12 trillion dollars and governance issues are apparent at all stages of the asset of new market value.1 Leading businesses are at the forefront life cycle, and ERM’s breadth and depth of services enables us of product and service innovation, addressing the SDGs while to advise and serve clients over the longer term, wherever they delivering economic growth. SDG-related issues are influencing are located across the world. the cost of capital for companies, and we see this influence growing over time. 1 “Better Business, Better World” Business and Sustainable Development Commission Report January 2017: http://report.businesscommission.org/ ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 2 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach CEO message continued Life cycle impacts apply to products as well. ERM’s approach to product stewardship seeks ways to avoid product impoundment or recall, which can disrupt supply chains, increase costs, and damage brand and reputation. Our approach also aims to identify and mitigate these risks while looking beyond them to assess key product and brand differentiators that have the potential to drive innovation and contribute to the bottom-line growth. Responding to stakeholders We are proud to be a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Pioneer. This is our second year of reporting to the GRI Standards: the global best practice for sustainability reporting. This report serves as our Communication on Progress, an annual disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. One of my primary commitments as CEO has been to strengthen our engagement with internal and external stakeholders on issues that are of importance to them. This feedback informs our focus on the issues facing our world and our clients, which allows us to prioritize activities within our business strategy. On behalf of the Executive Committee, I extend my thanks to our employees for sharing their stories, photography and insights for this report. The people of ERM deliver on our purpose of shaping a sustainable future with the world’s leading organizations every day: in the services we provide our clients, the projects we support through the ERM Foundation and the way we operate our business. Sustainability really does mean better business. Keryn James Chief Executive Officer ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 3 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Megatrends Megatrends encompassing significant CLIMATE CHANGE DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION social, economic, political, environmental or technological changes have a major impact on business and society as a whole, and will continue to do so for decades to come. Of the key megatrends presenting major challenges to government, industry and civil society over the coming years, four are particularly relevant to ERM’s work with our clients: • Climate change • Digital transformation • Population growth • Emerging middle classes As a leading sustainability consultancy, ERM understands the megatrends’ impact on the technical, business and societal challenges facing our clients. POPULATION GROWTH EMERGING MIDDLE CLASS VIDEO Watch the video ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 4 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Megatrends continued Climate change Global political action, regional legislation, The low-emissions transition is well underway – driven technology breakthroughs, market by intensifying climate policy, advances in technology, changing investor sentiment and fundamental market disruption, extreme weather events, investor shifts. In December 2015, the Paris Agreement set a global priorities and consumer sentiment make target to reduce the impact of climate change to below 2 the transition to a low-emissions future degrees Celsius through Nationally Determined Contribution fundamentally important to all businesses. Plans (NDCs). According to the Emissions Gap Report The way companies manage this transition 2017 issued by the UN Environment Programme, current takes on new significance as stakeholders state pledges in the NDCs cover no more than one-third of the emission reductions needed.2 Society must achieve look to accurately assess and measure even greater emissions reductions than those pledged by the environment’s impact on a company’s countries, recognizing continued forecast growth in global business models, assets and reputation, as energy demand. well as the organizational preparedness to For many companies climate risk is already very real, cope with this unprecedented energy shift. creating supply chain vulnerabilities and prompting consumer demand for change. For the investment community, the risks posed by a company’s greenhouse gas emissions, or its dependency on carbon in the supply chain, is of particular concern. Climate-related risk is no longer just an environmental issue, but also one that has a direct impact on a company’s longer-term financial standing, reputation and ability to attract investment. Learn more about how this relates to ERM’s work with clients: Tackling climate change 2 The Emissions Gap Report 2017. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), November 2017: www.unenvironment.org/resources/emissions-gap-report. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 5 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Megatrends continued Digital transformation Technology is accelerating the pace of Smarter products, better collaboration, faster processes change. It drives new – and often disruptive – and lower costs are just some of the drivers behind new technology adoption. Greater access to technology, ways of doing business in response to multiparticularly mobile devices, means greater access (for those faceted and increasingly complex challenges. with adequate bandwidth and skills) to education, work, Cloud computing, robotics, the Internet financial services and information, as well as new markets of Things, machine learning and artificial and buyers for goods. By enabling greater productivity and intelligence are transforming customer agility, digital technology enables companies to evolve and expectations, product development, improve their operations, but not without risks. collaboration and organizational structures, All of this is reliant on the flow of accurate and timely data. while changing how citizens engage While real-time access to accurate and granular data has companies, government and civil society. become essential to maximizing efficiency and agility, the This represents a significant opportunity risks associated with data integrity, security and privacy are of increasing concern to companies, governments and the for our clients – from how they engage with public. It is the ability to derive insights from data that will set key stakeholders to how they optimize well-performing companies apart as they manage complex their operations. environmental and social challenges. Greater availability and adoption of technology will play a key role in addressing a range of socio-economic and environmental challenges. At the same time, it presents a host of new environment and social impacts to address – from intensive energy use to the elimination of jobs. Learn more about how this relates to ERM’s work with clients: Tech-enabled innovation ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 6 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Megatrends continued Population growth According to the United Nations, the world’s Key factors behind the continuing population growth in population is expected to increase by more less developed regions are lower rates of infant mortality and greater life expectancy thanks to improved standards than 30 percent to upwards of 9 billion of living, including greater access to clean drinking water. between now and 2050. The additional As a result, tomorrow’s population will not only be larger but food, energy, homes and transportation older, which creates additional challenges such as increased required for these extra people will place pressure on healthcare and pensions.3 an additional burden on the planet’s already More than 50 percent of the world’s population lives in urban strained resources. areas today. By 2045, global urban population will increase 1.5 times to 6 billion people, according to the World Bank.4 A large proportion of this population Urbanization brings its own challenges, including access increase will occur in the world’s less to clean water, unhealthy air, waste disposal issues and developed regions, including Africa, Asia increased poverty. and Latin America. With more people, the competition for vital and often scarce resources will grow. The ability to access sufficient food, water and energy for a growing population will have repercussions for the private sector, civil society and the environment. A collaborative approach is required to address these systemic issues due to their complexity and scale. Learn more about how this relates to ERM’s work with clients: Sustaining growth 3 An Aging World: 2015. Wan He, Daniel Goodkind and Paul Kowal, US Census Bureau, International Population Reports, P95/16-1, US Government Publishing Office, 2016: https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2016/demo/p95-161.pdf. 4 The World Bank Urban Development Overview, updated 21 March 2018: http://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/urbandevelopment/overview. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 7 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Megatrends continued Emerging middle class The world’s population is not only growing, Experience and data show that although the emerging middle it is evolving with tremendous expansion of classes often want to retain their culture and traditions, they are keen to adapt their diets and lifestyles as their income the middle classes – an estimated 5.4 billion increases. Consumption of processed food, meat and dairy people by 2030, compared with 3 billion in products rises along with sales of manufactured goods such 2015, according to a report published by the as phones and other technological devices, cars, household Brookings Institution.5 goods and appliances. The demand for better quality housing, infrastructure and public services rises as well. As incomes rise among the middle classes, so does access to information and education. The emerging middle classes present companies with new opportunities and new revenue streams. For many, Higher incomes and faster development rates this demand will create opportunities to expand into new mean that the emerging middle classes will markets and to launch new products. However, this upsurge have greater spending power and greater in demand will also increase some long-term risks. It is expectations. Women in particular will have estimated that more than 3.9 planet Earths would be needed greater access to education and employment, to sustain a global population enjoying the current lifestyle of the average US citizen.6 Food, water, housing and energy, and they will play a larger role in purchasing which are already under pressure due to population growth and other decisions. These shifts in human and climate change, will be particularly affected. development and social balance of the power have major implications for consumption Learn more about how this relates to ERM’s work with clients: Sustainable consumption patterns and living standards, as well as for sustainable development. 5 The Unprecedented Expansion of the Global Middle Class: an Update. Homi Kharas, the Brookings Institution, 2017: https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/ global_20170228_global-middle-class.pdf. 6 How many Earths do we need? Charlotte McDonald, BBC News, 16 June 2015: http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-33133712. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 8 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Addressing sustainable development through SDGs The four megatrends interact with each Among our clients, we see a growing interest in contributing other, creating complex implications for the to the realization of the SDGs while achieving business value for their organizations. ERM is helping companies identify environment and society. Meeting future energy and manage the environmental and sustainability risks and needs, especially among the middle classes, opportunities related to climate change, digital transformation, will exacerbate efforts to reduce climate population growth and emerging middle classes. Using the change emissions. Climate change will alter SDGs as a framework, we work with clients to set strategies where and which crops farmers can grow to and implement programs to maximize the positive impacts feed an expanding – and increasingly urbanized while minimizing the negative impacts resulting from these megatrends. – global population. Achieving the SDGs will take contributions from governments, Emerging technologies can greatly improve the civil society and businesses. ERM’s contribution to the SDGs quality of life and the environment, provided is driven not only by our own operations and the work of the they are managed to avert potential risks ERM Foundation but, importantly, by how we influence and associated with loss of jobs, data privacy enable the efforts of our clients around the world. and a less active lifestyle. How and when the Learn more about how this relates to ERM’s work with clients: business world addresses these megatrends SDG contribution will affect whether society can collectively achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 9 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Our impact ERM’s greatest impact on sustainability is the work we do for our clients. The megatrends of climate change, digital transformation, population growth and emerging middle classes are accelerating the pace of environmental, health and safety (EHS) and social challenges, with major consequences for our clients. The services ERM offers are more relevant today than ever. Global market forces increasingly require businesses to balance their planetary and societal responsibilities while still meeting their shareholder commercial expectations, resulting in some inevitable tensions. By integrating commercial acumen and technical excellence with a deep understanding of societal expectations, we work with our clients to deliver business value by addressing their EHS and social issues while managing risk and seeking business opportunities. Our experts work with the world’s leading companies to help them deliver on their ambitions and position them for the competitive markets in which they operate now – and wish to access in the future. Explore the examples provided in this section to learn more about ERM’s impact on complex sustainability challenges. VIDEO Watch the video ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 10 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tackling climate change Sustainability means better actions CASE STUDY A fundamental business challenge for every organization is to understand and manage the risks associated with climate change across its value chain, now and into the future. Climate change risk: Q. How much of a priority do you perceive climate-related risk ERM works with clients to: the new investment fundamental and management disclosure to • Map carbon risk across all the activities and geographies in With mainstream investors ramping up pressure on be for the finance team within which the business operates; companies for greater disclosure of the risks of climate 24% your organization? • Verify and increase disclosure of current and future risks and change to their business, an ERM survey of 120 Chief opportunities to investors and other key stakeholders; and Financial Officers and Chief Sustainability Officers reveals that At present, very few finance few companies are well prepared to bridge the gap between executives view climate risk as the • Develop and implement a plan of action to manage the risks sustainability and finance: responsibility of finance and maximize business opportunities resulting from the A high priority transition to a lower-emissions future. A medium priority • Most companies see the need to develop climate change A low priority strategies, but lack tools to share and report accurately. Forward-looking, scenario-based, • The finance function is lagging in awareness and Q. How much of a priority do you climate risk management prioritization of managing climate change risk. perceive climate-related risk and The impacts of climate change are increasingly recognized We believe that to bridge the gap between sustainability management disclosure to be for the following functions within as a material financial risk to businesses. This is requiring a greater focus on issues like the management of supply chains and finance in addressing climate risk to their businesses, companies need to directly address changing investor 28% your orgainization? and physical assets that are becoming more important to pressures on climate change and provide greater comfort to Just 28% of CFOs in our survey investors. We partner with our clients and other organizations capital markets. Read ERM’s insights on how companies can believed climate risk was a priority for to understand the business implications of the Paris Agreement bridge this gap in our report “Climate Change Risk: The New the finance team – and in what ways companies will need to contribute to a Investment Fundamental.” A high priority lower-emissions future. A medium priority A low priority Q. Over the last five years, has your organization faced an increase or decrease in significant pressure from investors to report on climate72% related risk and management? The overwhelming majority of companies (72%) said significant pressure from investors to report on Increase No change climate-related risk and management Decrease had increased over the past five years ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 11 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tackling climate change continued ERM’s approach CASE STUDY ERM’s approach enables businesses to pursue forward-looking management of climate-related risks and opportunities. This not Assessing climate risk only helps satisfy investor and shareholder demands for Task Force on Climate-related Financial ERM understands the risks and opportunities that the transition transparency and disclosure, it empowers businesses to make Disclosures (TCFD) to a lower-emissions future presents for companies and more informed business risk decisions and implement more investors alike. We have developed a robust scenarios-based effective operational changes. ERM was engaged by the TCFD to approach built on a range of data sources, aligned to our prepare the technical supplement on advice to the TCFD, to assess and manage emerging risks We have deep experience in evaluating transition and physical The Use of Scenario Analysis in and opportunities. Our methodology is adaptable to the client’s risk for many industries across a range of geographies, Disclosure of Climate-related Risks needs: holistic or events-based scenarios, top-down portfolio providing consistent technical advice in a business context and Opportunities, which was screening and bottom-up asset, value chain and company with a unique and up-to-date perspective of the sustainability released in June 2017. analysis, as appropriate. and climate change agenda. What sets ERM’s advice in this area apart is our ability to build on our deep technical ERM’s appointment was based upon our deep experience We also work with asset owners, asset managers, and expertise from working on these issues for more than 20 years, in evaluating transition and physical risk for many industries insurers to understand the impact of the carbon transition our strong understanding of societal expectations and our across a range of geographies. Mark Carney, Chair of the on their portfolios. For example, a key question for insurance commercial acumen. G20 Financial Stability Board and Governor of the Bank companies is how to assess the materiality of transition risks of England, commended TCFD’s recommendations for across different infrastructure investments that will vary greatly scenario-based disclosures as “ground-breaking innovation.” Supporting our clients by geography, sector and time horizon. As outlined by Mark The TCFD recommendations provide important guidance for Carney, the Chair of the Financial Stability Board, the risk of For many organizations, climate change will generate both risks a disorderly transition to a lower-emissions economy could and opportunities over the coming decades. Their timing and companies and investors as they seek to understand how climate-related risks and opportunities may impact business materially impact the global financial markets and hence the scale is uncertain, driven by policy, regulation, carbon pricing, financial performance of insurers’ investments in infrastructure.7 technology, stakeholder and market sentiment, as well as and their financial performance into the future. physical climate change. Faced with this uncertainty, we believe At the 2017 Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summits scenario analysis is critical to developing a robust response to in London and New York, ERM Partner and technical both challenges and opportunities. supplement co-author James Stacey outlined how ERM supports major companies – across a range of sectors businesses can benefit from linking social and environmental – for which both policy and technology related “transition” risk to future business and financial planning. Learn more risks and climate-related “physical” risks could have material about ERM’s partnership with Bloomberg in the Society financial implications. section of this report. ERM was the lead author of a groundbreaking approach for investors and businesses to assess climate financial risk – supporting the G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which is chaired by Michael Bloomberg. 7 Breaking the tragedy of the horizon – climate change and financial stability, speech by Mark Carney given at Lloyds of London, January 2015: https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ speech/2015/breaking-the-tragedy-of-the-horizon-climate-change-and-financial-stability ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 12 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tackling climate change continued Defining corporate strategy to address The complexities of transitioning to a lower-emissions economy CASE STUDY also present significant environmental and social challenges. climate change impacts For example, we are working with companies to develop more Climate change presents profound implications for businesses. sustainable methods of mining to meet market demands for Assessing climateThere is, for example, increased regulatory and financial mineral and metal inputs that are integral to lower-emissions related financial risk to pressure to reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity of technology, from electric car batteries to wind turbines and infrastructure investments energy supplies resulting in a growing demand for renewables. solar panels. Physical assets and supply chains are vulnerable to weather with ClimateWise and climate change (e.g., sea level rise, increased frequency Businesses increasingly understand that they need to take ClimateWise – the global insurance industry leadership and severity of extreme weather events, stress on water new approaches to address climate change impacts. They are group facilitated by the University of Cambridge Institute for resources). International shipping is under pressure to reduce signing up for leadership initiatives such as Science Based Sustainability Leadership (CISL) – has been collaborating emissions, but advances in technology are necessary to Targets, We Are Still In and RE100, and need to determine how with ERM to help identify the circumstances under which generate alternatives to fossil fuels. Leading cities around the to deliver on their commitments. ERM helps companies do this exposure to transition risks (and opportunities) could become world are pursuing lower-emissions development strategies. by assessing their readiness; conducting scenario, risk and a material factor on the financial performance of investments opportunity analyses; satisfying stakeholders with regulated in infrastructure. The outputs from the project hold significant and voluntary disclosures; and creating value and mitigating risk CASE STUDY practical value for the sector. across their asset base, value chain and business portfolio mix. ERM provides technical expertise to enable clients to think The project team developed a methodology to assess financial Working with Sembcorp more broadly about corporate strategy and anticipate the impact on investments over relevant timeframes. This framework provides investors and regulators with enhanced understanding on developing its climate future. We understand how technical issues and societal of how these risks drive financial performance. The focus of change strategy challenges and impacts fit into a broader business agenda. the framework is on financial results: providing insight into how Globally, ERM provides climate change strategy and associated A cross-functional team within Singapore-based integrated risk assessment and risk management support to clients with various assets’ revenue and costs could be impacted and energy company Sembcorp Industries engaged ERM to help what options are available to minimize exposure. This unique broad portfolios across different sectors. develop and disclose its position on climate change risks framework supports the quantification of climate-related financial and opportunities. risk recommended by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), building investors’ capabilities to We provided an assessment of material climate change risks better manage risk and take strategic advantage of emerging and opportunities, now and in the short-to-medium term opportunities presented by the low-carbon transition. future. ERM helped raise internal awareness around those risks and opportunities so that corporate and business unit The open source framework will be published in 2018 and can management recognized and accepted the business case be downloaded from www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/transitionrisk for action. The team identified strategic options and priority actions to address risks and opportunities, utilizing existing capabilities while developing new initiatives within Sembcorp. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 13 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tackling climate change continued Building resilience in a lower-emissions future Moving to cleaner and renewable To build resilience to climate change and prepare for a lower-emissions future, ERM is helping organizations develop both energy sources mitigation strategies and adaptation response plans. Renewable energy sources are part of the mix in moving to a lower-emissions future. ERM is involved in a range of wind CASE STUDY energy projects where we combine technical expertise with an understanding of the wind energy development process, local regulatory systems and stakeholder concerns with a strong Emissions reductions validation for ERM will continue to work with Dow to provide third-party validation of emissions reductions projects, as we did with the appreciation of the commercial context of these developments. the Dow Chemical Company and the Olympic Winter Games at Sochi 2014 and Olympic Games We understand that the development process consists of a number of key elements, from site selection, environmental International Olympics Committee Rio 2016. studies, stakeholder engagement and permitting through (IOC) Carbon Partnership Since September 2017, Dow has been the Official Carbon construction, transmission and operation. Each of these steps Partner of the International Olympic Committee, as part of is critical to the successful and commercial development of a global effort by the IOC to neutralize its carbon emissions. wind energy. The partnership, which runs through to 2020, has the goal to deliver third-party-verified greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CASE STUDY reductions derived from innovative production processes and products developed by Dow in many different geographies. It builds on successful carbon mitigation programs From former coal mine to wind energy implemented by Dow and the Organizing Committees of the ERM is supporting development of a 150 megawatt wind Olympic Games Sochi 2014 and Rio 2016, and significantly energy facility at a former coal mine in West Virginia, extends the program’s reach and influence to a global scale. US. The project area encompasses over 15,000 acres With the program, Dow is harnessing the market penetration of previously or currently mined land. ERM led the of new technologies and products contributing to the environmental survey and permitting aspects of the project development of a low carbon and more efficient economy. including wetland, cultural resources, bat habitat, noise and visual field studies. We provided expert witness testimony to the West Virginia Public Service Commission regarding our work, and the project was approved by the Public Service Commission in 2017. The project is expected to begin construction in 2019 and become operational in early 2021. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 14 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tackling climate change continued Forefront of reporting and disclosure The process of developing sustainability reports, inherently a cross-functional exercise, can help drive internal collaboration, Mainstream investors increasingly are demanding transparency, and shareholders are demanding financial disclosure. As demand innovation and improved decision-making. It becomes a tool to for transparency and disclosures increases, organizations can leverage sustainability reporting processes to drive improved help organizations crystallize their sustainability approach within business performance and value through a focus on material issues. their business strategy, mitigate risks, improve sustainability and operational performance, strengthen internal management CASE STUDY systems and improve relationships with key stakeholders. ERM collaborates closely with leading international Demystifying Dow Jones • Increased knowledge about the methodology behind DJSI and RobecoSAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment organizations, such as the World Business Council for Sustainability Indices (DJSI) and scoring process; Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) • Conceptual deep-drives on selected criteria where and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), to help shape and organizations have scope for improvement: human rights, bring insights to global standards for reporting and disclosure supply chain management, human capital development, around carbon. and impact measurement and valuation; • Improved understanding of financially material sustainability CASE STUDY aspects and how investors utilize them in their investment decision-making; • Industry-wide best practices in India – what your peers are ERM co-authors doing to score better on the DJSI Index; and CDP India report Participants at joint ERM and RobecoSAM workshop on demystifying DJSI • DJSI 2017 responses and emerging performance trends by For the second year, Carbon Disclosure In collaboration with RobecoSAM, the asset manager Indian corporations. Project India (CDP India) and ERM jointly providing the research backbone for the DJSI, ERM India developed the India Climate Change Report 2017. In 2017, ERM is supporting many leading companies in Asia, Europe conducted the second capacity enhancement workshop 51 Indian companies responded to the CDP Climate Change and North America with their DJSI 2018 submissions. to help businesses make informed business sustainability questionnaire, of which 43 were among the Bombay Stock decisions. Facilitated by subject matter experts from Exchange Top 200 companies and 3 from other benchmark RobecoSAM and ERM, this interactive workshop, samples to whom CDP India had sent information requests. “Demystifying Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI),” In addition, another five self-selected companies came focused on sharing conceptual insights and industryforward on their own volition to disclose their climate impact wide best practices that are critical to a business’ longto CDP. Fifty-one companies reported total emissions of term sustainability performance. The key benefits of the 275.92 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalents. workshop included: CDP India and ERM launched the report at the Bombay Stock Exchange in October 2017. ERM works with many other clients around the world with CDP reporting. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 15 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tech-enabled innovation Sustainability means better insights We are developing tools that help provide businesses with a Technology to engage stakeholders competitive edge through innovative approaches in addressing Companies acquire and manage significant amounts of detailed sustainability challenges. For businesses, digitization transforms customer expectations, data, but this information is often stored in different server product development, collaboration and organizational locations, software systems, directories, files and format types. structures. In the public sector, it can change how citizens As a result, extracting full business value from environmental, CASE STUDY engage with government departments and political leaders. safety and social data collection efforts seldom happens. This represents a significant opportunity for organizations to ERM has moved aggressively to help clients utilize big data to Automating groundwater monitoring achieve better business outcomes, from how they engage with drive operational performance. key stakeholders to how they optimize their operations. at coal combustion residual sites CASE STUDY Recently implemented US federal regulations require CASE STUDY groundwater monitoring and reporting for coal combustion residual sites (i.e., landfill and surface impoundments). Testing certain causal factor hypotheses Since compliance with this rule required similar data Analyzing public comments on for mining client management workflow and the same suite of analyses proposed Black Butte Copper Mine across all Power Sector clients and facilities, ERM’s subject matter experts in statistical analysis developed a dynamic One of the ways a citizen can contribute to the reporting tool to bring substantial automation to the analysis environmental review process for a project is by submitting and reporting. a public comment. However, public comments can generate immense quantities of documents that need to This toolkit leveraged ERM’s existing data infrastructure to be examined. The proposed Black Butte Copper Mine, a automatically receive field-collected data in a standardized project in Montana (US), recently received over 9,000 public format. It then automatically executes a decision framework scoping comments in the environmental review process. For a mining client, we have delivered a proof of concept Reviewing and processing all the documents can be and appropriate statistical analyses consistent with (POC) around safety incidents that tested certain causal factor resource and time intensive. regulatory requirements and US Environmental Protection hypotheses. Key to our work was having the ability to use Agency guidance. Finally, the tool automatically exports modern software platforms, such as machine learning with data This situation demanded a creative technological solution. pre-formatted tables and figures and a pre-populated written scraping and statistical analysis techniques, to find correlations By leveraging custom software development, we were report that can be further customized by the project team. between disparate datasets. We evaluated five years of data on able to extract the inputs provided and produce the weather, production rates, employee roles and length of service, This service was offered to four different utility clients and output needed for analysis. We were also able to discern and recorded incidents. Our data scientists worked alongside over 25 facilities in the United States in 2017. We estimate template form comments from unique comments using an subject matter experts in safety, human factors and other areas. that this tool reduced the labor effort for statistical reporting algorithm to categorize non-variant and variant submissions. by more than 50 percent, while simultaneously standardizing This process enabled our teams to minimize effort for an The work completed in this POC showed some surprising analyst from a month to about a week of time. our service offerings and reducing the risk of errors. We findings. For example, incident rates went up as production look forward to expanding the functionality of this tool to rates went down. It also showed surprising insights into incident A tech-enabled solution like this can support large-scale accommodate other facilities requiring regular groundwater repeat rates as well as correlations between contractor ratios citizen engagement, enabling teams to evaluate more compliance reporting. and incidents and critical risk factors and incidents. As of this comments in less time. In this way, ERM can offer a unique writing, this POC is being considered for wider application within in-house opportunity to optimize resources, time and budget the organization. for our clients. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 16 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tech-enabled innovation continued Helping technology companies manage Among the services we provide our TMT clients, ERM assists CASE STUDY with infrastructure and operational site selection and permitting, their sustainability performance including cultural and land resources. We provide data The technology, media and telecommunications (TMT) management and information solutions for environmental and industries face specific EHS and social challenges when Environmental compliance safety management systems. We improve management of entering new markets, taking on new capital projects, seeking assessments of data center and environmental safety and social issues for data centers, supply to improve their environmental and safety performance or mission-critical facilities chains and reverse supply chains. We help clients identify and retiring assets. The TMT sector is worth almost $10 trillion comply with product stewardship regulations and registrations globally. Their impact influences and shapes much of society to support product launches. To keep up with the constant today. ERM works with TMT companies to create business retooling of infrastructure, we help TMT companies with asset value through operational and energy cost savings, efficiency retirement and redevelopment. improvements, risk reduction and compliance assurance. ERM supported a confidential client’s cloud operations and infrastructure business worldwide, including environmental compliance assessments of data center facilities across Europe and Asia. ERM developed a comprehensive environmental questionnaire and conducted on-site assessments that included preand post-visit discussions and focused on themes of environmental permitting, environmental management, air emissions, waste management and chemical management, among others. After the assessments were completed, ERM generated in-depth environmental compliance reports that outlined relevant regulations, onsite observations and ERM’s suggested corrective actions for the client. ERM helped the client remain proactive and competitive by enabling them to monitor and get ahead of any environmental compliance issues at their facilities and provide comprehensive corrective actions to address and remedy issues. The work contributed to the client’s global cloud operations and infrastructure business and strategy – a key growth area for the client. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 17 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tech-enabled innovation continued Leveraging technology in the delivery of CASE STUDY CASE STUDY services to our clients ERM’s research and insights from work with our clients Trans-Pacific Cable Environmental demonstrate that EHS and sustainability functions are Managing environmental and Permitting and Environmental Impact typically behind other parts of their organizations in leveraging social risk at earliest point in Report technology and digitization to enhance their business. mining life cycle At the 2018 Prospectors and Developers Association of HIGHLIGHT Canada (PDAC) international convention, ERM launched our Catchment Scale Exploration Tool (CSET), a proprietary Our new global project delivery approach to generate mineral exploration target areas or extension to known deposits. It is an important example of platform in a technology-enabled world providing value to our clients through technology. We are proud to announce the arrival of ERM’s new global project delivery platform that is driving the technology enablement CSET examines geochemical data from springs, groundwater of our core services. The first stage was the development of our wells or stream water, to identify the geochemical signature Site Investigation and Risk Assessment (SIRA) app, which our of mineral deposits, and uses catchment-scale modelling to ERM conducts site safety meeting with drillers site remediation experts developed in FY18. This tool is currently indicate a vector of where the water came from. Rather than ERM supported the siting, environmental permitting and being deployed and tested at 20 client sites around the world. raw geochemical anomalies, the tool uses the saturation index installation monitoring of a new telecommunications “hub” Global deployment is planned for mid-2018. approach to amplify anomalies related to minerals. in the City of Los Angeles and a new subsea cable system connecting California (US) and Hong Kong for a private Every day, ERM helps clients manage their legacy asset CSET not only provides exploration companies with an consortium. The new Internet infrastructure has capacity for portfolio, optimizing reserves and reducing spend while alternative method for the identification and targeting of four trans-Pacific fiber optic cable systems, and two systems maximizing asset value during sale, acquisition and retirement. blind deposits. It additionally provides those companies are already underway at the Los Angeles landing site. ERM’s new platform enables globally consistent delivery with a catchment scale model of the potential development of projects and programs across the complete life cycle – area, which will help companies manage their environment Tyco Electronics Subsea Communications (TE SubCom) delivering faster, better and safer services to our clients. and social risk at the earliest point in the mining life cycle. is co-building the Pacific Light Cable Network (PLCN), This offers critical, time-sensitive information on the a 12,800 km trans-pacific submarine cable system that We have a rolling program of development of enabling sustainability risks, liabilities and opportunities associated with will provide the first direct undersea route between Hong technologies to advance our core services. The next service investment decisions to be collected – in one, seamless tool. Kong and Los Angeles, California with ultra-high capacity to be technology-enabled is due diligence in support of transmission. ERM is providing environmental support to TE Mergers and Acquisitions. SubCom on both sides of the Pacific, in the US and Hong Kong. PLCN, connecting Los Angeles to Hong Kong, is The role of technology continues to grow in ERM’s approach scheduled for installation in 2018. to serving our clients. We are developing tools to improve ERM prepared the environmental impact report (EIR) for the collaboration, analytics and modeling and to simplify the Lead Agency, the City of Los Angeles, and led environmental collection and management of data in the field while providing approvals and seabed licensing in California and Hong Kong. clients with real-time visibility, dynamic reporting and insights into data. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 18 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Tech-enabled innovation continued ERM’s own journey in embracing data and technology Utilizing our own infrastructure to bring ERM recognized that our business model, like other business models on the planet, was being disrupted by the digital world value to clients around us. We committed to address it and engaged external advice, entering into a partnership with the digital advisory arm of In modernizing our IT infrastructure, we invested money to Infosys, an India-based information technology (IT) market leader. save money while better equipping our people. From there, we developed systems and tools that provide value to ERM and We created a vison for what it would look like to be the digital leader in our industry, and built a roadmap of what needed to our clients. For example, we can now integrate and analyze change. As part of ERM’s strategy, we appointed a Head of New Digital Business, responsible for creating, developing and data from several different ERM systems in order to get better implementing new ways of working with our clients. insights to how and where we are serving our global key clients. CASE STUDY Dashboards that tie data from human resources, customer relationship management, project accounting and safety provide account directors a comprehensive view of their client’s Infosys partnership creates client value In signing this MOU, we have established a broader collaborative partnership that can leverage the opportunities projects – they can instantly see who is working where, the through collaboration to improve delivery through our combined strengths and current cost of ERM’s services on the project, and how our safety management system is being used on those portfolios. services and create joint new digital offerings addressing These efforts would not have been possible had we not our clients’ sustainability challenges. It also supports our invested in our digital infrastructure, based on Microsoft’s Azure purpose in shaping a sustainable future with the world’s technology stack. leading organizations. Our own market-leading Information Solutions team has We have a decade’s worth of experience with an amazing a long track record of taking clients through a journey ecosystem of environmental management information system similar to our own to modernize and improve their EHS and platform partners to help our clients’ software enable their EHS sustainability systems and performance. As the ecosystem programs. Expanding our ecosystem of partnerships to include of software products evolve and move to the cloud, we have Infosys will allow us to assist clients with other technology and seen a resurgence in our systems work. Additionally, we have data opportunities that have emerged in the modern digital expanded our domain expertise to cover systems that address world. Our early work with Infosys has focused on how we occupational health and industrial hygiene and electronic work at ERM and how we can use automation, analytics and permit-to-work systems that have emerged. – someday soon – artificial intelligence to help clients become ERM has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with more efficient in their data management programs, and use Infosys. This is a significant step in our digital transformation those data to become more effective stewards of EHS. journey, and one that we expect will unlock the delivery of a unique value proposition for our clients. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 19 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustaining growth Sustainability means better development Building an infrastructure for the future Forward-thinking companies are considering the future impacts ERM helps clients keep major capital projects on schedule, on budget and on scope by providing EHS and social insights and – both negative and positive – of population growth. They are expertise throughout the project life cycle, from planning and design to implementation and ongoing management. We work developing adaptation strategies and designing new products, hand-in-hand as part of a cohesive unit with our clients’ development and construction teams, engineering, procurement and projects and services that will help the world better cope other parties to provide a unique focus on sustainability-related issues that are often underestimated. ERM brings business value with a larger and older population with different needs and to infrastructure projects by helping clients avoid delays, gain faster approvals, protect the project’s net present value and improve consumption patterns. their license to operate through effective stakeholder engagement. ERM provides organizations with the technical expertise and CASE STUDY business acumen to help manage impacts on people and the planet by: • Facilitating new market entry through permitting assistance, ERM builds on successful client and Grimshaw Architects, taking forward the design of the scheme’s flagship London station at Euston. This forms a major project financing and meeting environmental and social delivery for High Speed Two component of the build-out phase of the project, and ERM will standards and expectations; be providing expertise and analysis relating to environmental • Helping clients develop resilient infrastructure more safely, compliance, consents and sustainability over a range of efficiently and cost-effectively; technical disciplines during the coming years. • Unlocking business value by improving EHS and social HS2 will be the backbone of the national rail network performance while reducing operational risk; and connecting 8 of the UK’s 10 largest cities. The project will be • Achieving site closure in a cost-effective manner that built in three phases: Phase 1 runs from London to the West is appropriately protective of human health and the Midlands and is planned to open in 2026; Phase 2a will extend environment, and at the same time return sites to productive the high speed line to Crewe and is planned to open in 2027; use wherever possible. and Phase 2b will complete the network by 2033, linking the West Midlands to Leeds in the North East and Manchester Population growth is a potential opportunity for our clients to in the North West. The total network will be around 553 km challenge traditional approaches to sourcing raw materials, (344 miles) of track, and trains will operate at speeds of up to consuming natural resources, manufacturing products and ©HS2 Ltd/Grimshaw 360 km/h (225 mph). operating key sites. After more than 6 years playing a leading role in the The new contract builds on what is now a large portfolio of development of the United Kingdom’s new high-speed work for ERM on the HS2 project, comprising environmental rail network (referred to as High Speed Two or HS2), ERM impact assessment work, expert inputs during the has been awarded another significant contract on the authorization stages and advice to one of the Civils Contractors project. We are part of a world-class team, including Arup for construction. We work with clients across industry sectors, particularly on complex and often high-profile projects that require ERM’s unique and proven combination of business outcome orientation, technical depth and ability to understand the broader social context. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 20 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustaining growth continued Social and environmental expertise for projects from concept to closure CASE STUDY In every sector, our clients’ activities affect and interest landholders, employees, shareholders, nearby residents and businesses, governmental authorities, nongovernmental and community-based organizations, the media and the public. Companies strive to build strong, authentic relationships with their stakeholders based on mutual respect and trust, proactive engagement, transparent Auditing the sustainability impacts of decision-making, and an equitable distribution of impacts and benefits. a planned solar project in Malawi CASE STUDY Social and Human Capital The Social and Human Capital Protocol is a key resource of the coalition. It helps facilitate the mainstreaming of measurement Protocol helps companies and valuation of people and communities, shifting the improve performance improvement of social and human capital performance from an optional extra to a core part of business decision-making. The Social and Human Capital Coalition is a The first version of the protocol is the result of 2 years of global multi-stakeholder collaboration that collaborative development involving input from over 50 brings together leading initiatives and companies, including ERM. organizations to help companies recognize, measure and value the importance of people and communities. This first sector guide to the Social and Human Capital Mike Wallace, a Partner from ERM’s newly acquired firm Protocol supports sustainability practitioners from companies BrownFlynn, serves as Interim Executive Director of the in the forest value chain in measuring and valuing their social Social & Human Capital Coalition. impacts and dependencies. The Forest Products Sector Guide A young girl against the arid landscape in rural Salima during the dry season includes a case study showcasing the work ERM was involved in for Mondi in South Africa. The case study is featured as ERM undertook a land acquisition and compensation audit well in Mondi’s Sustainable Development Report. Mondi is an for a planned solar project in Salima District, Malawi, for integrated packaging and paper Group with 109 operations in JCM Matswani Solar Corp Limited (ProjectCo). As a result more than 30 countries in Europe, Russia, North America and of the audit and as part of the company’s corporate social South Africa. responsibility policy required by lenders, ERM subsequently undertook a feasibility study for community investment options in the areas of rural electrification, agriculture, From planning a new project to retiring an old asset, companies engage ERM to provide expertise and innovative technology and water and sanitation, with a focus on gender. ERM is to help manage impacts successfully. We focus on identifying and reducing risks throughout a project’s life cycle, which in turn also currently undertaking an Environmental and Social benefits our clients, local communities and the environment. Impact Assessment and Livelihood Restoration Plan for the planned project. ProjectCo is a Malawian company owned and managed by JCM Power, InfraCo Africa and Matswani Capital. This photo represents the arid nature of the area that is experiencing longer dry seasons, which negatively impact agricultural productivity. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 21 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustaining growth continued Companies are under pressure to simultaneously cut costs, Returning contaminated sites to improve their EHS and social performance, and reduce CASE STUDY operational risks. New regulations are not just another productive use compliance requirement that staff should manage, but can Companies with environmentally contaminated sites face lead to significant operational challenges and opportunities for significant regulatory, financial and reputational risks. ERM helps Teck win 2017 US creating business value. Successfully and cost-effectively managing large sites across Bureau of Land Management multiple jurisdictions challenges even well-run companies. environmental award Whether it involves long-term monitoring, active remediation CASE STUDY or working towards closure, the cleanup and management of contaminated sites is complex and costly. Comparative analysis of To safeguard compliance and asset value, organizations need environmental impact to take a proactive approach to contaminated sites that enables studies in eight countries them to safely eliminate, reduce or transfer associated liabilities while also communicating progress with their stakeholders and In order to strengthen the environmental licensing processes ultimately return land to productive use. in Peru, Peru´s Environmental Licensing Agency (SENACE) engaged ERM to develop a benchmarking study of relevant ERM is a leader in helping global companies address their aspects of the Environmental Impact Studies in different most challenging contaminated sites throughout the entire countries. The objective was to carry out a comparative remediation life cycle. For over 40 years, we have supported analysis of the planning, elaboration and evaluation process leading companies across the globe develop pragmatic and The Hardrock Mineral Environmental Award was presented of the detailed environmental impact studies for the sustainable remediation strategies and execute them cost to Teck American Incorporated for remediation work mining and energy sectors in eight countries: Peru, Chile, effectively. We focus on end-use, working closely with clients performed on the McCracken Mine project, a former-silver Colombia, Mexico, England, Canada (British Columbia), and developers to tailor remedial strategies to suit the potential mine located in Arizona. Teck did not operate the mine, Spain and South Africa. The report provided comparative transfer and future use of their sites or to develop productive but owns property in the McCracken Peak area of Mohave data for the eight countries based on regulations from reuse strategies. County. ERM played a significant role and was responsible each province, city and region where mining and energy for the cultural resources and biological surveys prior to activities are developed, as well as EIA experts from each the clean-up, preparation of design documentation for country analyzed. remediation contractors bidding, and construction oversight. The successful remediation project resulted in the removal of approximately 20,000 cubic yards of mine tailings located on public lands in a sensitive and fragile desert landscape. The McCracken Mine closure project preserved wildlife habitat and plant communities critical to the regional ecosystem, while also restoring a public use area to near pre-mining conditions. All of those involved shared a mutual enthusiasm for, and commitment to, responsible and sustainable mineral development, which was essential to the success of this mine clean-up project. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 22 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustaining growth continued Responsible resettlement and livelihood CASE STUDY restoration for major projects As the population grows and evolves, the demand for energy and resources continues. In response, companies Enel community relations and The project team studied gaps between the resettlement process and applicable international standards. This study are embarking on major projects, which have increased in resettlement in Chile led to several actions focused on the resolution of various complexity as regulations become more stringent, investors historical issues and conflicts, including: more proactive and communities more engaged. • Reparation of defective housing provided during the initial ERM’s social and public affairs experts work alongside our resettlement via the development of a technical work environmental and technical risk experts and our clients’ group comprised of company, community and CITEC (Bio internal staff to develop integrated solutions to complex, Bio University) focused on the diagnosis of the necessary multi-dimensional challenges that fit the specific needs of repairs to houses. the company. We offer a comprehensive range of services • Identification of the impacts to the quality of life of the and practical support including social impact assessment, families that lived since 2010 in houses with construction resettlement and livelihood restoration, social investment defects and quantification of relative compensation. planning and development of local benefit sharing packages. • Replacement of communal property that the families had in their place of origin, including the reconstruction of the historic school and the churches in the new neighborhoods. • Implementation of a program for restoration of livelihood through the development of the “My neighborhood, our neighborhood” program that foresees the realization of In June 2017, the electricity generation company, Enel requalification projects for new and existing neighborhoods Generación Chile, engaged ERM in an in-depth analysis of in the area near the plant. its relationship with local community members affected by resettlement in Coronel, Chile, which was started in 2008 ERM helped create the necessary conditions to reengage the and involves over 1300 families. community in a meaningful manner and resolve long-standing issues, and in doing so, has contributed to reinvigorate Enel´s social license to operate. International standards and industry best practices underscore a key principle: households whose livelihoods are directly affected by a project should enjoy the same or ideally a higher standard of living after being economically displaced as before. Livelihood restoration seeks to make measurable improvements to the income and well-being of affected households by helping them increase production, engage in higher-value economic activities or otherwise transform their livelihoods. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 23 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustaining growth continued ERM’s methodology for livelihood restoration provides local stakeholders with the opportunity to be actively involved in the design CASE STUDY and decision-making process, which increases the likelihood that measures will be culturally appropriate and supported over the long term. Mitigating economic displacement through livelihood restoration in DRC CASE STUDY Improving community outcomes at then underwent a process of consultation with local authorities, potential education and training agents and the affected thermal power plant in Vietnam households. The LRP was designed to take into account local economic activities and labor demands and to be integrated with both the client’s own community development plans and programs run by local authorities. Part of the LRP promoted existing land-based livelihoods through access to local market and procurement networks, enhanced animal breeding and the formation of farming and The small business owner of a chicken hatchery fishing cooperatives. Other elements focused on skills training and local enterprise development. Through collaboration with To diversify income streams and encourage investment of a local vocational center, a final component targeted young cash compensation entitlements in sustainable livelihood people, especially girls; children of affected households headed strategies, ERM developed a small business support by women; and other vulnerable groups. initiative for displaced households at the Tenke-Fungurume Mine in Democratic Republic of Congo. Client donated the construction of two rooms at Cam Hai primary and Once the LRP was complete, the client commissioned ERM secondary school to conduct a closeout audit. To avoid any conflicts of interests, In anticipation of compensation, 160 participating A thermal power client in Vietnam hired ERM to carry out a ERM used a separate team to review monitoring and internal households completed a 5-day workshop, which provided Livelihood Restoration Completion Audit (LRCA) related to audit reports, records of consultations and meetings, and basic skills on establishing and managing micro-enterprises, the economic displacement of 68 households of farmers and grievances related to livelihood restoration and how they were including basic market principles, carrying out market fishers impacted by the construction of a pond used to store resolved. Affected households and local authorities were also surveys and developing business plans. ash waste from the coal-fired facility. ERM conducted the interviewed. Significantly, the team observed an improvement Following the training course, trainers work closely with the original socioeconomic baseline study in 2013 and prepared in average monthly incomes among affected households, participating households to finalize their individual business an initial Livelihood Restoration Plan (LRP) in early 2014, which attributed to the successful implementation of the LRP. investment plans. Trainers will continue to provide support during a 12-month business incubation period. Success rates have been very encouraging, with monitoring data providing strong evidence of household income diversification through productive investment of cash compensation entitlements. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 24 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustainable consumption Sustainability means better livelihoods CASE STUDY ERM helps organizations balance profitable growth with sustainable growth by helping them transform their operations and products to deliver better outcomes while mitigating the Sustainable mining and building ERM works with mining companies around the world to help address technical challenges, from safety and water risks associated with environmental and social issues. “the mine we want to see” management to social performance and mine closure. We work with companies to reduce waste and use less energy We understand the tension of having to provide important and water, without compromising – and in fact generating – commodities to society without causing harm, and business value. accomplishing this in an economically viable way. Building on our insights, we are convening conversations to Smarter use of the planet’s resources help the sector think about the notion of “the mine we want to Across the life cycle of assets and products, ERM provides see” – and what it will entail to get there. services so our clients can be successful while making smarter Ahead of this year’s Prospectors and Developers Association use of the planet’s resources. of Canada (PDAC) Convention, ERM published a document to stimulate a conversation with the sector on what the future of sustainable mining needs to look like. We convened a panel at the convention with leading companies to explore this topic further. Our panelists shared how today’s mining companies While much is written about the decline of traditional sectors in need to continually innovate, act and adapt – not just to the face of disruptive industries, metals and minerals are, and compete, but to survive. will continue to be, vital components of everyday life and a key aspect of the new digital economy. They are necessary to make By putting sustainability at the heart of their change agenda, mobile phones and electric cars, the batteries built to power mining companies can address the risks and challenges facing them and the infrastructure used to charge them. They are their business and seize the opportunities presented by a also frequently required to produce low voltage lighting, solar digital age. panels and wind turbines – all building blocks for a loweremissions economy. ERM has supported businesses globally with their major capital projects for more than 40 years. Our goal is to enable our clients to secure financing, obtain host country approvals, drive social performance and to construct, operate and retire their projects sustainably, on schedule, and on budget. In the face of critical sustainability challenges, our clients rely on our ability to assist them in functioning more effectively and sustainably. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 25 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustainable consumption continued Assessing impacts across the CASE STUDY CASE STUDY product life cycle Given the pressures of the growing middle classes on society Helping Rio Tinto prepare for the and the planet, there is growing demand for innovative products Life cycle dataset for the cobalt industry opening of a mine and processing plant and services to address complex issues such as climate for a new and unique lithium-borate change, access to water and plastics in the environment. Yet even “green” decisions bring with them complex mineral jadarite consequences across the product life cycle. Through life cycle assessment (LCA) studies, ERM can assist clients in early identification of risks and opportunities in their operations and maximize business value. LCAs can be done across the full value chain of operations (cradle-to-grave), from the production and processing of raw materials, through manufacture, use, reuse and end of life. Issues commonly appraised include carbon, resource, water, and toxicity Rio Tinto’s Jadar project in Serbia footprints. Increasingly, social metrics such as human rights, ERM worked with the Cobalt Institute to generate the first ERM is developing an environmental and social impact health and safety are also considered in these studies. industry-wide life cycle inventory dataset for refined cobalt, in assessment (ESIA) for a lithium-borates mine and processing order to provide a better understanding of the environmental plant project for Rio Tinto in Serbia. Once in operation, the impacts and primary energy demand of cobalt production. mine will have the potential to supply a significant share of global demand for lithium, a demand fuelled by its most This new cobalt LCI/LCA dataset will help LCA practitioners notable use in batteries for hybrid and electrical vehicles. to meet data needs in the battery, automotive and other sectors – which depend on cobalt to help power the low Within the scope of ESIA preparation, ERM is providing a wide carbon economy of the future. range of services including extensive and detailed baseline studies, options assessment and engineering-collaboration, ERM conducted a peer-reviewed life cycle assessment (LCA) Serbian regulatory advice, stakeholder engagement with participation from eight major cobalt producers, who planning, hazardous materials classification, resettlement produce cobalt as a by-product from either nickel or copper and land acquisition advice and specific in-country presence. production. The new dataset has been used as part of the By combining our global ESIA and permitting experience with EU Product Environmental Footprint Pilot on rechargeable a bespoke team of Serbian experts, ERM is helping the client batteries, and has been incorporated into LCA databases. progress through different study phases. Work is underway to incorporate the new cobalt data into other studies as well. This project provided an up-to-date representative dataset for cobalt to support manufacturers and downstream users in their efforts to improve the environmental performance of their cobalt-containing products. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 26 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustainable consumption continued LCA studies can inform decisions on cost reductions, reduce Protecting brands through business risks, enhance a company’s or product’s reputation, CASE STUDY improve environmental management and procurement, enable product stewardship credible environmental claims and product declarations, and ERM helps companies create business value through support development of sustainable products and services. sustainable product design; procurement and raw material Helping clients meet management; clear understanding of health and environmental REACH deadline impacts in the manufacture, use and disposal of products; CASE STUDY When the May 31, 2018 deadline was looming for compliance and effective engagement with customers, consumers and with the third and last registration under the European Union’s other stakeholders. Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Life cycle assessments for We work with companies to address gaps in product Chemicals (REACH) requirements, ERM provided additional confidential client stewardship that can result in product impoundment or recall, help to our clients and their suppliers. The deadline covered which can disrupt supply chains, increase costs, and damage the registration of all phase-in substances, manufactured or ERM assisted a leading company with a life cycle brand and reputation. We aim to identify and mitigate these imported into the European Union, at quantities above 1 metric assessment (LCA) for several new products. The LCA study risks while looking beyond them to support product innovation ton per year. helped the client with its regulatory approvals, and it sets the groundwork for future LCA studies. and brand differentiators that have the potential to contribute to ERM scaled up quickly to deliver for our clients with this highly the bottom line. specialized service. We helped clients stay in business by We provided the client with a cradle-to-gate streamlined LCA ensuring they met this critical regulatory requirement. study that estimated the environmental impact profile of the products. The impact profile included GHG emissions, ozone ERM combines the product safety and EHS perspectives. depletion, human toxicity, non-cancer effects, particulate With our holistic lifecycle view on substance use and the local matter, photochemical ozone formation (VOCs), acidification, presence in all global markets, we identify best marketability freshwater eutrophication, marine eutrophication, freshwater options for products and prevent negative surprises. ecotoxicity, land use and water resource depletion. This study provided valuable information about priority issues ReachCentrum, an ERM Group company specializing in during key stages of the product life cycle. REACH regulation and a market leader for REACH consortia management, established a dedicated program to support companies in the various steps of registration and coregistration, in particular in providing letters of access (for the data required) and in supporting dossier preparation and dossier application to ECHA, the European Chemical Agency. ReachCentrum automatized its approach, helping clients mitigate the burden of registration in a timeand cost-effective way. The acquisition of ReachCentrum by ERM provided a strategic perspective to its staff, who now support clients beyond the European Union with consortia management, financial management and data-sharing services. We see the need for ReachCentrum services strongly evolving in areas such as Turkey, Taiwan and Korea. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 27 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustainable consumption continued Integrating sustainability across the CASE STUDY supply chain Focusing on a company’s sustainability impacts is a priority for efficiency, cost savings and revenue growth. Yet the impacts Sustainable supply chain management of any organization’s supply chain can be significantly greater for India-based multinational companies than its direct impacts. A less robust supplier engagement ERM in India conducted training on sustainable supply chain program can leave businesses open to environmental, financial, management for leading Indian corporations. A team of ERM regulatory and reputational risks and liabilities, and potential subject matter experts developed customized training content interruption to business-critical supply chain processes. and used accelerated learning methodologies to deliver the There are also missed opportunities to leverage efficiencies workshops. The training modules encompassed the key from a high-performing and more sustainable supply chain. components of the sustainable supply chain process: • Review internal process and support in place and assign responsibilities to lead; • Map the supply chain and identify highest risk areas; • Establish sustainability criteria for selection, evaluation and monitoring, applying relevant industry standards; • Evaluate suppliers and engage to influence improvements; • Integrate results of evaluation into sourcing decisions using balanced scorecard and alignment of internal buying incentives; and • Ongoing monitoring, engaging, rewarding, reporting and working responsibly toward sector-wide change. ERM’s training helped sensitize multi-disciplinary stakeholders on the business-critical aspects of integrating sustainability within the supply chain processes. ERM works with the manufacturers of consumer goods to identify, measure and mitigate their environmental and social impacts. We support our clients in addressing the challenges of sustainability across their supply chains, helping them to improve compliance with regulations and industry standards while meeting the needs of consumers, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 28 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustainable consumption continued Innovative solutions to water management CASE STUDY Water availability and quality is a growing global challenge for many organizations as they struggle to meet regulatory requirements, stem rising costs, reduce impacts and ensure Water risk assessment for P&G “This questionnaire provided a strong business sustainability. Water is essential in the manufacturing of many P&G basis for developing a rigorous In addition to helping companies meet regulatory requirements, products. ERM was engaged by P&G to conduct water risk scoring system that would address the assessments of 38 manufacturing sites located in areas ERM helps clients ensure the quality and longevity of water designated as experiencing high water risk. unique features of our manufacturing resources for both their own needs and those of the wider community. We apply a deep understanding of water issues to processes. WWF and our partners at We developed and piloted a detailed questionnaire help companies improve operations, reduce water use, control related to both internal and external risk factors that each WRI were invaluable in its creation, costs and ensure compliance. and consultants at Environmental site completed, looking at water risk exposure, water management and potential business impact. We evaluated Resources Management (ERM) helped the questionnaire results, incorporating water risk scores from public tools, including World Resources Institute (WRI) our vision come to life. This included Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) assessing water risk exposure and water Water Filter. Furthermore, WRI and WWF reviewed and management practices occurring both provided feedback on ERM’s methodology for assessing water risk inside and outside the four walls of the facility. inside and outside our walls.” Based on our evaluation, ERM prepared detailed siteP&G 2017 Citizenship Report level reports, along with a summary corporate report, highlighting the key findings and relative scoring to aid in raising awareness and understanding of water risk issues at the site and corporate levels. The results of our work serve as the basis for the next phase in P&G’s water risk assessment framework. By taking a strategic approach to water management, organizations can ensure continuity of operations in the face of supply challenges, and safeguard reputation and competitive advantage. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 29 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustainable consumption continued CASE STUDY CASE STUDY Moneta Divide water resulted in proposed permit levels that enable Aethon Energy to significantly increase production, while complying with World Water Day highlights ERM quality assessment for applicable antidegradation requirements to protect potential Foundation in action Aethon Energy drinking water and aquatic life sources. The model also generated a tool to help Aethon Energy estimate the amount Aethon Energy’s planned development of the Moneta of produced water treatment needed under the varying future Divide gas field in Wyoming, US, will result in an increase conditions to ensure protection of water quality. The study and in produced water discharges and beneficial use to the its outcome were shared with various stakeholders providing environment. This increase will require a revised permit that assurance that no adverse water quality changes would occur. adequately protects water quality for all downstream receptors. ERM provided state-of-the-art water quality assessment using computational models to answer the question: what levels of discharges can be released before adverse water quality changes occur? Using powerful computer resources, the most elaborate World Water Day focuses attention on the importance of calibrated water quality model of its kind was created for the water. The theme for 2018 was “Nature for Water” – exploring Boysen Reservoir and the surrounding tributaries. ERM’s nature-based solutions to the water challenges we face in the model reproduced observed conditions and made predictions 21st century. of hypothetical future scenarios. The study spanned a ERM used Water Day to raise employee awareness of the ways period of more than one year, and was a collaborative ERM brings strategic and technical know-how to help our clients effort between Aethon Energy, the Wyoming Department of understand and manage water risks and water sustainability, Environmental Quality and ERM. This innovative approach and to discover more about some of the water, sanitation and hygiene programs being supported by the ERM Foundation. ERM’s thought leadership on water-related issues includes identifying trends and opportunities for collaborative projects that lead In Ghana, the ERM Foundation team worked with Saha to tangible societal benefit. We are involved in developing tools, delivering technical presentations and organizing panels that help Global to provide clean drinking water for 2,400 people companies improve their understanding of water risk and responsible water stewardship. through the creation of women-owned clean water businesses, empowering women and benefitting local economies. In addition, ERM employees are providing pro bono support to develop a water testing training manual and build a monitoring schedule based on performance data. The project outcomes included reduction of water-related illness and improved community health and sanitation; improved livelihoods for women entrepreneurs; improved water testing procedures and overall water quality. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 30 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustainable consumption continued Protecting people’s lives through Combining technical expertise in risk, process and occupational safety, human factors, and information systems, with a focus on leadership, culture and behaviors, we work with clients to achieve the full benefit of their safety investment – safeguarding lives, safety transformation assets and reputation. Managing health and safety is a core responsibility for every organization. ERM helps companies address safety challenges, CASE STUDY delivering immediate reductions in risk and sustained improvements in safety performance. Doubling safety performance for “Shell Pernis achieved its goal to make CASE STUDY employees and contractors the site twice as safe as the prior year Shell Pernis is the largest refinery in Europe and one of the in 2017. ERM has been very helpful Global recognition for transformation largest in the world. With more than 2,000 employees and to create a positive momentum with a in safety culture and performance 1,000 contractors on site, it is also the largest employer in the region. Prior to the project, both employees and contractors leading coalition. This led to voluntary ERM is working with a client in the oil and gas sector on an expressed that current safety programs needed a refresh to participation of 350 leaders that have ambitious cultural change program. With many thousands of contribute to the next step in improving Safety Performance. been coached as safety champions personnel in a highly challenging working environment, ERM has provided broad-based support to the organization’s The goal for 2017, and again in 2018, is to make Pernis two in 2017-2018. The diagnostic stage leadership, helping to create alignment on the prevailing times more safe than the prior year. To achieve this objective, and the field coaching were very safety culture within their operations and their future vision Shell recognized that safety behavior and safety leadership for safety culture and performance. are key drivers of improvement. To kick-start the process, powerful interventions that supported Shell launched an engagement survey with all the employees. the overall approach that was led by ERM consultants have also been coaching senior leaders in This was followed by the introduction of a Safety Excellence the organization, middle management and frontline leaders Site Leadership.” program, together with contractors. Shell requested ERM on practical actions they can take to deliver enduring assist them on this journey. change to the culture, behaviors and safety performance on Jos Van Winsen, the frontline. ERM started with a one-week diagnostic assessment. General Manager at Shell Nederland Raffinaderij B.V Observing conditions and behaviors in the field and The culture change program has helped our client to create interviews with leaders gave Shell and ERM good insights a more open culture where people feel freer to speak into root causes and underlying issues. This was followed up: there was a four-fold increase in reporting of safety by a leadership workshop, which created a personal and observations since 2016. Trust in leadership is markedly organization imperative for leaders in the organization to improved. Critically, safety performance is continuing to change the current approach. improve and high-potential incidents are trending downward. Coaching leaders in the field enhanced their hazard The client team that has been driving the cultural change recognition skills and equipped them with techniques to program with ERM’s support was recognized as the winner engage with personnel in a style designed to enact behavioral in the global organization’s annual safety and environment change. Sustaining the performance improvement included category. The deeply collaborative engagement with the invigorating core safety processes and preparing internal client is ongoing and continues to deliver great outcomes. coaches to continue the learning cycle. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 31 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Sustainable consumption continued ERM works with industry and multi-stakeholder organizations to provide pragmatic and actionable guidance for addressing HIGHLIGHT sustainable development. Increasingly, this involves implementing the SDGs either as standalone programs or integrated into the core business of the company. Given that Exploring the role of human factors in human factors can be optimized to enhance safety, increase achieving the SDGs productivity and reduce human error, they play a significant London-based ERM consultant, George Sammonds, published role in achieving each of the SDGs through the formation an article on “Building a sustainable future,” which explores the of effective systems to support human performance and role of human factors in responding to megatrends and achieving behavioral change. the SDGs. The article, published in the November-December 2017 edition of The Ergonomist, highlights some of the work ERM has conducted. The megatrends are shaping numerous segments of the “Megatrends are shaping numerous economy and have major implications for businesses. As noted segments of the economy and have in the article, human factors can aid the debate on climate major implications for businesses… change by making data accessible and meaningful to its target audience. Digital transformation requires consideration of device human factors services can help them usability and effective integration of technology. Human factors manage the risks and respond to the can support population growth by aiding cultural change to opportunities they present.” develop new ways of working and traveling that minimize impact, and it can assist the emerging middle classes by helping to meet their aspirations while encouraging a more responsible attitude E  xcepted from the article “Building a sustainable towards consumption. future” by George Sammonds, ERM, London, United Kingdom” Through driving effective behavior change and better understanding of human needs, human factors are core to successfully addressing the SDGs. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 32 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach SDG contribution Sustainability means better outcomes Many companies and a few sectors have taken the first CASE STUDY step to mapping the SDGs against their existing activities. Created by the United Nations in 2015, the Sustainable However, making the leap from mapping to using the SDGs Development Goals (SDGs) comprise 17 goals and 169 to strategically innovate, grow and demonstrate progress has actionable targets to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, Helping SCG in Indonesia proven more challenging. ERM helps companies not only with and tackle climate change by 2030. As corporate responsibility align with the SDGs mapping, but also in developing, tracking and communicating and climate-related risk have an increasingly more direct impact their strategy and progress in contributing to the SDGs. on a company’s financial standing and reputation, aligning core SCG, a Thai-based diversified business in the chemicals, business strategies with the SDGs has the potential to offer packaging, cement and building materials sectors, has an organization new market opportunities and to help retain or operated in Indonesia since 1995. ERM recently worked CASE STUDY regain its license to operate. with SCG in Indonesia to define its sustainable development priorities, taking into consideration the local operating ERM works with clients across sectors and geographies to context in determining how the company can align and Building SDG demystify the SDGs from a private-sector perspective. We help contribute to the SDGs. sector roadmaps companies identify and add value by incorporating the SDGs in Using a stakeholder engagement process, we helped As highlighted in the World Business their business strategies and programs. SCG Indonesia assess and prioritize key issues, such Council for Sustainable Development as community and society development and energy (WBCSD) CEO Guide to the SDGs, a sector-based and management. We helped the organization understand and collaborative approach will be essential if the true business identify the critical issues that will advance its sustainable value of the SDGs is to be realized. WBCSD recently development roadmap in Indonesia. launched its official guidelines for SDG Sector Roadmaps, developed with technical support from ERM. ERM colleagues in Indonesia and Thailand worked in close collaboration to ensure alignment with SCG Corporate’s We are leading the development of practical, accessible approach to sustainable development. With this project, guidelines to assist leading companies in articulating a SCG is continuing to strengthen its competitive position common vision for how their industry can implement while building its brand and sustainable growth in Indonesia. SDGs to optimize business value – not only as individual companies, but also for entire sectors. ERM currently is working to complete the first sector-based Creating a roadmap for achieving roadmap for the chemical sector. This initiative is driven by the SDGs a selection of leading chemical companies and industry associations. The roadmap identifies areas where the Increasingly, investors realize that company risk and growth chemical sector can have the most impact and explores key are tied to sound environmental and social practices. opportunities and pathways to accelerate and optimize this Contributing to the SDGs will serve to enhance returns, mitigate impact on the road to 2030, while also presenting a strong risk, strengthen reputation, drive innovation and much more, business case for action. The chemical sector guide is as documented by the Business and Sustainable Development expected to be published in mid-2018. ERM is also working Commission.8 Full integration of the SDGs into business with a number of other sectors on their roadmaps. strategy has the potential to contribute significant market opportunities and jobs around the world. 8 To learn more about the Business and Sustainable Development commission, visit http://report.businesscommission.org/. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 33 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach SDG contribution continued Helping clients with their CASE STUDY sustainability journey In addition to helping business address the SDGs at a macro level, such as our sector-level roadmaps with WBCSD. We also Assuring J&J progress towards work with companies on addressing the SDGs in a practical its SDG targets manner that creates business value, from strategy and goal Leading companies are making commitments related development to measuring and reporting on progress. to the SDGs in their long-term strategic sustainability performance goals. As part of the assurance of its 2017 CASE STUDY reporting, the global health care company Johnson & Johnson asked ERM CVS to assure its progress status for each of its 2020 SDG targets. Our in-depth investigation of Working with leading energy company the underlying methodologies and the 2017 results for the in Thailand to develop SDG strategy supporting programs gives senior management and external stakeholders confidence in the disclosed results, as well as ERM assisted a leading energy company in Thailand in recommendations for improvements to goal definitions and developing its “SDGs for Sustainability Strategy.” Based on underlying reporting processes going forward. selected priority SDGs, we helped the client understand its baseline performance, identify relevant initiatives and key performance indicators, and set targets. We have Within any organization, improving sustainability can cover also helped the client define methodologies for measuring a range of issues, from responding to megatrends such as and communicating impact resulting from the strategy climate change and developing new products to retiring implementation. Adoption of SDGs in business strategy has legacy assets and operating in an efficient, compliant and helped the company understand its current contribution to responsible way. society and design investing strategies for better impact. For more than four decades, ERM has been working with clients around the world and in diverse industry sectors to identify and leverage opportunities to improve performance and profitability, strengthen their reputation and relationships with key stakeholders, and enhance competitive advantage by embedding sustainability across their businesses. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 34 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach SDG contribution continued HIGHLIGHT HIGHLIGHT Understanding the business drivers for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States, led a client webinar on “The Business Case for Sustainable Remediation.” The ERM acquires strategic sustainable remediation and their link presenters provided an update on current thinking and practices sustainability consultancy to the SDGs in sustainable remediation and discussed how to promote and BrownFlynn Ltd get support to build a sustainable remediation program with internal stakeholders through recognizing linkages with corporate ERM has acquired BrownFlynn Ltd. (BrownFlynn), a leading sustainability indicators and the broader SDGs. They shared corporate sustainability and governance consulting business, examples of best practices that demonstrably show value by based in Cleveland, Ohio, United States. This acquisition managing sites in both a sustainable and cost-effective manner strengthens our capability in the North American market to while considering all stakeholders. advise clients on their strategic sustainability journey, linking internal frameworks with the SDGs and business drivers, Guest speakers Jonathan Smith, Shell Global Solutions, and and communicating effectively with stakeholders. James Henderson, DuPont, provided insight on the business drivers and challenges at a portfolio and site-specific level. Established in 1996, BrownFlynn advises Fortune 500 and privately held businesses on all aspects of corporate Alan Thomas recently spoke at the Global Symposium on sustainability advisory services: setting strategy, helping Soil Pollution in Rome, Italy, on “embedding sustainability in navigate reporting frameworks and ratings, undertaking The practice of sustainable remediation has evolved significantly materiality assessments, setting bold goals and key contaminated site management: practical experiences and over the last ten years, and there is now considerable guidance performance indicators, communicating progress through case studies.” The symposium was jointly organized by the available. Nevertheless, it can remain an area of uncertainty for design and storytelling, and monitoring environmental, social UN Food and Agriculture Organization and its Global Soil remedial managers. and governance trends. Partnership, Intergovernmental Technical Panel on Soils, Alan Thomas, ERM Technical Fellow based in Oxford, United together with the Secretariats of the Basel, Rotterdam and Stockholm Conventions, UN Environment and the World This acquisition also complements ERM’s strengths in Kingdom, and Kevin Morris, ERM Technical Director based in data management and technical solutions in addressing Health Organization. the sustainability challenges facing companies and stakeholders today. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 35 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach SDG contribution continued ERM’s contribution to the SDGs ERM’s purpose is shaping a sustainable future with the world’s leading organizations. ERM continues to build our global CASE STUDY ERM supports the SDGs. We contribute to them in three ways expertise as we collaborate with key international standard within our value chain, through: bodies, industry organizations and investor groups. From mapping to action – SDGs • Our consulting services with and for clients and other leading organizations; Although our work with clients and other leading organizations as a framework for delivering represents our most significant contribution to achieving • Our operations; and the SDGs, ERM also supports the SDGs through our transformative change • The ERM Foundation. own operations and the activities of the ERM Foundation. Our colleagues asked ERM’s sustainability team to share Focusing on the SDG targets and indicators, in keeping current thinking on how the world is shaping a sustainable with evolving best practices, will be the most effective and future, and so we ran a series of employee-led webinars on measurable way for ERM to support the SDGs. the SDGs. More than 1,000 ERM employees participated in 8 webinars, presented in 3 languages by 19 ERM colleagues. Participants at SDG session at GRI Reporters’ Summit ERM’s Jennifer Eastes, Principal Consultant, and Linden Edgell, Global Sustainability Director, presented with Sue Allchurch, Chief of Participant Relations, Fund Raising and Communication at UN Global Compact on the topic of “From Mapping to Action: SDGs as a Framework for Delivering Transformative Change” at the GRI Reporters’ Summit in Phoenix, Arizona. The presenters shared experiences, tools and examples of company and sector initiatives to drive ambitious action for change. Throughout the session, it was clear that many participant organizations want to contribute to the SDGs, but do not know where to begin. Through the group discussion, several areas of consensus emerged. Companies should prioritize the SDGs and focus their efforts on a select few. Business, and not only government, has a key role to play in delivering on the SDGs. Some SDGs are more relevant than others, and measuring your company’s impact is difficult but important. There is momentum around the SDGs, and companies feel pressure from stakeholders to demonstrate their contribution. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 36 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Programs & practices Within each of the following sections, we OUR PEOPLE HEALTH & SAFETY describe our programs and practices for managing our highest-priority sustainability issues, confirmed through ERM’s stakeholder engagement process, materiality assessment and senior-management review. We also provide commentary on our performance, with the supporting data contained in the Performance section of the report. GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY ERM FOUNDATION ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 37 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Our people Our commitment Our ability to attract, develop, reward and retain talented employees is central to our business strategy and vital to our future. We want to hire passionate people and ensure that we nurture and support their development and success. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 38 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Our people continued to full-time employees. ERM’s year-on-year voluntary turnover As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, ERM is HIGHLIGHT decreased from 11.8 percent to 11 percent in FY18, which is a signatory of the Women’s Empowerment Principles. The ERM notably better than our industry’s average. Foundation includes “empowering women and girls” as an area of focus for funding projects reflecting the SDGs. ERM Company Values Read more on our workforce in the supporting data section. We are engaging and raising awareness Our aim is to be recognized globally by our employees and our clients as a demographically diverse employer, whose inclusive with our people while adapting our Work-life balance culture enables our employees to excel in the service and value processes to ensure a more inclusive approach. This approach builds on what we are doing to Our business sometimes demands long hours, frequent or they provide to our clients. nurture the best talent and, importantly, reinforce extended travel, and deadline pressures. Within this context, ERM strives to maintain an appropriate work-life balance for As part of setting foundations for a more deliberate approach our company values: its employees. to inclusion in the years ahead, we launched two initiatives in Accountability: We are each personally accountable FY18, with further actions to follow based on these initiatives: and jointly responsible for the success of ERM and for the • We provide flexible working arrangements where feasible, enabled by technology, and we will continue to ensure we are • Enhanced training: We have embarked on employee training delivery of quality work to our clients. meeting the needs of our employees in the years ahead. to help raise awareness of the business-related advantages Caring for our people: We are looking after our people, associated with having a diverse and inclusive culture. • We encourage wellness activities, and many of our their safety, well-being and development. We also treat each All employees will have the opportunity to access online offices implement initiatives, such as gym memberships, other with respect. content. We are also in the process of developing more inteam sports, recognition of special family days and fresh depth training for managers and the senior leaders in ERM. fruit supplies. Client focus: We value entrepreneurial, innovative and • Global Advisory Group: In support of our vision and client-orientated behavior. Flexibility is often cited by employees as a key reason for purpose, we established a representative Advisory Group to working at ERM. guide the ERM leadership team on how to enhance ERM’s Collaboration: We are one organization globally: we believe performance and culture of inclusion. This includes providing in the principles of partnership, respect for each and every feedback, coaching and insights on the issues, priorities, individual and mutual support across the world. Diversity and inclusion communications and effectiveness of ERM’s approach to At ERM, we know that creating a diverse and inclusive work inclusion. Members of the inaugural Advisory Group for Empowerment: We will help all our people to realize environment is an essential part of making our company a building an inclusive culture were selected from among the 400 their potential. great place to build a career. Our aim is to foster a culture of employees who applied to serve a 2-year term. The Advisory Transparency: We expect the highest level of ethical behavior inclusiveness free from bias and discrimination. We confirmed Group will help ERM address the issues that matter and bring and personal integrity in all our transactions in accordance with our commitment to this over 10 years ago in the first global the conversation to life across the business in the three focus our ERM Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. company policy on diversity, and we have since taken steps areas of: educating, adapting and engaging. through targets and initiatives to make sure we deliver on our In June, ERM will be observing Pride 2018, which means that commitments. Through our policies, we prohibit discrimination we are nurturing a positive work environment through respect We ended the year with 4,500 full-time equivalent (FTE) on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, and support of LGBT+ identities of our employees. Our goal employees, which was an increase from 4,300 FTE employees gender identity, age, national origin, disability, veteran status or in doing this is to create a workplace in which every employee at the end of fiscal year 2017 (FY17). In response to market any other category protected by the laws of the communities in is able to bring their best self to work, and that ERM is a conditions and current employment preferences, our staffing which we do business. place where everyone feels respected, safe and encouraged. strategy has evolved to provide opportunities for flexible Ultimately, this strengthens our culture and improves the working arrangements in response to client needs in addition outcomes we can deliver for our clients. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 39 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Our people continued Gender balance in management HIGHLIGHT Over the last few years, there has been a companywide effort to increase the number of women in leadership positions. Celebrating International Women’s Day “A huge and heartfelt thank you to you Increasing gender diversity among our Partners and Senior and your teams for putting together an Consultants is a long-standing KPI for the company. For FY19, we have added a new target focused on increasing the diversity incredible 2 days for our girls. One of our of our global Senior Leadership team. students told me over lunch yesterday, We have also focused on increasing the number of women ‘This has opened my mind. I now know in our talent pipeline through our Aspire Program and Path I want a purpose, I want to connect to Partnership approach. These programs are critical to the with my passion and I want to make a development of future leaders within ERM, and greater gender diversity among their participants is a crucial component in difference in my community.’ Both days achieving our diversity goals. In FY18, 43 percent of the Aspire Celebrating International Women’s Day were absolutely incredible – our girls left Program participants and 47 percent of the Partner candidates One of the first tasks of the Advisory Group was to were women. feeling inspired, confident and hungry to support ERM offices around the globe in celebrating International Women’s Day. This day provided the leave a lasting impact on the world.” HIGHLIGHT opportunity for us to celebrate the achievements of women at ERM – approximately half our workforce – and Abby S. Walker, to acknowledge that as a society, we have some more Coordinator for Strategic Partnerships and Volunteer ERM publishes UK Gender work to do to achieve gender parity. The theme of for this year was #PressforProgress. Programs, Spring Branch ISD Pay Gap Report “This was absolutely amazing, especially In complying with legislation introduced in the United In the spirit of International Women’s Day, ERM’s Houston office Kingdom, ERM published in March 2017 a Gender Pay held a 2-day event in February 2018 with Junior Achievement considering this was your company’s Gap Report on our UK-based business. All employers in the that engaged approximately 80 girls, ages 14 to 16, from a local first time hosting such an event. United Kingdom with more than 250 relevant employees minorityand income-diverse school district. The girls spent time are required to publish details of the gender gap related to with our employees in the Houston, Texas, office, learning about Sitting there listening to all of your pay. The regulations measure the difference between men’s the work we do for our clients that supports global sustainability; enthusiasm and passion for your careers and women’s average earnings across an organization, using technology to create word clouds and surveys regarding inspired these young ladies to get excited irrespective of their role, skills or seniority, and is expressed sustainability and women in science, technology, engineering and as a percentage of men’s earnings. Visit the full report on math (STEM); empowering women to think about STEM careers; about their future” erm.com for more details of the scope and findings. and supporting our ERM Foundation initiative partnering with Junior Achievement. The girls took an office tour, had informal Tiffany Simple, discussions with our ERM employees about what they were Senior Education Program Manager – Alief & Spring Branch, working on, and enjoyed the office café with games to support Junior Achievement of Southeast Texas team bonding and a fun work environment. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 40 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Our people continued Learning and development We continue to evolve our approach to our leadership pipeline. these issues in the context of ERM’s strategy and purpose We are implementing a new Path to Partnership approach statement, “Shaping a sustainable future with the world’s leading We invest in the future of our people through a focus on focusing on our talent reviews to identify those individuals organizations.” The workshop is part of a comprehensive learning and development. ERM provides opportunities for who have the potential to be successful Partners at ERM. program to support new partners as they transition into the ongoing learning across technical, business and personal Once identified, we will assign them a sponsor from among Partnership and accelerate their effectiveness in their new role. development subject areas. our Senior Partners to help them prepare and develop into the requirements of our Partner roles. With our new approach, ERM’s Aspire Program helps high-potential Senior Consultants We offer a mix of classroom, digital, on-the-job and informal accelerate their development and mature in their role, which we are reinforcing the need for our Senior Partners to be the educational approaches – with technical experts contributing to supports our management succession planning. In FY18, stewards of our Partnership and take on the accountability, along specialist curricula. several Aspire teams contributed to our new strategy with our candidates, to support them successfully to promotion. implementation, focusing on projects such as: The ERM Academy, our online portal, is the repository that holds all learning items, events, sessions and training records CASE STUDY • Challenges and opportunities of the food and for our workforce. It is aligned with our career framework at beverage sector; each level. Employees can enhance the skills, knowledge • ERM Vision and Values: how we measure impact; and and behaviors they need to adapt to a changing market and New partner Jami Patrick • Clients and megatrends: the impact on client business advance their career with ERM. participates in WBCSD strategies over the longer term. We aim to nurture a culture where learning occurs every day Leadership Program in everything we do, and where each of us takes ownership in Several other Aspire teams focused on SDG-related projects. Jami Patrick is a newly promoted Partner at ERM, driving our own development. On-the-job learning accounts specializing in supporting clients in environmental, health, for a significant percentage of an individual’s development. and safety risk management and compliance assurance KPI HIGHLIGHT The ERM Academy includes new content and programs to and serves as a Regional Sustainability Co-Lead for North align with our strategy and grow our strategic capability while America. She currently works in our Nashville, Tennessee, responding to the changing needs of the learner. office in the United States, but has also worked for ERM in FY18 target Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, and Manchester, England. Show increase over prior year for gender diversity among Every new employee completes mandatory training and local Jami participated in WBCSD’s Leadership Program in 2017. Senior Consultants, Technical Directors and Partners induction activities so that they can carry out their work safely The focus for the year was on “integrating sustainability and in compliance with ERM governance requirements and Result in business decision-making.” Our involvement in the policies, our clients and relevant legislation. Leadership Program helps our talented leaders gain skills, 21.4% female Partners (increase from 20.1% in FY17) experience and knowledge. Alumni join a global network 34.4% female Senior Consultants and Technical Directors Leadership pipeline of business leaders who are ambassadors for sustainable (increase from 34.0% in FY17) Partner-led teams collaborate to deploy the right people for development both within their companies and outside in the right job. These teams have access to our entire ERM broader society. ERM employees speak 65 different languages, which reflects workforce, spanning different geographies and sectors in order the diversity of our workforce and helps us to better serve to meet our evolving client needs. This structure also enables the needs of our clients. At the annual New Partner Integration workshop held in ERM employees to deepen their professional experience by October 2017, we included a session that explored the ways See FY18 performance supporting projects worldwide. ERM contributes to the SDGs through our own operations, by working with clients, and through the ERM Foundation. The new partners participated in breakout groups, where they discussed ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 41 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Health & Safety A culture of caring for our people The most important role for all ERM’s leaders is to keep everyone safe and apply our company procedures and protocols. However, it does not start nor end with ERM’s leaders – everyone has a responsibility for doing the safest work possible. If we cannot operate safely and without incident, then we cannot live up to our values. It is as simple as that. The nature of the work we do means safety will always be a core value. This is driven by our belief in the culture of caring about the well-being of our people, our clients and our contractors. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 42 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Health and safety continued We have a responsibility to do everything we can to assure Program elements environments. Our global Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) that everyone is safe while working at or on behalf of ERM. Policy Statement, which is endorsed by our CEO and Executive Tragically, two subcontractors lost their lives in FY18. ERM delivers a health and safety program that focuses on the Committee, applies worldwide and is conveyed to all employees We are taking further actions to prevent such incidents from ongoing health and safety of everyone involved in and impacted through our induction programs and routine communications. reoccurring, including the establishment of an Executive by our work, including ERM employees, clients and contractors, Committee-sponsored task force to review and refine policies as well as communities and the public impacted by our projects. ERM Partners and other leaders have personal safety goals and processes regarding subcontractor management and other included in their performance metrics, with progress against these Our global tools and systems support continuous improvement goals assessed as part of the annual performance review process. critical operational risks. as we work on complex projects, often in challenging VIDEO HIGHLIGHT Active Leadership Audit “ALAP is a powerful instrument that Program keeps our focus allowed me to create connections with on safety improvement numerous field teams. Through a simple Watch the video During FY18, ERM completed nearly field audit, important items can be 2,300 individual office, project, field discussed, addressed and learned by the or subsurface clearance audits using our online tool: nearly 1,300 of team. It is also great to see the positive them completed by Partners. reactions from the people in the field, These audits, conducted as part of our Active Leadership motivated to discuss their challenges and Audit Program (ALAP), provide us with a tremendous amount also open to hear new ideas – with a final of safety performance data that allows us to focus on specific goal of keeping everyone safe. areas for improvement. While we do not mandate that our Partners complete a specified number of audits, we do Paulo Santos, recognize those Partners that embrace the ALAP as part of ERM Partner, São Paulo, Brazil their personal continuous improvement process. For FY18, the Partners that led their respective regions with respect to ALAP audits included: Latin America and the Caribbean (and overall) – Paulo Santos Asia Pacific – Darren Reedy Europe, Middle East and Africa – Oliver Kohnen North America – Steve Williams ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 43 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Health and safety continued Global Safety Day Safety Management System Travel risk management In November 2017, ERM held our fourth annual Global Safety With travel often a key part of the work we do for our clients Day. This activity has grown from a simple celebration of our and an important part of running the business, we support our success in relation to health and safety to an event that inspires employees traveling around the world. and drives continuous improvement on our journey to Safety Excellence. The focus this year was risk management – the “R” This is particularly important in more challenging locations, in Safety at ERM. We asked our employees to challenge their including those classified as high risk based on medical, perception of risk and how we can manage risk in our everyday integrity, political or security factors. life, building on the theme “It’s up to you!” We provide time-critical advice in response to travel and acute medical issues around the globe. Our online Travel Risk Assessments help ensure that employees and those we work with are well prepared for their journey, and that our Partners review and approve this travel. ERM’s Safety Management System (SMS), which follows the PLAN – DO – CHECK – ACT scheme, is based on the KPI HIGHLIGHT Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Specification (OHSAS) 18001 and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 and has been designed to: FY18 target • Identify and quantify health, safety and environmental risk; Days away from work case (DAWC) rate at or below 0.12 • Implement consistent mitigation tools; and no fatalities • Verify the degree and success of implementation across all Result business units; and Annual DAWC rate 0.17 and no fatalities. • Drive continuous improvement in our health, safety and environmental performance. See FY18 performance The SMS provides a framework to improve and standardize the most critical items associated with any health and safety program, including risk assessment and control, strong communications, training, self-assessment, positive reinforcement of safe behaviors and continuous improvement. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 44 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Governance Our commitment ERM must conduct business with uncompromising honesty and integrity, adhering to laws, regulations, and our written Code of Conduct. Our commitment to combat bribery and corruption is fundamental to how we operate and is embedded into our key systems and programs. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 45 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Governance continued Upon joining the company, all new employees must participate, Human rights through the ERM Academy, in interactive, web-based training CASE STUDY courses covering international anti-bribery and corruption, the As a global business, we recognize our responsibility to support regulatory requirements specified by the UK Bribery Act, insider and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human trading and practical ethics. rights, as defined by the UN Guiding Principles on Business Supporting responsible sourcing in and Human Rights. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, conflict affected and high-risk areas For more on the location of anti-bribery and corruption-related we adhere to the Principles relating to Human Rights. disclosures in this report, see our UN Global Compact Index, Businesses traditionally base their sourcing decisions on which includes details of our reporting on Principle 10 – AntiERM supports international efforts against child and forced cost, quality and delivery. Responsible sourcing requires an Corruption. labor and has a specific Slavery, Child Labor and Human expanded focus that includes environmental, social, labor and Trafficking Policy, which we updated in 2016 to align with the ethics considerations when purchasing products or services. UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Our policy prohibits the use ERM worked with a confidential mining client to help develop VIDEO of child or forced labor or involvement by ERM with entities a responsible sourcing program that aims to embed the that support prohibited labor practices, including slavery, recommendations of the OECD’s “Due Diligence Guidance for bonded labor or debt-bondage and other types of coercion Responsible Supply chains of Mineral from Conflict Affected or corruption. and High-risk Areas.” In September 2017, ERM released our second Slavery and As part of the program’s development, ERM gathered Human Trafficking Statement. It reflects our commitment to relevant data and contextual information relating to supplier international efforts to abolish all forms of modern slavery operations. We liaised with the client’s suppliers to enhance and sets out the measures to ensure there is no slavery and their understanding of the client’s expectations and developed Watch the video human trafficking in our business operations and supply chain. a risk dashboard that helped identify higher-risk suppliers. The statement also sets out actions, including new mandatory High-risk suppliers are subject to a high-level comprehensive training for FY19. evaluation, which assesses their management of environment, health and safety issues; human rights and labor practices; In addition to making this commitment within our own business, community engagement; transportation and security we work with our clients globally to improve their human rights concerns; and exposure to transportation, security, bribery practices. Our social and health consulting services teams and anti-money laundering risks. identify and provide advice on labor, supply chain management, land access and indigenous rights issues. We supported the client in piloting the program at a number of high-risk suppliers in Africa in 2017. Based on the pilot results, the program has been refined and expanded to other suppliers, commodities and regions. Through implementation of this program, the client will be able to better manage supply chain risk and improve its responsiveness to stakeholder concerns about the social and environmental impacts of its sourcing decisions. Over time, the client will continuously improve its supply chain human rights and environmental risk management. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 46 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Governance continued Managing risks Contractor management Data security We exercise judgment with respect to clients and third parties ERM’s global Contractor Management Program (CMP) helps us Our first layer of protection is our people. ERM employees we engage with and the types of work we undertake. We will evaluate and pre-qualify contractors to ensure that they agree understand their responsibilities in protecting both our data not work with clients or subcontractors who do not share our to comply with key elements of our Code of Conduct, including and information and that of our clients. We take a risk-based commitment to high ethical standards; we have turned down those pertaining to human rights, labor practices, anti-bribery approach with the level of protection appropriate for the project opportunities because of concerns involving human and corruption, child and forced labor, as well as a wide range sensitivity of the information involved. rights violations and other ethical issues. of other important issues such as ERM’s health and safety and insurance requirements. Where key contractors do not meet Data stored on ERM computers and systems are secured by We scrutinize opportunities and projects carefully before our criteria, we can work with them to improve their processes multiple methods to protect servers and computers and ensure proceeding, and we reserve the right to withdraw from a project and performance. data is protected in transit. In addition, data stored on ERM if business conduct and ethics concerns arise. network servers is backed up regularly to ensure that they can We are progressively replacing our in-house prequalification be recovered in the event of a disaster. Redundancy through Our Project Liability Analysis (PLAN) program provides a process by implementing a third-party online prequalification multiple components, locations and network connections help globally consistent approach to managing our project risks system, resulting in a more consistent approach for ensuring ensure high availability. that enables us to identify and mitigate the risks before project subcontractors and suppliers adhere to our policies and commencement or at significant change-in-scope events. requirements and also track their compliance. To date, Technology provides our employees with additional secured ERM conducts over 20,000 projects a year throughout the this system has been implemented in the following ERM and authenticated access to ERM’s data when out of world, and these vary considerably in scope and complexity, business units: ERM offices. which is why PLAN is so important to our global risk management program. • Australia and New Zealand ERM is currently in the process of developing appropriate policies, processes and procedures as necessary to comply • Brazil We apply similar rigor to the activities of the ERM Foundation with the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and are careful to avoid any potential ethical or compliance • Canada requirements. concerns associated with those organizations that we support. • Hong Kong • Malaysia KPI HIGHLIGHT Our systems enable ERM employees to confirm quickly that third parties are not on government watch lists for corruption, • Mexico bribery or human rights violations. We have committed to • Sub-Saharan Africa FY18 target following the trade sanctions established by the European • United Kingdom and Ireland Union and the United States, as well as the United Nations. Zero fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material • United States noncompliance with laws or regulations. • Western Europe, including Belgium, France, Italy, Anti-tax evasion Netherlands, Portugal and Spain Result ERM has a zero tolerance approach to all forms of tax evasion Zero fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material in all countries. We are committed to acting professionally, noncompliance with laws or regulations. fairly and with integrity on all tax matters resulting from business dealings and relationships in all countries. We are also committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter any form of tax evasion. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 47 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Environment Our approach As a leading global provider of environmental consulting services, we are acutely aware of our responsibility to reduce our environmental footprint through the effective management of our offices and assets, business activities and client project work. Environment is a key focus area within the UN Global Compact and, as a signatory, we strive to embrace its core values and promote these values within our sphere of influence. We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, and we undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development of environmentally responsible technologies and products. Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration 1992 states: “in order to protect the environment, the precautionary approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall be not used as a reason for postponing costeffective measures to prevent environmental degradation.” ERM’s Executive Committee has primary responsibility for our environmental performance. ERM’s Global Sustainability Policy and our Sustainability Approach guide our environmental management approach. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 48 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Environment continued HIGHLIGHT Demonstrating climate to representatives from the private sector, university staff and professors, and students from the chemical engineering leadership and and environmental health sciences departments and the collaboration School of Public Health on “Making Climate Change Tangible: Adaptation, Behavior Change and the role of Business.” August Martin, a Principal Consultant at ERM based in Austin, Texas, United He has served on the Alumni Board of the Tulane University States, collaborates with industry, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine since the spring government, academia and students of 2014. He was named as Director of Student Outreach, to address climate challenges at the August Martin, which involves collaborating with Career Services and various local and regional levels. Principal Consultant, university departments to provide relevant programming Austin, Texas, US to students in the areas of career planning, community August completed the Climate Reality development, training, mentorship and access to industry Leadership Training though former US Vice President Al professionals in various fields of study. Gore’s Climate Reality Leadership Corps in October 2017. As a Climate Reality Leader, he collaborates and presents In collaboration with the City of Austin’s Office of Sustainability, ideas on climate leadership to potential and current August lead the successful efforts for ERM’s Austin office to clients, community groups, civic leaders and various other become a member of the Austin Green Business Leaders at stakeholder audiences. In November 2017, August spoke at the Gold level. his alma mater, Tulane University in New Orleans, Louisiana, Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions quickly we need to reduce our GHG emissions to support the Paris Agreement are the most appropriate. Targets adopted by We recognize the benefits of setting GHG emission reduction companies to reduce GHG emissions are considered “sciencetargets in line with climate science. based” if they are in line with the level of decarbonization required to keep global temperature increase below 2°C compared to preFollowing the Paris Agreement at COP21, there is momentum industrial temperatures, as described in the Assessment Report of for business to adopt more ambitious targets to keep the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). global temperature increases below 2°C compared to preindustrial temperatures. In FY18, we proposed 1-year and 5-year GHG targets based on science. We will be submitting our 2025 and 2050 targets to We have been looking at industry-based methods and approaches the Science Based Targets Initiative for validation in early FY19. for setting mediumand long-term carbon targets that are appropriate for our business and growth ambitions. We concluded that targets based on science that specify how much and how ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 49 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Environment continued Green buildings Project impacts We are progressively relocating our offices to more resourceThe services we offer clients provide many opportunities to help efficient buildings and to areas with improved public reduce environmental impacts and drive innovation throughout transport links to help reduce the commuting footprint of our the world. Our projects relate directly to critical issues, such employees. A number of our offices have been recognized as climate change, waste management, natural capital, by building councils and local authorities for their reduced resource efficiency (water, land use and natural resources) environmental footprints. and biodiversity – each of which is identified within the SDGs. ERM also provides both strategic and technical advice to Our sustainability network works at the local level to identify clients on understanding, managing and measuring product and help improve environmental performance across our sustainability and life cycle impacts. offices worldwide. While we continue to take steps toward reducing the impacts of our operations, it is clear that our work for clients forms the HIGHLIGHT largest part of our sustainability footprint. Stakeholders have challenged us to undertake more effective measurement and Using our old Dell laptops to reduce disclose the impacts we have through our client projects. We continue to explore and refine our methodologies in this childhood exposure to lead poisoning complex area of work. in India Two years ago, ERM established a scheme with Dell, KPI HIGHLIGHT whereby some of our old laptops with a resale value are sold and the proceeds are donated to the ERM Foundation. These funds are being used to support Pure Earth’s work FY18 target in Bihar State, India, to counter the pollution effects of Adopt ambitious GHG targets based on science. the informal recycling of lead acid batteries in residential communities. To date, the funds received through the Dell Result scheme have translated into $50,000 grant funding for Senior management approved ambitious GHG targets, this initiative, plus $12,000 from the US Foundation grants which we will submit to the Science Based Targets Initiative program. ERM employees in India have also provided for validation in FY19. pro bono technical support on site. See FY18 performance Pure Earth is a member of the Global Alliance on Health and Pollution, which has recently published a landmark report in the Lancet, revealing the true impact of pollution on public health. Through the ERM Foundation, we are able to make a small contribution to combatting these devastating effects. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 50 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Society ERM helps governments, businesses, industry bodies and other leading organizations to address complex sustainability issues by providing technical insights, an understanding of societal expectations, and framing that with commercial acumen to provide business value. We raise awareness of sustainability trends and topics that educate, influence and sometimes challenge a company or industry. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 51 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Society continued Contributing to global sustainability challenges Royal Geographical Society (RGS) HIGHLIGHT As a responsible corporate citizen, we encourage our RGS is the United Kingdom’s learned society and consultants to share the lessons learned and insights gained professional body for geography, founded in 1830. With over from their work on more than 20,000 projects annually. 16,000 members, RGS is a world leader in advancing Helping to nurture the geographers In particular, we focus our thought leadership efforts where our geography and supporting its practitioners in the United of the future technical and professional skills can have the greatest positive Kingdom and across the world. ERM became a corporate impact, and contribute to achieving the SDGs. sponsor in February 2017, and have led events such as: More than 20 geography teachers joined a team of ERM consultants for the inaugural RGS Field Training. The training The SDGs can be realized only with a strong commitment to • Teacher training days – providing “real-life” experience of teachers in field-based skills is one of the focus areas global partnership and cooperation. ERM works with a range and expertise, adding value to teachers and program in ERM’s role as corporate benefactor of the RGS, a of organizations with a common purpose to shape a more development in areas where there are less advantaged relationship that will help to further the Society’s work to sustainable future. schools with fewer resources for teachers and pupils. advance the professional development of geographers • Continuing professional development workshop – on and those working with geography, especially in the area HIGHLIGHT GIS and spatial analysis, with further workshops planned. of sustainability. ERM provides a financial contribution as well as pro bono This was the first field training to be held as part of this ERM thought leadership around time through the ERM Foundation and volunteer time partnership and drew on ERM’s professional techniques and case studies that will help develop the fieldwork knowledge the world from employees. and skills required to support new curriculums for the exams youngsters in the United Kingdom take at 16 and 18-years-of-age. It included demonstrating simple fieldwork techniques that can be easily replicated with students; supporting the better use of local sites for geographical fieldwork; and developing and strengthening local teachers’ networks in order to share experience and help raise standards (including linking experienced teachers with new entrants). Paris workshop on integrating SDGs into your business strategy To date, 40 geography teachers have received training, including a session held at a client site where ERM shared In FY18, our consultants published thought leadership experiences from working at the site for more than 20 years. papers, played an active role in professional associations, and delivered hundreds of presentations at conferences around In addition, Linden Edgell, ERM’s Global Sustainability the world. These include Bloomberg Sustainable Business Director, presented a lecture on the SDGs as part of the Summit Series, ERM client roundtables on Integrating RGS London City lecture series. SDGs into your business strategy, and a joint techUK and ERM conference on what the SDGs mean for the tech sector. We published a report on Bridging the Gap between sustainability and finance functions and published the findings of ERM’s survey of 120 CFOs and Chief Sustainability Offices. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 52 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Society continued Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summits UN Principles for Responsible HIGHLIGHT Taking a forward-oriented look, Bloomberg Sustainable Investment (PRI) Business Summits examine how companies are innovating PRI is the world’s leading proponent of responsible investment, and adopting practices that prioritize sustainable value. with more than 1,700 signatories from over 50 countries, ERM chairs panels at PEI/PRI forums The Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summits bring thoughtrepresenting over $70 trillion in assets under management. in Berlin and New York provoking sustainable business and sustainable investing ERM became a signatory last year, demonstrating our conversations to key decision makers and influencers across commitment to providing, developing and promoting services ERM sponsored and participated in the PRI and Private the globe. The summits were streamed to subscribers of the that support our clients’ implementation of the six Principles Equity International (PEI) Responsible Investment forums 25,000+ Bloomberg Terminals. regarding environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues in Berlin and New York, chairing key panels including into investment analysis and decision-making processes. climate risks and opportunities and TCFD, ESG reporting We reported to PRI for the first time in 2018 on our responsible and monitoring practices and guidelines, human rights and investment activities. During the past year, ERM has been supply chain, and ESG value enhancement case studies of actively contributing to several activities: private equity portfolio companies. • Development of private equity reporting and monitoring guidelines; Taskforce on Climate-related Financial HIGHLIGHT • Human rights in private equity due diligence workshop, Disclosure (TCFD) including a summary document launched during the UN Forum on Business and Human rights in November 2017; As authors of the Technical Supplement on Scenario Analysis for the TCFD, ERM is at the forefront of helping companies ERM partners with Bloomberg’s 2017 and address climate-risk. Our approach combines our technical and Sustainable Business Summits in New • Presenting with PRI the findings from above reporting business expertise together with the client’s internal functions and monitoring project to a private equity workshop in York and London Hong Kong. including investor relations; finance; risk; strategy; procurement; environmental, health and safety (EHS); and others. ERM was proud to sponsor the 2017 Sustainable Business Summit Series in New York and London. Keryn James, ERM Group CEO, outlined in her opening remarks the Campbell Institute “tipping point” we have reached whereby we are seeing ERM joined the Campbell Institute at the US National Safety fundamental change in the relationship between business Council in 2017, in order to be part of and contribute to one of and sustainability. In a panel session, James Stacey, an the leading EHS centers of excellence globally. Since becoming ERM Partner and co-author of the Task Force on Climatea member, ERM has been actively involved in the Institute, related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) technical supplement on sharing our expertise and experience and helping to further scenario analysis, defined how businesses can benefit from develop industry approaches to driving performance. ERM has linking environmental and social risks and opportunities to partnered with the Institute in several areas over the past year future business and financial planning. related to EHS management systems and information solutions, including presenting at symposia and benchmarking sessions. Partnering with Bloomberg’s Summit Series reflects our commitment to shaping a sustainable future with the world’s leading organizations. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 53 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Society continued World Business Council for Sustainable Natural Capital Coalition HIGHLIGHT Development (WBCSD) Doug MacNair, Technical Director in North America, completed ERM has been actively involved in WBCSD since we joined a secondment to the Natural Capital Coalition, working as as a founding member in 1995. The WBCSD is the leading Kristyn Rankin appointed to the Technical Manager testing the pilot version of the Natural sustainability focused business organization globally with the USBCSD Capital Protocol Toolkit. The WBCSD developed the Toolkit, over 200 members. We have actively worked with WBCSD in with the Natural Capital Coalition as a strategic partner many areas, facilitating a number of sessions for FReSH (food and critical input from a multi-disciplinary Advisory Group. systems for the future) and presenting at the TCFD/climate This opportunity demonstrates the value that ERM has already brought to the natural capital approach over a number of financial risk session at the Annual Liaison Delegate meeting years by helping to develop the Protocol, frameworks, and in Montreux. quantitative tools to support natural capital management. At the Annual Council meeting in Mexico, ERM experts again The Natural Capital Coalition is a global multi-stakeholder facilitated a session on the FReSH program, served on a panel collaboration that brings together leading initiatives and in an education session, and moderated a panel on company Kristyn Rankin, ERM Partner organizations to harmonize approaches to natural capital. responses to the SDGs. ERM’s Chairman John Alexander led a Natural capital refers to the world’s natural resources, including panel of CEO’s on the business response to Climate change as Kristyn Rankin, a Partner with ERM, has been appointed geology, soils, air, water and all living organisms. well as a joint client side event with a senior Shell representative to the Executive Committee of the United States Business with the Mexican British Chamber of Commerce. Council for Sustainable Development (USBCSD), effective ERM also plays an important role in the WBCSD’s recently July 2017. Kristyn is based in Austin, Texas, and specializes launched Social and Human Capital Coalition and Protocol, During the year, ERM served on the working group to develop in product stewardship and sustainable development and which is a companion to the Natural Capital Coalition the Reporting Exchange tool. ERM featured on a panel at has a primary focus on ERM’s technology, media and and Protocol. the launch of the Reporting Exchange at the London Stock telecommunications clients. In her role with the USBCSD, Exchange and was interviewed as part of WBCSD podcast on Kristyn works with other members of the Executive current corporate reporting trends. We also actively participated Committee to develop strategic plans aimed at advancing in redefining value work groups on assurance and sustainability sustainable development in the United States. within enterprise risk management frameworks. ERM provided technical support to WBCSD for its recently “My participation in this committee gives launched guidelines for SDG Sector Roadmaps. We are now me a great opportunity to work with with a number of industry groups to develop sector-specific SDG roadmaps. some of the most innovative business leaders and organizations across the We also continue to be involved in WBCSD regional networks United States to help them design and in India, Malaysia, France and the United States. Through our membership of entreprises pour l’environnement (epe), a implement solutions to our most pressing member of the WBCSD Global Network based in France, we sustainability challenges.” have joined the act4nature biodiversity initiative. Kristyn Rankin, Partner, Austin, Texas, US ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 54 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Society continued UN Global Compact HIGHLIGHT KPI HIGHLIGHT As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, ERM commits to do business responsibly by aligning our strategies and operations Advancing global standards for with Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment FY18 target biodiversity offsets and anti-corruption; and take strategic actions to advance Adopt innovation approach to generate new solutions for broader societal goals, such as the SDGs, with an emphasis and with clients. on collaboration and innovation. We are a signatory of the Women’s Empowerment Principles as part of our commitment. Result ERM participates in an SDG working group in the UN Global Our approach to innovation focuses on leveraging Compact UK network, hosts meetings and presents on SDGs technological advances across our core services in response throughout the year. ERM is a member of the Modern Slavery to client need. We appointed a Head of New Digital Business Act group within the UK network as well. to spearhead our development of digital tools and services This report serves as our Communication on Progress, an annual disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Julia Tims, ERM Technical Director in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. View our index for more detail on our progress in ERM provides global technical leadership in protecting implementing the Ten Principles. biodiversity as an active member in the Business and Biodiversity Offsets Program (BBOP). Julia Tims, an ERM Technical Director based in Annapolis, Maryland, United Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) States, is ERM’s representative on BBOP. Among other ERM is a GOLD Community member of GRI, the leading activities, Julia serves on the BBOP task force participating global standard for sustainability reporting. As a GRI Standards in the preparation of the Biodiversity Supplement to the Pioneer, ERM is among the first to adopt the new GRI Natural Capital Protocol – a joint effort by the BBOP and Standards. In the United States, we are a GRI-certified training the Natural Capital Coalition and other parties. Julia is also partner, and offer public and private courses designed for contributing to a guidance document aimed at helping individuals and organizations interested in gaining a deeper businesses and financial institutions integrate natural understanding of GRI, sustainability strategies and reporting. capital and biodiversity considerations into business and financial practices. We recently co-presented with the UN Global Compact on the topic of “From Mapping to Action: SDGs as a Framework for Delivering Transformative Change” at the GRI Reporters’ Summit in Phoenix, Arizona, United States. ERM CVS undertook assurance on selected sustainability information in GRI’s 2016-2017 Annual Report. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 55 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach ERM Foundation About the ERM Foundation The ERM Foundation supports communities through financial contributions, pro bono time for technical and professional advice for nonprofit entities and social enterprises, and other backing through employee-led initiatives. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 56 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach ERM Foundation continued Since it formed in 1995, the Foundation has disbursed more ERM Foundation project countries and territories FY18* than $4 million in grants and provided more than 14,000 hours of technical and professional pro bono support to more than 200 organizations around the globe. The majority of the Foundation’s grant funds come from employee donations and locally organized fundraising events. ERM matches a portion of these contributions. In FY18, we disbursed $320,000 in grants to support 42 organizations in 27 countries and territories. In addition, we provided $255,000 in technical pro bono support for 47 organizations in 24 countries. Download the ERM Foundation 2018 Annual Review. * Includes projects that received pro bono support and/or grant funding ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 57 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach ERM Foundation continued Seed funding accelerates progress HIGHLIGHT This year, the ERM Foundation launched a new “seed funding” program, to kick-start longer-term, impactful partnerships Contributing to breakthrough Late in 2014, the world’s worst ever outbreak of Ebola virus disease (EVD) was taking hold in the West African countries with nonprofit organizations and social enterprises in parts of Ebola virus research of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Early in the crisis, we the world where fundraising is more challenging. This funding is leveraged with professional, pro bono support from ERM were contacted by a small Sierra Leonean nongovernmental employees. This year’s seed funding projects include: organization – the Environmental Foundation for Africa (EFA) – with whom the ERM Foundation has worked for several years. • A pilot mentoring program in the United Kingdom, for They posed a simple question: Could we help them establish teenage girls who want to pursue careers in sustainability; in an evidence base to substantiate anecdotal reports that addition to grant funding for the pilot, female employees in deforestation increases the risk of EVD? the United Kingdom will mentor some of the girls; Working in partnership with EFA, an ERM team comprising • Improving the solar infrastructure at a school and refuge for remote sensing and biodiversity experts analyzed historical disadvantaged children in South Africa to enable them to satellite imagery at the ‘index case’ (patient zero) locations become energy-independent; and of the 2014 outbreak, plus 6 earlier outbreaks. In August • A training and mentoring program for refugee women in 2015, the ERM Foundation and EFA published an initial Toronto, Canada, to help them develop the skills and agency A team of ERM employees working on a pro bono report: Ebola virus disease and forest fragmentation in Africa. to return to work and become financially independent. basis have contributed to breakthrough research The results from which were presented to a range of multithat advances the scientific understanding of the stakeholder audiences in West Africa, Europe and the United interrelationship between deforestation and the animalStates. This gained the attention of a number of interested to-human transmission of the Ebola virus. The findings organizations including the Center for International Forestry have been published in the prestigious scientific journal Research (CIFOR). A subsequent collaboration with CIFOR Nature Scientific Reports and could potentially be used and the University of Malaga led to a new paper – Recent to identify high-risk locations and mitigate the risk of loss of closed forests is associated with Ebola virus disease future outbreaks. outbreaks (Oliver, Fa, et al.). This paper was published in Nature Scientific Reports in October 2017 and picked up by a number of news outlets. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 58 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach ERM Foundation continued Providing expertise to support the SDGs HIGHLIGHT Through the ERM Foundation’s projects, employees can lend practical and technical support to many organizations and social enterprises that otherwise would not benefit from the Improving low-income communities’ ERM employees in Seattle and Portland are working with TNC to support the Floodplains by Design (FbD) program in breadth of ERM’s expertise. resilience to flood risk in the US Washington State. FbD funds community-driven integrated floodplain management projects that improve the ecological HIGHLIGHT functions of floodplain systems while also reducing flood risk and improving community interests, such as agriculture and water quality. TNC is concerned that socioeconomically Building capacity among female, challenged communities living in floodplains may be clean-energy entrepreneurs in Nigeria particularly vulnerable to flood risk due to the location of their homes, businesses and public services. The ERM team is supporting TNC by identifying vulnerable floodplain communities across Washington State that may be at risk, and who may require further support to increase Resident of Hamilton, Washington State, pointing at lines marking resilience. The team is also undertaking analysis of community the depth of episodic flooding risks and burdens within three study areas and identifying overarching strategies for response. Solar Sister © Train-the-trainers program in Nigeria The Nature Conservancy (TNC) is a leading conservation organization working around the world to protect ecologically These activities will enable TNC to address more effectively During FY18, the ERM Foundation continued its emphasis the needs of vulnerable floodplain communities, support their important lands and waters for nature and people. The ERM on projects that have a strong focus on empowering women ability to access FbD grant funding and enhance the resilience Foundation has been working with TNC since 1996 and has and girls. For example, this year the Foundation supported of vulnerable floodplain communities to increased flood risk in provided $96,500 in grant funding. Solar Sister, which works to eradicate energy poverty a time of changing climate. in rural Africa by empowering women with economic opportunities. Specifically, they work with networks of female entrepreneurs in Nigeria, Tanzania and Uganda, providing them with the skills and agency to sell affordable solar and clean energy products to ‘last mile’ communities. To date, Solar Sister has worked with more than 2,500 women, who have brought energy, light and hope to more than 700,000 people. The ERM Foundation has provided grant funding and pro bono support for a train-the-trainers program in Nigeria, which is building capacity among female entrepreneurs in southern Nigeria. This directly contributes to the SDGs on affordable and clean energy (SDG 7) and gender equality (SDG 5). ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 59 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach ERM Foundation continued We align our Foundation activities with the SDGs in ways that make effective use of the professional skills and interests of KPI HIGHLIGHT ERM employees globally. This also provides employees with the opportunity develop new skills and expand their networks while making a positive contribution to the planet and society. FY18 target Contribute 1% of prior year profits to support sustainability initiatives around the globe, primarily through the ERM Foundation. Result Met target to contribute1% of prior year profits (more than $1 million) See FY18 performance ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 60 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Performance In this section, we share our performance against ERM’s 2018 sustainability targets and our targets for 2019 and beyond as well as progress toward maximizing our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Detailed information is included in the online supporting data sections. The following table summarizes our results against our sustainability targets. As shown, ERM either met or made good progress towards the FY18 targets and the 5-year goals we set for ourselves. We considered these results as we set our targets for FY19. Detailed information on our performance data is provided in the Programs and practices section of this report as well as the supporting data sections on Our people, Health & Safety, Environment and Society available on line at www.erm.com/ report18. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 61 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Performance continued FY18 results against targets 5-year goal (to be met by the end of FY22 Material topics FY18 target unless otherwise indicated) Performance against FY18 targets and 5-year goals Governance No fines or nonmonetary sanctions No fines or nonmonetary sanctions Target met and continued progress toward meeting long-term goal. for material noncompliance with laws for material noncompliance with laws We had no fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material noncompliance with laws or regulations. or regulations. or regulations. See the section on Governance for more details. Our people Show increase over prior year for Our employees reflect the diversity of the Target met and continued progress toward meeting long-term goal. gender diversity among Senior communities in which we work, based on Our gender diversity increased among Senior Consultants, Technical Directors Consultants, Technical Directors gender, language and other measures. and Partners. and Partners. We collected information on the languages spoken and nationalities represented Develop baseline of languages by our employees on a voluntary basis, in accordance with each country’s spoken and number of nationalities privacy requirements. represented by employees. See the section on Our people for more details. Occupational health Days away from work case (DAWC) DAWC rate below 0.06 and no fatalities. Target partially met and continued progress toward meeting long-term goal. and safety rate at or below 0.12 and no fatalities. Our DAWC rate remained unchanged at 0.17. We had no employee fatalities. See the section on Health & safety for more details. Climate change Adopt ambitious long-term Achieve forecast progress towards longer Target met and continued progress toward meeting long-term goal. greenhouse gas (GHG) targets based term Science Based Targets for 2025 Senior management approved ambitious GHG targets, which we will submit to the on science. and 2050. Science Based Targets Initiative for validation in FY19. See the section on Environment for more details. Innovating with Adopt innovation approach to Measure and report the impacts of innovating Target met and continued progress toward meeting long-term goal. clients and other generate new solutions for and with clients and other organizations to Our approach to innovation focuses on leveraging technological advances across leading organizations with clients. address sustainability challenges. our core services in response to client need. We appointed a Head of New Digital Business to spearhead our development of digital tools and services. See the sections on Our impact and Society for more details. Contributing to society Contribute 1% of prior year profits Increase Foundation contributions over time Target met and continued progress toward meeting long-term goal. & local communities to support sustainability initiatives (e.g., percentage of employees engaged, We contributed 1.2% of prior year profits to global sustainability initiatives, primarily around the globe, primarily through company donations, employee funding). through the ERM Foundation. the ERM Foundation. Measure and report the impacts of Foundation See the sections on Society and the ERM Foundation for more details. and other non-client-generated projects/ programs on Sustainable Development Goals. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 62 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Performance continued Progress toward achieving the SDGs For each of our material topics, we identified the SDGs and SDG targets that are most relevant to our work with clients and other organizations, our own operations and the ERM Foundation. The table below provides a snapshot of ERM’s contributions within our own operations, with our business partners and through our work with clients. For a summary of the progress made through the ERM Foundation, visit the ERM Foundation Annual Review. ERM material topic Corresponding SDGs and 2030 targets FY18 progress Governance Our commitment to combat bribery and corruption is fundamental to how we operate and is embedded into our key systems and programs. For more on the location of anti-bribery and corruption-related disclosures in this report, see our UN Global 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all Compact Index, which includes details of our reporting on Principle 10 – Anti-Corruption. their forms See the section on Governance for more details. Our people Through our policies, we prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, national origin, disability, veteran status or any other category protected by the laws of the communities in which we do business. 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal ERM is a signatory of the Women’s Empowerment Principles. The ERM Foundation includes “empowering opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in women and girls” as an area of focus for funding projects reflecting the SDGs. political, economic and public life See the sections on Our people and the ERM Foundation for more details. 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status Occupational ERM delivers a global health and safety program that focuses on the ongoing health and safety of health and safety everyone involved in and impacted by our work – including ERM employees, clients, contractors, as well as communities and the public local to our program sites. 8.8 Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure See the section on Health & safety for more details. working environments for all workers, including migrant workers in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment Climate change We collaborate with industry, nonprofit organizations and thought leaders to raise awareness and take action to address climate change. We are implementing a science-based target for our emissions, which includes purchasing more renewable energy. We are experts in wind energy and other renewable energy sources and actively help companies to build and 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable operate more renewable projects and to help other companies transition to purchasing more renewables. energy in the global energy mix See the section on Environment for more details. 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 63 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Performance continued ERM material topic Corresponding SDGs and 2030 targets FY18 progress Innovating with Our business strategy focuses on providing innovative solutions to our clients on the full range of sustainability clients and issues. In particular, we are focusing on leveraging technological advances across our core services and within other leading our own business to drive productivity. organizations 8.2 Achieve higher levels of productivity through diversification, See the sections on Our impact and Society for more details. technological upgrading and innovation Contributing ERM works with governments, businesses, industry bodies and other leading organizations to address to society complex sustainability issues by providing technical insights, an understanding of societal expectations, and and local framing that with commercial acumen to provide business value. communities Throughout the report, we highlight our work with many leading organizations on sustainable development. ERM participates in SDG panels at leading conferences and convened SDG workshops and webinars with companies across geographies and sectors. See the sections on Society and the ERM Foundation for more detail. 12.6 Encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and integrate sustainability information into reporting cycle 17.16 Enhance global partnership for sustainable development by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize, share knowledge, expertise...to support SDGs in all countries, particularly developing countries ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 64 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Future targets Based on our materiality analysis, we have established material topics, targets for FY19 and 5-year goals. Material topics FY19 target 5-year goal (to be met by the end of FY22 unless otherwise indicated) Governance No fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material noncompliance with laws No fines or nonmonetary sanctions for material noncompliance or regulations. with laws or regulations. Our people Show increase over prior year for gender diversity among Senior Our employees reflect the diversity of the communities in which Consultants, Technical Directors and Partners. we work, based on gender, language and other measures. Show increase over prior year for diversity in ERM’s Senior Leadership Team. Occupational health and safety Days away from work case (DAWC) rate at or below 0.10 and no fatalities. DAWC rate below 0.06 and no fatalities. Climate change Adopt GHG reduction targets validated by the Science Based Achieve forecasted progress towards longer-term Science Based Targets Initiative. Targets for 2025 and 2050. Innovating with clients and other Measure the impacts of material innovations delivered to market in FY19. Measure and report the impacts of innovating with clients and leading organizations other organizations to address sustainability challenges. Contributing to society & local communities Contribute 1% of prior year profits to support sustainability initiatives around Increase Foundation contributions over time (e.g., percentage of the globe, primarily through the ERM Foundation. employees engaged, company donations, employee funding). Measure and report the impacts of Foundation and other non-client-generated projects/programs on Sustainable Development Goals. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 65 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach FY18 data background To measure our social, economic and environmental impacts Methodologies minimis and excluded from the data collection and reporting and support programs for improving our sustainability process. Impacts associated with office spaces of this size are performance, ERM collects and reports data relevant to our Our ERM Sustainability Reporting Protocol guides the dataprojected to be less than 1 percent of ERM’s total impact in global operations. The data are grouped, where applicable, in collection process. Where applicable, the protocol is based aggregate. Travel data for employees residing in these offices alignment with the focus areas presented in this report. upon external guidance, including the GRI Standards and the are included in the office responsible for booking travel. World Resources Institute/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. More information on the location of specific GRI and UN For data normalized by the number of FTE employees, we Global Compact content within this report can be found under Taking advantage of the professional expertise of our applied the average yearly FTE, which is more representative reporting approach. workforce and our purpose as an organization, ERM created of FTEs throughout the year than the year-end FTE. a Sustainability Network of coordinators, advisors, leaders and Average yearly FTEs have been applied in ERM Sustainability champions across all of our offices and regions. Members of Reports since FY15. Organizational boundaries the network focus on enhancing our sustainability program ERM follows the GRI Standards, including the identification of and improving our performance in support of the SDGs. All financial data are reported in US dollars, unless material topics. All information in this report, including data and The Sustainability Network coordinates the collection of the otherwise noted. performance information presented, covers ERM’s operations majority of our environmental data. We expect to continue to as a group. Data reported are for those entities controlled by improve the robustness and depth of our data over time. Data for new offices or offices added through ERM acquisitions ERM Worldwide Group Limited (EWGL), which is based in during the reporting period are included where available We report environmental data for offices that fall within ERM’s from the date of opening or acquisition – subject to specific London, UK. material threshold (as defined in our Sustainability Reporting transition arrangements to ERM systems and processes. Data in this report are inclusive for ERM CVS. ERM CVS is a Protocol) per fiscal year (FY), which runs 1 April to 31 March. These arrangements are noted where relevant. wholly owned subsidiary of EWGL. ERM CVS works with many ERM’s Sustainability Reporting Protocol provides guidance for of the world’s leading multinational organizations and delivers the development and maintenance of robust data collection In some instances in the data presented, rounding results in independent, third-party, performance-driving certification, systems that will measure sustainability performance across small discrepancies. verification and report assurance services to help clients all key performance areas in a consistent, accurate and auditable manner. See ERM’s full dataset in our online Sustainability Report 2018. improve their sustainability performance. For more details of these services, visit www.ermcvs.com. We continue to improve our greenhouse gas data, including ERM CVS operates under ERM’s internal policies and working with landlords to increase access to actual procedures, and the following sections of this Sustainability energy consumption data for leased offices. Where data Report 2018 therefore apply also to ERM CVS unless indicated are unavailable, we estimate consumption based on the otherwise: Our people, Health and safety, Society, Environment, amount of space we lease and expected energy intensity of and Governance. Because ERM and ERM CVS have combined office buildings. human resource systems and office premises, the data in this On a per-indicator basis, sources constituting less than 1 report include the operations of ERM CVS. percent of ERM’s total impact for that performance indicator Due to the nature of its work, ERM CVS has additional annually were excluded from the data collection and reporting policies and procedures relating to independence and an process. Sources excluded are reviewed annually to determine Advisory Board that undertakes the role of the Committee for if emissions are relevant for a continued de minimis exemption. Safeguarding Impartiality. For FY18, leased or owned office locations that were registered as encompassing fewer than 50 square meters, excluding dedicated server hosting spaces, were also considered de ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 66 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Reporting approach As required by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, we provide a summary of how we developed this report as well as indexes to help readers locate specific information about our policies, programs and performance. The intent of these reporting elements is to provide a level of comfort among our stakeholders that the information we report is timely, accurate, reliable and complete. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. As a GRI Standards Pioneer, we are among the first to adopt the new GRI Standards: global best practice for sustainability reporting. In doing so, we are demonstrating our full support for GRI’s mission to empower decision-makers everywhere, through its sustainability standards and multi-stakeholder network, to take action towards a more sustainable economy and world. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 67 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Reporting approach continued About our report Principles for defining reporting quality Page 19: Photo provided by Infosys Page 20: ©HS2 Ltd/Grimshaw This report details our performance during fiscal year (FY) 2018 The GRI Standards set out principles for defining reporting (1 April 2017 through 31 March 2018) in managing key issues quality, and we have taken a number of actions to meet Page 21: Natasha Ezekiel and targets identified through our materiality assessment, and it these principles: Page 22: Photo provided by Teck is reviewed and approved formally by our Executive Committee. Page 23: Photo provided by Enel Our previous report (covering FY17) was issued in July 2017. • We safeguard the quality of information contained in this Page 24: Brieuc Debontridder (small business owner photo), report through a robust assurance process leveraging internal Photo provided by client (school photo) The key elements that we focused on in developing this and external expertise; and Page 26: Photos provided by Rio Tinto and the Cobalt Institute report include: • We continue to improve the availability of timely information Page 28: Rahul Srivastava to internal leaders in order to inform decision-making and Page 29: Lindsey Bungartz • Engagement with stakeholders: This report responds to drive performance. feedback from our stakeholders, which helped inform our Page 30: Photos provided by Aethon Energy and Lucy Randall materiality assessment and the report content. Determining what to include in this report begins with an from Smitten and Hooked photography • Sustainability context and value chain: We explain how we understanding of our impacts throughout our value chain, Page 32: Alexandra Stevenson see the role of ERM in wider sustainability issues, the impact which include our associations with business partners, our work Page 34: Kassi Murray we have through our client work and own operations, and undertaken for clients and our thought leadership activities. Page 35: Lorenzo Danzi the role that our experts play in professional associations, This report addresses those items that are of significant interest Page 36: Linden Edgell industry forums and other thought leadership activities to to our stakeholders and to ERM’s business strategy. Page 38: Paul Wijnja address important issues raised by our stakeholders. Each year, we conduct a materiality assessment in order Page 40: Tracy Henn • Materiality: We identify and describe the material topics that Page 41: Photo provided by WBCSD for our business planning to include initiatives to respond to are important to our stakeholders and the business, and set the key topics identified. We establish KPIs and targets to Page 42: Natalia Borrell out our associated performance for the reporting year as track the effectiveness of our management of these issues Page 43: Paulo Santos well as key performance indicators (KPIs) and targets for the throughout the year. Our focus is on improving, year on year, Page 44: Photo provided by Hugo Cusak of BG Drilling coming year and beyond. the management of key sustainability issues for the business. Page 45: Photo provided by Retail Design Blog Page 48: Mike Everett Indexes Photo credits Page 49: Photo provide by City of Austin Office of Sustainability As required by the GRI Standards, we provide an index Page 50: Annie Surratt (photos by ERM employees unless otherwise indicated) that specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all Cover: Rebecca Chan Page 51: Yiqun Zhang disclosures included in the report. Page 56: Photo provided by the Leping Social Entrepreneur Page 1: Ian Hamilton We also provide a separate index corresponding to our Foundation, China Page 3: Andrew Gregory progress in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Page 59: Solar Sister© and Kristina Mitchell Page 4: Kirsten Seymour (climate change), Jane Barnett Global Compact. Page 61: John Cima (digital transformation), Naushad Tahsildar (population growth), Ian Hamilton (emerging middle class) Page 65: Eileen Pagen Both indexes are available online at www.erm.com/report18. Page 9: Josh Calkin Page 67: Ben Pizii Page 10: Daniel Casanova Page 73: Juan Navarro Page 17: Danielle Trefz Page 74: Lindsey Bungartz ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 68 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Value chain Helping clients to deliver solutions to sustainability challenges Creating value is the business The following graphic demonstrates key elements about ERM’s value chain, including: of sustainability We have a vision to be the clear leader in our chosen markets, to double in value and to deliver on our promises to our clients, our people and our investors. Our ability to do this is • Core elements: These form the compass that points us underpinned by a robust business model and a holistic approach to value creation. in the right direction. ERM is built on a group of talented professionals across the world with outstanding technical expertise and thorough perspectives on the critical issues The core elements facing organizations from a sustainability point of view. • How we do business: We strive to exceed client expectations. We know their business, their people and FUNDAMENTALS COLLABORATION PEOPLE OPERATIONS Our Values, Purpose and We partner with others to get We provide a unique blend of global We deliver work for our clients their challenges – and therefore, our opinions, insights and Strategy guide our decisions. better results. and local technical knowledge and business experience. on location and through our global network of offices. perspectives count. In the end, our clients’ success defines our success. • How this creates value: We take seriously our responsibility How we do business to make a positive difference for our clients, people, investors and society. LEADING WITH SAFETY LONG-TERM SUCCESS By understanding our value chain, we can continue to track RECOGNIZED EXPERTISE We prioritize the safe delivery of all We have the technical depth and breadth to We are a strong and growing company. projects and programs. address complex sustainability challenges. and improve our sustainability performance and the outcomes we deliver. COMMITTED TO FOCUSED ON GLOBAL OUTLOOK OUR PEOPLE BUSINESS SOLUTIONS Our international network of advisors and We give our people the best We innovate with and for our clients to create business partners supports the needs of opportunities to grow. value using technology, commercial focus and our clients everywhere. professional insights. How this creates value $ FOR OUR CLIENTS FOR OUR PEOPLE FOR OUR INVESTORS FOR THE PLANET AND We add demonstrable value to our We attract, inspire, develop and (including ERM Partners) SOCIETY IN WHICH WE LIVE client’s business, working together reward our people to work with We deliver strong returns to those We have a greater impact on to solve their critical challenges and the best clients and on the that have chosen to invest in us, the sustainability challenges that making a significant difference to biggest challenges, thus creating today and in the future. face us all. their stakeholders. vibrant careers. At ERM, we are shaping a sustainable future with the world's leading organizations. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 69 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Stakeholder engagement As part of our commitment to good business, we engage regularly with key stakeholders. This process helps us to understand, prioritize and manage our sustainability impacts as STAKEHOLDERS AND ENGAGEMENT MECHANISMS an organization as well as to evolve our client services. We have a range of internal and external stakeholders. We engage with stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms, Contractors Clients including direct dialogue, surveys, engagement at professional Engagement mechanisms and industry forums, and sharing information. The frequency Business & Industry ◆ Formal and informal reviews of projects, Investors programs and relationships and nature of this dialogue are designed to enable regular Associations communication with stakeholders on key issues. We conduct External ◆ Key conferences and industry events additional engagement with stakeholders as part of the Stakeholders ◆ Active involvement in global sustainability-focused organizations development of our sustainability reports, and this feedback is ◆ Feedback from key suppliers and an important feature of our report preparation. Academics Nongovernmental Organizations contractors through the Contractor Management Program ◆ Thought leader interviews Communities Governments Engagement mechanisms ◆ Knowledge sharing through collaborations tools ◆ Open-door leadership ◆ Staff information sessions and best practice sharing ◆ Team and staff meetings Internal ◆ Strategy implementation activities Stakeholders: Employees and ◆ Partner-in-training and Aspire programs ◆ Performance and development discussions ◆ Open forums with CEO and other leaders Partners ◆ Employee surveys ◆ Technical Communities Frequency ◆ Ongoing ◆ Semiannual ◆ Annual ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 70 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Stakeholder engagement continued Feedback from ERM’s stakeholders Stakeholder feedback is integral to ERM’s sustainability reporting process. The following table summarizes the issues raised by our stakeholders, along with links to information on how we respond to these issues. Stakeholder Material topic ERM response in this report Partners and employees Occupational health and safety Health and safety Non-discrimination Our people. Governance Diversity and equal opportunity Our people Anti-corruption Governance Environmental compliance Governance ERM senior leaders Client privacy Governance Anti-corruption Governance Occupational health and safety Health and safety Diversity and equal opportunity Our people Client health and safety Our impact External thought leaders (clients, business and industry associations, Anti-corruption Governance nongovernmental organizations) Client privacy Governance Diversity and equal opportunity Our people Environmental compliance Governance Client health and safety Health and safety Key clients Ethics and human rights Governance Workforce Our people Safe operations Health and safety Climate change Climate change Environmental impacts Environment Local communities Society, ERM Foundation Competitors Climate change Climate change Local communities Society, ERM Foundation Ethics and human rights Governance Diversity and equal opportunity Our people Environment Environment Supply chain Governance ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 71 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Materiality Each year, ERM conducts a formal materiality Determining material topics Both internal and external factors determine what we assessment in accordance with the GRI to considered to be material. These include, but are not limited to, We undertook the following approach to determine the material the following: identify and prioritize our most significant topics for this report: sustainability topics, set KPIs and targets for • Reasonably estimable economic, environmental, and 1. We drew on a wide range of inputs to develop a view on improvement, and guide the content for our social impacts; what matters to our internal and external stakeholders, Sustainability Report. including extensive interviews, surveys and benchmarking. • The interests and expectations of internal stakeholders specifically invested in ERM; 2. We expanded our understanding of ERM’s sustainability context through our involvement in various global • Broader economic, social, and environmental interests and organizations, including the World Business Council for topics raised by our external stakeholders; Sustainable Development. • The main topics and future challenges for our sector, as 3. We considered the implications of megatrends affecting identified by peers and competitors; society and our clients as well as the Sustainable • Laws, regulations, international agreements, and voluntary Development Goals. Senior management reviewed the agreements of strategic significance to our organization and company’s key business issues. our stakeholders; 4. We created a matrix of key issues. Internal sustainability • Key organizational values, policies, strategies, operational experts and business leaders applied the Content management systems, goals and targets; Principles and assessed the potential environmental, • ERM’s core competencies and the manner in which they can social and economic impacts – beyond the impacts on contribute to sustainable development; and our business. • Consequences for ERM that are related to our impacts on 5. Based on this assignment, senior management agreed the economy, the environment, and society. For each of the on the material sustainability issues for our business material topics, ERM defined the boundary of impact, and going forward. its relationship to the GRI standards and ERM’s strategic 6. We reviewed the GRI Aspects and, where relevant, business drivers. assigned indicators, which are outlined in our GRI index. 7. In order to drive performance improvement, we established key performance indicators and targets directly related to our material issues. We report on our performance against the FY18 targets and long-term goals in the report. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 72 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Materiality continued For each of the material topics, ERM defined the boundary of Material topics Boundary GRI sub-topics Strategic drivers impact, and its relationship to the GRI Standards and ERM’s Governance Internal and external Anti-corruption, Management excellence strategic business drivers (see below). (e.g., supply chain & clients) non-discrimination We have developed targets specifically to address each of our Our people Internal and external Diversity and equal Attracting and retaining staff material topics for FY19 and longer-term goals. (e.g., meeting client needs & opportunity reflecting local communities) Occupational health & safety Internal and external Occupational health Duty of care (e.g., travel & client sites) and safety Climate change Internal and external Emissions, Energy use Leadership position in the (e.g., travel) transition to low-carbon future Innovating with clients and Internal and external General disclosures Responding to changing other leading organizations (e.g., clients & organizations) client needs Contributing to society & Internal and external Local communities Demonstrating investment in local communities (e.g., Foundation projects & society and local communities programs) ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 73 Contents CEO message Megatrends Our impact Programs & practices Performance Reporting approach Assurance ERM has governance, reporting and internal We have gathered, recorded, compiled, analyzed and reported We engaged with external assurance providers for several years to review processes in place to help ensure the information and processes used in the preparation of this report in provide an independent assessment of the processes we used to: a way that can be subject to examination and which establishes quality of information contained within this • determine our material issues; the quality and materiality of the information. Individuals who report, as well as stakeholder confidence in the did not prepare our Sustainability Report have reviewed the • identify and engage with stakeholders; and accuracy and reliability of our reporting. information reported and the processes for determining report • select the overall content in the report. content and stakeholder engagement. The external assurance was built on internationally recognized For our energy and GHG emissions data, our internal assurance methodologies including AA1000AS. process focuses on the quality (completeness and accuracy) of our reported data. ERM CVS conducted internal assurance on We have been evaluating our approach to assurance in order ERM’s FY18 data for these metrics, following the same approach to integrate more effectively external perspectives into our used to perform external assurance for clients. This is based on sustainability approach, work program and performance as well ISAE3000 and ISO 14064:3, which are internationally recognized as providing assurance on our public reporting. In FY19, we intend assurance methodologies. to adopt a new multi-year approach. In parallel, we will continue to improve our reporting based on the expertise of our Partners and consultants, stakeholder feedback, benchmarking of industry leaders and our collaborations with global reporting organizations. ERM Sustainability Report 2018 www.erm.com/report18 74
