MABUHAY VINYL CORPORATION 2013 Annual Report INSIDE 2 Vision, Mission and Corporate Values 3 Financial Highlights 4 Message from Management 7 Statement of Management’s Responsibility 8 Independent Auditor’s Report 9 Consolidated Balance Sheets 10 Consolidated Statements of Income 11 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 12 Consolidated Statements of Changes In Equity 13 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 14 Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements 46 UN Global Compact Initiatives 48 Board of Directors, Committees and MVC Officers 49 Investor Information 50 Banks, External Auditor, Trustee, Legal Consultant and Directory Mabuhay Vinyl Corporation 2013 Annual Report 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVES 2013 COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS REPORT Mabuhay Vinyl Corporation’s President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Edwin Ll. Umali, affirms the Company’s continuing commitment to the principles advocated by the United Nations Global Compact. As one of the pioneer supporters of the UN Global Compact principles in the Philippines, MVC has realized early on that companies must look beyond their own walls in addressing society’s most urgent sustainability issues because everyone ultimately benefits from a better world. Top global sustainability challenges cited are education, poverty eradication, climate change and growth and employment. Principles Policies, Actions and Performance Indicators HUMAN RIGHTS • Funded the scholarships of 5 indigent students who are now in Junior High (Grades 7-8) Principle 1: • Participated in Brigada Eskwela by repairing and repainting classrooms at the Iligan City National School Support and of Fisheries respect the • Conducted a Health and Safety workshop for kids protection of • Reconstructed a water reservoir for Purok 13, Iligan residents International • Donated to typhoon Yolanda survivors thru employees’ “My Voluntary Contribution” drive. Human Rights • Conducted tree planting, parenting and growing activities within MVC’s • Organized a blood donation activity sphere of influence Principle 2: • Expanded MVC’s community-based child-friendly programs by involving community and youth leaders Make sure MVC in planning and creating their own activities such as the Summer Arts Workshop, Flores de Mayo, Medical is not complicit Mission and Pamaskong Handog. in human rights • Encouraged more employees and contractors to volunteer and participate in the yearly Brigada Eskwela abuses and Indigent School Program. LABOR • Two strategic planning sessions of the Industrial Peace Council (IPC) and Corporate Council on Quality, Security, Safety, Health and Environment conducted in January 2013 bolstered the harmonious relationship Principle 3: between labor and management Uphold the • An IPC Fellowship teambuilding activity was held in August 2013 to further strengthen teamwork between freedom of labor and management. association and the effective • The annual Magtanong sa Pangulo management forum was also held in August. recognition of the • MVC supports the active participation of Union officers in various labor-related organizations and activities. right to collective bargaining Principle 4: • MVC joined a Self-Assessment and Joint-Assessment Audit on Labor, Occupational, Safety and Health Elimination of all Standards conducted by the Department of Labor and Employment. A grade of “No Violation” on General forms of forced Labor Standards and “Compliant” in OSH Standards were given to the company. and compulsory • Requires suppliers and contractors to comply with non-hiring of minors or children. labor 46 Mabuhay Vinyl Corporation 2013 Annual Report Principles Policies, Actions and Performance Indicators Principle 5: • Reinforced the Company’s Child Friendly Policy as well as the Procedures on Recruitment and Placement Effective abolition against hiring of child labor. of child labor Principle 6: • Newly hired employees and trainees undergo a Fire Safety Workshop, orientation on mandatory health Elimination of policies including policies on Drug Free Workplace and Anti-Sexual Harassment discrimination • Health Talk and Awareness /Information Drive on HIV/AIDS, Pulmonary Tuberculosis, Hepatitis B, and in respect of Lifestyle diseases were conducted with emphasis on non-discrimination policy in the workplace. employment and • Arranged a lecture on the use and effects of illegal drugs as well as penal provisions under the company’s occupation Drug-Free Workplace Policy took place. ENVIRONMENT • Joined the Coastal and City Highway Clean-up program during the Environmental Month of June and International Clean-up in September. Principle 7: • A two-year “Right BMI Challenge” was launched to promote wellness consciousness and encourage Support a employees to lead a healthy and productive life. precautionary • Conducted a basic skills training in First Aid and Management including basic life support, cardiopulmonary approach to resuscitation, and carrying and bandaging techniques. environmental • Celebrated Nutrition Month with a Health Forum on Whole Foods Plant Based Diet for Super Immunity. challenges • Conducts regular seminars to customers on Product Handling and Safety Training • Disaster Preparedness Drill and Fire Drills are also conducted in Iligan and Laguna Plants. Principle 8: • MVC Iligan Plant’s Integrated Quality Environment and Occupational Safety and Health Management Undertake Systems were certified by TUV-SUD as compliant to the ISO:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS initiatives to 18001:2007 standards. promote greater • Lakbay Linis, a company-wide clean-up campaign, was energized every quarter as part of the Good environmental Housekeeping program to promote environmental responsibility among employees and contractors. It responsibility includes GH & safety audits in all plant areas. Principle 9: • Installed a dual-fired burner system that utilizes hydrogen as supplemental fuel in addition to the usual Encourage the bunker fuel oil development • Project reduces fossil fuel and greenhouse gas emission by more than 26%. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology ANTI• Contracts entered into with suppliers and contractors warrant that no consideration or compensation was CORRUPTION given to any MVC employees. • MVC likewise warrants that no illegal compensation or payment was given to any customer in order to Principle 10: secure their business. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Mabuhay Vinyl Corporation 2013 Annual Report 47
