SUCCEEDING SUSTAINABLY thinkstep Sustainability Report 2018 Contents Introduction 4 Our People: thinksteppers 25 The Scope of this Report 5 Our Company Culture 26 Message from the CEO 6 Employee Engagement 28 Ever-Evolving Knowledge 8 thinkstep Academy: Training and Education 29 Who We Are 9 Governance and Ethics 30 Overview 10 Code of Conduct 31 Our Mission and Vision: thinkstep Tree 12 Transparency and Accountability 31 Our Portfolio and Expertise 14 Sustainable Purchasing Policy 32 Projects Delivered 15 Our Environmental Impact 35 Partnerships and Collaborations 18 Energy / Carbon Management 36 Our Sustainability Approach 19 Energy and Carbon Reduction Targets 41 Materiality Assessment 20 Moving On 45 Additional Reporting Topics 23 GRI Index 47 Managing Sustainability at thinkstep 24 Sustainability Report 2018 | Contents 2 Figures Figure 1 Subsidiaries and entities 10 Figure 12 Employees at a glance 26 Figure 2 thinkstep at a glance in 2018 11 Figure 13 Engagement campaigns 28 Figure 3 The “thinkstep Tree“ 12 Figure 14 The thinkstep Academy in numbers 29 Figure 4 thinkstep values 13 Figure 15 Session at a thinkstep user group meeting 31 Figure 5 Portfolio, addressing a variety of use cases 14 Figure 16 Catagories of sustainable purchasing 33 Figure 6 Business volume by offering 15 Figure 17 Energy breakdown 37 Figure 7 Business volume by industry sector 16 Figure 18 Total GWP for thinkstep trend Scope 1, 2 and 3 38 Figure 8 Business volume by country 17 Figure 19 GWP per employee trend 39 Figure 9 Partnerships and collaborations 18 Figure 20 Emissions by activity 40 Figure 10 Materiality matrix 20 Figure 21 Electricity mix 41 Figure 11 LinkedIn followers 21 Figure 22 The Borehole Rehabilitation Project in Ethiopia 42 Sustainability Report 2018 | Figures 3 INTRODUCTION The Scope of this Report including the following: thought leadership, in March 2015 from PE International AG to sustainable growth, employees / labor, products thinkstep AG, appointment of new executive This report is an overview of thinkstep and all and services, sustainability commitment / management, corresponding changes to of its international branches for the reporting strategy, stakeholder engagement, diversity / governance and management structures and period between January 1, 2018 and December fair treatment / non-discrimination, ethics, adjustments to business strategy. 31, 2018. Its aim is to communicate our corporate governance, employee health / sustainability performance and efforts to wellness and energy and carbon. For more The story behind our “ever-evolving knowledge“ thinkstep clients, employees, investors and information about this see page 20. corporate logo aligns with the creation of this other stakeholders. document. Our evolving logo inspires us to We collected and analyzed all of the expand our insights continuously, because This report has been prepared in accordance quantitative data presented here using the more we know, the smarter our actions. with the GRI Standards for the core option. It our own SoFi Software, performing the The process of compiling this report has not discloses the nature of thinkstep as an calculations in accordance with the Greenonly solidified our current position on the map organization, thinkstep‘s most relevant house Gas (GHG) Protocol requirements. of global sustainability, it has helped us gain material topics, economic, environmental and more insights into our potential for sustainsocial impacts and ways in which thinkstep Since publishing our last report in 2011, thinkstep ability reporting. We are confident that these manages them. We selected the non-financial has undergone some fundamental changes. insights will be reflected in our future topics based on the materiality assessment, These include the company name change practices and in next year’s report. Sustainability Report 2018 | Introduction 5 Message from the CEO their governance, operations and decision making see increases in revenue and As corporations develop their plans and operational efficiency, decreases in risk budgets for 2020 and beyond, sustainability and strengthened reputation. is no longer just an ethical choice. It is a financial necessity. This is as true for Data drives business decisions. So companies thinkstep as it is for the companies we need high-quality environmental, social and work with. governance data in order to develop and act on sustainable strategies. This is about Consumers, employees, investors and regulaleveraging sustainability data in core decisiontors (local and national) are asking companies making, but it is also about having the data to responsibly align their activities with social you need to confidently communicate related and environmental principles. Stakeholder performance, opportunities and risks to your demands aside, we increasingly see that stakeholders. sustainable business is simply good business. Companies that embed sustainability into Sustainability Report 2018 | Introduction 6 We believe in a future in which such sustainus toward the most meaningful levers for ability information is as prevalent as change–what we can do internally to have the financial information. greatest impact. At thinkstep, we track our own sustainability Thank you for your partnership and leaderperformance using our own tools. We use this ship. We look forward to continuing this data to inform our decisions at all levels of journey together. the company, and we want to communicate this performance to you, our stakeholders. Jan Poulsen, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) We are proud of what we have accomplished. We have become a signatory participant of the UN Global Compact and are committed to measuring our actions and communicating our progress regularly and transparently using the UN’s ten principles. We detail our performance against these targets in this report. Of course, there is more to be done. Our data shows this. Our data also guides Ever-Evolving Knowledge mission starts with true knowledge. This inspires us to expand our insights continuously. Ever-emerging business challenges push companies to think about the next steps This belief is captured in our logo in a lively way. to improve their business performance and Horizontal bars turn into an expression of our to get full value from their sustainability ever-evolving knowledge and create the programs. This requires a meticulous and dominant element of our corporate design. comprehensive approach to strategy developWe called our logo “the ever-evolving knowledge,” ment and risk management, which thinkstep because the more we know, the smarter is delighted to provide. thinkstep’s clients our actions. include global leaders in every major industry. Sustainability is a complex business challenge. Ideology or good intentions alone will not solve it. However, sound analysis and engaged action will. Confidence in our Sustainability Report 2018 | Introduction 8 WHO WE ARE Overview thinkstep is a global leader in sustainability Australia | Canada | Denmark | Germany | India | Italy | Japan New Zealand | South Africa | United Kingdom | United States performance management. For twenty-seven years, our software and consulting services have been aiding businesses in enhancing their data quality, saving processing time and improving reporting and decision-making. Put simply, we turn complexity into transparent solutions. thinkstep originated as a spinoff from the University of Stuttgart in 1991, initially called PE International GmbH. In 1998, PE International took steps to expand globally into four additional continents, and now we have offices around the world. Figure 1: Subsidiaries and entities Sustainability Report 2018 | Who We Are 10 thinkstep at a Glance in 2018 Since then, it has undergone several structural changes and even changed its name. thinkstep has 248 Employees 1:1 female / male ratio served > 8,000 In 2015, new circumstances called for reforms 30 nationalities clients in governance and management structures, which were reflected in the formation of thinkstep, as it is known today. ...in 14 countries ...in 20 offices 45% of the Fortune Compared to 2017, 100 companies have EBITDA* increased placed their trust in by factor 4.6 thinkstep * EBITDA stands for “Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization” Figure 2: thinkstep at a glance in 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 | Who We Are 11 Our Mission and Vision: create a positive impact the thinkstep Tree much larger than what we are capable of individually. In 1991, when very few companies had an idea We conducted a materiality about sustainability, thinkstep was one of the assessment (see page pioneers implementing sustainable solutions. 20) and refreshed our Awareness, expertise, methods and software strategy accordingly. We have since grown into mature sustainability are committed to meeting Figure 3: The “thinkstep Tree“ represents our vision, mission and values. Here you see the thinkstep solutions. Sustainability is a mindset that we high standards of tree on the wall behind the HQ front office painted by a thinkstep colleague and signed by all thinkstep employees. live every day. Family-friendly policies and performance through social responsibility toward employees and applying our core business partners are central pillars of our values in our strategy: economic and social domains of our work. corporate strategy. Sustainability – sustainability is an active Empowerment – employees are our most We lead by example by practicing part of our business strategy, decision-making, important asset, and their needs are taken sustainability as employees and as a company operations and culture. We aim to go beyond seriously and with respect. We foster a through our strategy and commitments. governmental regulatory requirements and collaborative and open environment that Through client engagement, we strive to extend our efforts to the environmental, encourages employees to take initiative and Sustainability Report 2018 | Who We Are 12 Empowerment Sustainability Accountability – at thinkstep, we believe that accountability fosters success over failure, and as such, embodies thinkstep’s core value. Integrity When held accountable, teams are solutionoriented and genuinely care about the outcomes of their decisions. Accountability at thinkstep starts with each individual, including Accountability at the management level. Every person at thinkstep is obligated to take ownership and responsibility for their actions and to do Figure 4: thinkstep values so transparently. Integrity – we are committed to doing the make decisions to solve problems. We help right thing and communicating the truth. Our our employees to set career growth-plans, decisions and operations are ethical—they and we strive to provide them with the reflect accurate data and abide by the law. appropriate skill development training and We are straightforward and frank with each career opportunities to achieve their goals. other and with our clients. Sustainability Report 2018 | Who we are 13 ct Stewardship Produ ntal Supply nme Ch viro Portfolio ain Our Portfolio and Expertise E n uct & Comp lian ce od ting Pr & Pr por od ig n Re & uc t r M Our industry-leading environmental sustainability Pro fo y an ce d t an Inn uct ili pli ov De m l software, data and consulting services help Su a s Co eria ent sta tio at m M age in n businesses drive operational excellence, ab Softw ar product innovation, brand value and e Life Cycle ions End of Life cat regulatory compliance. pli pliance Ap Engineering Com Data • Our software makes optimizing Foundation sustainability and compliance uniquely Cons sta ult in painless and rewarding. in & C ability Eng er t Se g S p li r vi an R • We own the most comprehensive source ce s ag Su p men Su em e nt age of sustainability data in the world, M covering 12,500 datasets. Bu gy er o n t • Our broad sustainability consulting Po i l d i E n ar b m en M n an rtfo g & C a ge a g li o EHS n expertise helps our clients to build em Ma ent M a n a g e m e nt business value from sustainability. Co r ty p o ra t e S u s t a i n a b i l i Figure 5: Portfolio, addressing a variety of use cases Sustainability Report 2018 | Who We Are 14 Consulting Services 43% Projects Delivered your business operations, you need efficient tools to report and manage your sustainability SoFi Software thinkstep works with private companies, performance. That means collecting huge industry associations and governmental amounts of data, storing it and converting it bodies, such as the European into reports that you can 25% Commission. In total, thinkstep has We appreciated use. Metro AG was looking successfully completed over 5,000 the high flexibifor just such a solution. GaBi Software and Data consulting projects and is lity, professionalism and They wanted to simplify continuously providing support dedication of the thinkstep and improve their data and updates to thousands of consulting team when SoFi collection and consolidation was being implemented. 24% users of our software products process and make their and databases. Michael Goebbels, Director, sustainability reporting Corporate Responsibility, and emissions calculations Material and METRO AG Compliance Solutions Case Study: Sustainability more efficient. The SoFi Assessment & Reporting Software platform turned for Companies out to be the best approach, allowing Metro AG to analyze their performance against their 8% If you want to assess the sustainability of climate protection target. They could now Figure 6: Business volume by offering Sustainability Report 2018 | Who We Are 15 improve their data quality and track their they have to use different ones for different common rules for product groups and sustainability performance with usermarkets. This results in additional costs for refining the methodology. defined dashboards. companies and confusion for consumers. thinkstep is also a consortium partner in the Case Study: Product The European Commission developed the Remodeling Project, delivering the largest share Environmental Footprint (PEF) Product Environmental Footprint and Organiof officially remodeled benchmark results for sation Environmental Footprint methods as about half of the product groups and organiCompanies wishing to market their products a common way of measuring environmental zations that have participated thus far. as environmentally friendly in several EU performance of any good, service or organization markets face a confusing range of methods throughout its life cycle and operations. Before the potential adoption of new policies, and initiatives to choose from. Sometimes the Commission has introduced a framework thinkstep is the key to allow the voluntary development of common data provider for the rules for even more product groups and industry majority of the Environsectors (the Transition Phase). thinkstep is lead27% 10% 13% mental Footprint (EF) ing a consortium providing technical support Consumer Goods Metals & Mining, Mobility mandatory databases (through an “Environmental Footprint HelpManufacturing and has supported desk”) to the Commission and participating industries in setting up industries during this Transition Phase. 15% 16% 15% Building & Construction Public Sector & Services Energy, Chemicals, Oil & Gas Figure 7: Business volume by industry sector (Other: 4%) Sustainability Report 2018 | Who We Are 16 Germany 27% United States 25% United Kingdom 7% Nordics 7% Benelux 7% Austria & Switzerland 6% Case Study: Working on the Italy 4% mobility of the future France 3% Other 14% thinkstep’s Energy & Mobility consulting team is perceived as a reliable and knowledgeable partner in the dynamic field of alternative Figure 8: Business volume by country energy solutions and future mobility concepts. fleet, conducted a Well-to-Wheel analysis and greening logistics and support of public In 2017 and 2018, thinkstep finalized several performed a Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) transportation authorities in the transition projects testing and evaluating zero/low evaluation. Within the GHG Intensity Study on to zero-emission mobility and fuel solutions. emission light and heavy-duty vehicles, hydroNatural Gas (commissioned by NGVA Europe), In addition to the analysis of potential energy gen fuel cells and battery electric solutions. thinkstep collected data from more than 50 savings and GHG emission reductions, we A prominent example is the HyFIVE Project companies from across the gas value chain consider other environmental aspects, such (funded by the FCH JU), in which thinkstep and prepared a consistent report (critically as urban air quality and costs (CAPEX, OPEX, analyzed the deployment of 185 fuel cell reviewed), which supports the NGVA in its external costs to society). electric passenger vehicles and six hydrogen dialog with external stakeholders and refueling stations. thinkstep was responsible policy makers. Other lead themes in 2017 and for the data monitoring of the entire vehicle 2018 were related to batteries, Power-to-X, Sustainability Report 2018 | Who We Are 17 More partnerships and collaborations:* Partnerships and Collaborations American Center for Life Cycle Assessment (ACLCA) CEN Building and Environmental Product Declarations European Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) Initiative In addition to our own internal work on German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) sustainability, we activly participate or International Standards Organisation (ISO) cooperate with many organizations to ensure Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Sustainable Apparel Coalition we contribute to the development of leading Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council (SPLC) standards, internationally accepted best UNEP SETAC Life Cycle Initiative practices and global methodologies. US Green Building Council (USGBC) Water Footprint Network (WFN) World Green Building Council (WGBC) Excellence in Design for Greater Efficiencies (EDGE) Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) International Energy Agency (IEA) Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V. (VfU) Ecoinvent Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs UK (Defra) VNU – Verband für Nachhaltigkeit und Umweltmanagement CSR-Praxistage – Praxistage für mittelständische Unternehmen * This list is not exhaustive Figure 9: Partnerships and collaborations Sustainability Report 2018 | Who We Are 18 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Stakeholders (employees, clients, Materiality Assessment business partners) 1 Thought Leadership To appropriately distribute resources and money and to nurture valuable relationships High Importance Thought Leadership 2 Sustainable Growth with our stakeholders, it has been important for us to identify which sustainability topics Sustainable Growth Products & Employees / 3 Products & Services Services Labor have the greatest impact. We achieved that Sustainability Topics of importantce to through a materiality assessment, resulting Sustainability Commitment / Strategy 4 Sustainability Commitment / Strategy Stakeholder Diversity / Fair Treatment / from an in-depth survey conducted with 143 Engagement Non-Discrimination stakeholders, including employees, clients, Ethics Corporate Health & Energy & Carbon 5 Employees / Labor business partners, thought leaders and inGovernance Wellness vestors. The information in the materiality Material use / 6 Energy & Carbon External Stakeholders matrix (see Figure 10) is derived from valuable Water Procurement comments and feedback obtained through Low Waste meetings and telephone interviews with the Importance Social & Community stakeholders’ representatives along with their Investment scorecards on relevant sustainability issues. Sustainability Topics of Importance to thinkstep High Importance Figure 10: Materiality matrix Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Sustainability Approach 20 The results of our materiality assessment indicate shaping of standards, inspiring our clients leadership has become an essential part of an alignment between our business practices with innovative ideas, moving them forward our business practices and is of highest and the sustainability topics identified as in their sustainability journeys, establishing importance to our organization. We conduct having the highest relevance for both external strong partnerships and developing a culture about 20 free webinars per year on important stakeholders and thinkstep as an organization. of knowledge sharing. As such, thought trends and other relevant sustainability • Thought Leadership , • Sustainable Growth • Products and Services , • Sustainability Commitment / Strategy • Employee / Labor , • Energy and Carbon Thought Leadership was recognized as the , topic of highest interest, receiving significantly higher scores than the rest of the topics. For , our stakeholders, thought leadership is defined as leading thinking in the development and , Figure 11: LinkedIn followers Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Sustainability Approach 21 topics. The continuous growth of our social aspire to be an employer of choice for talented and targets. For more information, see page 8. media followers (see Figure 11) shows how we qualified people, with low employee turnover. thinkstep’s Sustainability Commitment / continuously broaden our reach. This matrix value considers flexible working hours Strategy implies identifying strategic and part-time work opportunities and priorities for our organization, developing a Sustainable Growth is defined as responsible encourages quality work-life balance and sustainability strategy, setting sustainable revenue growth that maximizes shareholder various skill development opportunities and goals and targets (including KPIs) and value without triggering any destructive training, which enable our employees to further practices that we can closely measure, economic problems for future generations. expand the scope of their skills and knowledge, monitor and review to improve thinkstep’s thinkstep measures sustainable growth by the reflected in their regular performance reviews. performance in terms of sustainability. total number of clients we have, enabling us to For more information, refer to page 25. Throughout this report, we explain our quantify and demonstrate our growing impact commitment and strategy in as much detail on the market. thinkstep and our stakeholders view the as we can for each topic. delivery of the benefits of our Products and Employees / Labor constitute a fundamental Services to our clients’ environmental We track our energy consumption and carbon piece of the thinkstep puzzle—talented, performance as an imperative topic. The emissions at thinkstep regularly and we have committed and innovative colleagues help us scope includes reductions in our clients’ GHG targets for both energy and carbon. Please see deliver change to our clients and to the society emissions, resource optimization, environpage 35, “Our Environmental impact.“ and are crucial to our long-term success. We mental strategy and measurable Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Sustainability Approach 22 As can be deducted from the materiality Additional Reporting Topics matrix, topics such as Material use / Procurement, Water, Waste and Social As a signatory participant of UN Global and Community Investment were not Compact, we address ten principles of the considered highly relevant to our stakeholders. initiative in this report as a part of our Such low scores for these topics relate to commitment to these principles and our the nature of thinkstep’s core business as a dedication to communicating our progress provider of services and solutions. thinkstep’s transparently with all our stakeholders. business practices do not include industrial set-ups, nor a large-scale consumption of We also joined the Science Based Targets resources, such as water, waste, materials or initiative (SBTi) in 2018 and are currently packaging. thinkstep’s impact is limited to developing our targets. More information resources consumed for day-to-day operations about our SBT commitments can be found of our offices. So we have omitted topics that on page 42. fall outside the scope of this report. Managing Sustainability from all offices around the world, receiving During the preparation of this report we also at thinkstep: Our regular feedback on our performance, received support from Dr. Gordana Ilic, who is Sustainability Team defining and maintaining sustainability a climate pioneer supported by the Climatepurchasing guidelines and ensuring that the KIC initiative, a body of the European Union. At thinkstep we have a team of people ten principles of UN Global Compact are responsible for managing sustainability inside properly implemented throughout the company. For more information please contact: the company. The team includes employees from different backgrounds who work around All environmental, social and economic data in Ozan Polat the globe. This enables them to bring diverse this report came from our own SoFi Software. Sustainability Officer expertise and perspectives to the various Over the last few years, we have extended ozan.polat@thinkstep.com sustainability topics. the system to cover the entire sustainability +49 30 2089887 81 information for thinkstep. Office champions The sustainability team meets monthly to collect data from different global sites, and exchange ideas and act on relevant sustainability various departments, like HR, Accounting and topics for the company. Their tasks include Marketing, have also contributed information organizing employee engagement campaigns when needed. thinkstep collects the necessary (see page 28), gathering and reporting information for our sustainability commitsustainability data with our SoFi Software ment in an annual data collection campaign. Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Sustainability Approach 24 OUR PEOPLE: THINKSTEPPERS 111 Female 137 Male employees employees Our Company Culture laws. We pay fair wages and NonManagement Management respect the need of all our 23% thinkstep’s people (thinksteppers) are the colleagues for a work-life balance. 49% 51% 77% fundamental pieces of the thinkstep puzzle. Every thinkstep employee receives Ratio (F|M) Ratio (F|M) thinkstep’s business relies on software and an annual performance review. In 1:1 1:3 life cycle data, but it is our talented, committed 2015 we developed a guidance and innovative employees who help us deliver document outlining not only Age of employees the true change to our clients and society and performance, but the personal 21 26 31 36 41 46 51 Age >55 who are vital to our long-term success. We and professional expectations 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 are proud to have cultivated a strong pool of and requirements for career paths Ratio 2% 11% 27% 21% 17% 11% 7% 4% talent. From skillful software developers in thinkstep’s organization. That and database creators to experienced guidance document is the basis Based on Germany and North America consultants, our people bring a human touch for performance management, when assisting our clients. Our sustainability including performance reviews. Figure 12: Employees at a glance experts play the pivotal role in implementation of projects. People constitute thinkstep. Performance management is it. The combination of personal (soft) skills about both results and behavior. It is not just and professional expertise (comprised of We respect all local employment and labor about what we achieve, but how we achieve competencies and experience) act as the Sustainability Report 2018 | Our People: thinksteppers 26 basis for results and behaviors. learning and listening organization and has an environment that fosters team building and As a global company with a global mission and fun. Terms like “team spirit” and a “family-like” common values, we promote sense of belonging are commonly an open-minded and diverse used by employees to describe It is inspiring work atmosphere. Our work to work with a thinkstep’s work culture. Other environment is free from technically and culturally notable answers that reflect the discrimination, including on diverse team on projects enjoyable aspects of working the basis of race, national or that enable sustainability at thinkstep include: diversity ethnic origin, color, religion, in large organizations. of people and responsibilities, age, sex or gender, marital Stefan Premer, Solution space and freedom for creativity Engineer, thinkstep status, family status, in decision-making, the ability to pregnancy, mental or bring about internal change and physical disability, physical characteristics, an overall strong devotion to deliver the best sexual orientation and political belief, solution for our clients. association or activity. Our road to attaining the reputation of being a great place to work was built on principles that thinkstep is a Engagement campaigns Activity Frequency Details Employee Engagement Eating Knowledge Every three weeks Colleagues from different teams share knowledge relevant to projects or sustainability topics while eating lunch together At thinkstep, regular employee engagement Sports together Twice a week Running and doing physical exercises together with employees at our headquarters campaigns play an important role in creating an interactive environment for the exchange Company run Annually Collective running as a team at the local company run event (Firmenlauf) in Stuttgart of ideas and enable each thinkstep employee Bike to work week Seasonally Organized bike to work week, supporting local to actively engage with our sustainability vision initiatives whenever they arise at work and at home. Off-site event September 15th World Cleanup Day Community Building October and December Celebrating locally relevant events like travelSometimes our interal sustainability programs ling funfairs, Halloween, Christmas and New and campaigns have a direct influence on Year‘s parties employee behavior, such as JobRad, a bicycle Off-site event for the Annually, usually November Brainstorming strategies for the new year and consulting teams team building event leasing and purchasing program that has Off-site event November 24th Buy Nothing Day Focusing on our consumphelped some of our employees transition tion and waste habits from commuting to work by car to Webinars Continously Webinars on various topics, such as food commuting to work by bike. choices or responsible end-of-life management of electronics Collaboration with schools Annually International students visiting thinkstep and thinkstep informing school students about sustainability challenges and topics Figure 13: Engagement campaigns Sustainability Report 2018 | Our People: thinksteppers 28 The thinkstep Academy: The thinkstep Academy team offers sessions Employees can suggest topics of interest. Training and Education on a broad variety of topics, such as an introThe Academy offers employees the possibility duction to the various company products and to present topics that they think are relevant The thinkstep Academy is our central internal departments for new employees, updates on to colleagues and then receive support from professional and personal development tool. products and services, informative sessions the Academy team. We aim to make it our main knowledge base about the company’s retirement plan, the use and transfer platform. of internal administration and management As the ever-evolving-knowledge concept is tools and new sustainability trends, such as integrated into our core business model, thinkstep provides various training ISO standards or Circular Economy. thinkstep continuously supports the professessions and webinars throughout the year. sional development of its employees. In addition to regular internal training in the field of sustainability, we support each ...by more than employee through a personal budget for 44 31 presenters >600 participants engaged external training sessions for professional development and to enhance their knowledge about topics they would like to further explore. sessions were held in 45-60 minute training sessions In 2018 the number of training sessions increased 26% from 2017 Sustainability Report 2018 | Our People: thinksteppers 29 Figure 14: The thinkstep Academy in numbers GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Code of Conduct obtain or retain business for us. We provide timely, regular and In 2014, thinkstep introduced the thinkstep reliable information about our Code of Conduct document, which outlines activities, structure, financial the expected behaviors of all of our employees, situation and performance to directors and officers. For sustainable success, shareholders. it is essential that we make business decisions and treat all stakeholders ethically and in Transparency and compliance with all applicable legal requirements. Accountability Figure 15: Session at a thinkstep user group meeting We conduct and report all financial transacThere are thousands of people tions (including invoicing) accurately, trutharound the globe who use our GaBi and SoFi exchange their unique user experiences. The fully and completely. We comply with the Software solutions. It is our duty to ensure information we receive during these face-toanti-corruption laws of the countries in which that the user experience for both solutions always face meetings plays an important role in we do business. We do not make any direct or meets the needs of our clients. In addition to defining the roadmap and new features for indirect payments or promises of payment to existing feedback mechanisms, we invite all our our software developers. government officials for the purpose of inducing clients once a year to a user group meeting the individual to misuse his or her position to where we collect their feedback and let them Sustainability Report 2018 | Governance and Ethics 31 As consultants working on several projects Sustainable Purchasing Policy developed and implemented a Sustainable together with diverse stakeholders, we provide Purchasing Policy and associated Guidethe best-in-class service with our unique knowWe envision a world in which the production, lines, specifically to encourage the adoption how and highly standardized project managedistribution, use and disposal of goods and of more sustainable purchasing practices ment guidelines, which have been developed services enhance the long-term health and at thinkstep, help reduce our environmental during our extensive experience as consultants. vitality of society, economies footprint and enhance our positive social and the planet. A key element impact. The Sustainable Purchasing Policy 0 We maintain both GaBi and SoFi in our “Reducing our and Guidelines document was signed in 2015 as highly secure softwares, and we Environmental Footprint” by thinkstep’s CEO and CFO at that time. are very aware that we work mostly pillar is to adopt sustainable with sensitive data during our practices at work and at Through this policy and the associated breaches of privacy consulting work. We are proud to home and to increase guidelines, we encourage our staff, who are say that we have not received any employee awareness of the responsible for procurement, to purchase substantiated complaints concerning impacts of our choices through active quality products and services at competitive breaches of our clients’ privacy. engagement in environmental and social prices, while considering key environmental impact reduction activities. We are committed and social benefits over the entire life cycle of to walking our own sustainability talk and the product or service, including: to leading by example. As a result, we have Sustainability Report 2018 | Governance and Ethics 32 • Energy and water efficiency There are four specific products and services We purchase green electricity in our headquarters • Reduced resource requirements (see Figure 16) that we have identified as in Stuttgart and our office in Berlin. Our long• Recyclability relevant purchases. Employees are required term target is to switch to green electricity in • Biodegradability to implement the above specifications when all our offices around the world where such • Minimal packaging engaged in procurement. electricity is available. • Durability • Workplace health and safety One indirect way we increase employee Our IT department purchases computers and • International labor standards and human engagement (see page 28) is raising monitors (and other devices) that have rights environmental awareness through thinkstep’s achieved an EPEAT gold or silver rating and • Total cost of ownership Sustainable Purchasing Policy, which is applied that allow us to enable energy-save mode. We to all purchases related to office also have environmentally responsible e-waste electricity, computers and elecdisposal in place in accordance with local Office electricity Computers & electronics tronics, paper and printing and regulations in all our offices worldwide. catering and food. Purchasing was chosen because it is common When it comes to paper, we make sure that to all of our offices, and as such, all paper products meet the specifications as visible to all our employees. outlined under the Forest Stewardship Council Papers & printing Catering & food Figure 16: Catagories of sustainable purchasing Sustainability Report 2018 | Governance and Ethics 33 (FSC) Recycled label (or equivalent) and that We work locally with different offsetting the same specifications are applied when it partners. thinkstep conducts an annual review comes to choosing printing service providers of its sustainable purchasing policy and guidefor marketing materials and lines and reports internally and client publications. We encourage our staff externally on our progress in to consider key environrelationship to our action plan. Furthermore, our catering mental and social benefits During this review, the Sustainevents are planned with over the entire life cycle ability Officer works in collapreference for regional / local / of the products that boration with the rest of the we purchase. organic food and vegan / thinkstep sustainability team vegetarian options and take (and other internal teams) to into consideration ethical make recommendations to improve our standards for farming. For instance, all coffee sustainability program on an ongoing basis. and boxed tea purchased by thinkstep must This policy applies to all thinkstep operating be organic, shade-grown and fair trade regions and offices. certified. In 2018, we purchased water dispensers to reduce bottled water in our headquarters. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT We focus our efforts to reduce our environwe enter new data, our energy consumption The details about the factor-sets used in mental footprint in three areas. In previous and carbon footprint values are automatically these calculations are documented in an sections of this report, we already covered two updated on user dashboards. We then analyze audit-proof way in our SoFi Software dataof these—our sustainable purchasing guideand set targets for improvement over the base, where we also maintain all our other lines and employee engagement campaigns. next five years. We put consistent effort into environmental data. We extrapolated some decreasing thinkstep’s overall emissions and of the missing energy consumption data for Energy / Carbon energy consumption. the 2018 reporting year from trends in Management the consumption per employee from thinkstep performed all emission calculations in previous years. We have tracked our on-site and business accordance with the methodology of the GHG travel-related energy consumption and Protocol. For Scope 1 emission calculations, we calculated the corresponding carbon emissions used GHG Protocol / IEA emissions factors, since 2006. Management of this environand for Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions we mental data consists of several phases. used a combination of GHG Protocol/IEA, Initially, we gather data from our offices Defra and GaBi emission factors. A share of around the world in a yearly data collection each scope and their contributors can be seen campaign in which office champions enter in Figure 20 on page 40. data into our SoFi Software. The moment Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Environmental Impact 36 We consume most of our energy through natural gas and electricity use in our offices. Our energy consumption decreased until 2017 and slightly increased in 2018, amounting to 326 MWh in total. Despite the increase in overall energy consumption, there was a small decrease in our energy consumption per floor area in 2018, which accounted for 36.5 kWh/m². Fuel oil [kWh] Natural gas Electricity (grid mix) [kWh] Green electricity (certified) [kWh] District heating [kWh] Indirect Energy / m2 [kWh/m2] Figure 17: Energy breakdown Green electricity (certified) [kWh] District heating [kWh] Indirect Energy / m2 [kWh/m2] Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Environmental Impact 37 Similar to the trend observed for the energy breakdown, our carbon footprint (372 t CO2e) has significantly decreased over the years, especially in comparison to the 45% higher values for 2014 (684 t CO2e). The major decline from 2014 to 2016, however, was due to office closures in North America. The increase in 2018 is 38 because of increased numbers of 33.1 employees working in our headquarters 38.6 during the reporting period. Our scope 3 emissions increased around 105 t due to increased business travel in Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2018. This is mainly due to our biannual Symposium event, where colleagues from Figure 18: Total GWP (Global Warming Potential) for thinkstep trend Scope 1, 2 & 3 all around the world visit our headquarters and partly because of the increased revenue in 2018. Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Environmental Impact 38 The largest percentage (82%, 307 t CO2e) of our total carbon footprint is generated through scope 3 emissions, predominantly from business travel and commuting. Scope 1 emissions amount to 27 t CO2e (8%), while scope 2 emissions add up to 38 t CO2e (10%) (see Figure 20). Most of the emissions are generated in our headquarters in Stuttgart, as this is our largest office where more than half of thinkstep’s employees work. In our Stuttgart and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Berlin offices, we purchase certified green GWP / employee energy. In 2019, we will take all necessary measures to switch to green electricity Figure 19: GWP per employee trend wherever we have full operational control in our thinkstep offices around the globe. Even though total emissions per employee increased last year, we have achieved our 2020 target Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Environmental Impact 39 past two years, and we aim to remain under our 1.5 tCO2e/employee target. As a company that provides services and solutions, the bulk of our carbon footprint results from travelling to meet with our clients. For the future, we aim to reduce our business travel by trying to reduce the number of faceto-face meetings, while still providing the same high-quality service. thinkstep encourages its employees to use environmentally friendly travel options to minimize its footprint. In 2019 we will introduce a company-wide travel policy to ensure employees use environmentally friendly transportation whenever possible. Figure 20: Emissions by activity Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Environmental Impact 40 Green electricity (certified) [kWh] Energy and Carbon Reduction 116.840 (58,0 %) Electrcity (grid mix) [kWh]: 84.560 (42,0%) Targets One of our main goals is to switch to green electricity worldwide, based on its availability. At the moment, almost 60% of our electricity consumption comes from green electricity. We encourage our local offices to define their own energy and carbon targets based on their local circumstances. We will also develop a company-wide energy reduction initiative through increased involvement of our employees before the end of 2019. We strongly believe that our primary focus should be to reduce emissions and, whenever reductions are no longer possible, to offset that which we cannot avoid. Figure 21: Electricity mix Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Environmental Impact 41 In 2018, through our partner ecoAct, we offset such emissions by helping to finance the Borehole Rehabilitation Project in Ethiopia, helping rural people gain access to safe, clean drinking water—preventing waterborne diseases, such as cholera and typhoid—while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We selected this project, because thinkstep‘s commitment to sustainability goes beyond carbon. This is part of thinkstep’s efforts to work toward achieving the UN Sustainability Development Goals, in this case SDGs 3, 6 and 15. Figure 22: The Borehole Rehabilitation Project in Ethiopia Sustainability Report 2018 | Our Environmental Impact 42 With little control over the emissions caused Paris Agreement‘s recommendation to limit by vehicles used for business travel and an global warming to below 1.5°C above existing policy to avoid unnecessary travel, pre-industrial levels. another challenge will be to identify ways to further reduce our impacts in this Science-based targets make area while continuing to provide sense for all types and sizes We support the Science services to our clients. Based Targets initiative of companies by providing (SBTi) through our own assurance that carbon However, in 2018 thinkstep was commitment and by reduction activities support among the first 500 companies encouraging other the Paris Agreement. worldwide to commit to set a companies to set their Science Based Target to reduce own targets. The SBTi champions sciencecarbon emissions. We know that based target setting as a reducing greenhouse gas emissions is good powerful way to boost competitive business for business, for the environment and for advantages in the transition to a low-carbon society as a whole. Science-based targets economy. It consists of a collaboration help companies determine a pathway for between CDP, World Resources Institute reducing their emissions in line with the (WRI), the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the United Nations Global mental responsibility and encouraging the Compact (UNGC). development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Committing to SBTs was a logical next step for us beyond being a signatory to the UNGC, We always try to avoid or reduce CO2 through which participating organizations emissions as much as possible. Those that are bound by the 10 principles that—at a we cannot avoid or reduce we offset (see minimum—require organizations to meet page 42). fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As a service business operating in the countries that we do, for us the most relevant principles are those that are also our core competencies: supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertaking initiatives to promote greater environMOVING ON What does this mean for thinkstep’s sustainto take active steps to expand the number of an accurate assessment of sustainability. ability management? It means we will mainof those who reap the business benefits of By adhering to the rigorous standards and tain our carbon reduction approach while enhanced sustainability management. Part of transparent communication that we strengthening our employee engagement and our success story has always been to attempt recommend to our clients, we hope to lead by intensifying our professional and personal to drive the environmental sustainability example... so we can move forward in this development program. market, a challenging task for us as a relatively exciting and challenging sustainability journey. small business, but hugely rewarding, because True to the ever-evolving knowledge and our sustainable success for our clients also means core mission to help companies succeed a more resilient and thriving planet. sustainably, we will continue to develop and implement solutions that create business Through integrating data, product sustainvalue for our clients. Committed to innovating ability, corporate sustainability, compliance and and motivated to maximize the value our consulting, thinkstep works to help make an solutions deliver, we will progress steadily even larger positive impact on the world. This toward improvements in measuring this value. is part of thinkstep’s sustainability mission. We seek to assist clients to make the inevitable As is already the case for many sustainability strategic business transformation toward leaders we support, our employees are keen disruptive innovation, the unique consequence Sustainability Report 2018 | Moving On 46 GRI Index This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: core option. The ten UNGC principles are also cross-referenced in the index below. This report has not been externally assured. GRI Standard Disclosure Number Disclosure Title and Description Page UN Global Compact General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization 10 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 14 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 102-4 Location of operations 10 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 102-6 Markets served 11, 16, 17 102-7 Scale of the organization 11, 14 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 11, 26 102-9 Supply chain 33 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and 33 its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 31 Principle 7 102-12 External initiatives 23,42 Principles 1 and 8 102-13 Membership of associations 18 Sustainability Report 2018 | GRI Index 47 GRI Standard Disclosure Number Disclosure Title and Description Page UN Global Compact 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6, 7 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of 31, 32 Principles 1 and 8 behavior 102-18 Governance structure 24, 31 Principle 8 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 20 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements services thinkstep employees do not have collective Principle 3 bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 20 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 20 Principle 8 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 20 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 10 Principle 8 102-47 List of material topics 5 102-48 Restatements of information 20 102-49 Changes in reporting 5, 10 102-50 Reporting period 5 102-51 Date of most recent report 5 102-52 Reporting cycle 5 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 24 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 5 Standards Sustainability Report 2018 | GRI Index 48 GRI Standard Disclosure Number Disclosure Title and Description Page UN Global Compact 102-55 GRI content index 46 102-56 External assurance 46 Principle 8 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distri11 buted Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti31 Principle 10 corruption policies and procedures Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 37 Principle 8 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 38, 40 Principle 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 38, 40 Principle 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 38, 40 Principle 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 39 Principle 8 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 29 employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 26 transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 26 performance and career development reviews Sustainability Report 2018 | GRI Index 49 GRI Standard Disclosure Number Disclosure Title and Description Page UN Global Compact Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 26 employees Non-Discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 27 Principle 6 actions taken Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 32 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Sustainability Report 2018 | GRI Index 50 www.thinkstep.com © 2019 thinkstep
