Sustainability Communication on Progress UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNGC Human rights ■ When selecting employees and determining their assignment in the company, Geberit attaches great im­ portance to qualifications appropriate to the task description. In accordance with their qualifications, the majority of Geberit employees at the production sites and sales companies are paid well above the mini­ mum wage range. This considerably reduces the risk of human rights violations. See $ GRI 202-1 ■ In its Code of Conduct, Geberit undertakes to be an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner and em­ Principle 1: ployer at all times. As a fair partner, Geberit recognises all laws, directives and internationally recognised Support and respect the standards as well as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and complies with them in protection of internationally full. All new employees at Geberit are trained on the Code of Conduct as part of the Welcome events. See proclaimed human rights. $ Code of Conduct for Employees, $ GRI 102-16, $ GRI 412-2 ■ Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored Group-wide as part of an annual survey and supple­ mented by internal audits on site. There were no significant breaches in 2018. See $ GRI 412, $ GRI 419 ■ The Geberit Integrity Line gives all employees the opportunity to report irregularities anonymously. There was one significant incident reported in 2018, which was subsequently investigated. ■ With respect to human rights violations, the greatest risk for Geberit lies with suppliers, who can be influ­ enced only indirectly. Geberit does all it can to minimise this risk and requires that business partners and suppliers comply with comprehensive standards. See $ Sustainability strategy, $ Management Approach Procurement ■ The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is intended to ensure that Geberit’s suppliers act in accordance with Principle 2: internal and external guidelines, such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and Make sure the company is the ILO core labour standards. As of the end of 2018, a total of 1,470 suppliers had signed the Code of not complicit in human Conduct. This equates to over 90% of the total procurement value. In 2018, 179 existing suppliers were rights abuses. identified in the highest risk category as defined by Geberit, which corresponds to around 8% of the pro­ curement value of Geberit. A systematic planning and performance of audits is conducted for these sup­ pliers. See $ Code of Conduct for Suppliers, $ Management Approach Procurement ■ In 2018, five third-party audits were carried out at suppliers in China and Ukraine. The results showed that the majority of occupational safety and environmental standards are complied with. Appropriate cor­ rective measures are agreed in cases of non-compliance. See $ GRI 308-2, $ GRI 414-2 Labour practices ■ No rights with respect to exercising freedom of association or collective bargaining as defined in the ILO Principle 3: core labour standards are subject to restriction at the Geberit Group. This is verified annually as part of a Uphold the freedom of Group-wide survey. No restrictions were in effect in 2018. See $ GRI 407 association and the ■ There are currently 9,008 employees (corresponding to 75% of the workforce) who are covered by col­ effective recognition lective agreements (e.g. collective labour agreements, wage agreements). In Germany, Austria, Switzer­ of the right to collective land, France, Italy, Ukraine, Finland and Sweden, over 90% of employees are subject to a collective labour bargaining. or wage agreement. There are no collective agreements with employees in place in the USA and China. See $ GRI 102-41 Principle 4: ■ Geberit’s exposure with respect to forced and child labour is considered low because of its industry, business model, the countries in which business activities are carried out, as well as its high level of verti­ Uphold the elimination of cal integration and high quality requirements. See $ GRI 408, $ GRI 409 all forms of forced and compulsory labour. ■ Forced and child labour are categorically rejected at Geberit. According to the annual Group-wide survey, no cases of forced and compulsory or child labour were discovered in 2018, nor were any cases revealed Principle 5: during the course of the audits performed among the suppliers. The basic principles established in the Uphold the effective Code of Conduct for Suppliers expressly include compliance with the ILO core labour standards for the abolition of child labour. exclusion of forced and child labour. See $ GRI 408, $ GRI 409 ■ The Geberit Code of Conduct clearly specifies how employees are to behave and how Geberit assumes responsibility as an employer in order to counteract discrimination in adherence with the ILO core labour standards. According to the annual Group-wide survey, one case of discrimination, one case of bullying and two cases of sexual harassment were reported in 2018. For information on the measures initiated, Principle 6: see $ GRI 406-1 Uphold the elimination of ■ Geberit’s personnel policy and recruitment practices do not differentiate between members of the local discrimination in respect community and other applicants or employees. See $ GRI 202, $ GRI 406 of employment and occupation. ■ Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the Geberit Code of Conduct. This includes the pro­ hibition of discrimination against any employee on the basis of gender. Fair and equal pay for men and women is a matter of course at Geberit, as was verified and documented in 2018 as part of the annual Group-wide survey. The proportion of female employees as of the end of 2018 was 24%; in management this figure was 8.6%. See $ GRI 405, $ Code of Conduct for Employees Geberit Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Environmental protection ■ With the precautionary approach in mind, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors operates an ex­ tensive system for monitoring and controlling the risks (incl. environmental risks) linked to the business activities. See $ GRI 102-11 ■ Geberit has long stood for a high level of environmental awareness and been committed to environmen­ tally friendly, resource-efficient production as well as to the development of water-saving and sustain­ able products. This is also defined as a management principle in the Geberit Compass. Environmental criteria are considered in all decision-making processes. A demonstrably high standard is achieved in this regard, one which often exceeds statutory requirements. Principle 7: See $ Geberit Compass, $ Environmental policy Support a precautionary ■ The carbon footprint – from the provision of raw materials, combustibles and fuels, the manufacture of approach to environmental products at Geberit, logistics and use, right through to disposal – reveals that product use (69.4%) and challenges. the provision of raw materials (16.2%) are by far the largest sources of CO2 emissions. See $ Carbon footprint ■ In 2018, CO2 emissions amounted to 231,484 tonnes, corresponding to a decrease of 4.7%. CO2 emis­ sions per sales (currency-adjusted) fell by 7.5%, meaning that Geberit exceeded its target of 5% per year. See $ GRI 305-2 ■ In 2016, a long-term CO2 target was established that is compatible with the two-degree target set out in the Paris Agreement (science-based). Within this context, Geberit plans to reduce its absolute CO2 emis­ sions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 6% between 2015 and 2021 to under 240,000 tonnes (based on organic growth). This target was already achieved in 2018. See $ GRI 305 ■ The Geberit Group has a Group certificate in accordance with ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environ­ ment) and OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) that is valid until 2021. The annual preparation of a corporate eco-balance has been an established part of Geberit’s environmental management since 1991. The total environmental impact was reduced by 4.4% in 2018. The environmental impact per sales (currency-adjusted) dropped by 7.3%, meaning that Geberit exceeded its target of 5% per year. This progress is founded largely on continuous improvements in efficiency at the energy-intensive ceramics plants. Since the acquisition of Sanitec in 2015, the absolute environmental impact has been reduced by 11.6% and eco-efficiency improved by more than 20%. See $ Group certificate, $ Chapter 9 Planet, $ Sustainability strategy Principle 8: ■ Geberit places its faith in energy saving and energy efficiency: in addition to process optimisation – par­ Undertake initiatives to ticularly in the newly acquired plants – important measures include the continuous modernisation of the promote greater enviinfrastructure and machine fleet, the optimisation of the kilns used for ceramic production, the improved ronmental responuse of waste heat (heat recovery) as well as the careful use of compressed air. See $ GRI 302-4 sibility. ■ As part of the long-term CO2 strategy, specific goals for the share of renewable energy sources by 2021 were also established: 45% for electricity and 10% for combustibles. The share of purchased green elec­ tricity increased by 3 GWh to 50 GWh in 2018. In total, renewable energy sources account for 40.6% of electricity and 5.2% of combustibles. See $ GRI 305-5 ■ Geberit regards eco-design as the key to environmentally friendly products. Beginning with the develop­ ment process, the most environmentally friendly materials and functional principles are used, risks are minimised and high resource efficiency is pursued. Eco-design is also implemented in product modifica­ tions and technology projects. Every new product is to be better than its predecessor with respect to en­ vironmental aspects. See $ Chapter 10.1 Products and innovation ■ The water footprint throughout the Geberit value chain shows that nearly 100% of the water consump­ tion is attributable to the use of Geberit products by customers. Water-saving solutions can therefore ex­ ert a major impact: all dual-flush and flush-stop cisterns produced since 1998 have saved around 2,880 Principle 9: million cubic metres of water in 2018 alone. See $ SDG Reporting, $ Water footprint Encourage the ■ Geberit supports the economical use of water in the sanitary industry and played a key role in establish­ development and diffusion ing the European Bathroom Forum (EBF) in 2017. One of the first tasks was the launch of a new European of environmentally friendly water label as a voluntary and flexible instrument to support customers in the selection of resource-effi­ technologies. cient products. See $ Chapter 10.1 Products and innovation ■ Green building is a market of the future experiencing strong growth throughout the world. As a leading system provider of sanitary solutions, Geberit is already offering suitable products for this purpose. See $ Reference magazine Anti-corruption ■ As a long-term member of Transparency International Switzerland, Geberit is committed to high stan­ dards in combating corruption. In addition to the Code of Conduct, there are additional guidelines on pre­ vention and employees receive training in this area. See $ GRI 205 Principle 10: ■ In 2018, the Internal Audit Department audited a total of 27 companies and did not discover any cases of Work against corruption in corruption. all its forms, including ■ Since 2017, an Integrity Line has been available to suppliers for anonymously reporting irregularities in extortion and bribery. the procurement process. No cases were reported in the reporting year. See $ GRI 102-17 ■ As a rule, Geberit does not make donations to parties or politicians. All donations are neutral from a party political point of view. This was verified and documented as part of the annual Group-wide survey. Geberit Annual Report 2018
