United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Prepared By: Tech Performance CONTENTS 03 Statement of Commitment 04 About 06 Our CSI Core Values 07 Human Rights 08 Labor 10 Environment 12 Anti-Corruption 13 Sustainability 02 H.E. António Guterres Secretary General – United Nations New York Statement of Commitment – Haggar Company Limited Since its inception in 1904, Haggar Group has held a strong commitment towards operating its business in a way that balances the profit imperative with the impact it has on the society and the environment. By integrating sustainability and social impact measures in our business operations, we pledge our commitment to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. We have recently developed a Sustainability Index that helps measure and monitor a number of SDG targets we do contribute towards while implementing the Group’s Roadmap 2025. I am thus hereby pleased to reaffirm Haggar Group’s support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we highlight the activities we implement with the objective of improving the integration of the Global Compact and its principles in our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Kind regards, Anthony A. Haggar Chief Executive Officer 03 ABOUT The Haggar Group was established in South Sudan in 1904 and present today in 8 sectors across 6 countries in Africa. The group continues to look for opportunities to create and add value across the continent. We aim to build long-term positions in Agriculture, Energy, and ICT, as we believe these sectors will provide the architecture and foundation for sustainable development across the continent. Its guiding principles, from the business’ inception, have taken into consideration the way in which business is done and governed, and the impact that the businesses will have on all stakeholders, including external communities; the environment and society. Binded by our ‘Code of Conduct’, we are conscious of how business is done. We adhere to our principles, professional standards and abide by the laws and regulations of the countries we operate in at all times. Our Code of Conduct guides our decision-making process and ensures that across our businesses the same ethical and moral standards are respected, which share a deep consciousness towards the livelihoods of our Employed Persons and fellow citizens, the marginalized and underserved and the sustainability of our environment. 04 05 Our Core CSI Values Haggar’s Corporate Sustainability & Social Impact Integrity department has built foundations upon the core subject areas of ISO 26000. These principles guide Haggar Group integrates corporate sustainability core subjects across us in regards to the development of new policies, all its companies and various internal practices and external community projects, activities solidly embedding CSI supporting Haggar in pinpointing its intended and measures in the Group’s desired impacts within its business operations, and governance system. to its external communities and environment. Transparency Ethical Behavior Accountability All information related to the Business ethics and values in Haggar Group holds itself impact of the company on society Haggar Group reflects a genuine accountable for all impacts and environment is readily concern for people and the resulting from decisions made available, directly accessible and environment and a commitment to by the company on society, the understandable to those who have address the impact of its activities economy and the environment. been, or may be, affected in and decisions on all stakeholders' significant ways. interests. Respect for Stakeholder Respect for the Rule of Law Respect for Human Rights Interests Haggar Group complies with all Haggar Group ensures through its Haggar Group respects all the applicable laws and regulations policies and practice that human interests of its stakeholders and making sure to inform all rights of all of its stakeholders are through consideration of and Group Employed Persons of their protected and avoids taking responding to their interests obligation to observe and to advantage of situations where and concerns when making implement those measures. those could be violated. business related decisions. 06 S S E R G O R P DEMONSTRATING OUR COMMITMENT As we joined the UNGC in 2017, we are incorporating its Ten Principles into our business strategies, policies and procedures as well as into our Values. We embed these commitments into Haggar Group Code of Conduct and its Sustainability Index. Below is a demonstration for our contribution towards the UNGC Principles: Humans Haggar Group continues to respect Human Rights principles in Rights accordance with the laws of the countries where it operates (Sudan, South Sudan, Nigeria, Ghana, Senegal and the UAE). N O It is the policy of Haggar Company to: PRINCIPLE 1 i. Afford equal human rights to all Employed Persons in their Businesses relationship with Haggar Company. N O I T A C I N U M M O C should support ii. Maintain mutually acceptable means of communication and and respect the consultation between groups and individuals within the Company. protection of iii. Quickly inform Employed Persons on any changes which affect internationally them and to maintain and improve conditions of service. proclaimed iv. To secure from the Employed Persons increased productivity, human rights. quality and efficiency of service in return for such improvements in conditions of service. v. Identify actual and potential cause of conflict and to ensure that mutually acceptable arrangements exist for the containment and resolution of the conflict. Comply with the provisions of government legislation relating to employment in Company. We are committed to all social, ethical and environmental PRINCIPLE 2 considerations in our procurement and supply chain decisions. Businesses It is the policy of Haggar Company to cater adequately for the should make safety and security of its Employed Persons and property at all times. sure that they Haggar Company does not tolerate workplace violence. All are not complicit employed persons are responsible for maintaining a violencein human rights free workplace. abuses. Haggar Group and all its subsidiaries are committed to providing a workplace that is healthy, conducive and where all employed persons feel valued and respected. Sexual harassment in the workplace is against the company’s Code of Conduct and Haggar overall culture and values. The Group is thus adopting a zero tolerance policy that should assist in preventing, investigating and resolving any allegations of sexual harassment. 07 S S E R G O R P Labor N O PRINCIPLE 3 Freedom of Association & The Right to Organize: Businesses should Haggar Group respects the fundamental right of staff members to establish – subject to internal rules associations and/or N O I T A C I N U M M O C uphold the freedom of association and the committees of their own choosing, to draw up their terms of effective recognition of reference, to elect their representatives, to organise their the right to collective administration and activities and to formulate their programmes. bargaining PRINCIPLE 4 Haggar Group is committed to the elimination of all forms The elimination of all of forced and compulsory labour through set policies and a forms of forced and culture that ensures their respect compulsory labour Haggar Group does not employ/contract minors. PRINCIPLE 5 On all agreements signed with contractors or out-sourcing companies providing Haggar Company with daily labour, The effective Haggar Company should communicate its zero tolerance abolition of child of child labour and/or forced labour. labour Contractors should not provide daily labourers that are less than 18 years of age or labourers of a foreign nationality that are not in possession of legal residence in Company. PRINCIPLE 6 We are an equal opportunities employer; we have none of The elimination of the dividing lines of ethnic origin, creed and gender. discrimination in We do encourage the employment of the disabled respect of As per the company’s Mission Statement principles, Haggar employment and Company shall take affirmative steps to hire, retain and occupation promote qualified individuals with disabilities. This includes the duty to refrain from discriminating in employment against qualified individuals on the basis of disability. Discrimination/Gender Balance 08 S S E R G O R P GENDER DIVERSITY 6.8% 8.5% N O 2018 2019 N O I T A C I N U M M O C 100 Haggar is an equal 75 opportunities employer. It has none of the dividing lines of ethnic origin, creed and 50 gender. However, we realize the gap in female hiring in 25 the group. Thus, percentage has increased since last year and a higher tarf. 0 Females Males 22% 30% NUMBER OF WOMEN IN TARGET NUMBER OF DIRECTOR, C-SUITE AND WOMEN IN DIRECTOR, CMANAGERIAL POSTIONS SUITE AND MANAGERIAL IN 2019 POSTIONS IN 2025 09 S S E R G O R P Environment The Environmental Policy helps the Haggar Group meet its vision PRINCIPLE 7 by outlining climate change objectives, detailing our approaches to combating climate challenges and to help promote initiatives to Businesses achieve greater environmental responsibility. This policy further should support a prepares the Group to adopt new and emerging technologies and precautionary to then incorporate them into our mainstream business lines. approach to Through our environmental policy, we strive not only to reduce the environmental environmental impact of our business activities, but also to deliver challenges environmentally conscious products and services that contribute to N O sustainable development. We are committed to continuously reducing our greenhouse gas emissions through calculating the Group’s carbon footprint internally, and offsetting our emissions through green initiatives externally. N O I T A C I N U M M O C We are advocating for raising environmental awareness and strengthening climate change dialogue internally among EPs and externally with different stakeholders. Haggar group conducts Green House Gases (GHG) inventory for PRINCIPLE 8 its group of companies’ activities with the aim to undertake, based Undertake on the result of this inventory, internal and external reduction initiatives to measures in collaboration with line ministries, international promote greater organizations and civil society organizations, to offset its Green environmental House Gases (GHG) emissions and reduce its carbon print. responsibility Under the Gold Standard Foundation certification plan for voluntary emission reduction, the Haggar Group, in Partnership with Women Development Association Network (WDAN) have officially registered their joint carbon-finance project: Fuel-Efficient Stoves for North Darfur Women as an official Gold Standard registered carbon project. Haggar Group continues to use sustainable, renewable resources PRINCIPLE 9 wherever possible. As well as embedding environmentally friendly Encourage the technologies in the core business operations/processes dealt with development at top-management/strategic level. and diffusion of We are considering environmental responsibility at all steps of the environmentally manufacturing processes and all the links in the supply chain while friendly promoting environmentally responsible business practices. technologies. We are shifting from using HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) in our industry under The Montereal Protocol. We are working with the United Nations Industrial Development UNIDO to reduce the use of these HCFs as transitional substances and instead work towards finding long-term low-GWP solutions. 10 S S E R G O R P Carbon Footprint Calculation N O N O I T A C I N U M M O C The inventory was carried out based on the Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Protocol Corporate Standard and the Environmental Protection Agency(EPA) standard principles and Indicators. To date the project has contributed in offsetting 15,354.2 tonnes CO2 equivalent. Emissions Offset Haggar Group has collaborated with women-led community-based organization in implementing the Fuel Efficient Stoves Initiative to help 5,000 women to find cheaper and more efficient way to cook. Not only to keep them safer from walking for distances and save them time, but to reduce the natural resources depletion in the State of North Darfur. The project replaces three stone fires –open fire cooking methodology with EzyStove® which facilitates 40% in wood savings. The stove also reduces smoke & CO2 emissions that are harmful to the eyes and lungs by 70% as well as promoting other socio-economic benefits. 11 S S E R G O R P Anti-Corruption Haggar group has a very long history of free of corruption N O record. This culture is deeply inherent amongst the family and PRINCIPLE 10 the employed persons over decades and this legacy became Businesses should integral part of way of doing business at all levels of the group work against of companies. N O I T A C I N U M M O C corruption in all its forms, including Haggar group has a zero record on corruption/fraudulent extortion and registered cases ever. bribery. The Anti-Corruption policy was established to act as base for eradicating all sorts of corruption that could occur within the Group. Each business unit manager shall, in accordance with the fundamental principles of his/her position, maintain and implement this policy and work to promote the participation of EPs and workers in its implementation. Each management staff member shall endeavor to establish and promote effective practices aimed at the prevention of corruption, and shall endeavor to periodically evaluate relevant administrative measures with a view to determining their adequacy to prevent and fight corruption. Haggar has recently extended its commitment to conducting business in an ethical, socially conscious manner by signing an agreement with The Centre for International Private Enterprise (CIPE) to conduct a governance, anti-corruption and ethics compliance exercise. was founded in 1983 and is part of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The center works to improve integrity standards, increase transparency, and strengthen compliance programs within businesses to help them grow and address corruption. 12 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) Sustainable Development Goals help our CSI department assess which direction the aspired positive impact should be directed towards as well as guide the core business functions in aligning investments with the international development agenda and the company's future sustainability strategy. SUSTAINABILITY INDEX To measure Sustainability, we developed metrics and indices to quantify our impact beyond the generic concept. We have determined Targets that are applicable to Haggar Group along with specific computation methods for each indicator taking as baseline they year 2019 and an achievement target 2025. By integrating sustainability and social impact measures in our business operations, we pledge our commitment to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. We have recently developed a Sustainability Index that helps measure and monitor a number of SDG targets we do contribute towards while implementing the Group’s Roadmap 2025. Anthony A. Haggar Chief Executive Officer 13 Targets Haggar committed to SDG contribute in achieving till 2025 By 2030, eradicate extreme poverty for all people everywhere, currently measured as people living on less than $1.25 a day By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme weather, drought and flooding Increase investment, including through enhanced international cooperation, in rural infrastructure, agricultural research and extension services, technology development and plant and livestock gene banks in order to enhance agricultural productive capacity in developing countries Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in the corporate Equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all Support and strengthen the participation of local communities in improving water and sanitation management By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix 14 By 2030, expand infrastructure and upgrade technology for supplying modern and sustainable energy services for all in developing countries, in particular least developed countries Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and, by 2030, significantly raise industry’s share of employment and gross domestic product, in line with national circumstances, and double its share in least developed countries By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes Significantly increase access to information and communications technology and strive to provide universal and affordable access to the Internet in least developed countries by 2020 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making at all levels Significantly increase Partnership for Sustainable Development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 15 Thank You ! Prepared By: Tech Performance
