President's Message President's Message We are aiming to contribute to a sustainable society and develop our businesses further. Nowadays, as power saving and lower environmental burdens have become major social issues on a global basis, the role of the GS Yuasa Group's products providing the function of building up energy has become more significant. I believe that the Group has been able to conduct business over the past 100 years because we have listened to voices from around the world, have flexibly dealt with social environmental changes and have continuously created new values. In order to firmly succeed in this corporate mission, the Group signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) which matches the Group's philosophy and sense of values, in April 2018. The Group operating businesses globally intends to fulfill its social responsibilities as well as to pursue sustainable growth by aggressively promoting the Four Areas/Ten Principles that the UNGC asks companies to embrace, support and implement. As the first step towards that, the Group clarified initiatives with high priority as the CSR major theme (materiality) in Fiscal Year 2017 by considering the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SDGs indicate issues that must be solved by humanity as a whole as a common subject for both developing countries and advanced nations. The GS Yuasa Group regards the solution of these issues as a business opportunity and intends to grow sustainably by contributing to society. There are a wide variety of areas in which we can contribute: for example, the spread of the use of environmentally conscious vehicles with lower carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, expansion of the use of renewable energy generation such as solar power and wind power, and strengthening social infrastructures by preparing backup industrial batteries/power-supply equipment for emergency situations such as disasters. We will continue to create various innovations through our business activities and contribute to the solution of global social issues as well as global environmental conservation, aiming at sustainable growth. By doing so, the Group will continue to grow as a company that is indispensable for society and people around the world for the next 100 years, making efforts to meet the expectations of our stakeholders Osamu Murao President GS Yuasa Corporation ■The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact ＜Human Rights＞ Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ＜Labour＞ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ＜Environment＞ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ＜Anti-Corruption＞ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 / 55 CSR Policy and Code of Conduct CSR Policy and Code of Conduct The GS YUASA CSR Policy and Code of Conduct, formulated in May 2017 as the President's Policy, have become the foundation of the Group's CSR activities. In the GS Yuasa Group, all employees understand that CSR activities are business activities, and we encourage everyone to take part based on our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct in order to ensure the sustainable development of society and business. CSR Policy Besides legal compliance, we respect international norms, guidelines, and initiatives related to social responsibility, work on sustainable development of our business through developing energy storage technologies, and contribute to people, society, and global environment. 1. Developing fair, transparent, and sound business, and anticorruption GS YUASA conducts a transparent business policy which aims to earn the trust of customers, business partners, shareholders, and of local communities as a top priority. And to adhere to laws and regulations of each country and region. Furthermore, we address to prevent any kind of corruption, will not tolerate any illegal political contribution, bribery of public officials, and will not have relationships with personnel or organizations of organized crime. 2. Respect for human rights GS YUASA will respect all human rights and labor rights, and will not tolerate any forced labor or child labor. Diversity will be respected, without any discrimination being tolerated. 3. Conservation and improvement of adequate working environment GS YUASA will provide safe and comfortable working environments for employees. Proper management will be provided in order to promote mid to long-term development of human resources. 4. Fulfillment of our responsibilities to provide safe and secure products and services GS YUASA ensures the safety and quality of products/services to the end of their lifecycle throughout manufacturing. Furthermore, GS YUASA honest provides clear safety information for all products/services. 5. Global environmental conservation GS YUASA addresses to prevent pollution, and to mitigate climate change, and to establish a sound material-cycle society through using sustainable resources. 6. Building better relationships with local communities GS YUASA will contribute to sound and sustainable development of local communities through building better relationships with their local communities. 7. Ensuring social responsibility within our supply chain GS YUASA will promote actions to ensure social responsibility within our supply chain. Date: May 1, 2017 GS Yuasa Corporation President Osamu Murao CSR Code of conduct 1. Developing fair, transparent, and sound business, and anti-corruption 1-1. Compliance ① We respect international and regional norms, guidelines, and initiatives, and also strictly comply with the laws and regulations in each country and region in which we operate. ② As a member of the international community, we will comply with the export control laws and regulations of each country in order to maintain international peace and security, and we will not export in a manner to spread materials which could lead to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 1-2. Elimination of mixing up official business with personal affairs We will never conduct to bring damage to the company, through misappropriation of corporate assets and corporate expenses only for one's personal ends or else with misfeasance allowing one's personal advantage. 1-3. Fair, Transparent and free competition and trade 2 / 55 ① We will not engage horizontal agreements (cartel) through meeting and participation to trade association's activities, i.e. price and quantity fixing as well as exclusivity in distribution of products and services. Upon receipt of such proposal, we decline clearly without leaving no doubt to be misunderstood. To this extent, we will never act in collusion with other contractors, nor to fix the winning bidder and/or contract price. ② We never act in abuse of dominant position, to take advantage of subcontractors, i.e., withholding the amount of subcontract payments without reasons attributable to the subcontractor or failing to make payment after the lapse of the due date of payment, or obtaining undue or improper advantage. Also, upon issuing our order to subcontractors, we will retain the written offer on paper or electronic record. ③ We will not obtain or use industrial information or data of other companies or firms in an unauthorized way. ④ We will not leave product labelling or service information inexact or unclear in a manner to cause customers misunderstanding. 1-4. Management of confidential information ① We observe the protection of confidential information and its appropriate use; then, at the event of disclosure to the third parties, we will disclose only after concluding confidentiality agreement. ② We will observe the protection and appropriate use of confidential information received from our business partners and co-researchers or codevelopers; We will not disclose to the third parties without the prior consent of the disclosing party. ③ Before assembling personal information, we will at first notify the purpose of use, and then collect in an appropriate way. The purpose of using personal information is to be limited and specified. ④ We will conserve personal information data in safety and control its use, then monitor in a suitable way the employees and subcontractors using/handling these data. ⑤ We always respect the individual privacy, so need to pay the most attention in handling their confidential information, learned from one's business relations or in the course of business, and at last, not to inform or leak to anyone without authority. ⑥ We will not commit so-called insider trading , act of making max profit in stock and security exchanges transaction thanks to privileged acknowledgement of internal information, within our group and received from business partners. 1-5. Respect for intellectual property ① We will assess sufficiently third parties' patents, industrial designs, trademarks and other commercial rights, prior to development, production, commercialization and delivery of, or providing our products and services. ② We will not use intellectual property of a third party without authorization of patent holder, or unless we have a justifiable reason. ③ We will not unlawfully duplicate any software and other copyrighted works, i.e., Literature and images, Journalistic articles, Paintings, Music. 1-6. Separation from organized crime ① We will not provide any form of benefit in excess of the normal shareholder's right to any person or company associated with organized crime. ② We will cut off business or any other relationships with individuals and organizations having an indication of support for organized crime. 1-7. Transparency of information disclosure We will disclose, within a specific time limit and with appropriate method, any information required by laws and regulations of each country and region in which we operate, as well as specific information to maintain good communication with other stakeholders and local communities. 1-8. Legal compliance for political funds control We will not contribute for political funds, requesting some business advantage in return, such as acquisition or maintenance of trading, or access to nondisclosure information. Also, we will comply with the conditions stipulated by the laws and regulations of each country and region in which we operate before making political contributions. 1-9. Prohibition to offer entertainment or gifts to public employee We will not offer money, entertainment, gifts, or other economic benefits, nor provide advantages to public employees or equivalent persons perceived as a conflict of interest. 1-10. Sound relationship with business partners We will endeavor to maintain sound business relationships with our business partners; therefore we will not receive money, gift or entertainment offered from business partners exceeding commonly accepted limits. 2. Respect for human rights 2-1. Prohibition of discrimination and respect for diversity We will respect and honor diversity and will not discriminate anyone for any reason, including race, gender, sexual identity, nationality, national origin, disability, and religious or political opinions. 2-2. Respect for individual personality We will not condone the removal of human rights of any individual person, including sexual harassment and power harassment, nor the reduction of personal dignity of others. 2-3. Respect for labor rights We will respect labor rights including freedom of association and collective bargaining rights, in accordance with the laws of each country and region in which we operate. 2-4. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor We will neither force labor, nor employ children under the legal working age. Furthermore, we will not tolerate forced labor or child labor in any way. 2-5. Avoidance of complicity in human rights abuse Directly or indirectly, we will not be complicit in human rights abuse. 3. Conservation and improvement of adequate working environment 3-1. Conservation and improvement of safety and health in working environments 3 / 55 We will maintain and improve working environments from the perspective of health and safety in accordance with laws and regulations of each country or region in which we operate. 3-2. Ensuring appropriate working hours, securing minimum wages and prohibiting unreasonable wage reduction ① We will provide management in order to maintain appropriate working hours and will make every effort to take measures to prevent mental and physical health disorders caused by overwork. ② We will respect minimum wages in accordance with laws and regulations of each country or region in which we operate and will not conduct unreasonable wage reduction. 3-3. Mid to long-term human resources development and appropriate ability assessment We will make every effort to proactively support career development in accordance with each employee's abilities and aptitudes. Performance of each employee will be assessed adequately. 3-4. Respect for individual work-life balance We will make every effort to respect diverse working styles, so as to ensure work-life balance and to maintain physical and mental health of employees. 3-5. Offer of equal employment and working opportunities We will offer equal opportunities in recruitment and promotion, as well as forbit any arbitrary or discriminatory treatments. 4. Fulfillment of responsibilities to provide safe and secure products and services. 4-1. Focus on safety and quality We will address to prioritize safety and quality throughout our business. For this purpose, we will strive to provide safe products and services to maintain and improve satisfied quality for customers, through all our business activities which are research & development, design, procurement, production, sales and after-sales service. 4-2. Making Safety Information accessible We clarify Safety Information on our products and services. Safety Information includes Instruction manuals supplied with products, Labelling of products, Web portal communication, etc. We will make Safety Information accessible for customers as well as for any other stakeholders involved in commercialization of our products and services. 4-3. Solutions in case of Product accidents We address to prevent spin-off effects on the extent of damages of accidents as well as swiftly react in case a serious accident occurs on our product or service. And also, we investigate and collate the relative facts, research of causalities, make a necessary report on these inside and outside our company group, and then we disclose information so as to take preventive steps. 5. Global environmental conservation 5-1. Promoting environmental protection ① We will evaluate environmental impact resulting from our business activities, products and services; strive for environmental protection (including prevention of pollution) through energy saving, greenhouse gas reduction, efficient use of raw materials and water as well as waste reduction and recycling; and aim to increase our environmental performance through continuous improvement of these aspects. ② We will address to reduce the environmental burden resulting from the activities conducted at each stage of the life cycle of products and services, from acquisition of raw materials, development and design/conception, production, transportation, use, until end-of-life treatment and final disposal ③ We will satisfy environmental needs corresponding to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, if necessary, we address to develop our environmental risk management with operational control by voluntary management standards and for preventing accidents likely to lead to environmental pollution. 5-2. Providing environmental considerations products We will contribute to the environmentally conscious society through the provision of products and services corresponding to the environmental requirements. 6. Building better relationships with local communities 6-1. Contribution to sustainable development of communities We recognize that we are member of the community and we aim to work together in cooperation with the local community which is our foundation. We will respect local culture and customs. 6-2. Adoption of local human resources We will actively adopt local human resources in the business activities of our overseas affiliates and contribute to the development of local communities through our business activities. 7. Ensuring social responsibilities within our supply chain 7-1. CSR procurement promotion We will share CSR procurement guideline among our suppliers, then address to promote CSR procurement upon interactive cooperation, aiming to ensure our social responsibilities across overall supply chain. Date: May 1, 2017 GS Yuasa Corporation President Osamu Murao 4 / 55 CSR Promotion Framework Our CSR management, in which we seek to contribute to a sustainable society and ensure long-term commerce, forms an integral part of our aim to realize our corporate philosophy. GS Yuasa Group's CSR Innovation and Growth , our corporate philosophy, is the basis of the GS Yuasa Group's CSR. By reforming our business processes and developing new technologies without being bound by convention, we aim to generate innovation and, as a result, drive sustainable growth by expanding earnings and contributing to people, society, and the global environment. This is the basis of our CSR. Furthermore, by responding swiftly through our business to global social issues and the needs and expectations of interested parties, we aim to become a company in which society places long-term trust and hopes for us to remain a presence into the future. CSR Promotion Framework Our Group has established an organizational framework to promote CSR through our business and to make continuous improvements. In order to supervise the CSR activities of the entire Group, including related companies both in Japan and overseas, we have designated the company President as the chief commanding officer for the promotion of CSR and set up the post of officer in charge of CSR, who is appointed by and works directly under the president. In addition, the CSR Committee, which is chaired by the officer in charge of CSR and comprises persons responsible for CSR in business divisions, Group companies, etc. as members, discusses, plans, and promotes CSR activities throughout the Group as a whole. ■CSR Promotion Framework See details of GS Yuasa's philosophy and Management vision Mediumto Long-Term CSR Promotion Initiatives As shown in the following table, our Group formulates mediumto long-term CSR promotion plans with the aim of conducting CSR activities through our business. For fiscal 2019, we have set the target of incorporating important CSR themes that take account of global social issues and the needs and expectations of interested parties into our business strategy. Phase Period Target First stage FY 2016-17 Create processes to deal with the CSR challenges in relation to our business strategy (Fourth Mid-Term Management Plan) Second stage FY 2018 Analyze and evaluate our performance using these processes and then make improvements Third stage FY 2019 Establish business processes that incorporate CSR challenges into our business strategy (Fifth Mid-Term Management Plan) 5 / 55 Materiality Materiality (Key CSR Challenges) To reflect CSR challenges in our business strategy, the GS Yuasa Group analyzes and assesses the impact on business and the impact of our business on society and then clarifies the Group's materiality for items that need to be addressed. Regarding the specified materiality, as necessary we have set targets relating to our business strategy and, to achieve those targets, have formulated concrete activity plans and key performance indicators (KPIs) to gauge progress in achieving the goals. Materiality Specification Process Step 1: Identify risk and opportunity in CSR For key challenges in the Mid-Term Management Plan, we identify risk in CSR (that hinders the resolution of these challenges) and opportunity in CSR (that promotes the resolution of the challenges). When identifying these risks and opportunities, our actions are based on international guidelines related to CSR. Step 2: Specify significant risk and opportunity in CSR We evaluate and assign a score to the scale of the CSR risk and opportunity identified in Step 1 in consideration of the impact on business (possibility of occurrence x scale of impact on business), which enables us to specify risks and opportunities as key business challenges. Next, we evaluate the impact of our Group's business activities on society relative to these core business risks and opportunities based on the number of related CSR themes and social importance. We then specify risks and opportunities that will be key CSR domains. ■Matrix of key CSR domains Step 3: Specify materiality We specify materiality in consideration of the response method to the risks and opportunities. Materiality and Response Plan Materiality specified by the GS Yuasa Group and its response plan are shown in the table below. With respect to materiality shown in this table, we will implement management by objectives based on the response plan and make improvements. This table also shows results of specifications after confirming the relevance between the materiality specified by the Group and SDGs* which is regarded as the universal language, for our stakeholders' understanding. *SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals): Goals to construct a sustainable society, which were adopted by the United Nations, clearly indicating global social issues that should be solved. 6 / 55 ■Table of Materiality/Response Plan Scope of KPI Materiality Activity outline FY 2018 target SDGs application* (key performance indicator) Developing fair, transparent, and sound business, and anticorruption Annual frequency of issue of legal 16 times information Domestic Ratio of implementation of compliance training in training by rank for 100% of eligible Thoroughly employees promoted to managerial persons fulfilling our and supervisory positions Provision of legal information and CSR and promotion of compliance training Understanding of ensuring Overseas deployment of domestic compliance local training compliance training system systems Overseas Understanding of Building of system to share the legal method of gathering information of each country legal information at overseas sites Strengthening of search to prevent Thorough avoidance of patent infringement (thorough infringements from third-party Global Complete operation Respect and implementation of surveys at the intellectual property rights Protection for development stage) intellectual Promotion of the enforcement property Monitoring and enforcement of local against infringement products Overseas intellectual property infringement Complete operation (expansion of access channels to (imitation products) overseas organizations, etc.) Cyberattack response ratio at time of Global 100% detecting high security alerts Promotion of security measures Information leakage confirmation and Strict and strengthening of illegal Domestic response ratio at time of large data 100% management of /inappropriate access monitoring output confidential Achievement of plan to deploy illegal information Overseas /inappropriate access monitoring 100% system in overseas Group companies Promotion of information security Ratio of employees passing information Domestic 100% training security proficiency test Respect for human rights Achievement of educational plans Domestic relating to the improvement of self100% analysis skills Respect for Promotion of human resource individuality development programs Understanding of the state of Understanding of Overseas implementation of education relating to performance the improvement of self-analysis skills Conservation and improvement of adequate working environment Achievement of educational plans Domestic relating to the improvement of self100% Human analysis skills Promotion of human resource resources development programs Understanding of the state of development Understanding of Overseas implementation of education relating to performance the improvement of self-analysis skills (1) Response ratio to prevent the recurrence of long working hours (1) 100% (2) Annual frequency of laborPromotion of the thorough (2) 12 times Domestic management consultations relating management of employees' (3) 10 or more to working hours working hours and prevention of days/person (3) Number of days of annual paid Improvement the recurrence of long working leave acquired of safety and hours health in Understanding of the state of response Understanding of Overseas working to long working hours, etc. performance environments (1) Number of accidents requiring days off work (1) None Promotion of labor safety and (2) Employees' blood lead Domestic (2) 35 ㎍/㎗ or less health risk management concentration (3) None (3) Number of Class 3 working environments 7 / 55 Scope of KPI Materiality Activity outline FY 2018 target SDGs application* (key performance indicator) (1) Understanding of state of accidents requiring days off work (2) Understanding of state of Understanding of employees' blood lead performance Setting Overseas concentration and setting of of administrative administrative standards standards (3) Understanding of state of lead handling control concentration Fulfillment of our responsibilities to provide safe and secure products and services Promotion of quality improvement and strengthening of quality Global Achievement of quality targets 100% communication (utilization of quality management system) Provision of Strengthening of maintenance high-quality Achievement of sales targets of service setup (site expansion, Domestic 100% products maintenance companies personnel training, etc.) Promotion of product safety Global Number of serious product accidents None education Global environmental conservation Reduce by 77% or Domestic Volume of wastewater more (compared Promotion of effective use of water with FY 2003) resources Understanding of state of use of water Understanding of Overseas recycling performance Reduce by 5% or Domestic CO2 emission intensity more (compared Contribution to realization of lowwith FY 2013) carbon society Understanding of state of management Understanding of Overseas of Co2emission reduction targets performance Promoting environmental Number of cases exceeding voluntary protection Domestic administrative standards (water and air None quality) Promotion of measures to prevent Understanding of state of operation of Understanding of pollution (thorough environmental voluntary administrative standards performance risk management) (water and air quality) Overseas Implementation of underground Understanding of seepage risk surveys performance (1) Understanding of state of used Consideration of overseas product recovery in target countries Understanding of deployment of voluntary used Overseas (2) Understanding of used product performance product retrieval system recovery systems at target sites Market expansion for our products contained in environmentally Global Achievement of sales targets 100% Developing and conscious products (for use in lowpopularizing emission vehicles, etc.) environmentally considered Development of products products Achievement of long-life targets for Li enhancing environmental Domestic 100% batteries performance Ensuring social responsibility within our supply chain Continued implementation of Conflict mineral survey implementation Global 100% conflict mineral surveys ratio CSR procurement promotion Retrieval ratio of supplier CSR risk Management of supplier CSR risks Global 100% questionnaires *The scope of application may not cover all Group companies. 8 / 55 Developing Fair, Transparent, and Sound Business, and Anti-Corruption We are focused on strengthening our corporate governance to enhance our sustainable growth and improve our mediumand long-term corporate value. Corporate Governance Approach and Governance System To drive sustainable growth and enhance corporate value over the medium and long terms, the GS Yuasa Group is committed to establishing an organization and systems that enable fast, efficient responses to a changing business environment. At the same time, our basic policy on corporate governance is to make every effort to thoroughly implement and strengthen compliance and improve the soundness and transparency of management. A new governance structure began in fiscal 2017 based on this philosophy. GS Yuasa Corporation, the holding company, is responsible for formulating management strategies for all of the Group's businesses, as well as management for the entire Group and oversight of the Group's business execution. GS Yuasa International Ltd., the Group's core operating company, is the key decision making body for business execution, consolidating and strengthening business execution and making swift business-related decisions. The Board of Directors makes quick, effective decisions by prioritizing strategic decision making and supervisory functions for management policy. In addition, increasing the number of independent outside directors helps reinforce monitoring. ■Governance Structure Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors The effectiveness of the Board of Directors has been evaluated once a year since fiscal 2016. All directors and corporate auditors fill out a questionnaire on the structure, management, agenda and duties of the board. As a result of analysis and evaluation of the content, it has been deemed that the Board of Directors is operating effectively. In fiscal 2017, however, opinions were also stated to the effect that the follow-up of important agenda items was inadequate and discussion of mediumand long-term management plans needed deepening. Therefore, we have resolved to issue regular reports on matters designated as requiring progress reports, review the compilation process for mediumand long-term management plans, issue regular progress reports after compilation, and implement appropriate analysis and response. Going forward, we will continue to assess the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and strive to make further improvements. Reasons for Appointing Internal Directors To provide control over the Group as the holding company, GS Yuasa Corporation applies a balanced approach to appointing directors who possess knowledge and experience covering the business and functions of the entire Group and the necessary aptitude and competence to ensure speedy decision making. At present there are no female directors, but GS Yuasa positively recruits female graduates and promotes measures to encourage women to be active at work, including next-generation training, and the ratio of women in managerial positions is gradually increasing. Policy on the Independence of Outside Directors Candidates selected as outside directors must meet the requirements for independence set out in the Companies Act and possess the experience and insight to objectively and fairly judge the legality and appropriateness of the execution of the company's duties from the shareholders' perspective without being limited by being in charge of business implementation. Also, we believe in the importance of employing people who are outwardly independent and use the Tokyo Stock Exchange's independence standards as their reference. 9 / 55 Remuneration of Directors Remuneration paid to directors and auditors in fiscal 2017 is shown below. ■Total Amount of Remuneration, Etc. by Category Total amount of remuneration, etc. Category Number of applicable persons (Million of yen) Directors 209 11 (excluding outside directors) Auditors 11 2 (excluding outside auditors) Outside directors/auditors 51 6 Record of Attendance by Outside Directors at Board of Directors and Auditor Meetings The record of attendance by outside directors at meetings of the Board of Directors and auditors in fiscal 2017 is shown below. ■Record of Attendance by Outside Directors at Board of Director and Auditor Meetings Board of Directors Auditor Meeting Names No. of attendances /No. of meetings No. of attendances /No. of meetings Hirofumi Onishi, Outside Director 18 / 18 Ikuo Otani, Outside Director 13 / 13 Shinji Ochiai, Outside Full-time Auditor 18 / 18 15 / 15 Katsuya Ohara, Outside Full-time Auditor 18 / 18 15 / 15 Tsukasa Fujii, Outside Part-time Auditor 13 / 13 10 / 10 Internal Control System To strengthen the management foundation, the GS Yuasa Group has improved the system and relevant rules to ensure the maintenance of ethical business practices based on the Companies Act. This system includes mechanisms to ensure effective auditing, information management, and risk management throughout the Group. To comply with the internal control reporting system required under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, we are maintaining an internal control system and financial reporting mechanisms to meet all requirements. Our international subsidiaries and other consolidated Group companies evaluate the status of the improvement and implementation of internal controls. Following external audits, reports on these internal controls are publicly disclosed. Risk Management Basic Approach The GS Yuasa Group believes that risk management is essential for the lasting growth of the company. As our basic approach, the Group thinks that the following two points are important so that crises stemming from the escalation of risks do not exert a serious impact on the Group or on society in general. First, by predicting and understanding risks and adopting appropriate preliminary measures, the escalation of risks (outbreak of crises) can be prevented. Second, effective measures can be taken beforehand so that even if a crisis does occur, the loss is kept to a minimum. Based on this approach, to properly promote risk management, our Group has formulated risk management rules that stipulate the responsibilities of employees and our risk management promotion setup. Risk Management Based on Risk Management Sheets In accordance with the risk management rules, each department assesses risk every month using a risk management sheet. On this form, the department first fills in the measures it is taking as a basic response to mitigate the risks it has identified and to avoid any critical events as well as the policies to minimize loss if a critical event does occur. Each department confirms the status of implementation of these measures and related polices each month. The department also fills in the details of any critical events that occurred, as well as a summary of the response and the investigation into the cause and measures to prevent a reoccurrence. These preventive measures are fed back into the basic response and the status of implementation is checked each month to provide a framework that ensures that similar events do not happen again. The risk management sheets produced by the departments are compiled at the divisional level with the director in charge of the division verifying and assessing the status of response through the Risk Management committee. The deliberations by the committees are summarized and then fed back to each department as part of a mechanism to improve the effectiveness of risk management. 10 / 55 ■Risk Management Sheet Risk Management under the Group Risk Management Committee The Group Risk Management Committee, headed by the president and consisting of the chairs of departmental Risk Management Committees, holds semiannual meetings to promote groupwide risk management and to encourage the sharing of key information related to risk management. The Risk Management Committee confirms that the appropriate risk management measures have been implemented and the committee chairs report on progress in this area. We also actively exchange opinions and share information on the different styles of risk management. ■Risk Management Structure System for Dealing with Crises To prepare for the possibility that a risk materializes, we have established a system that includes an emergency contact network to swiftly implement crisis management. If a serious crisis occurs, members of the Group Risk Management Committee will be appointed to organize a crisis management headquarters, under the president, to minimize corporate losses. The system we have set up enables us to implement an effective response swiftly and with appropriate care. Compliance with Laws, etc. Basic Philosophy on Promoting Compliance By training our personnel according to our philosophy of Innovation and Growth while manifesting our commitment to society and preserving the global environment, we are ensuring that all employees are guided in their behavior focusing on compliance with laws, company regulations and ethical standards. Multifaceted activities with innovative methods are being used to promote compliance and ensure that the different themes cover all levels of employees. When promoting compliance, it is also essential to establish rules and a structure to follow, as well as a strong sense of commitment. In this spirit, we adopted Compliance Promotion Regulations in line with the Compliance Declaration made by the president. The GS Yuasa Corporate Ethical Standards cover the ten items that all employees must support and the corporate ethical behavior guidelines that outline responses to specific situations. Other activities are aimed at enhancing awareness by getting every employee to think about what he or she should do for compliance. Compliance Manual We distribute a compliance manual to all employees that includes company regulations related to compliance. The ten-item Code of Conduct includes commentary in a Q&A format, innovative ways to promote understanding with content based on actual practices, an introduction to the GS Yuasa Group corporate ethics hotline, the Group's internal whistleblower system and an emergency contact system for use in a crisis. Workplace Meetings on Compliance Workplace meetings on compliance have been conducted for six consecutive years since 2012. The purpose of these meetings is to improve employee awareness of compliance. The meetings, including active exchanges of opinion, were held at 441 workplaces in fiscal 2017 with 96% of the sites commenting that the activities were effective. Many topics were covered, including respect for human rights, prevention of inappropriate conduct, management of working hours, harassment, occupational health and safety, waste management, product safety, handling of confidential information and subcontracting laws. The meetings use educational materials made by the division in charge on each topic and including content related to the circumstances of the Group. We intend to continue running these meetings and upgrading the content to ensure that it is both upto-date and educational. 11 / 55 GS Yuasa Group Corporate Ethics Hotline We established GS Yuasa Group corporate ethics hotline regulations and set up a corporate ethics hotline. Accessible both internally and externally, the hotline enables employees, temporary workers, business partners and others to provide information anonymously if they become aware of behavior by a Group employee that violates the law or company regulations or is unethical or otherwise inappropriate or any matter that is at risk of becoming a violation. In fiscal 2017, six reports were made including one case of harassment. We conduct inquiries and take appropriate action, on these matters, while remaining committed to protecting whistleblowers. Number of reports to the GS Yuasa Group corporate ethics hotline 2013 5 2014 3 2015 8 2016 5 2017 6 Elimination of Antisocial Elements In our Corporate Ethical Standards, our Group clearly states its policy of not having any relations whatsoever with antisocial elements and resolutely confronting any unreasonable demands, etc. And in our Corporate Ethical Behavior Guidelines, we specifically stipulate prohibition of the provision of benefits, elimination of antisocial elements, and a firm response. Our employees are made fully aware of these standards and guidelines. Information Security Efforts to Ensure Information Security Our Group places importance on global efforts to ensure information security. Through the regular monitoring of communications by an outside security service, the introduction of an illegal connection detection system and other measures, we endeavor to prevent illegal access to our inhouse network and forestall damage. To prevent the outflow of confidential information, we conduct the encryption of personal computer data taken outside the company and promote awareness-raising activities so that employees follow our procedures for the management of information system use, including the distribution of an information security handbook and the implementation of e-learning. Furthermore, based on Japanese security standards, we conduct surveys of security measures in overseas Group companies and give guidance to address vulnerabilities. Intellectual Property Efforts to Ensure the Protection of Intellectual Property We see intellectual property, the result of technological development, as one of our important assets. Our basic policy is to protect our outstanding technology through aggressive patent applications and to maintain the trust of our customers by eliminating imitation products. Every year we file about 300 patent applications; in fiscal 2017 the number was 343. 12 / 55 Respect for Human Rights The GS Yuasa Group believes that the rights of all people must be respected in order to realize our philosophy of contributing to people, society and the global environment. Prohibition of Discrimination and Respect for Diversity Providing Fair Selection and Opportunity The GS Yuasa Group promotes fair employee selection, evaluation and training based on ability and performance. We prohibit discrimination in recruitment, personnel assessment and other employee circumstances, and we respect diversity irrespective of race, gender, sexuality, nationality, place of birth, disability, religion or political opinion. At the same time, we conduct the necessary checks to make sure we don't hire people under the legal working age or those without qualifications. Respect for Labor Rights Creating a Pleasant Workplace through Labor and Management Working as One The GS Yuasa Group companies in Japan have adopted a union shop system and as a general rule all regular employees, aside from management, are members of the labor union. Furthermore, we are pursuing business based on mutual understanding achieved through labor union recommendations and active discussion on management policies of the Group companies in Japan, including working conditions and benefit programs for employees. Through this relationship between labor and management, we are securing the objectivity and transparency of company management, while increasing the effectiveness of various initiatives. ■Labor-Management Consultative Structure(Domestic Group Companies) Name of Labor-management Meeting Content consultative body frequency Management council 4 times/year Company's management policies, business conditions and status of business execution, etc. Divisional committee Monthly Issues for the respective R&D and business divisions Factory committee Monthly Issues in production divisions Health and safety committee (statutory) Monthly Initiatives to prevent occupational accidents Expert committee on work hours Monthly Checking the status of work hours and making improvements Expert committee on future generations Twice/year Child-rearing and nursing care support Interaction between Company and Labor Union (GS Yuasa Labor Union's 10th Anniversary Festival and Summer Festival) A festival was held at the Kyoto International Exhibition Hall (Miyako Messe) on April 15, 2017 to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the labor union's founding. More than 800 people attended, including family members, providing colleagues an excellent opportunity to interact. A summer festival is also held at the Tokyo Branch every August, one of the events run by a mutual aid society that promotes friendships among employees. Initiatives at Overseas Group Companies Group companies in China, Southeast Asia and other areas overseas are deepening interactions between labor and management by holding company trips and sports festivals. Tianjin GS Battery Co., Ltd. and GS Battery Taiwan Co., Ltd. have received a commendation from Tianjin City and the Department of Labor in Taiwan, respectively, for being a model company for good labor-management relations. 13 / 55 Prohibition of Forced Labor and Child Labor Basic Rules on Forced Labor and Child Labor The GS Yuasa Group is establishing the following basic rules on forced labor and child labor at overseas Group companies, in addition to Japan. We take immediate corrective action upon discovering forced labor or child labor by a business partner. Prohibition of Forced Labor and Child Labor We will neither force labor, nor employ children under the legal working age. Furthermore, we will not tolerate forced labor or child labor in any way. Avoidance of complicity in human rights abuse Directly or indirectly, we will not be complicit in human rights abuse. Response to the UK's Modern Slavery Act The GS Yuasa Group complies with the laws and regulations of every country and region, taking all necessary steps to meet the provisions of the UK's Modern Slavery Act enacted in October 2015 as one of the activities involved in securing the transparency of business. GS Yuasa Battery Europe Limited (GYEUR), our subsidiary in the United Kingdom, has released a statement on its website regarding modern slavery. This company will continue to research the modern slavery risks regarding slave labor and human trafficking and will update this statement based on the results regularly. Click here for GYEUR's statement on modern slavery. 14 / 55 Conservation and Improvement of Adequate Working Environment The GS Yuasa Group respects diversity and works to maintain and improve a pleasant work environment. We are also committed to developing human resources with an emphasis on workplace conditions. Provision of Comfortable Working Environment Basic policy The GS Yuasa Group believes it is important to provide an adequate working environment in which everyone can display their abilities fully and continues to work regardless of gender and age, to employees. Therefore, GS Yuasa is promoting initiatives aimed at enhancing employees' will to work, stabilization of the job retention rate and improvement in productivity, by conducting adequate employment management in order to heighten employees' awareness of a comfortable working environment and job satisfaction. ■Number and ratio of new employees (FY2017, domestic companies) Number of new employees Breakdown of new employees (person) Ratio (%) Age group (person) New graduates Mid-career employees Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 10's 21 3 11.9 1.7 21 3 0 0 20's 85 31 48.3 17.6 69 29 16 2 30's 30 5 17.0 2.8 0 0 30 5 40's 1 0 0.6 0.0 0 0 1 0 Total 137 39 77.8 22.2 90 32 47 7 ■Number of resignees and job turnover (FY2017, domestic companies) Number of resignees Job turnover Age group (person) (%) Male Female Male Female 20's 7 1 1.58 1.00 30's 21 5 3.71 5.95 40's 4 1 0.51 0.91 50's 1 0 0.15 0.00 60's 1 0 0.73 0.00 Total 34 7 1.29 1.82 Conservation and Improvement of Safety and Health in Working Environments Reducing the Risk of Accidents through risk assessments The GS Yuasa Group makes health and safety-related assessments based on an organizational framework led by health and safety committees in every business division and company, under a health and safety policy. With respect to health and safety measures, we identify the root causes of potential danger through risk assessments and conduct measures to reduce risks ahead of time. In addition we appoint safety trainers who are vital for conducting safety-related programs in the workplaces, including contract employees. We are working to entrench and improve safety through education on safety procedures such as danger prediction and risk assessment. For work environment management and health management, we are making efforts to improve the working environment based on regular monitoring and measurement results by grasping the actual condition of the workplace environment through assessments and by monitoring the impact of harmful substances on workers through special health diagnoses. Health and safety policy Policy We will create a corporate culture that ensures worker's safety and health. Action Agenda 1. We will fulfill legal requirements, invest resources and stipulate procedures for all of our operations in order to ensure a healthy and safe working environment. 15 / 55 2. Managers/supervisors will grasp the root causes of dangers associated with safety and health and take measures systematically to lower their risks. 3. Managers/supervisors will not overlook unsafe behavior of employees and will provide guidance to correct them. 4. Employees will follow predetermined rules related to safety and health in order to protect their own selves. 5. Employees will make a report to their superiors requesting for improvement of facilities or procedures when he or she finds the root cause of danger. FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Missed work frequency rate*1 0.00 0.37 0.55 0.85 0.45 Average frequency rate in manufacturing industry 1.05 1.00 1.06 1.15 1.02 Rate of intensity*2 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.01 Average rate of intensity in manufacturing industry 0.10 0.09 0.06 0.07 0.08 *1 Missed work frequency rate is the number of people missing work per 1,000,000 work hours, calculated as: Missed work frequency rate = (Number of people missing work / Total hours worked) x 1,000,000 *2 Rate of intensity is the number of lost days due to accidents per 1,000 work hours, calculated as: Rate of intensity = (Days missed / Total hours worked) x (300/365) x 1,000 Ensuring Appropriate Working Hours Optimizing Work Hours Aiming to be a workplace that protects the health of employees and enables them to work with peace of mind, the GS Yuasa Group is striving to ensure the most appropriate work hours through cooperation between labor and management. GS Yuasa International Ltd. has introduced and managed systems to accurately understand and manage work hours (attendance management system and access control system). Moreover, an expert committee combining labor and management held monthly checks the condition of employees working long hours and other related matters, making efforts to manage appropriate working hours. We are taking steps to reduce labor hours for employees who had worked long hours by providing consultation with an industrial physician and through an advisory system (see Work Style Reform below) for supervisors. In addition, we provide compliance-related education with the themes of promoting understanding of work hour rules and appropriately managing work hours, to employees. For GS Yuasa Group companies in Japan, we have conducted a survey on the current status of the management of work hours from May 2018 and will give feedback on the results to each domestic company. ■Average Number of Fixed Hours * Notes: Employees do not include personnel on leave or those transferred to workplaces outside Japan. * Number of annual prescribed workdays = prescribed work hours minus hours taken for leave and hours absent due to tardiness, leaving work early, etc. * Period: January to December Work Style Reform At GS Yuasa Group, labor and management are working as one to reduce long work hours and encourage employees to take annual paid leave with the aims of improving work efficiency and enhancing creativity at work by making sure employees stay physically and mentally healthy. Examples of initiatives to provide variation in work style  Setting one no overtime day a week  Making it compulsory to take at least 10 days of leave a year  Prohibiting two consecutive days of work on prescribed holidays  Prohibiting overtime late at night (10 p.m. to 5 a.m.)  Introducing a system to monitor employees working in excess of the standard hours, and providing advice to supervisors on how to deal with overtime issues 16 / 55 ■Percentage of Annual Paid Leave Taken * Notes: Employees do not include personnel on leave or those transferred to workplaces outside Japan. The years shown in this chart refer to September in the specified year to August of the following year, based on a calculation method set by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. The GS Yuasa Group Designated as a Company with Excellent Health Management GS Yuasa International Ltd. and three Group companies were each designated as a Company with Excellent Health Management 2018 White 500 in a program run by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Under this system, corporations that implement particularly excellent health management in terms of initiatives to deal with health issues in local communities and health promotion suggested by Nippon Kenko Kaigi are publicly honored. GS Yuasa was recognized for (1) improving the health awareness of employees, (2) enhancing the health management system, and (3) enhancing initiatives to promote health and conducting activities relating to diversity. Aiming to create a working environment in which employees can enjoy good health and work with vigor, we will continue to promote health management. Mid to Long-term Human Resources Development and Appropriate Ability Assessment Fostering Autonomous Acting Talent At the GS Yuasa Group, front-line workplaces are the engine that generates corporate value, and the lead players in those workplaces are our employees. We believe the best training is on-the-job training, so with a strong focus on management by objective we implement training to nurture autonomous acting talent. In off-the-job settings, employees take part in communications training and voluntary training for career development and the improvement of management skills. With respect to career development, we urge all employees to conduct a review of their career every year so that they will have a goal and a desirable image in their work in a responsible way ■Basics of Human Resource Development ■Training System ■Average annual training hours per employee (GS Yuasa International Ltd.) Item Classification Average training hours Female 12.7 Gender Male 6.4 Indefinite-term employment 7.7 Types of employees Fixed-term employment 0.7 17 / 55 Respect for Individual Work-Life Balance Promoting Women's Roles The GS Yuasa Group believes that providing the environment and opportunity for women's roles will enable every woman to shine, which in turn will help us achieve the innovation and growth stated in our philosophy in an effort to do so, the Group is taking steps to promote women's roles with the aim of developing women who can maximize their potential in whatever they do. We aim to create a company where every female employee shines in her own unique way by enhancing the desire for personal growth and increasing the style and number of roles through the synergistic effects of what we call the three Ls. Declaration GS Yuasa will provide a diversity of roles for women that are bright, fun and affirming. The three Ls Action Plan Promoting Women's Roles (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2019) Objective 1 Steadily increase the percentage of women hired 20% in FY 2016 30% in FY 2018 Objective 2 Ensure that at least one woman a year takes part in next-generation select group training in order to boost the business skills of female employees Objective 3 Support the strengthening of management abilities for supervisors in order to create an environment that encourages female employees to work to their potential Employment of People with Disabilities To promote the employment of people with disabilities, GS Yuasa International Ltd. offers a wide range of opportunities to people with disabilities, including in a company certified as a special subsidiary* in December 2007. As of June 1, 2018, 2.69% of employees were people with disabilities, which exceeds the legally mandated employment rate of 2.2% as well as the previous fiscal year's mark of 2.51% We will continue to manage employment so that people with disabilities can put their skills and qualities to good use in an effort to maintain and improve a pleasant work environment. *Special subsidiary: A system based on the Disabled Persons Employment Promotion Law, under which, when a subsidiary is certified by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare as giving special consideration to the employment of people with disabilities, it can be regarded as one of the parent company's business establishments when calculating the employment rate of people with disabilities. Supporting Work Alongside Childcare/Nursing Care GS Yuasa International Ltd. formulated an action plan based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children as a joint labor-management program. We are involved in activities to achieve the objectives of the plan, with the aim of creating an environment that makes it easy for employees to participate in childcare. We have also set up an in-house electronic message board called Supporting a Work and Childcare Balance where we disseminate information on childcare-related systems to employees. To ensure that the childbirth, childcare and nursing care support systems are being used, we are making every effort to increase awareness of the systems through training based on levels within the Company that include managers. ■Childbirth, Childcare and Nursing care support systems Item System Details Alleviation of commutation during System under which work at the beginning or the end of working hours is exempted for female pregnancy employees who are pregnant (up to 60 minutes/day) Childbirth, System under which a leave of absence for six weeks before childbirth (14 weeks in case of multiple Maternity leave Childcare pregnancy) and eight weeks after childbirth can be obtained Leave for going to hospital during System under which female employees who are pregnant or have spent only less than one year pregnancy/maternity protection leave after childbirth can obtain a leave for medical examination, etc. 18 / 55 Item System Details System under which female employees who are pregnant or have spent only less than one year Maternity protection leave after childbirth can take leave (up to one year) Paid leave for births System under which employees who have a newborn can take leave (three days) System under which employees who are bringing up a child/children can take leave (as the Childcare leave maximum period, until a child reaches the age of two) System under which employees who have a child in the sixth grade or under in elementary school Short-time working due to childcare or a child with disability can work for a short time or work with a flexible schedule System under which employees can take leave for nursing a child in the third grade or under in Nursing leave elementary school (five days/year for one child; ten days/year for two children or more) System under which employees can get time for breast-feeding a baby under a year old (twice/day, Breast-feeding hours 30 minutes each time) Exemption/limitation of overtime work System under which employees who are raising a child can be exempt from/limit overtime and lateand late-night work night work Nursing care leave System under which employees who are caring for a family member can take leave (up to one year) System under which employees who are caring for a family member can work for a short time or Short-time working due to nursing care Nursing work with a flexible schedule (up to three years) care System under which employees can take leave for nursing a family member (five days/year for one Nursing care time off person; ten days/year for two persons or more) Exemption/limitation of overtime work System under which employees who are caring for a family member can be exempt from/limit and late-night work overtime and late-night work System under which employees can accumulate the number of days for annual paid leave whose Accumulated leave validity has expired (up to 40 days, acquired for the reason of nursing care for a family member or Others raising a child in the third grade or under in elementary school, etc.) System under which employees can take leave in hourly units from granted annual paid leave (up Leave in hourly units to 24 hours/year) ■Utilization of Childcare support system Females Males FY Number of users Usage rate Return-to-work Number of users Return-to-work Usage rate (%) (person) (%) rate (%) (person) rate (%) 2014 5 100.0 100.0 0 0.0 --2015 9 100.0 100.0 1 1.1 100.0 2016 7 100.0 88.9 2 3.0 50.0 2017 8 100.0 100.0 1 1.2 100.0 ■Utilization of Nursing care support system Long-term Nursing care leave Short-term Nursing care leave FY Number of users Return-to-work rate Number of users Total umber of days (person) (%) (person) (day) 2014 2 100.0 12 42.5 2015 1 100.0 7 26.5 2016 1 100.0 10 30 2017 1 0.0 12 50.5 GS Yuasa Awarded Kurumin Mark GS Yuasa International Ltd. attained the Kurumin Mark certification in 2017. The Kurumin Mark is a symbol granted by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare to organizations that meet certain standards regarding formulation of action plans, attainment of their goals and other related actions based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children. The GS Yuasa Group aims to be a company that continually supports childrearing by establishing an environment where employees can strike a good balance between work and childcare, and then further enrich these results. 19 / 55 Business Operations Considering Religious Customs in Each Region At the GS Yuasa Group's overseas sites in Indonesia where Muslims make up a large share of the population, we are conducting business operations considering Islamic traditions and customs. PT. Yuasa Battery Indonesia, PT. Trimitra Baterai Prakasa and PT. GS Battery have a mosque in their respective offices. These companies allow employees to offer prayers at a mosque during working hours, and Muslims gather for prayers on Fridays from both the office and outside the company. The GS Yuasa Group believes that understanding and respecting customs, cultural values and religion in each region are indispensable for building a good relationship with local employees and effectively operating businesses. 20 / 55 Fulfillment of Our Responsibilities to Provide Safe and Secure Products and Services As a trusted manufacturer, GS Yuasa is constantly working to improve customer satisfaction and ensure safety. Focus on Safety and Quality Quality Policy The GS Yuasa Group is promoting initiatives aiming to improve the quality of the products and services offered to our customers on a group-wide basis, based on the GS Yuasa Quality Policy. Quality Policy GS YUASA is committed to a diligent study of 'Monozukuri' customer first thinking and the improvement of products and service for the realization of our Corporate Philosophy. *'Monozukuri': Meaning 'Meaning 'manufacturing' is not just pointing to 'craftsmanship' in the narrow sense. It is the overall process of the corporation, the industry and the on-site activity, implementing the designers' determination into the products and the services for customer satisfaction, corporate profit and job security. Ensuring Quality and Safety through Company-wide Quality Management To remain a manufacturer trusted by customers at all times, the GS Yuasa Group approaches manufacturing activities from the customer's perspective and works relentlessly to improve the quality of products and services. To maintain this trust, we formulated, under the leadership of top management, the GS Yuasa Quality Management System based on the ISO 9001 standard and are promoting a quality management system that crosses business divisions. The quality of our products and services is discussed company-wide every month by the Quality Management Committee, which is chaired by a director (the executive officer in charge of quality), to enable us to respond swiftly to any change. Yoshiaki Yamaguchi, Director of GS Yuasa International Ltd. is the chairman of this committee in fiscal 2018. As part of our initiatives to pursue manufacturing, we provide quality-related education courses to all employees and promote improvement team activities company-wide as a way to bolster the awareness of quality among employees and to boost their understanding and skills related to quality management. Thereby enhancing the quality of our products and services. These activities have been highly rated by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers, and the Industrial Batteries Production Division of the Industrial Batteries & Power Sources Business Unit received the Deming Prize, which is designed to reward individuals and companies who have produced good results through the implementation of quality management, in fiscal 2015. ■Quality Management Organization Rounds of inspection by top management The GS Yuasa Group systematically conducts rounds of onsite inspection, centering on domestic factories and branches, by management. Through rounds of inspection by management conducted as part of top management activities, the management grasps the actual state of onsite operations and has a dialogue with employees working at each site. Based on the quality of work, employees share the situation of actual activities and tasks regarding various themes such as safety, quality and environment with management, fostering mutual understanding. 21 / 55 Promoting Greater Customer Satisfaction The GS Yuasa Group values the opinions, recommendations and complaints of customers regarding our products and services as important customer feedback. We improve our products and services after considering inquires received by email and the opinions of customers heard at our Customer Consultation Office. We have taken measures using audio guidance through which the telephone number of a person in charge is automatically dialed according to inquiries from customers from fiscal 2017, making efforts to improve convenience for customers. The number of complaints received from customers has tended to decline over the past five years. Going forward, we will continue working to improve customer satisfaction by paying close attention to the opinions of our customers. ■Number of inquiries to the customer consultation office ■Number of customer complaints GS Yuasa Customer Consultation Office (accepts inquires and provides consultation on the GS Yuasa Group's products) Toll free (in Japan):0120-43-1211 Hours: Weekdays 9:00 17:30 (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, public holidays and holidays prescribed by the Company); Valid only within Japan, Initiatives for Product Safety and Swift Dissemination of Information Ensuring the safety of GS Yuasa Group's products has been positioned as a critical challenge because our products store, control and convert electrical energy. The Product Safety Management Committee is responsible for guaranteeing the safety of our products across the board. We promote developments in business divisions after assessing conformity with product safety standards as well as the safety of products as they are used, age and deteriorate. For this reason, we are strengthening our product testing procedures using failure mode and effect analysis (FMEA) and fault tree analysis (FTA). In addition, we gather information on issues with product safety and provide this to top management without delay as part of a system that we have established and are operating to ensure a swift response. Moving ahead, we aim to become a company supported by trust and quality by developing human resources capable of providing guidance on quality engineering and product safety, while proactively disclosing information on product safety. ■GS Yuasa Product Safety Action Flow 22 / 55 Improving Employees' Awareness of Quality The GS Yuasa Group educates employees about quality to instill a culture of quality throughout the organization based on our Quality Policy. We are adopting a system under which all employees can be taught based on the type of their work and their experience through a quality education program systemized according to the level of quality control and type and rank of their job. Furthermore, basic quality-related education has been compulsory for all new recruits since fiscal 2008 and their knowledge of quality control (QC) is evaluated based on the results of the QC examination. 276 passed from Grade 1 to Grade 4 in fiscal 2017 with a cumulative total of 2,183 people passing the exam company-wide up to fiscal 2017. The GS Yuasa Group will promote activities contributing to a reduction in quality-related losses by positioning the raising of employees' awareness of quality and the attainment of knowledge as important issues. ■Quality-related Education ■Number of Quality Education Courses and Participants Level of quality Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 management knowledge Number of courses Number of participants Number of courses Number of participants Introductory 6 161 9 230 Basic 22 692 24 504 Applied 7 179 7 77 Total 35 1,032 40 811 ■Cumulative Total of Successful QC Examinees ﹡Period: April to March of the following year Developing Human Resources in Quality Management through Monozukuri (Manufacturing) Expert Education On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of its founding, the GS Yuasa Group launched the Monozukuri Expert education workshops in October 2017, with the aim of developing human resources who can study Monozukuri diligently under the Group's Quality Policy. At the workshops, we are aiming to develop human resources who will learn control technology required mainly for design development and be capable of implementing such technology. Participants of the workshops are expected to become an expert after a one-year training period and act as a core member for quality improvement in the workplace by utilizing his/her knowledge and experience. 23 / 55 Examples of Activities Presentation about Team Activities to Drive Kaizen (improvement) The GS Yuasa Group is promoting kaizen team activities to bolster the awareness of quality among employees and conduct aggressive quality management control in an effort to improve the quality of our products and services. In addition, we have held a presentation event at which kaizen teams present examples of their improvement activities since fiscal 2004, for the following purposes:  Promotion of activities to enhance workplace capabilities  Learning from kaizen activities/successful results and horizontal deployment  Participation of all employees in kaizen activities  Promotion of dynamic communications  Building a corporate culture with a mindset focused on improvement This presentation event was held twice (July and December) in fiscal 2017. As top management and a large number of employees took part in the presentation, kaizen teams nominated by each business division presented examples of their improvement activities. At the end of the presentation event, the executive officer in charge of quality gave feedback (individual and overall) to the teams, and the President expressed his appreciation to the teams and provided an assessment of the presentations. Furthermore, the encouragement award by the President and the impression award determined by participants' votes were presented to teams. At presentation events in recent years, not only kaizen teams in quality-related business divisions but also people in the sales and development divisions as well as overseas sites made presentations, with a variety of themes. The GS Yuasa Group believes that everyone must attain quality management tools. Through the presentation event, we will share experiences/know-how in each workplace on a global basis and horizontally develop the results of improvement, continuing our efforts to conduct various improvement activities. ■List of themes in fiscal 2017 Presenting topics Presenting teams Industrial Battery Manufacturing Department, Industrial Battery Aiming to be the world's cleanest, safest battery plant Division, GS Yuasa Technology Ltd. Boosting productivity on the battery charge E line by stabilizing the Production Section 3, Global Production Division, GS Yuasa Energy labeling machine Co., Ltd. Reducing labor hours and shortening preparation time by improving Development Department, Power Supply System Production preparation systems Division, GS Yuasa International Ltd. Enhancing and strengthening reforms by using customer asset Original Equipment Sales Group, Tokyo Sales Department I, Power management systems more efficiently Supply System Sales Division, GS Yuasa International Ltd. 24th (July 2017) Improving sales quality through the swift implementation of a PDCA Renewable Energy Sales Group, Kansai Sales Department II, Power cycle Supply System Sales Division, GS Yuasa International Ltd. Sales & Profits Improvement in Y2016 Yuasa Battery (Thailand) Pub. Co., Ltd. Improving sales and profits in 2016 Yuasa Battery (Thailand) Pub. Co., Ltd. Special Battery Quality Control Group, Special Battery & Lithium-ion Reducing the number of defects from work errors Battery Division Manufacturing Department, GS Yuasa Technology Ltd. Improving productivity of EN batteries in the charging process Manufacturing Group, Gunma Automotive Battery Production (preparation for mass production and improvement in charging Department, Production Business Division, Automotive Battery activities) Business Unit, GS Yuasa International Ltd. Activities to prevent defects by formulating the new IC adoption Development Department No.3, Development Business Division, standard Lithium-ion Battery Business Unit, GS Yuasa International Ltd. Manufacturing Management Group, Production Management LPS (LEJ Production System) Systematic improvement activities Division, Lithium Energy Japan Ltd. Stabilizing production of batteries for vehicles with start-stop systems TIANJIN GS BATTERY Co., LTD. 25th in the B charging process (December Improving the fraction defective of pole plates in slitters/cutting 2017) GS Battery Vietnam Co., LTD. machines Activities to improve the quality of reports on measurement results and promote rationalization from 5S activities to business division-based GS Environmental Science Laboratory Co., Ltd. improvement activities Cell Assembly Section, Manufacturing No.2 Group, Production Reducing losses of winding materials Division, Blue Energy Co., Ltd. Sealed Battery Section, Stationary Battery Manufacturing Group, Reducing the number of near miss in the charging process Industrial Battery Manufacturing Department, Industrial Batteries & Power Sources Business Unit, GS Yuasa International Ltd. 24 / 55 At the presentation event During the presentation President Murao giving encouragement awards to presenters Holding an exhibition showing examples of critical quality problems The GS Yuasa Group believes that failure at a workplace provides a valuable learning opportunity in terms of the prevention of defective products. From this perspective, we have taken measures from fiscal 2016; specifically we share information on examples of past product-related accidents caused by unsafe conditions and critical quality problems with employees so that we will continue to talk about failure in the future without forgetting it and will never allow a similar quality problem to occur. In fiscal 2017, the second critical quality problem example exhibition was held at the Kyoto Plant, one of our Group companies, and top management and approximately 340 employees participated in this exhibition. The Exhibition is aimed at helping employees to learn a lesson from the past examples of failure as causes of critical quality problems or the mechanism of occurrence are explained. In addition, in order for participants to further enhance an understanding of this, we prepared a presentation area within the venue where examples presented by each business division were displayed and held presentation and Q&A sessions regarding each display. The presentation was very successful as there were people seeing it while standing, indicating a high level of interest in the Group's quality problems among employees. At the critical quality problem example exhibition At the presentation 25 / 55 Global Environmental Conservation Fundamental Environmental Policy and Environmental Mid-term Plans The GS Yuasa Group works to protect the environment and make constant improvements that consider the impact on the global environment of business operations, products and services. Fundamental Environmental Policy The Fundamental Environmental Policy of the GS Yuasa Group was established to serve as a guideline for environmental management. In our domestic offices, we developed an organizational environmental management system and have been promoting initiatives to implement our environmental policy, which is based on our overarching fundamental environmental policy. We have developed mid-term plans for important issues related to our environmental policy in order to contribute to the emergence of a sustainable society. We continue to manage the status of implementation of these initiatives. Fundamental Environmental Policy  Fundamental Philosophy At the GS Yuasa Group, we set conservation of the global environment as one of our most important tasks, and we contribute to the creation of a sustainable society through the development, manufacture, and sale of batteries, which are a form of clean energy, power supply systems, and lighting equipment.  Action Agenda 1. We carefully evaluate the impact on the environment of our business activities, products and services, and we work to save energy, reduce resources and waste, and recycle resources as a way to protect the environment, which includes preventing pollution. By making continual improvements in these areas, we aim to improve our environmental performance. 2. We promote the development and design of products that protect the environment by considering how to reduce the environmental burden at every stage of the product life cycle, including acquiring raw materials, development and design, production, transportation, use and disposal. 3. We work to decrease environmental burdens with our business partners throughout our entire supply chain, including materials procurement and physical distribution. 4. We have created environmental management systems according to ISO 14001 standards and have enacted environmental policies at each of our offices based on these fundamental policies. We also advance our environmental management activities by setting related objectives. 5. We abide by all laws, ordinances, agreements, and regulations related to the environment, as well as other requirements agreed on by the Group. We also make voluntary management standards according to these as necessary to promote environmental conservation. 6. We appropriately execute revisions based on environmental audits and management reviews to maintain and improve our environmental management systems continuously. 7. Through education, training, and other environmental awareness efforts, we promote the environmental awareness of all Group employees, and we contribute to society through our environmental preservation activities. 8. We seek to achieve good communications with our stakeholders and with society as a whole by appropriately providing information related to the environment, including our fundamental environmental policy. Environmental Mid-term Plans We have developed mid-term plans for important issues related to our fundamental environmental policy in order to contribute to the emergence of a sustainable society. We continue to manage the status of implementation of these initiatives. ■Third Five-Year Environmental Plan (FY 2014 to FY 2018) and FY 2017 Results Sites covered: GS Yuasa International Ltd. (Kyoto, Osadano, Gunma and Odawara Plants) Key items FY 2017 results Self-Assessment / Challenges Objectives Energy conservation and reduction of greenhouse gases CO2 emission intensity from production Peak cut measures are the primary factor We will reduce CO2 emission intensity from was reduced by 4% relative to fiscal behind a tendency toward lower energy costs. production in fiscal 2018 by at least 5%, relative to 2013 (12.5 g CO2/Wh). fiscal 2013. 1 The primary unit (intensity) improved We will reduce energy consumption intensity in Energy consumption intensity in logistics significantly following a further modal shift, logistics in fiscal 2018 by at least 5%, relative to was reduced by 8% relative to fiscal despite a leveling off in freight forwarding fiscal 2013. 2013 (0.0469L / ton-km). volume since fiscal 2014. 26 / 55 Key items FY 2017 results Self-Assessment / Challenges Objectives We carried out energy conservation It is necessary to operate a system enabling a We will create and operate efficient energy programs using our environmental response to management risk associated with management systems. management systems. energy. Resource conservation We will reduce the rate of production errors and defective products (consistency with ISO 9001). It is necessary to strengthen initiatives aimed at reducing waste and loss by linking The lead scrap rate was 3%. enhancements in productivity with design for We will reduce the rate of lead scrap to less than the environment (DfE). 2% in fiscal 2018. We will reduce the amount of wastewater during The amount of wastewater was reduced The usage rate of recycled water is on the rise. production in fiscal 2018 by at least 77%, relative by 60% relative to fiscal 2003 (902,000 Going forward, it will be important to continue to fiscal 2003. m3). promoting the usage of recycled water. The percentage of used industrial products Resource recycling The percentage of used industrial correctly disposed of or recycled under the wide In fiscal 2018, we will promote the correct ways of products correctly disposed of or area certification system was almost 100%. The disposing and recycling 100% of used industrial recycled under the wide area resource recycling scheme has taken hold products under a wide area certification system. certification system was 98.9%. thanks to this system. It is important to establish a suitable resource We looked into a recovery method for We will create a resource recycling system for nextrecycling scheme for lithium-ion batteries used lithium-ion batteries used in nextgeneration lithium-ion batteries. in next-generation automobiles, for which the generation vehicles. market is expected to expand. We promoted the development and Environmentally conscious products Environmental consideration is lacking in design of products using the GS Yuasa 2 We will work to popularize design for the product design relative to diversification and Design for the Environment (DfE) environment (DfE) products. advancement in product application. Guidelines formulated in October 2005. Promotion of green procurement 93% of all transactions were made with A certain level of suppliers has now introduced We will support the acquisition and advancement of business partners that have acquired an environmental management system. Going environmental management system certification by environmental management system forward, it will be important to promote business partners. certifications. activities to support further improvement. 3 In coordination with green procurement, we thoroughly revamped the It is important to continuously implement Management of chemical substances management of chemical substances management of chemical substances in We will monitor the flow of materials subject to the contained in products and complied with products relative to laws, regulations and GS Yuasa Group Chemical Management Guidelines. Japanese and international regulations customer requirements. on the allowable amounts. Thorough management of environmental risk It is important to effectively conduct We managed environmental risk using We will comprehensively manage environmental environmental risk management in response to 4 our own environmental management risk with our environmental management systems business challenges and stakeholder needs and systems. throughout the entire product life cycle. expectations, etc. Legal compliance There were no instances of emergencies We will set voluntary management standards that directly related to environmental It is important to conduct effective 5 are stricter than environmental laws and pollution and no instances of environmental risk management to enhance regulations, and we will make improvements to environment-related lawsuits, punitive compliance. environmental management technologies. fines or administrative fines. Maintenance and continuous improvement of We improved our environmental environmental management systems It is important to continuously improve management systems by addressing the 6 We will make continual improvements to our environmental management systems to issues identified through periodic environmental management systems with the aim enhance environmental risk management. internal and external audits. of producing effective environmental management. Social contribution We undertook environmental programs 7 We will actively and continually take part in and initiatives, which included cleaning environmental conservation. the areas around our offices. It is important to promote social contribution Communication about the environment and environmental communication to meet We conducted external communications stakeholder needs and expectations. We will expand the scope of environmental to reach a wider range of stakeholders, 8 information disclosure through the Environmental & which included publishing the GS Yuasa Social Report and ensure social appraisal is fed back Report. to our environmental management activities. 27 / 55 Environmental Management Systems GS Yuasa operates environmental management systems that comply with international standards. Operation of environmental management systems At GS Yuasa Group sites in Japan, we are developing and using environmental management systems that comply with the ISO 14001 international standard. At every site, we use a PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, Act) cycle as part of a systematic framework for environmental management, enabling us to make continual improvements for environmental conservation. ■PDCA Cycle Organizational Structure The organizational structure for GS Yuasa Group's environmental management systems includes an overall system for the entire Group as well as specific systems for individual sites. In the Group-wide structure, the president of GS Yuasa serves as the chief executive officer responsible for environmental management, overseeing the environmental management of the entire Group working with environmental officers under direct supervision. Environmental issues that affect the entire Group, such as fundamental environmental policy, are discussed and finalized at management meetings. We also have environmental management systems for individual sites. These are led by regional environmental management oversight representatives and regional environmental management representatives, and important information on environmental performance is shared with the Group-wide environment management team. ■Overview of Organizational Structure Environmental Auditing We conduct internal environmental audits at every GS Yuasa Group business site to determine whether our environmental policy is being implemented appropriately and that environmental objectives are being met. In addition, we evaluate the environmental management system to improve performance as well as to improve the system itself. We also have an environmental certification agency conduct external environmental audits to check the conformity and effects of our environmental management systems. Internal environmental auditing External environmental auditing Internal environmental auditors ̶ with qualifications gained from training both inside and outside the company ̶ determine the Audits of the status of maintenance and management for environmental condition of the following: management systems based on ISO 14001 standards and the 1. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, etc. (legal functioning of PDCA cycles confirmed that every business site adheres compliance audit) to ISO 14001 standards. We will continue working to improve these 2. Maintenance and management of environmental management systems by evaluating environmental management from a third-party systems (system audit) perspective and by using information on such items as areas needing 3. Degree of achievement of environmental objectives (performance improvement. audit) 28 / 55 Environmental Education The GS Yuasa Group employs different types of environmental education to maintain and improve environmental management systems. In addition, we regularly provide training to avoid exposure to environmental risk. General Environmental Education Employee education In every division, we provide education to all employees to build awareness of their role in achieving the environmental policy. Education for new recruits New recruits are made aware of the GS Yuasa Group's basic philosophy on environmental management. Specialized Environmental Education Training of internal environmental auditors At every business location, we train internal environmental auditors and provide them with education to boost their skills to continually improve our environmental management systems. Emergency response training In every division, we regularly provide training on responses to potential emergencies to all employees working in operations that have significant potential impact on the environment. Comprehensive Compliance Management The GS Yuasa Group regularly reviews the environmental laws and regulations that must be obeyed, and ensures, through monitoring, that operations are managed in a way that is legally compliant. Further, business is conducted in compliance with environmental laws and regulations since we use hazardous substances, such as lead, in our products and we must obey the laws and regulations related to the operation of recycling systems for used products. There was no litigation and there were no punitive fines or administrative fines for nonadherence to environmental laws or regulations in fiscal 2017. Preventing Exposure to Compliance Risk and Environmental Pollution Risk In every business location, we work to prevent environmental pollution through operational management based on voluntary standards that are stricter than regulatory standards based on environmental laws, regional ordinances and agreements. In working to mitigate the risk of environmental pollution, we take action in operations where there is the possibility of water contamination, air pollution or soil contamination. This includes tangible actions: increasing the visibility of operations and preventing spills as well as using equipment to remove noxious substances and intangible measures, such as equipment inspections, monitoring, measuring and enhancing operating procedures. Also, we have identified the following potential emergency situations that could have a serious impact on the environment, and we are taking steps to prevent these situations from occurring.  Spills of liquid waste from outside tanks, pipelines, etc. and underground seepage that exceeds accepted standards  Discharges into the air of soot and smoke from melting furnaces, dust collectors and dehydrators that exceeds accepted standards To make sure we are fully prepared for an emergency, we regularly hold emergency response training to help minimize damage. There were no instances of emergencies directly related to environmental pollution at any of our business locations in fiscal 2017. 29 / 55 Environmental Performance and Environmental Accounting We are committed to continually improving environmental performance and to evaluating the effectiveness of our environmental activities. Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 30 / 55 Management of CO2 Emissions and Water Consumption at Production Sites Worldwide The GS Yuasa Group conducts research on CO2 emissions and water consumption at production sites worldwide and undertakes global initiatives to identify and reduce CO2 emissions and water consumption from production around the world. The table below shows CO2 emissions and water consumption for fiscal 2017 at major production sites worldwide. 92% of these production sites have obtained ISO 14001 certification and, to promote reductions in CO2 emissions and water consumption and other necessary measures, are using an environmental management system that complies with international standards and regulations. The periods covered by the calculations are: Japan April 1, 2017 March 31, 2018 Outside Japan January 1, 2017 December 31, 2017 ■CO2 Emissions by country (Unit: tCO2) ■Water Consumption by country (Unit:m3) ■CO2 Emissions and Water Consumption Water CO2Emissions Country Production site Consumption (tCO2) (㎡) GS Yuasa International Ltd. (Kyoto, Osadano, Gunma and Odawara Plants) 112,316 1,097,414 Japan Lithium Energy Japan Ltd. 31,004 98,168 GS Ibaraki Works, Ltd. 4,426 211,739 Tianjin GS Battery Co., Ltd. 38,427 226,828 Yuasa Battery (Shunde) Co., Ltd. 28,658 174,832 China Yuasa Battery (Guangdong) Co., Ltd. 16,170 175,832 GS Battery (China) Co., Ltd. 7,898 14,318 Tianjin Yuasa Batteries Co., Ltd. 1,417 19,188 Taiwan Yuasa Battery Co., Ltd. 51,460 302,765 Taiwan GS Battery Taiwan Co., Ltd. 23,944 150,029 Vietnam GS Battery (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 11,381 211,544 Malaysia GS Yuasa Battery Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 2,943 73,625 31 / 55 Water CO2Emissions Country Production site Consumption (tCO2) (㎡) PT. GS Battery 68,448 390,222 Indonesia PT. Trimitra Baterai Prakasa 37,025 144,775 PT. Yuasa Battery Indonesia 22,010 160,921 Siam GS Battery Co., Ltd. 32,018 551,696 Thailand Yuasa Battery (Thailand) Pub. Co., Ltd. 12,567 229,017 GS Yuasa Siam Industry Ltd. 6,704 44,241 India Tata AutoComp GY Batteries Private Limited 17,633 78,562 Pakistan Atlas Battery Ltd. 25,504 391,994 Turkey Inci GS Yuasa Aku Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi 25,193 500,569 United Kingdom GS Yuasa Battery Manufacturing UK Ltd. 11,188 78,831 United States Yuasa Battery, Inc. 8,254 69,638 Australia Century Yuasa Batteries Pty. Ltd. 12,906 37,098 The CO2 conversion factor for power outside Japan uses the coefficient specified under the GHG Protocol for each country. Response to Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The GS Yuasa Group responds to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire, a project requesting companies to release information on their climate change strategy and greenhouse gas emissions. The Group also responds to disclosure of information on measures to deal with water risk, as is the case with climate change. We use the results of CDP evaluations and promote initiatives to mitigate and adapt to climate change as well as to recognize water risks and develop a strategy for that. Greenhouse gas emissions The Company requested third-party verification in order to secure the credibility of our greenhouse gas emission data that is disclosed on this webpage, and received the results of verification, saying there is no item indicating that it has not reported material points about the GS Yuasa Group's greenhouse gas emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) in FY 2017 . Statement on third-party verification by SGS Japan Inc. (FY2017) Environmental Performance Data Scope of calculations related to environmental performance 1. Data for these calculations came from six GS Yuasa Group plants in Japan (Kyoto, Osadano, Odawara and Gunma Plants, Lithium Energy Japan and GS Ibaraki Works, Ltd.). Note, however, that figures for energy consumption and CO2 emissions from logistics come from GS Yuasa International Ltd., including domestic logistics sites. 2. Data from five years (FY 2013 to FY 2017) was used in the calculations. Data for Lithium Energy Japan and GS Ibaraki Works, Ltd. is from fiscal 2014 and shown in orange on the graph. All data was reviewed prior to reporting. 3. The CO2 conversion factor for calculating CO2 emissions for power consumption uses emission intensity data from the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (FEPC) and The Electric Power Council for a Low Carbon Society (ELCS) (table below). Furthermore, since the CO2 emission intensity data for fiscal 2017 had not been released, the CO2 emission data initially disclosed for fiscal 2017 was calculated using the intensity for fiscal 2016.At this point now that the CO2 emission intensity for fiscal 2017 has been released, the calculation of the CO2 emissions for fiscal 2017 has been redone using the intensity for fiscal 2017. ■CO2 conversion factor data for power consumption FY2013 0.57 FY2014 0.56 FY2015 0.53 FY2016 0.52 FY2017 0.50 Intensity data used in the graph was calculated using the following formulas: (1) Energy intensity in logistics (L/ton kilo) = Energy consumed / Amount of transported cargo (2) CO2 emission intensity in production (g-CO2/Wh) = Amount of emissions / Volume of batteries produced (3) Ratio of wastewater reduction relative to FY2003 (%) = [Amount of wastewater in FY2003 amount of wastewater / Amount of wastewater in FY2003] x 100 (4) Resource recycling rate (%) = (Amount of resources recycled / Amount of waste) x 100 (5) Ratio of lead scrap (%) = (Amount of waste plates and batteries (lead) / Amount of lead consumption) x 100 32 / 55 INPUT ■Energy Consumption in Production ■Water Consumption ■Consumption of Major Materials ■Energy Consumption in Physical Distribution and Energy Intensity in Physical Distribution OUTPUT ■CO2 emissions in Production and CO2Emission Intensity ■Amount of Wastewater and Ratio of Wastewater Reduction relative to FY2003 ■Amount of Waste and Resource Recycling Rate ■CO2 Emissions in Physical Distribution ■Amount of Waste Plates and Batteries (lead) and Ratio of Lead Scrap ■Amount of Resources Recycled Under Wide Area Certification System 33 / 55 Environmental Accounting Scope of calculations for environmental accounting Structures Six domestic sites (Kyoto, Osadano, Odawara and Gunma Plants, Lithium Energy Japan and GS Ibaraki Works, Ltd.). Note, however, that environment-related equipment costs within business area costs do not include onsite affiliated companies. Period covered April 1, 2017 March 31, 2018 Reference Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Edition (issued by the Ministry of the Environment) ■Environmental conservation costs (categorized by business activity) (Thousands of yen) Lithium Kyoto Osadano Odawara Gunma Category Key initiatives Energy GS Ibaraki Total Plant Plant Plant Plant Japan Business area costs 379,756 156,199 23,542 80,818 72,360 40,627 753,302 (total) Pollution prevention Efforts to prevent air, water 246,380 101,352 4,904 40,249 4,570 20,028 417,483 costs and soil pollution Breakdown Global environmental Efforts to reduce 46,196 15,021 7,500 32,704 9,180 10,860 121,461 conservation costs greenhouse gas emissions Resource recycling Efforts to ensure suitable 87,180 39,826 11,138 7,865 58,610 9,739 214,358 costs disposal of waste Upstream and downstream Additional efforts to reduce 389 9 16 0 0 0 414 costs*1 environmental burden Employee education and Management activity costs*2 ISO 14001 maintenance 17,348 1,974 394 605 2,253 1,027 23,601 and management Research and development Research and development efforts in consideration of 7,458,436 1,741,564 0 0 1,970,000 0 11,170,000 costs the environment Environmental volunteer Social activity costs 550 1,095 323 685 770 220 3,643 efforts Environmental remediation Efforts related to soil 0 2,516 0 0 0 0 2,516 costs*3 pollution measures Total 7,856,479 1,903,3572 24,275 82,108 2,045,383 41,874 11,953,476 ■Economic effect of environmental conservation initiatives (Thousands of yen) Category Key item Monetary amount Economic effects of more efficient water use Water use and wastewater cost reduction -12,810*3 Energy conservation effects Cost reductions for electricity, heavy oil and gas (city gas, LNG, LPG) -202,436*3 Waste reduction effects Cost reduction for industrial waste treatment 47,451*3 Resource recycling effects Profit from recycling and reusing waste 183,920 ■Effect of environmental conservation Category Key items Material amount Amount of recycled water used 1,491,970m3 Effects related to resources used in business activities Amount of reduction in water use -15,524m3*3 Amount of CO2 reduced 6,563ton-CO2*3 Amount of waste reduced (final disposal volume) 8ton*3 Amount of wastewater reduced 555m3*3 Effects related to environmental burden and waste from Amount of waste recycled 8,889ton*3 business activities Recycling rate*4 99% [Water quality] Amount of lead discharged 31kg [Air] Amount of lead emitted 131kg *1 Upstream and downstream costs are the total of consulting expenses and expenses for contracts to create new products based on the Law for Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging. *2 In addition to employee education, and costs related to ISO 14001 maintenance and management, the management activity cost includes expenses related to information disclosure. *3 The tables show amounts reduced compared with the previous fiscal year (negative amounts represent increases). *4 Recycling rate (%) = (amount recycled / amount of waste) x 100 34 / 55 Activity to Decrease Environmental Burdens The GS Yuasa Group is working to lessen the Group's environmental burden not only at the manufacturing stage but also throughout the product life cycle. Development and design Design for the Environment (DfE) The GS Yuasa Group's products have some impact on the environment during every stage of the product life cycle, from procurement and manufacturing to transportation, use and disposal. For this reason, we are committed to designing products based on the GS Yuasa Design for the Environment Guidelines with the aim of reducing the environmental burden throughout the product life cycle, which includes the consumption of resources, the emission of greenhouse gases, and waste. The guidelines cover design that considers the materials used in the product, the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle), ease of disassembly, labeling, energy conservation and packaging. The GS Yuasa Group promotes the development and design of environmentally conscious products through design for the environment (DfE) by using these guidelines while, at the same time, maintaining and improving the performance of products. Implementing environmental impact assessments for products For an environmental assessment of product design, design departments employ design standards and then evaluate the suitability of products in design review (DR) meetings based on environmental impact assessments of every stage of the product life cycle. When environmental impact standards are not met, we review the design standards and redesign the product. We use the expertise of several departments in addition to design departments, including engineering, marketing, procurement, quality and the environment, to make sure that the results of Design for the Environment (DfE) are communicated widely, which also maximizes their effectiveness. ■Environmental Assessment Items ■Flow of Environmental Assessment 1. Energy conservation 2. Volume reduction 3. Recyclability 4. Ease of disassembly 5. Ease of separation processing 6. Safety and environmental conservation 7. Material selection 8. Ease of maintenance 9. Energy efficiency 10. Reusability (life extension) Reflecting information in the products we distribute Important information, such as customer requirements for GS Yuasa Group products, is used when we change the design of existing products or design new products. This helps boost the value of our Design for the Environment. Information from interested parties related to after-sales service, returns and complaints are used as a valuable resource to improve the environmental performance of products. Management of chemical substances contained in products The GS Yuasa Group takes steps to provide products with minimal environmental burden based on the Chemical Substance Management Guidelines, which clarify the standards for chemical substances in products. These guidelines are part of initiatives to examine chemical substances contained in materials delivered as stipulated in the GS Yuasa Group green procurement criteria. With these guidelines, we classify chemicals contained in our main materials, as well as the secondary materials and the parts used in the products that the Group makes and sells as either prohibited substances or managed substances. The GS Yuasa Group works with our business partners who supply main materials, auxiliary materials and components to identify and definitively manage the substances covered by the guidelines to raise the environmental quality of our products. 35 / 55 Production Identifying chemical substance emissions Today, among the chemicals used in GS Yuasa Group plants, the following substances are subject to reporting under the PRTR Law.* The Group incorporates the management of hazardous substances into environmental management and regularly assesses how they have been handled to reduce environmental risk and related legal compliance. *PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) Law This law covers identifying, etc., the emissions of specific chemical substances into the environment and promotes improved management. The law requires businesses to collect, tabulate and disclose data related to hazardous chemical substances, their sources, the amount of emissions and how much is transferred out of the plant, including as waste. Class I Designated Chemical Substances (substances that may damage people's health or interfere with the growth of animals and plants) are subject to reporting under the PRTR system. Of these substances, those that have carcinogenic properties are classified as Specific Class I Designated Chemical Substances. ■Status of release and transfer of substances subject to the PRTR Law (kg) Substances subject to Released into the Released into Transferred to Transferred Sites Total the PRTR Law air public waterways sewage system outside the site Kyoto 47.0 4.4 29,000.0 29,051.4 Osadano 29.8 13.8 3,027.5 3,071.1 Lead compounds* Gunma 40.8 4.8 34.4 80.0 Ibaraki 13.0 7.7 260.0 280.7 Arsenic and its Kyoto 1.1 0.6 2.8 4.5 inorganic compounds* Gunma 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.6 Kyoto 7.3 0.9 38.0 46.2 Antimony and its Osadano 0.0 5.6 0.0 5.6 compounds Gunma 0.0 2.4 0.0 2.4 Kyoto 0.0 0.0 1,800.0 1,800.0 Manganese and its Osadano 2.1 0.0 0.2 2.3 compounds Lithium Energy Japan 0.0 0.0 28,000.0 28,000.0 Kyoto 0.0 0.0 280.0 280.0 Osadano 0.7 0.0 0.3 1.0 Nickel compounds* Odawara 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Lithium Energy Japan 0.0 0.0 9,200.0 9,200.0 Kyoto 0.0 0.0 280.0 280.0 Cobalt and its Osadano 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.3 compounds Lithium Energy Japan 0.0 0.0 9,200.0 9,200.0 Kyoto 0.5 0.0 380.0 380.5 Dichloromethane Ibaraki 1,900.0 0.0 31.0 1,931.0 Cadmium and its Odawara 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 compounds* Triethylenetetramine Ibaraki 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2,042.4 15.5 25.3 81,534.4 83,617.6 : Outside scope of coverage * : Production of Specific Class I Designated Chemical Substances Making industrial waste treatment more efficient The Kyoto Plant, one of our Group companies, reduces the number of times transport takes place by changing the load capacity (size) of vehicles for collecting and transporting sludge from 4 tons to 10 tons regarding the industrial waste treatment for some types of sludge. A reduction in the number of times transport takes place can lead not only to energy saving, a reduction in air pollutants and a reduction in greenhouse gases, but also lower collection and transport costs. In fiscal 2017, such costs were reduced by approximately 600,000 yen thanks to a reduction in the number of times transport of industrial waste took place. In addition, we reviewed industrial waste disposal contractors in order to strengthen recycling of used metals such as gold, silver and aluminum contained in industrial waste, and as a result it can be changed from waste treatment to valuable resource transaction, leading to a reduction in 36 / 55 waste treatment-related expenses. The GS Yuasa Group is promoting initiatives focusing on cost reductions thanks to activities to reduce the environmental burden. Sludge loaded on a 10-ton truck Energy Saving by Upgrading Air Conditioning Units The Kyoto Plant, one of our Group companies, conducted energy saving activities by upgrading air conditioning units used in its factories and offices. At the Kyoto Plant, many air conditioning units are used not only for offering comfort to employees but also for achieving the most suitable production conditions, and there were units that had been used for a long period of time. Furthermore, preventing leakage of refrigerants such as fluorocarbons which are used in refrigeration and cold storage equipment has become the center of attention as the Law concerning a reduction in emissions of fluorocarbons was enforced in 2015. Under such circumstances, the Kyoto Plant planned to upgrade obsolete air conditioning units as an effective measure to reduce both energy use and a risk of leaking fluorocarbons. In formulating the plan, it determined which air conditioning units in the Plant should be upgraded, by rating them according to years of use and other factors. It had taken appropriate measures including the formulation of the unit upgrading plan and the estimation of the effects of cost reductions through energy saving, and consequently it was able to utilize a government subsidy. In fiscal 2017, the upgrading of 21 air conditioning units resulted in successful reduction in CO2 emissions by around 85 tons as well as a reduction in the risk of leaking fluorocarbons and unit maintenance costs. Upgraded air conditioning unit (outdoor unit) Increasing the Number of Water Meters The Kyoto Plant, one of our Group companies, has been increasing the number of water meters from the previous fiscal year in order to appropriately grasp water consumption per workplace. Previously, as the number of water meters that measure water consumption of each workplace was insufficient, the Kyoto Plant had calculated water consumption of each workplace every month by using the water use calculation standard set by itself and checked the effects of water saving activities and the existence of water leakage. However, it has become difficult to grasp water saving efforts by each workplace under the previous calculation standards due to a change in the production process and the water saving performance reaching a certain level. Considering this situation, the Kyoto Plant installed additional 10 water meters at each appropriate point, after analyzing the current arrangements of water meters and the condition of water pipes. Moreover, it has installed the latest digital meters at important points, making it possible to monitor water consumption on a real-time basis. The Kyoto Plant will develop further initiatives and promote continuous water saving activities by appropriately grasping the water consumption of each workplace. Monitoring of water consumption by a new-type of water meter 37 / 55 Transportation Reducing energy consumption in logistics The GS Yuasa Group promotes energy conservation for freight forwarding (shipping) as one way to reduce the environmental burden during the product life cycle. As part of coordinated efforts to save energy, we created a system to identify the quantity of goods being shipped, as well as energy consumption and CO2 emissions during logistics. After that, a panel of experts regularly checks the results (relative to targets for reducing energy). We also work to reduce the quantity of items shipped between sites by integrating physical distribution base and we have conducted a modal shift from trucks to rail containers and other related systems for transportation. Through these activities, we succeeded in reducing the energy consumption intensity in fiscal 2017 by 8% compared with fiscal 2013. Going forward, we will strive to continually improve energy efficiency in logistics and will promote activities that lower the environmental burden and logistics costs. ■Energy consumption per freight forwarding (crude oil conversion) Operation of an Eco Rail Mark System The Eco Rail Mark System is a system of certification for companies and products that make thorough use of rail transportation for minimal environmental burden. The GS Yuasa Group has been designated as a certified company by the Railway Freight Association for seven series of batteries for automobiles and motorcycles have been certified. By getting customers to purchase certified products, we are promoting activities in which customers and companies can participate together to reduce the burden on the environment. The Group will promote logistics that consider the environment by increasing the amount of freight shipped by rail. ■Ratio of freight forwarding volume Examples of GS Yuasa Group products with Eco Rail certification 38 / 55 Resource recycling Operation of the wide-area certification system A wide-area certification system aims to involve the manufacturers of a product in the product's recycling and disposal once it reaches the end of its useful life. These systems make possible more efficient recycling and provide feedback on product design leading to easier disposal and reuse, while ensuring that discarded goods are disposed of properly. In January 2008, the GS Yuasa Group in Japan acquired wide-area certification from the Ministry of the Environment for industrial batteries and power supplies, and in January 2009 started accepting orders in earnest for a recycling system based on this certification. In FY 2010 and FY 2013 we broadened the range of eligible products, and in FY 2011 we reviewed the operating rules related to small products, resulting in an improvement of our secure, effective disposal system for discarded goods. In FY 2017, the amount of discarded goods we processed under the wide-area certification system reached 4,505 tons. This figure was 98.9% of the discarded products the GS Yuasa Group in Japan collected in the same period. As far as industrial batteries for the domestic Group are concerned, the wide-area certification system is now firmly established. In the future, we will promote even more effective operation of the wide-area certification system to improve customer service as well as to recycle and properly dispose of post-use products. ■Amounts Handled under the Wide-Area Certification System (Industrial Batteries, Power Supplies) ■Application Rate of the Wide-Area Certification System (Industrial Batteries, Power Supplies) Thorough operation and management of processing under a wide area certification system The GS Yuasa Group believes in the importance of creating and operating a system for recovering and recycling resources from our used products to help create a recycling-oriented society. To achieve this goal, the Group is strengthening initiatives for processing used products and resource recycling using a wide area certification system based on the wide area certification system for industrial waste guidelines issued in March 2010. These guidelines express our basic philosophy on processing used Group products. Under the guidelines, we have designated three key elements for operating a wide area certification system: (1) an outline of the system; (2) processing under the system: and (3) establishing an operational system and clarifying the concrete management and operating procedures. In addition, we are working to ensure the effective operation and management of processing under the wide area certification system using tools, such as a checklist to confirm the status of processing by waste processors, and by showing a series of examples in the guidelines. 39 / 55 Building Better Relationships with Local Communities We contribute to local communities through our business activities. Contributions to the Environment Stable Supply of Photovoltaic Generation Systems A photovoltaic generation system using the GS Yuasa Group's lithium-ion batteries has been in operation at the Kushiro Town Toritoushi Wildland Photovoltaic Generation Plant in Hokkaido since April 2017. When generating photovoltaic power, changes in natural conditions, such as sunshine hours and temperature, can lead to significant fluctuations in the power generated, while a major increase in the photovoltaic power load could reduce the quality of the system's power in terms of both voltage and frequency. For this reason, in Hokkaido, it is necessary to reduce output fluctuations by installing storage battery systems when connecting photovoltaic power generation to power systems. The GS Yuasa Group's lithium-ion battery system was installed at this plant as a key device to reduce power output fluctuations. The Group continues to promote the use of high-performance lithium-ion battery systems in power generation and is aiming to contribute to creating sustainable local communities using renewable energy. Industrial lithium-ion battery module LIM50EN series Overall view of Kushiro Toritoushi Wildland Photovoltaic Generation Plant Support for Activities of the Yakushima Environmental and Cultural Foundation GS Yuasa Battery Ltd. (GYB) is providing support for the Yakushima Environmental and Cultural Foundation as part of initiatives to preserve the environment in the region. Yakushima, which was placed on the World Heritage List in 1993 for the first time in Japan, is representative of nature in Japan. The Foundation is involved in activities to protect the beautiful natural environment on Yakushima, a heritage for humanity, and the business for creating communities where nature and people can co-exist. Furthermore, GYB offers a family tour to Yakushima as the prize to the Gold Award winner of the GS Yuasa Eco Art Contest for Elementary School Students which has been held from fiscal 2009, and also conducts activities for elementary school students to experience the beauty of nature. The GS Yuasa Group is promoting contribution to the protection of nature on Yakushima which is called the Island of Life and environmental education for children through support for the Foundation. Please refer here for the website of the Yakushima Environmental and Cultural Foundation Rich natural environment on Yakushima (photo courtesy of the Yakushima Environmental and Cultural Foundation, a public interest incorporated foundation) 40 / 55 Contributions to Human Resource Development GS Yuasa Eco Art Contest for Elementary School Students Since FY 2009, GS Yuasa Battery Ltd. has sponsored the GS Yuasa Eco Art Contest for Elementary School students to give the pupils, who will become the young citizens in the future, an opportunity to express their thoughts on the global environment. This contest program provides the opportunity for children and their families to come together and think about the environment. We plan to continue holding this event in the future in the form of a painting. Gold award-winning entry(9th) Holding an out-of-school class for elementary school students in the region The Kyoto Plant, one of our Group companies, held an out-of-school class for children attending the elementary school in the neighborhood in September 2017. The Plant has continued daily interactions with that school through supporting children on the routes to school, and this is the fourth time for it to hold the out-of-school class. Under the topic Let's study the region, attendants learned about our businesses by visiting a showroom within the Plant and through a Q&A session. At the showroom, children took notes with great enthusiasm while listening to explanations and showed an interest in our products. And at the Q&A session conducted at the end of the class, many students actively asked questions, showing a great interest in our business activities. The GS Yuasa Group will continue to value a relationship with the local communities through these activities. Support for Shiki Theatre Company's Kokoro no Gekijo (Theatre of the Heart) The GS Yuasa Group supports some of the twelve performances in Kyoto Prefecture of Kokoro no Gekijo (Theatre of the Heart), sponsored by the Shiki Theatre Company and Performing Arts Centre Foundation. Kokoro no Gekijo uses the stage to communicate to children such important life lessons as the value of life, consideration of others, and the joy of trusting each other. Children across Japan are invited to the performances in school groups, free of charge. In September 2018, the Shiki Theatre gave eight performances (morning and afternoon over four days) of its original musical, Majorin Who Gave up Her Magic . The shows were enjoyed by large numbers of children from around the city of Kyoto. Eight employees of the GS Yuasa Group assisted as volunteers in four of the performances over two days, helping out at reception and showing the audience to their seats. Through our continued support of Shiki Theatre Company s Kokoro no Gekijo, we will continue to support activities that deliver valuable, unchanging lessons to children who will be leaders of the future. Shiki Theatre Company's family musical Majorin Who Gave up Her Magic (Photograph: Takeshi Arai) Volunteers assisting with the production 41 / 55 Contributions to Society Development of high-accuracy location-positioning services Space-use lithium-ion batteries manufactured by the GS Yuasa Group were installed in the quasi-zenith satellite system Michibiki 2 launched by the Tanegashima Space Center in June 2017. Michibiki is Japan's satellite positioning system (a system under which positioning information is calculated based on a radio wave from the satellite) mainly composed of quasi-zenith orbit satellites. By combining this quasi-zenith satellite with the GPS satellite, stable and high-accuracy location-positioning services can be provided even in mountainous areas or streets of big business buildings in urban areas, paving the way for a wide range of applications such as an automatic driving system for automobiles that is expected to be put into practical use and the detection of earthquake or volcanic activity. The GS Yuasa Group will continue to contribute to development of high-accuracy location-positioning services as a new social infrastructure indispensable for Japan's economic activities, through development and manufacturing of high-performance lithium-ion batteries. Traffic safety for children on the routes to school GS Yuasa International Ltd. received the award Promotion for future Kyoto town planning by the Kyoto City in October 2017. This award, given by Kyoto City, is designed to honor individuals or organizations who have conducted activities to achieve a safe and healthy life for all generations with the aim of creating an attractive future Kyoto. The Kyoto Plant, one of our Group companies, has conducted activities to support elementary school students on the routes to school for a long period of time. We keep traffic by vehicles used for our operations down on the routes to school when children are on the way to and from school, and at the same time we have carried out activities to prevent traffic accidents by protecting and guiding children on the street. As a result, the Kyoto Plant received the award. The GS Yuasa Group will continue to promote activities contributing to a safe and healthy life in local communities. Activities contributing to local communities at our production sites in Thailand At our Group's production sites in Thailand, we are promoting activities to contribute to local communities as a company with a good relationship with local communities. GS Yuasa Siam Industry Ltd. (GYSI) has been involved in activities focusing on interactions with local communities, such as cleaning of and donations to nearby elementary schools and temples, management of an ice cream shop for the event on Children's Day held on the second Saturday in January, offering fluorescent lights that were replaced by LED to elementary schools, holding a plant tour for students, and cosponsoring a marathon in the industrial park. These activities have been highly rated by the Thai government, and GYSI had received the CSRDIW Award* three years in a row from fiscal 2016. Siam GS Battery Co. Ltd. (SGS) has installed signboards to prevent traffic accidents at a high-frequency accident location in the vicinity of the company, i.e., on the road with heavy car traffic located in front of the office. As a company engaged in the automobile industry, we are conducting activities to contain an increase in the number of traffic accidents resulting from the popularization of the automobile, as much as possible. At production sites of the GY Yuasa Group in Thailand, we are promoting interaction with local communities through providing education to local residents and securing safety, rather than merely offering a donation or volunteer activities. *The CSR-DIW Award is given by the Department of Industrial Works (DIW) in Thailand to companies that promote exceptional business activities that contribute to sustainable development and the local community. Plaque for the CSR-DIW Award(GYSI) Plant tour for local junior high school students (GYSI) Signboard for preventing traffic accidents (SGS) 42 / 55 Ensuring Social Responsibility within Our Supply Chain The GS Yuasa Group, together with the supply chain, will contribute to creating a sustainable society. Basic Procurement Policy Major Procurement Programs The GS Yuasa Group provides education and guidance on compliance and CSR (corporate social responsibility) to business partners, checks the way they manage harmful substances in products, responds to conflict minerals via surveys and encourages green procurement. We also conduct activities to help our business partners improve results and hold study sessions and presentations on how to boost quality. Through better partnerships in the supply chain, we are improving the results of both our business partners and the GS Yuasa Group, while decreasing business risk. Basic Procurement Policy We intend to boost the results of our business partners and the GS Yuasa Group by working to create better partnerships based on mutual understanding and relationships of trust. Briefing Sessions on Production The GS Yuasa Group holds briefing sessions on production run by management as well as social gatherings every year to increase our major business partners' understanding of the GS Yuasa Group's management policies, annual business policy and basic procurement policy. This also deepens mutual understanding and strengthens relationships of trust with these business partners. In addition, we give awards to business partners who have made outstanding contributions to quality, price and the supply system in terms of transactions in the previous fiscal year. Promotion of CSR Procurement Ensuring Quality and Health/Safety To promote activities that raise quality and enhance health and safety, including for business partners who supply parts and raw materials, the GS Yuasa Group provides guidance on quality reflecting the needs of our business partners as well as health and safety patrols, if required. In programs that raise quality, we share with business partners the target values and the results of quality defect analysis of products supplied to the Group and work to improve the quality of these items along with our partners. We have set target values for fiscal 2018 at 24 cases (quality defects) for products to be delivered to GS Yuasa International Ltd. and 0.80% (rate of quality defects) for those to GS Yuasa Technology Ltd. We believe that these activities create strong partnerships in the supply chain and are important to ensure the quality of products used by customers as well as the health and safety of our business partners. ■Incidence of Quality Defects among Products Delivered from Suppliers Guidance on Quality for Business Partners 43 / 55 Response to Conflict Minerals Conflict minerals mean mineral resources mined in some conflict areas in the world. In these conflict areas, social problems such as inhumane acts including massacres, abductions, violence and recruitment of child soldiers by armed groups have occurred, and minerals mined in such areas are used as a source of substantial funds by armed groups. The GS Yuasa Group recognizes that it is important to tackle the conflict mineral problem for the global supply chain, and is promoting activities not to be complicit in any form of human rights abuses, in cooperation with various stakeholders including our business partners. Therefore, we have formulated a policy to deal with the problem of conflict minerals and are promoting responsible minerals procurement without using conflict minerals in accordance with operational management based on this policy. Policy on Conflict Minerals GS YUASA promotes the following commitments to avoid assisting such anti-social activities as armed conflict waged by armed groups and human rights violations associated with the armed conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries (hereinafter Congo & Neighboring Countries ) and to achieve the responsible procurement of minerals. 1. We work to avoid direct or indirect procurement of conflict minerals (gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten which lead to the assistance mentioned above) from the Congo & Neighboring Countries and the use the conflict minerals, in accordance with GS YUASA CSR Policy. 2. If it is discovered that conflict minerals have been procured or used by our group company and its supplier, we will cooperate with related companies and take action to avoid such procurement and use. 3. We will continually investigate the use of conflict minerals voluntarily or upon a request from our customers. When information on the purchasing source (such as the name of a smelter) has not been disclosed in good faith and we have concerns about the possible procurement and use of conflict minerals, we will work to clarify information on the purchasing source. Green Procurement The GS Yuasa Group companies in Japan makes the following requests of business partners based on our Green Procurement Criteria. Requirements for Business Partners 1. Operation of an environmental management system 2. Examination of chemical substances contained in items being supplied 3. Checking the legality of cutting down certain trees (logging) 4. Programs to identify and reduce CO2 emissions For 2. above, we ask our business partners to examine substances using Chemical Substance Management Guidelines, which comply with international laws and regulations including EU directives (REACH, RoHS, etc.), and to test individual chemical substances as specified by customer needs. GS Yuasa evaluates the appropriateness of stipulations to business partners concerning green procurement by checking and auditing the status of their response. By prioritizing those business partners that supply goods that conform to green procurement standards, we are reducing the environmental burden, including the burden within the supply chain. ■Introduction of Environmental Management System by Business Partners (FY 2017, transaction amount base) Promotion of CSR Procurement The GS Yuasa Group assesses business partners using a QCDE approach (quality, cost, delivery and environment). Going forward, we will add elements of CSR to these assessments to ensure that our social responsibility is being met throughout the supply chain. To achieve this goal, we will share the GS Yuasa Group's CSR Procurement Guidelines with our business partners and work to promote CSR procurement based on mutual cooperation. In briefing sessions on production in fiscal 2018, we are asking our business partners to strengthen their CSR initiatives and to cooperate with us on CSR procurement. Currently, we are conducting a survey on the status of our business partners' CSR initiatives. Going forward, we plan to identify CSR risk in the supply chain by analyzing and evaluating the survey results and implement initiatives to reduce risk. 44 / 55 External Evaluation We describe the results of evaluations from various stakeholders regarding the GS Yuasa Group's CSR activities. Inclusion in ESG Investment Constituents ESG investment means an investment made by selecting companies who consider Environment, Social and Governance. Corporate value in terms of investment is evaluated based not only on financial information (a company's business performance and managerial conditions, etc.) but also non-financial information (a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases, management of chemical substances, response to human rights issues, employees' work-life balance, compliance, and independence of outside directors, etc.). MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index This index was developed by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI). For the index, companies with high ESG evaluation in each category of business have been selected. This is the index adopted by the ESG investment managed by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), an entity managing pension reserve funds in Japan. The Company has been selected for this index by acquiring AA rating (seven investment ratings: AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B and C).] CSR Rating Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking CSR survey conducted by Toyo Keizai Inc. with the aim to find a company that is trusted by society. The Company has acquired the following ratings for each initiative (five ratings: AAA, AA, A, B and C). Utilization of human resources Environment Corporate governance Sociability AA AA AA AA EcoVadis Business Sustainability Ratings EcoVadis operates a joint platform to evaluate sustainability of suppliers, and evaluates suppliers based on CSR-related standards considering response to environmental issues, labor practices, respect for human rights, fair trade and CSR procurement. The Company has received the silver rank certification level (three ranks: gold, silver and bronze). Evaluation, Certification, Award, Etc. Regarding CSR Activities DBJ Employees' Health Management Rated Under the health management rating loan system conducted by the Development Bank of Japan Inc. (DBJ), companies that conduct excellent initiatives for their employees' health have been evaluated/selected, and the terms and conditions of loan are set up according to the evaluation. The Company received the highest rank particularly excellent in terms of initiatives for employees health in 2018. Company with Excellent Health Management 2018 (White 500) Company with Excellent Health Management means a system under which the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and The Nippon Kenko Kaigi jointly confer companies that carry out particularly excellent health management, based on activities to deal with local health issues and initiatives for health improvement promoted by The Nippon Kenko Kaigi. GS Yuasa International Ltd. has been selected as a certified company of this system. Kurumin Mark The Company has been certified as a company that supports child care in accordance with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, which aims to support sound and health development of children who will lead the next generation. Thus, the Company has obtained the Kurumin Mark and we can utilize it as a certified company. Third-Party Assurance Greenhouse gas emissions The Company requested third-party verification in order to secure the credibility of our greenhouse gas emission data that is disclosed on the CSR web content, and received the results of verification, saying there is no item indicating that it has not reported material points about the GS Yuasa Group's greenhouse gas emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) in FY 2017 . Statement on third-party verification by SGS Japan Inc. (FY2017) 45 / 55 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy On this CSR website, we report on the GS Yuasa Group's concept and initiatives regarding CSR. We disclose information that considers the opinions of stakeholders and their importance to the GS Yuasa Group. Period covered We disclose information centering on CSR activities in fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018). In order to report the GS Yuasa Group's latest CSR activities, we disclose information on activities after fiscal 2017 whenever appropriate. With respect to some performance data, we disclose information before fiscal 2017 to show a change over time. Structures GS Yuasa Group (GS Yuasa Corporation and major domestic and overseas subsidiaries) are covered. The term the Company refers to GS Yuasa Corporation. An explanation is given in a particular situation whenever appropriate if the structure covered differs. Accuracy of information To ensure the accuracy of the information we disclose, it is verified by multiple departments, such as the department in charge of the specific area and the Public Relations Department. Material changes Regarding structures covered, there has been no material change in disclosed information. Furthermore, there is no item that should be corrected due to an error in a description in the previous disclosed information. Referenced guidelines We have referenced the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standard, an international guideline for companies' sustainability reports. Final update December 26, 2018 46 / 55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index On this CSR website, we have referenced that the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standard, an international guideline for companies' sustainability reports. GRI Standard Disclosure Title References General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Corporate Profile [ Corporate Name ] 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Products 102-3 Location of headquarters Corporate Profile [ Head Office ] 102-4 Location of operations Corporate Information [ Group Companies ] 102-5 Ownership and legal form Stock Data Securities Report 102-6 Markets served [ Securities Report(PDF) ] (Japanese only) Corporate Profile [ Number of Employee ] Location 102-7 Scale of the organization Financial Highlights [ Sales ] Organizational profile Financial > Chart Generator [ Financial Position ] 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain Ensuring Social Responsibility within Our Supply Chain Significant changes to the organization and its supply 102-10 News Release chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Risk Management President's Message [ UN Global Compact ] Value-Creation Process [ SDGs ] 102-12 External initiatives Response to Carbon Disclosure Project Keidanren Charter of Corporate Behavior 102 102-13 Membership of associations President's Message 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CSR Policy and Code of Conduct Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risk Information Philosophy 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior CSR Policy & Code of Conduct Ethics and integrity Basic Philosophy on Promoting Compliance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics GS Yuasa Group Corporate Ethics Hotline Corporate Governance > Approach and Governance 102-18 Governance structure System 102-19 Delegating authority CSR Promotion Framework Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-20 CSR Promotion Framework environmental, and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, 102-21 IR Calendar and social topics Governance Composition of the highest governance body and its Corporate Governance 102-22 committees [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) Corporate Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance 47 / 55 GRI Standard Disclosure Title References [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 102-26 Corporate Governance values, and strategy Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Policy on the Independence of Outside Directors 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Identifying and managing economic, environmental, CSR Promotion Framework 102-29 and social impacts Materiality Specification Process Corporate Governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) Corporate Governance 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) Highest governance body's role in sustainability 102-32 CSR Promotion Framework reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns GS Yuasa Group Corporate Ethics Hotline 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns GS Yuasa Group Corporate Ethics Hotline Corporate Governance 102-35 Remuneration policies [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) Corporate Governance 102-36 Process for determining remuneration [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) Corporate Governance 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration [ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE(PDF) ] (Japanese only) 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Analyst Coverage 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Entities included in the consolidated financial Securities Report [ Securities Report(PDF) ] (Japanese 102-45 statements only) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Editorial Policy 102-47 List of material topics Materiality and Response Plan 102-48 Restatements of information Editorial Policy [ Material changes ] 102-49 Changes in reporting Editorial Policy [ Material changes ] 102-50 Reporting period Editorial Policy [ Period covered ] Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report August 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually (Scheduled to be disclosed in August 2019) 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inquiries to GS Yuasa Corporation Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index Management of CO2 Emissions and Water Consumption 102-56 External assurance at Production Sites Worldwide (GS Yuasa Corporation has not obtained third-party 48 / 55 GRI Standard Disclosure Title References assurance for the report as a whole, but obtained only for Greenhouse gas emission data.) Economic 103 Management Approach Materiality and Response Plan Financial > Chart Generator [ Results of Operations/Profitability Indicator Ratios ] Earnings Report 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed [ Earnings Report(PDF) > Statements of Income(Cost of sales､Selling, general and administrative expenses､NonEconomic operating expenses､Extraordinary loss､Profit) ] 201 Performance Shareholders Return Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 201-2 due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement Securities Report 201-3 plans [ Securities Report(PDF) ] (Japanese only) 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 103 Management Approach Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 202 Market Presence 202-1 compared to local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the local 202-2 community 103 Management Approach Contributions to the Environment Indirect Economic [ Stable Supply of Photovoltaic Generation Systems / 203 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Impacts Support for Activities of the Yakushima Environmental and Cultural Foundation ] 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 103 Management Approach 204 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 103 Management Approach 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 205 Anti-corruption Compliance Manual Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2 Workplace Meetings on Compliance policies and procedures GS Yuasa Group Corporate Ethics Hotline 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No cases 103 Management Approach Anti-competitive 206 Behavior Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 206-1 No cases and monopoly practices Environmental Materiality [ Promoting environmental protection ] 103 Management Approach Resource recycling 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 301 Materials Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 301-2 Recycled input materials used [ Amount of main materials consumption ] Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials [ Amount of recycling ] Materiality [ Promoting environmental protection ] Activity to Decrease Environmental Burdens > 302 Energy 103 Management Approach Transportation Activity to Decrease Environmental Burdens > Development and design 49 / 55 GRI Standard Disclosure Title References Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization [ Amount of energy consumption in production ] Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle [ Amount of 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization energy consumption in physical distribution ] 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Performance Data 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Reductions in energy requirements of products and 302-5 services Materiality [ Promoting environmental protection ] 103 Management Approach Management of CO2 Emissions and Water Consumption at Production Sites Worldwide Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 303 Water [ Amount of water consumption ] Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of 303-2 water Effect of environmental conservation 303-3 Water recycled and reused [ Amount of recycled water used ] 103 Management Approach Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 304-1 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304 Biodiversity Significant impacts of activities, products, and services 304-2 on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 304-4 species with habitats in areas affected by operations Materiality [ Promoting environmental protection ] Management of CO2 Emissions and Water Consumption 103 Management Approach at Production Sites Worldwide Identifying chemical substance emissions Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions [ Amount of CO2 emissions in production ] Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions [ Amount of CO2 emissions in production ] Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305 Emissions [ Amount of CO2 emissions in physical distribution ] 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental Performance Data Effect of environmental conservation 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions [ Amount of CO2 reduced ] 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Identifying chemical substance emissions Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 305-7 [ Status of release and transfer of substances subject to significant air emissions the PRTR Law (Released into the air) ] Materiality [ Promoting environmental protection ] 103 Management Approach Preventing Exposure to Compliance Risk and Environmental Pollution Risk Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination [ Amount of waste water ] Flow of Materials in the Product Life Cycle 306 Effluents and Waste [ Amount of final disposal / Amount of recycling ] 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method (Waste emissions are disclosed not by hazardous / harmless categories but by type and disposal.) Preventing Exposure to Compliance Risk and 306-3 Significant spills Environmental Pollution Risk 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 50 / 55 GRI Standard Disclosure Title References Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or 306-5 runoff Materiality [ Promoting environmental protection ] 103 Management Approach Environmental Management Systems > Comprehensive Environmental Compliance Management 307 Compliance Non-compliance with environmental laws and Environmental Management Systems > Comprehensive 307-1 regulations Compliance Management Materiality [ CSR procurement promotion ] 103 Management Approach Green Procurement Supplier New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308 Environmental 308-1 criteria Assessment Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 308-2 actions taken Social Provision of Comfortable Working Environment 103 Management Approach Ensuring Appropriate Working Hours Respect for Individual Work-Life Balance Provision of Comfortable Working Environment > Basic 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 401 Employment policy Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-2 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Supporting Work Alongside Childcare/Nursing Care 103 Management Approach Respect for Labor Rights Labor/Management 402 Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Materiality [ Improvement of safety and health in working environments ] 103 Management Approach Conservation and Improvement of Safety and Health in Working Environments Workers representation in formal joint managementReducing the Risk of Accidents through risk 403-1 worker health and safety committees assessments Occupational Health Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 403 Reducing the Risk of Accidents through risk and Safety 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of assessments work-related fatalities Materiality [ Improvement of safety and health in Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 403-3 working environments > Promotion of labor safety and related to their occupation health risk management ] Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements The agreement between GS Yuasa and the labor union 403-4 with trade unions includes clauses regarding safety and health. Materiality [ Human resources development ] 103 Management Approach Mid to Long-term Human Resources Development and Appropriate Ability Assessment 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Fostering Autonomous Acting Talent 404 Training and Education Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-2 Fostering Autonomous Acting Talent assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 404-3 Fostering Autonomous Acting Talent and career development reviews 103 Management Approach Respect for Individual Work-Life Balance Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Employment of People with Disabilities 405 Opportunity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 405-2 men 103 Management Approach Prohibition of Discrimination and Respect for Diversity 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No cases 407 Freedom of 103 Management Approach Respect for Labor Rights 51 / 55 GRI Standard Disclosure Title References Association and Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 407-1 Collective Bargaining of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 103 Management Approach Prohibition of Forced Labor and Child Labor 408 Child Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 408-1 of child labor 103 Management Approach Prohibition of Forced Labor and Child Labor Forced or Compulsory 409 Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 409-1 of forced or compulsory labor 103 Management Approach 410 Security Practices Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 410-1 procedures 103 Management Approach Rights of Indigenous 411 Peoples Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 411-1 peoples Materiality [ Respect for individuality ] 103 Management Approach Workplace Meetings on Compliance Operations that have been subject to human rights 412-1 reviews or impact assessments Human Rights 412 Employee training on human rights policies or Assessment 412-2 procedures Significant investment agreements and contracts that 412-3 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 103 Management Approach Building Better Relationships with Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact 413 Local Communities 413-1 assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative 413-2 impacts on local communities Materiality [ CSR procurement promotion ] 103 Management Approach Promotion of CSR Procurement Supplier Social 414 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Assessment Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 414-2 taken 103 Management Approach 415 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions No cases Materiality [ Provision of high-quality products ] 103 Management Approach Focus on Safety and Quality Customer Health and Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 416 416-1 Safety and service categories Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 416-2 Important announcement regarding products safety impacts of products and services 103 Management Approach Requirements for product and service information and Products Catalog (Japanese only) 417-1 labeling Export Handling Product (Japanese only) Marketing and 417 Labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 417-2 No cases service information and labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 417-3 No cases communications Materiality [ Strict management of confidential 103 Management Approach information ] 418 Customer Privacy Information Security Substantiated complaints regarding concerning 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer 52 / 55 GRI Standard Disclosure Title References data Materiality [ Thoroughly fulfilling our CSR and ensuring 103 Management Approach compliance ] Socioeconomic Compliance with Laws, etc. 419 Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 419-1 and economic area 53 / 55 GS Yuasa Report (Environmental & Social Reports) Download CSR Activities described in the GS Yuasa Report extracts from information published on GS Yuasa s website. For the details of CSR activities, please refer to the CSR content on GS Yuasa s website. The Latest Volume GS Yuasa Report 2018 Download all pages (106 pages, 11.1 MB) Download by section  Introduction(4.5MB)  Value Creation process(291KB)  CONTENTS(65KB)  Overview(1.3MB)  Financial and Non-Financial Highlights(70KB)  Corporate History(144KB)  Vision and Strategy for Value Creation(625KB)  Message from Director in Charge of Finance and CSR(366KB)  Performance in FY 2017(1.3MB)  At a Glance(1.7MB)  Research and Development(68KB)  CSR(177KB)  Directors and Auditors(591KB)  Corporate Governance(87KB)  Financial Section(782KB)  Corporate Information/Stock Information(65KB) We would appreciate any comments you may have regarding the GS Yuasa Report. Please use this form for your comments. View Back Volumes 54 / 55 CSR Report Back Volumes GS Yuasa Report GS Yuasa Report 2017 GS Yuasa Report 2016 For the fiscal year ended For the fiscal year ended 2017 March 31, 2017 2016 March 31, 2016 English (12MB, 44 Pages) English (7.14MB, 36 Pages) CSR web content CSR activities disclosed on the Company's website in the past can be downloaded in PDF format. CSR Activities in 2017 For the fiscal year ended 2017 March 31, 2017 English (6.6MB, 63 Pages) Environmental & Social Report The GS Yuasa Group s initiatives for environment and society for the period from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2016 can be downloaded in PDF format. For fiscal 2017 and after, please refer to the above-mentioned CSR web content. 2016 Environmental & Social Report 2015 Environmental & Social Report 2016 English & Chinese, 7.3MB, 36 Pages 2015 English & Chinese, 1.2MB, 11 Pages 2014 Environmental & Social Report 2011 Environmental & Social Report 2014 English & Chinese, 1.7MB, 11 Pages 2013 English & Chinese, 1.2MB, 11 Pages 2012 Environmental & Social Report 2011 Environmental & Social Report 2012 English & Chinese, 1.6MB, 11 Pages 2011 English & Chinese, 1.2MB, 11 Pages 2010 Environmental & Social Report 2009 Environmental & Social Report 2010 English & Chinese, 1.2MB, 11 Pages 2009 English & Chinese, 1.0MB, 11 Pages 2008 Environmental & Social Report 2007 Environmental & Social Report 2008 Chinese and English, 5.9MB, 9 Pages 2007 Chinese and English, 8.0MB, 9 Pages 55 / 55
