Ingemann Food Nicaragua S.A. Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact by Ingemann Period of reporting: 31st August 2017 – February 19th 2019 Presented: February 19th 2019 Ingemann advance on the implementation of the 10 principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption within our sphere of influence in the honey and cocoa chains in Nicaragua. Ingemann continues its expansion, working actively towards the standardization of operations at all levels. For this reporting period we would like to focus on INGEMANN’s active and leading work on environmental responsibility developing climate services for agriculture and food security. ASSESSMENT Agriculture feeds and clothes the world. Although the long-term effects of climate change are still unclear, we are seeing short-term effects of climate change in our own crops. Ingemann plays a big role in the honey and cocoa sectors in Nicaragua. During the reporting period we have continued our technical assistance programs reaching 1359 producers as well as the UTZ and organic certification of almost 500 producers. Total of producers in the project 1.359 Producers who participated in 1 training session 593 Producers who participated in 2 training session 245 Producers who participated in 3 training session 94 Producers who participated in 4 training session 24 Producers who participated in 5 training session 4 Producers who participated in 6 training session 1 Producers that were invited but did not participated in any training session 398 Through the ADAPTA project, the company contributed to the realization and dissemination of the consultancy: ASSESSMENTS OF IMPACTS AND ALTERNATIVES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR BEFORE THE CLIMATIC CHANGE IN NICARAGUA which urges the creation of public policies and concrete environmental actions. As well as warning about imminent problem with food security. AND WE DECIDED TO GO A LITTLE FURTHER ON “CLIMATE RESILIENT” PRODUCTION As producers we have been battling the past 5 years with a wide array of climate-related risks in our agriculture business, incl. limited water resources, drought, desertification, land degradation, erosion, hail, flooding, etc. Our production yield is no longer only a matter of good practices and we have to look further ahead. We learned, by experience, that if we manage our local climate information, we can become more resilient to climate changes and strength our business model. It includes vulnerability analysis, identification of solutions, and development of key [1/3] Ingemann Food Nicaragua S.A. Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact elements of the business models based on weather forecast. Climate information is the key. Resilient business model consists of the adoption by a production unit of a series of best practices and technologies that take into account the growing climate impact. At INGEMANN we have identified an opportunity to incorporate climate information into agricultural development through a holistic integration of climate services into practices and policy for development decisions in agriculture and agro-financing. We call it AGROCLIMATICA: An agroclimatic platform that aids you in identifying and quantifying the risks and opportunities associated to agricultural credits and investments www.agroclimatica.com Proper use of weather and climate information can help to develop the right policies, institutional and community decisions that reduce related risks and enhance opportunities, improve the efficient use of limited resources and increase crop, livestock production and last but not least, open an opportunity for financial packages adapted to “Climate resilient” production. This addresses one of Nicaragua biggest challenges, namely access to finance for the agricultural sector. Effective weather and climate information and advisory services can make a significant difference in agricultural production by assisting farmers in taking the advantage of the good weather and in minimizing the impact of climate variability. INGEMANN IS PART OF SDG ACCELERATOR 2018 A UNDP PROGRAMME In the middle of the picture, Niels Ingemann Møller, Ingemann President and owner [2/3] Ingemann Food Nicaragua S.A. Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact SDG Accelerator is a UNDP programme that aspires to accelerate business solutions for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The programme is funded by The Danish Industry Foundation and is tested in Denmark in 2018 and 2019 with 30 Danish small and medium-sized industrial companies and then the aim is to roll out across the Nordics and globally. The SDG Accelerator runs for two years and offers the participating companies a unique opportunity for developing business solutions with a significant business potential and impact on the SDGs. Their work will be communicated to inspire other companies and make visible how the new global agenda for sustainable development can be operationalised in a business context, creating business benefits and impact on the SDGs. http://ingemann.com.ni/sdgaccelerator/ We invite you to follow us in our journey. Sincerely, Lars Saquero Møller General Manager, Ingemann [3/3]
