2019 COP 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Our Four Businesses 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Our Business Model Resources Creation of value People value 484 people hired in 2018 People 93% under permanent 2072 employees work contracts 45 nationalities 34% of women in the Top 50 Financial and Manufacturing Financial and resources manufacturing value 25 M€ in capital €573,3m in revenue expenditure 66,2 M€ in €59,8m in EBITDA acquisitions Environmental value Environmental in 2018 performance CO2 emissions per unit 244 774 MWh of of production down 7% energy used Water use per unit of 658 164 of cu.m of production down 16% water used Intellectual value Intellectual capital 25 Executives trained 16 R&D laboratories in the Game Changer €186,748 invested in program in partnership training with ESMT Berlin Blockchain innovation in securing a textile label 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Our CSR approach This Communication on Progress reports on the work carried out and progress made in establishing a formal and proactive non-financial performance strategy for Chargeurs, which began in early 2016. Our CSR policies are designed to drive inclusive, transparent growth, based on the highest standards of environmental stewardship, working conditions, health, safety and social equality. They are an integral part of our Chargeurs Business Standards. Chargeurs has yet committed to a number of international human rights standards currently in force, including: • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; • the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; • the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; • the International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions. Since 2017, Chargeurs Group has taken a more structured approach to steering CSR. The goal is to create both nonfinancial value and a “CSR family,” i.e., a network of active, highly motivated representatives. The Group’s entire governance structure is involved in this approach, as shown when the Global Compact was signed in front of the Group’s employees in 2017. Ever since this foundational event, the Group has anchored its approach in its operational processes, while explaining the reasons behind its approach so its teams buy into it. A dedicated project manager was hired to help guide this shift in 2017, which also led to the creation of a network of representatives (14 CSR correspondents in the business units in 2018) and the implementation of regular reporting (first COP in July 2018). Our inclusion in the Gaïa index at the end of 2018 was the first achievement honoring our investment and efforts in this area. 2018 was also the year of our first extra-financial performance declaration. It has marked a turning point in our CSR strategy, as it has been the starting point to identify our priority subjects. Our first Green Committee was then organized in 2019, as well as our first CSR Summit where workshops have enabled to identify three precise axles we since focus on: ❖ building a responsible supply chain, which involves starting to assess our suppliers on certain criteria; ❖ contribute to the SDGs and develop relevant KPIs; and ❖ integrating circular economy in our industrial processes. From now on, we also focus on dialoging with our stakeholders, in order to work together in the way of sustainability: we are indeed convinced that working alone won’t lead to any results. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS 2019, Our first CSR Summit Chargeurs 112 avenue Kléber 75116 Paris France Téléphone +33 (0)1 47 04 13 40 Fax +33 (0)1 47 04 40 27 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 2019, July the 25th Re: Membership renewal to the Global Compact. Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Chargeurs supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our company, and engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Chargeurs will remind to its stakeholders this commitment as often as necessary. We recognize that a key requirement for participating in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the UN Global Compact COP policy. This includes: • A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the UN Global Compact. • A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the UN Global Compact principles in each of the four issues areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption). • A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Sincerely yours, Michaël Fribourg Joëlle Fabre-Hoffmeister Chief Executive Officer Secretary General 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Ensuring proper representation of women in executive bodies Since May 6, 2019, we go further than the legal requirement as 50% of Board members are women. Target 5.5 There is also an increasing number of women in Group “Ensure women’s full management’s inner circle, since they are 17 in its TOP 50 and effective executives, representing 34% of it. participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life” The Responsible Purchasing Charter, ensuring respect for human rights through the strength and effectiveness of our supply chain. Target 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle Target 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Target 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, […] and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms Target 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers […] The Group has worked on establishing a set of criteria to share with suppliers. They constitute the minimum social, environmental and safety standards the Group expects of them to assure customers that our products are manufactured in socially and ethically acceptable conditions. These criteria have been set out formally in a Responsible Purchasing Charter, which has been given to our key suppliers from 2018. Social criteria Environmental criteria Health and workplace criteria Minimum working age and Environmental management Written records of accidents, child labor, freedom of systems, measurable objectives injuries and illnesses. Written association, right to organize and action plans to reduce instructions and safety trainings collective bargaining, emissions, consumption of including proper use of prohibition of forced or energy and natural resources, chemicals, tools, machines and compulsory labor, equal pay and hazardous and nonhazardous personal protection equipment. for men and women, and waste. Regular risk reviews to identify prohibition of all forms of and eliminate potential threats discrimination in to health and safety in the employment. workplace. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Multicultural teams for diversity Target 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status Chargeurs integrates into its teams more than forty nationalities. We are committed to create jobs in countries we work with. We are also convinced that cultural diversity is a major asset and is better than socalled mono-cultural teams. That’s why most of our managers worldwide are local managers. Facilitating the school-to-work transition for young people while promoting French excellence in the fashion industry. Target 11.b By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting and implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion Target 11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage Target 8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized enterprises Target 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training A variety of initiatives have been set in place at Chargeurs-PCC to give students and young designers a better understanding of interlinings and how they work. Conferences and trainings for fashion students One of Chargeurs-PCC’s Technical Sales Managers regularly leads conferences and training modules in many of France’s top fashion and design schools, such as Esmod, Chambre syndicale de haute couture, La Fabrique, ENSAD, ISAA, Atelier Chardon Savard, and others to follow in France, then England, Italy and Germany. Students are also offered the possibility of guided tours around its Buire-Courcelles plant (Lainière de Picardie). After graduating in 2018 from Atelier Chardon Savard, Lucas Meyer attended ChargeursSupporting young designers through The Young Designers’ PCC’s classes before becoming a member of Club the Club. “I had no idea just how important For two years now, Chargeurs-PCC’s Young Designers Club interlining was,” says Lucas. “I was given offers young designers small group courses and one-on-one advice throughout the session, as well as a follow-up sessions at the showroom on Rue de la Pierre large amount of the selected materials to work Levée in Paris. Young designers benefit from technical advice, with.” The collection he presented in May product studies, sampling, but also from showroom 2018 included several pieces that use products availability in Paris and access to our network of partners supplied by Chargeurs. “I was able to create across the world. The number of participants has risen new materials,” he continues. “I wanted a sharply, from 23 in 2017 to 74 in 2018. fabric that dried flowers could show through. I had some transparent silk for the outside, but for the inside, I needed a fabric capable of enclosing and keeping the flowers in place. Without Chargeurs-PCC’s support, help and products, several creations in my collection would never have made it to the runway.” Selected and illustrated by several fashion magazines, these flagship pieces enabled the designer to participate in the Young Designers Show held in Paris in August 2018. One of them was even presented at the Donjon de Vez, near Paris, which exhibits outstanding contemporary art. Connecting new generations with the world of industry Chargeurs opened its three French production plants to local schools on March 29, 2018 as part of the 7th French Youth Day initiatives. This day is an opportunity to connect young people with businesses through meetings in all sectors of the economy. 125 young people were able to learn about our businesses and gain a better understanding of the career opportunities that industry can offer them, including apprenticeship programs. In Normandie, at the Novacel site in Dévillelès-Rouen At Chargeurs-PCC, apprenticeships to safeguard and transfer know-how Since 2017, Chargeurs-PCC’s Buire Courcelles plant is developing apprenticeships in various trades (Warping, Knitting, Finishing, Dyeing, Inspection, Maintenance, IT, Finance). They combine practical, hands-on training in the workplace with more theoretical teaching related to the company’s business in an apprentice training center. This program enables young people to be prepared for working full-time in the company once they have finished their apprenticeship, and therefore to facilitate their integration in the professional world. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SAFETY FIRST! Reducing workplace accidents Target 8.8: Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all worker In 2015, all Chargeurs production sites signed the Safety Charter. One year later the Group added safety issues to its risk mapping. Following the Group’s audit of its US plants at end-2016, a follow-up audit was conducted at end-2017 to make sure that all remedial actions had been taken. The results of this approach were positive. It has helped to strengthen the consistency of our overall systems and resulted in increased frequency of controls in the field. First held on November 13, 2017, Safety Day aimed to heighten awareness and sharpen reactions at every stage of operations, while further developing a genuine safety culture that goes beyond mere compliance with regulations and standards. Each site organized its own program including for instance workshops on the theme of safety (using of extinguishers, posture workshops, onsite traffic regulations, etc.), site visits and trainings. Chargeurs plans to hold this event repeatedly, to encourage production plants to review the mandatory notices displayed in their premises as well as their safety instructions, and to update their staff training. On June 16, 2018, a second Safety Day was organized. Various topics were addressed in the different production sites: road risk, physical and mental preparation before taking a job (warm-ups, knee joint and muscle relief exercises), fire evacuation, etc. The third Safety Day is planned for September 19, 2019 and will continue to heighten awareness on everyone’s responsibility for collective safety. Next step for the group for what concerns safety: install the ISO 45001 safety management system at Novacel (branch of CPF), in order to constantly decrease the number of workplace accidents. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS CONCERTO, an innovation that helps to provide good working conditions for the employees of client companies. Target 8.8: Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all worker Novacel, world leader in manufacturing and marketing adhesive film for temporary surface protection applications, also invests in its customers’ safety and wellbeing in the workplace with Concerto, the Low Noise Technology which helps cut down on noise pollution in the workplace, thereby minimizing work-related stressors. Since 2017, rolls of high-adhesive protective film can be unwound at a noise level of less than 85 dB, which is below the current international standards and, in particular, the standards stipulated in European directive 2003/10/EC, which require personal protection equipment to be worn at a noise level above 85 dB. In addition to helping create a quiet working environment, Low Noise film rolls are also easier to install and unwind, offering a much reduced unwind force and less risky daily manual unwinding operations. Ensuring effective training Target 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship Target 8.6 By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training Chargeurs has developed several programs to welcome new staff, guide talented young employees, and help experienced managers roll out the Game Changer strategy in the field. A real onboarding process for new employees The ability to integrate new employees is critical during a stage of external growth, what Chargeurs precisely experience. The group therefore places a special focus on its onboarding programs for people joining the Group and is committed to tailoring these programs to individual needs. New employees are presented with an overview of the entire Group, which sometimes includes site visits, especially at the occasion of the Discovery Days (in France only). 2019 COP – CHARGEURS An ambitious training program, driving the group’s talent development The Group considers employee training as a priority and a key issue. In 2018, 17 hours of training were provided per person, a 31% increase compared with the previous year. Several training areas were identified for the 2018 training plan: Designed to support the Group’s project, these 35 000 hours of training are dedicated for the whole Group from the production line to the Management. A tailor-made training program with the ESMT Berlin School of Business 2018, Chargeurs worked with ESMT Berlin and its Hidden Champions Institute to develop a training program that would help its TOP 100 executives roll out the Game Changer plan. The program gave these managers five challenges so that they could propose solutions for problems faced by the Group. Their proposals were presented to the Executive Committee, which then decided whether to approve them. For the five challenges set in 2018, one solution has already been rolled out (Amédée Paris), two have already been approved and two are still under consideration. The inaugural session had 26 participants from four Chargeurs businesses around the world. In 2019, 26 more managers signed up for the program, including seven from companies that recently merged with the Group. Meanwhile, top management receives specialized training from Executive Committee in Berlin, Friday 28th first-rate educational September 2018 institutions such as Harvard Business School. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Nativa, a label for traceability of the wool and animal well-being NATIVA Target 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes […] To reassure their customers, luxury brands detailed protocol for applicants requesting now want to be able to inform them of the Nativa certification. The label combines a origin of the clothing materials they wear. In wide array of criteria, ranging from the 2017, CLM launched Organica Precious Fiber quality of grazing land soils to the treatment with the goal of providing the sector’s of sheep on the farm (engagement to use participants with an industry-standard label non-mulesing practices), with highly detailed whose certification criteria descriptions of recommended exceed those of the best practices to meet their Responsible Wool Standard needs and protect their physical (RWS), the ZQ Merino and the health at every stage of their Global Organic Textile Standard lives. There are also guidelines (GOTS). Lately, Organica covering employee relations became “Nativa”. This label and social issues, in line with seeks to make responsible CLM’s emphasis on ensuring purchasing an indispensable decent working conditions for process by guaranteeing the farmers and ranchers. To qualify quality and traceability of for the Nativa label, partners merino wool fibers across the value chain, must agree to be assessed by an independent from the farms where sheep are raised and third party that audits their facilities and shorn to the stores where the end-products management annually. Nativa is now are sold. As a dedicated defender of the supported by blockchain technology, to environment, human rights and animal guarantee traceability. (described in chapter welfare, CLM defined a comprehensive, 4,“Anti-corruption”). Nativa has been certified RWS since 2018, a label that certifies that sheep are treated with respect to their Five Freedoms: Freedom from Hunger and Thirst Freedom from Discomfort Freedom from Pain, Injury or Disease Freedom to Express Normal Behavior Freedom from Fear and Distress 2019 COP – CHARGEURS ALTERRA, Eco’ In and Deep Blue, or how innovation minimizes plastic pollution Target 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Target 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities With its deep commitment to ecoNovacel Deep Blue The Eco’ In range of design, Senfa developed Technology is an interlinings from Alterra, a product that innovation in Chargeurs-PCC uses uses the equivalent of protective films and an fibers made from two recycled plastic alternative to PVC recycled plastic bottles in each square products. It is free of bottles. meter of fabric. toxic materials and 100% recyclable. Controlling our air emissions Limiting our impact on climate change primarily means controlling our energy use and our air emissions. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) play a significant role in climate change. Chargeurs is committed to developing more and more solvent-free products and to installing modern, efficient solvent recovery units at its plants. Investing in ultra-modern solvent recovery or incineration units Three solvent recovery units have been installed by CPF, at the Déville-lès-Rouen plant in France and at the Boston Tapes plant in Italy. These units make it possible to reduce solvent purchases, significantly cut VOC emissions and reduce our environmental footprint during the transportation, handling and storage of hazardous substances. Innovating in solvent-free products SUBLIMIS® is a 100% polyester fabric coated on one side, designed for printing using water-based inks, which are more environmentally friendly than UV inks as they do not contain solvents and are odorless. Apart from these qualities, SUBLIMIS® meets the fire-resistant standards required for applications in public places. It was voted “Product of the Year” at the SGIA trade fair in Las Vegas. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Circular Economy in Uruguay Target 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally Target 6.5 By 2030, implement integrated water resources management at all levels Target 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix Target 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities Target 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources The processing of raw wool uses water in huge quantities since there are no limits set by local legislation. Consequently, to offset the waterintensive nature of CLM’s wool processing operations, the Lanas Trinidad wool combing factory in Uruguay uses 800 cubic meters a day drawn from a large rainwater catchment system that they built, and capable of holding one million cubic meters. All this wastewater is then returned after use. Not far from the manufacturing unit, a 140-hectare farm has a completely natural water treatment system that uses bacteria to purify water, collecting the resulting hydrocarbons. Once treated, this water is used to irrigate local crops. For the past three years, the system also captures the resulting biogas, which is then combusted to produce a quarter of the electricity used by the site. In 2019, Lanas Trinidad wool mill received the Circular Economy prize from the National Agency for Sustainable Development (ANDE) and the United Nations Partnership Action on Green Economy (PAGE UN). 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Investment in the eco-design management system at CTS Target 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities The eco-design management system aims to design more environmentally friendly products. This design method is based on a holistic, multi-criteria analysis aiming to reduce a product’s future environmental impacts across its life cycle, from raw material extraction to manufacture, transportation, utilization, and end-of-life. The French standards association AFAQ-AFNOR has awarded CTS’ management system the AFAQ Confirmed Eco-Design label, which equates to level three out of a possible four and certifies that the environmental management system for CTS products is sufficiently mature. Upcycling at CTS Target 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse CTS works in partnership with “Bilum” to give a second life to technical textiles first made for brands’ external communication. Indeed, “Bilum” collects them to make accessories out of it. The models are then unique. This is an example of CTS’ waste recovery. Investment in an Ethiopian eco-park for CFT Target 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources To meet customer demand, Chargeurs Fashion Technologies set up its first African production facility at the industrial park located in Hawassa, Ethiopia. It is the country’s first major eco-friendly development. The park meets the highest environmental standards and employs Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) technology, a water treatment process in which all wastewater is purified and recycled, therefore leaving zero discharge at the end of the treatment cycle. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Next Steps for 2019 SEDEX Target 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle Sedex is a collaborative platform that provides a way to assess responsible supply chain activities, including labour rights, health & safety, the environment and business ethics. It enables its members to show their customers that they respect the principles of ethically and socially sustainable production. Chargeurs’ goal for 2019 is to start assessing its suppliers (at least 2) through Sedex to make sure that they include sustainability in their activities, and therefore to continuously share our values with them. SCOPE 3 The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard classifies a company’s GHG emissions into three ‘scopes. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. The Chargeurs Group’s CO2 emissions fall within scopes 1 and 2. Chargeurs’ four divisions common goal is to integrate the scope 3 in the CO2 calculation. We for instance plan to start tracking the carbon footprint of our professional travels through Egencia, the agency we work with. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Chargeurs-PCC innovates with a range of sustainable products Our products certified: LCA Example: One jacket fused with our sustainable products = 1.1 2L bottle of water recycled saved And also ... ◼ From now on, the group’s objective is to estimate the turnover realized with “green products”, as one of its KPI. ◼ A commitment for Chargeurs-PCC and CLM was agreed during the Group’s Green Committee to sign the Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action. ◼ Two main commitments to 30 percent aggregate GHG emission reductions in scope 1, 2 and 3 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard by 2030 against a baseline of no earlier than 2015. ◼ As soon as possible and latest by 2025, commit not to install new coal-fired boilers or other sources of coalfired heat and power generation, on sites within Tier one and Tier two. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS Chargeurs strives to operate ethically and transparently and to comply with all national and international laws in force regarding bribery and influence peddling. It takes a zero-tolerance approach to such matters in all its host countries. Chargeurs also requires that its customers, suppliers and subcontractors implement a suitable policy to combat bribery and influence peddling: An Ethics Clause has been incorporated into the Terms and Conditions of our French sales subsidiaries. Target 16.6 Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels Target 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making at all levels A formal, widely circulated Code of Conduct In 2017, Chargeurs grouped together and that came into force on July 3, 2016. The document enshrined in its Code of Conduct all the values, also meets a legal requirement introduced by the rules and principles it wants applied within the Sapin II law of December 9, 2016. As required by the Group. The Code provides rigorous guidance on new law, all employees, subcontractors and topics such as health, safety, environment, temporary staff can report violations of the Code of forced and child labor and all forms of Conduct to the Group’s ethics authorities through a harassment and discrimination and promoting whistleblowing procedure, with a dedicated email respect for equality, especially in terms of the address available on the group’s website. A Chief wage gap between men and women. The Group Compliance Officer works to ensure the Code is commits to ensuring freedom of association, properly understood and applied. To prevent and acting scrupulously in terms of transparency and manage situations involving bribery, conflicts of the fight against bribery and influence peddling. interest or fraud, all employees are required to The Group has also updated its code of conduct acknowledge their agreement to the principles set out related to stock market transactions and the in the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is prevention of insider trading. The updated code available on Chargeurs’ website at www.chargeurs.fr. now complies with the European Union’s market https://www.chargeurs.fr/en/content/corporateabuse regulation (“MAR regulation” 596/2014) social-responsibility 2019 COP – CHARGEURS An Ethics Committee established In addition to the Code of Conduct, the Group has created an Ethics Committee, which includes three well known people from outside the Group selected for their impartiality and their experience. The Group’s Chief Compliance Officer can refer to the Committee as necessary, particularly in whistleblowing cases but also for: • defining and recommending best governance and ethics practices for the Group to the Board of Directors; • overseeing and verifying the proper implementation of the Code of Conduct; • providing an advisory opinion on any situation that may violate the Code of Conduct; • investigating violations reported through the whistleblowing system and deciding what action needs to be taken: closing the case, adopting appropriate corrective measures or initiating disciplinary and/or legal proceedings. CLM’s Blockchain technology, guarantee of perfect traceability Blockchain is a distributed database that uses encryption to store information in a tamper-resistant way. It ensures a complete traceability in complex supply chains. The CLM Blockchain is used by all Nativacertified partners throughout wool processing. This makes it possible to trace the origin of each finished product, with a QR code that returns the farm of origin– a revolution in the textile industry. 2019 COP – CHARGEURS
