H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA October 7, 2019 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, We are pleased to confirm that PowerMe Mobile S.A.L. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. We obey all applicable laws and regulations, both in letter and in spirit. We believe all our employees must share and pursue the same beliefs. We do our business fairly, impartially, and ethically, We obey all applicable laws and regulations We respect the environment and are aware of, and minimize our impact on it. We don’t do anything that may raise questions about our honesty, impartiality, reputation or ability to conduct our business. Description of Actions: Human Rights Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. It is the Company’s policy to provide a working environment free of any other form of discriminatory harassment based on sex, sexual orientation, religion, age, race, color, creed, pregnancy-related status, marital status or physical or mental disability where the individual is otherwise qualified. Such prohibited illegal harassment includes any conduct, whether physical, verbal or visual – implicit or explicit with the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, abusive or offensive work environment such as but not limited to bullying, discrediting, namecalling, identifying jokes, stereotyping, or other demeaning and insulting behavior because a person is a member of an identifiable group. The company promptly investigates such allegations and takes appropriate corrective action if warranted. PowerMe Mobile S.A.L., Capital LL228,000,000 (CR 1002263) 2100 Youssef El Rami Street, Horch Tabet, Beirut, Lebanon Tel: 961-1-494941 Email: info@powermemobile.com Labour Comply with minimum wage standards Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Environment Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) A zero-waste policy has been instituted in our new offices situated in Horch Tabet starting July 1, 2018. Our goal is to send all recyclable waste to specialized outlets for proper disposal. We are striving to reduce paper usage to a minimum. Anti-Corruption Assess the risk of corruption when doing business Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment. These are the rules of conduct based on honesty, common sense, and fair play: 1) Falsifying any reports or records, or giving false information with respect to personal, absence, sickness or any other work-related issues. 2) Repetitive or habitual absenteeism and lateness. 3) Abuse, destruction or stealing of the company property, equipment or property of fellow employees. 4) Posting or removal of notices, signs or writing in any form, on any bulletin board on company property without permission from the management. 5) Reporting to work or being present on company property under the influence of alcohol, narcotics or drugs that have not been prescribed by medical authorization or dispensing narcotics or prescribed drugs on company property. 6) Threatening, intimidating or coercing fellow employees at any time. 7) Fighting or attempting to injure a person on company property or the use of sexually explicit, abuse, racist, sexist, threatening or harassing language towards an employee. 8) Divulging company information of a confidential nature to unauthorized persons. 9) Failing to give a satisfactory explanation of whereabouts or presence at unauthorized locations during the course of working hours. 10) Failing to follow instructions of the authorized supervisor. 11) Gambling, conducting games of change or processing gambling equipment on company premises. PowerMe Mobile S.A.L., Capital LL228,000,000 (CR 1002263) 2100 Youssef El Rami Street, Horch Tabet, Beirut, Lebanon Tel: 961-1-494941 Email: info@powermemobile.com 12) Soliciting, distributing or receiving any pamphlets, memberships, handbills or other non-company literature in non-working areas during your work time and/or in work areas at any time. 13) Ignoring common sense safety practices. 14) Failing to follow the call-in procedure to report absence or lateness. 15) Sleeping on company premises during working hours. 16) The violation of any other rule, which may be established as conditions necessitate. 17) Promoting, distributing and receiving any material of political nature, or engaging in a political activity in company premises. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 1. Women comprise more than 50% of our workforce 2. Our salary level are above national levels 3. Our employees are provided a healthy work environment 4. We do not support any corruption practices when dealing with our customers and suppliers 5. We have taken all necessary measures to comply with environmental procedures in our offices, starting from striving for a zero waste policy to reducing electricity consumption and water savings. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Bassam Tueni CEO PowerMe Mobile S.A.L., Capital LL228,000,000 (CR 1002263) 2100 Youssef El Rami Street, Horch Tabet, Beirut, Lebanon Tel: 961-1-494941 Email: info@powermemobile.com
