B e y o n d t h e A c t o f R e s p o n s i b i l i t y 2018 Annual Sustainability Report 2018 Annual Sustainability Report CREATING OPPORTUNITIES B e y o n d t h e A c t o f R e s p o n s i b i l i t y Starting with as a single product lease finance company back in 1985, IDLC Finance Limited has now emerged as the largest multi-product Non-Banking Financial Institution in the country. Since its inception, IDLC has been a story of success and growth. The foundation of reaching such heights is built on the trust of our stakeholders through demonstrating good governance, transparency as well as engaging and empowering communities. At IDLC, we always concentrate our efforts in bringing happiness to people by helping them achieve their dreams through delivering great products and services, as well as through taking initiatives to contribute towards health, education and environment sectors. To continue our actions in spreading happiness, we believe that ensuring sustainability for our organization and society is of utmost importance. Going forward, we want to carry on our work on sustainability and society by Creating Opportunities beyond the Act of Responsibilities. TABLE OF CONTENT PREFACE Statement from the Chairman 001 Statement from the CEO and Managing Director 003 Reporting Parameters 005 Our Approach 006 Focus Areas 007 Khushir Kheya – The Voyage So Far 008 SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES AND PROJECTS Education 009 Our Acts in Education 011 Our Partner Organizations 016 Healthcare 018 Our Acts in Healthcare 020 Our Partner Organizations 022 Environment 024 Our Acts in Environment 026 Our Partner Organizations 027 Extended Responsibilites 028 Our Acts 029 Our Partner Organization 031 MILESTONES Diversity and Inclusion 032 Purnota – Financing Happiness of Women Entrepreneurs 033 Oditiya Scholarship 034 IDLC Physically Challenged Cricket Tournament 036 Financial Literacy 037 IDLC – THE COMPANY Our Philosophies 038 Core Highlights, 2018 039 Our Range of Products and Services 040 Contribution to the National Economy 042 Value Added Statement 043 Our Business Model 044 Business Segment Revies: Lending Business Operations 047 Green Banking 048 Business Segment Review: Subsidiary Business Operations 049 Human Capital 051 Natural Capital 053 Statement of Corporate Governance 054 Communicaiton and Relationship with Shareholders 055 SKATEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & GRI REPORTING Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 086 GRI – G4 Reporting Index 089 STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN Our long-term success has been a result of our focus on business diversification, process improvement, people, and most importantly, corporate governance. We have pushed to explore new avenues for income and have taken initiatives to build the foundations for the next big leaps through investments that will enable us to utilize sustainable growth opportunities. We have invested in raising our employee morale via engagement activities, fair performance appraisals and training undertakings to facilitate better performance. Looking back on our activities over the years reveals a repeated series of self-reforms aimed at becoming a company that provides value to society. Technology advances and innovation lead to competitive advantages, and promote a renewed awareness of the need for the ability to transform ourselves. When standing at a turning point, in order to draw an image of the future, we must shift to new ways of thinking. At IDLC, we believe in growth beyond just the projected portfolio and profitability. Growth is also the enhancement of stakeholder value and the developing of our community at large. Bearing this in mind, our dedicated team tirelessly works to integrate the community at large within our core value that strengthens our foundations. 001 Over 550 volunteers were mobilised through our on-line CSR platform Khushir Kheya donating around 3000 volunteer hours for working together to resolve issues at community level, resulting in over 34,000 smiles since 2017. Through our sustainability projects and acts, we have helped establish schools in remote locations such as Chattogram Hill Tracts and Latarchar – a remote river island of Patuakhali, organized free health camps for cataract and cleft lip patients, enhanced medical facilities and provided scholarships to females who are first in their families to attain education at university level. We believe that our small efforts will lend a hand into integrating We believe that it is important not just various minds and efforts, from institutional to individual to achieve good results, but to do so in levels, to help build our surrounding community, and in effect a sustainable economy. a way that treats all of our stakeholders employees, customers, regulators and As part of this commitment, the Board and I are determined shareholders in a fair and transparent to ensure that IDLC remains a place exhibiting highest integway. rity and honesty and we will continue to promote a culture of excellent governance. It is on the back of this good governance practice that we are the highest tax payer among all the 34 financial institutions in the country and continue to receive “Highest Tax Payer” award honoured by the National Board of Revenue (NBR). As one of Bangladesh’s oldest and leading non-banking financial institutions, we remain committed to our customer-centric drive which we will continue to improve further in the years to come. Wishing you much happiness, Aziz Al Mahmood Chairman IDLC Finance Limited 002 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO AND MANAGING DIRECTOR It is my pleasure to share with you that by adhering to sustainable financing and responsible growth, the talented and diligent team of IDLC with over 1400 employees has successfully catalysed a 17.4% growth in business through our lending operations and 30% growth in turnover from foreign clients for our brokerage service vertical. We did this by living and practicing the fact that every transaction has a purpose, and our purpose is to finance happiness. Over the years, we have taken strides to deliver superior value to our customers, preserve and improve on our practices of promoting transparency for our investors and regulators; optimising work-life balance, performance appraisal and compensation packages for our colleagues and do our bit for the society at large. Many of our past initiatives have stemmed from direct feedback from our stakeholders. As society continues to increase its expectations for businesses to deliver solutions sustainable for our planet, we see opportunities to offer solutions that can help meet those expectations. We are committed to promoting sustainable development and are continuously exploring opportunities that will help us contribute to the SDGs, 003 particularly in the areas of financial inclusion and green financing. On the sustainability initiative forefront, where we have gained momentum on the on-line CSR platform– Khushir Kheya – we have also launched the first component of our nationwide financial program – Orther Ortho – envisioning it to be a one-stop solution for most financial management issues and queries of the young growing population of our country. Financial inclusion is crucial for sustainable growth and developing skills on the youth on financial literacy is one of the many avenues to attain the SDGs. Moreover to encourage and inform the target audience, we partnered with Robi 10 Minute School and organized the As a financial institution, we are first-ever online Finance Olympiad, where more than 20,000 students of school, college and university registered and acutely aware that everything they participated. we do is an investment in the future. Sustainability permeates all our Additionally we were able to renovate and construct actions and it can be said that infrastructure of eight primary schools and enter long term commitment with Prothom Alo Trust to support higher sustainability is a value that truly education of females from impoverished areas through drives business for IDLC Oditiya scholarship project. On the healthcare arena, in collaboration with visionary partners, 5,000 individuals were facilitated with better healthcare and counselling. I hope you find it informative and enjoyable to read more about our sustainability initiatives and corporate governance in the following pages, where I hope you will be able to read about how we are helping to make financial lives better through every connection. Thank you for your support and endorsements. With warmest regards, Arif Khan, CFA FCMA CEO & Managing Director IDLC Finance Limited 004 REPORTING PARAMETERS Publication date of the most recent Reporting period Report edition previous report January 1 – December 31, 2018 8th April 2018 Reporting cycle GRI-G4 level Annual ‘In Accordance’ – Core Methodology and Materiality GRI-G4 guidelines require stakeholder engagement to identify the material CSR and sustainability aspects for inclusion in the report. Through discussions and several one-on-one meetings we have identified priority issues through discussions with the Board, the management teams and employees of the company. CSR team also conducted interviews with CSR partners and beneficiaries and reviewed existing and new regulatory practices and incorporated the same, while drafting the report. The following were revealed as a result of the discussions that influence IDLC’s economic, environmental and social performance. Scope The core focus of this report is the CSR initiatives of IDLC. In addition, issues affecting the long-term sustainability of the Company’s overall operations have also been incorporated. Boundary The report details how IDLC addresses the material issues stated above and how these significantly influence performance both within and outside the organisation. Contact Information Please email your valuable suggestions and opinions to hayesha@idlc.com, or contact Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, IDLC Finance Limited, at +88-0173-0374585. 005 OUR APPROACH Our sustainability commitment is an Over the years, these initiatives have helped us institutionalized approach that has existed from the create a more robust organisation in terms of time of our conception. The idea of sustainability is assuming responsibility across all levels, ingrained into the very personality of our embracing the right decisions and making the right organization, influencing the way we think and act. choices, enabling us to achieve our desired impact. It summarizes the very bottom line of our existence Our cornerstone for such initiatives is integrating consistent enhancement of value for all our the 3Ps: People, Planet and Profit. At IDLC, we stakeholders. believe that our most important contribution to sustainable development is to operate an effective and profitable financial institution. By providing At IDLC, we follow a unique access to credit and savings products, we enable concept where our commitment individuals to improve their quality of life and enhance their financial security; by providing towards our stakeholders, the finance to large and small businesses, we facilitate environment and the community economic growth and job creation; and by financing is reflected in our everyday key sectors crucial for our economic development. decisions and operations. Thus Corporate Social Responsibility We strive to deliver superior sustainable shareholder value by serving the needs of our (CSR) is closely integrated with customers through our passionate, dedicated and our business strategies to create talented team, guided by a Management and Board that brings with it a wealth of experience, navigating the maximum value. us through business cycles. 006 FOCUS AREAS The term Corporate Social Responsibility or CSR has evolved over the last few decades to broaden its scope from mere philanthropic contributions to strategic business decisions. The CSR definition used by businesses globally revolve around the notion of “Operating a business in a manner that meets or exceeds the ethical, legal, commercial and public expectations that society has of business.” CSR is a concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interactions with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis. We carry out our CSR not only to build a culture of ‘doing good’ by ourselves but also involve others in the act of doing good thereby ensuring sustainability of the act itself, which in the long-run will help attain relevant Sustainable Development Goals. IDLC’S MODEL FOR SUSTAINABILITY IS BASED ON THE 3P APPROACH – PEOPLE, PLANET AND PROFIT: • People, our stakeholders with whom we engage and the community where we live in • Planet, our surrounding environment and the planet • Profit, our profit-generating capacity vital for long-term sustenance Internal Internal In-house green office Our staff guidelines Talent Management Water manangement ( Training/Skills development) People Energy Efficient External Power Consumption Corporate and Non-corporate Paper-less approach partners, NGOs/CSOs Development partners, Suppliers, Creative LEED Certified Branches agencies, Media CSR projects education Profit Planet /schools/stipend External Tree plantations Green workshops Internal Roof-top gardening Performance awards/bonus Garbage collection and disposal projects External Safe drinking water / tube-wells Sanitation Revenue GDP contribuƟon Highest tax payer IDLC sustainability initiatives and projects of 2018, was implemented under thematic areas broadly categorised as Education, Health and Preventive Cure and Environmental Initiatives, while others have been conducted under the umbrella of extended responsibilities. All the initiatives have been designed and upon integrating each activity with relevant Sustainable Development Goals. 007 KHUSHIR KHEYA THE VOYAGE SINCE 2017 The platform–Khushir Kheya -is a project which aims to bring together volunteers, stakeholders, employees and various partners to tackle social problems. Various initiatives were planned and being executed to improve underprivileged communities all across Bangladesh in fields of health, education, nutrition and livelihood, and work to preserve the environment. OVER 550 VOLUNTEERS PARTICIPATED IN THE CAMPAIGN DONATING AROUND 3000 OVER VOLUNTEER HOURS 24000 NOW HAVE ACCESS TO FRESH AIR DUE TO OUR PLANTATIONS 7000 BENEFICIARY RECEIVED DIRECT HEALTHCARE OVER 2030 SUPPORT STUDENTS RECEIVED SCHOOL SUPPLIES & SUPPORT 8 SCHOOLS GOT THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPED OVER 1200 FAMILIES RECEIVED DISASTER AID OVER 3 4 0 0 0 S MI LE S WERE S P R E A D TH RO U GH T H I S C A M PA I GN 008 SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES AND PROJECTS EDUCATION Quality 4 Education SDG 6 Clean Water And Sanitation GOALS ACHIEVED Partnerships 17 For The Goals Our projects and initiatives are designed to cater to the marginalised and hard-to-reach communities who usually do not have any access to quality education. Through multiple activities and in partnership with dedicated and transparent partners, our sustainability initiatives are integrated with relevant SDGs and implemented as per need of the community. Targeted SDGs are SDG 4, ensure clean water and sanitation SDG 6 and establish sustainable and creative partnerships – SDG 17. Our initiatives aim to improve the lives of those excluded through education and social and economic development. Our programs aim to help improve adult education, educate specific marginal communities, increase income range and improve overall livelihood. Working in concert with several local, private and non-governmental organisations, our projects and initiatives support effective local management and promote partnerships between local organizations. 009 EDUCATION 1730 STUDENTS EMPOWERED 400 9 EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS VOLUNTEER HOURS RECEIVED SUPPORT 1 LIBRARY WAS BUILT AND FURNISHED WITH FURNITURE & FIXTURES 300 STUDENTS ATTENDED FREE PRACTICAL CLASSES ON THE 200 ENVIRONMENT DIFFERENTLY ABLED CHILDREN SUPPORTED BY SCHOOL VEHICLES 400 STUDENTS NOW HAVE ACCESS TO PROPER SANITATION 600 STUDENTS AND 53+ TEACHERS HAVE ACCESS TO SAFE DRINKING WATER 010 OUR ACTS IN EDUCATION Noakhali Renovating and Expanding a Local Cultural Hub To facilitate & encourage the cultural participation of students at Begumganj Cultural Academy & Library of Noakhali, IDLC took the initiative to renovate, refurbish their cultural activity classrooms and library. The institution used to accommodate 20-30 students per classroom and after completion of the construction work, the local cultural hub is being able to accommodate 100 students per classroom. To celebrate the collaboration an art competition was organized by IDLC Noahkhali Branch team in Begumganj Cultural Academy & Library. Rangpur Enhancing Access to Education in Remote Areas With an aim to enhance the school facilities necessary for education, IDLC supported the expansion of Rangpur branch of Jaago Foundation School through building a new classroom. The expansion facilitated the accommodation of 75 students per day which is 1,650 students per month (22 days). This approach was dedicated towards the enhancement of facilities for education provided to children living in rural areas who will be able to study in classrooms in similar set up to urban environment. To celebrate this partnership an Art competition was organized for 40 students from Class II to encourage a healthy and positive competitive environment on the day. The competition was organised by IDLC Rangpur Branch team. 011 Chattogram Supporting Females to Pursue Higher Education As part of its commitment to ensure sustainable development through community empowerment, IDLC Finance Limited entered an arrangement with Prothom Alo Trust to initiate and implement “Oditiya” – a scholarship program for females from low-income earning socio-economic backgrounds who are first in the families and eligible to attain higher education. Asian University for Women (AUW) is a leading international institution of higher education, which has committed to provide superior quality higher education to women, regardless of background. The underlying vision is to help women evolve economically with the help of education and thus progress to a brighter future. Prothom Alo Trust has been implementing this project since 2007, and on 27th October 2018 IDLC officially announced partnership with the organisation to award scholarship through monthly stipends to ten students for each batch, from 2017 till 2024. Only undergraduate students are eligible for Oditiya scholarship. During the first scholarship award ceremony, 16 students of Asian University for Women received scholarship from this collaborated initiative. Nationwide First-Ever Online Finance Olympiad Financial Inclusion is crucial for sustainable growth of any nation and with this in forefront, IDLC conceived a nationwide financial literacy project, the first step of which was to develop and launch a microsite – Orther Ortho. The microsite has been developed to be a one-stop solution for most financial management issues and queries of the young growing population – College and University students. In order to inform and promote this e-education platform, IDLC partnered with Robi 10 Minute School and organized the first-ever online finance olympiad. More than 20,000 students of school, college and university registered and participated in the online finance olympiad at the end of which 50 deserving contestants were shortlisted for the offline round. Later 24 contestants competed for the champion’s title in two groups, in front of a live audience. IDLC took this initiative as part of its social responsibility to impart knowledge and help enhance skills of the youth on financial literacy all across the nation. The winners received laptops, mobile phone handsets, trophy, medals and certificates. Orther Ortho’ www.ortherortho.com,’ the E-learning financial literacy platform was formally launched at the end of the event. 012 Sylhet Enhancing Access to Primary Education in Remote Locations Using its branch networks, IDLC works with the communities in various ways to improve the lives and livelihoods along with creating better access to education. In response to a report published on The Daily Star, IDLC extended assistance to Chhalia Government Primary School in Sylhet for renovation and expansion of the classrooms. Now the students have a classroom and no longer need to do classes under the open sky in the field. To celebrate the collaboration an event was organised in school premise where around 120 students participated in sports and quiz games upon pre-selection by the school authority. Bogra Upholding the Dreams of Those Excluded Every child has a right to quality education. As part of its drive to facilitate education even for the ones with special needs, IDLC extended assistance to Karim Para Autistic & Buddhi Protibondhi Biddaloy in Gabtoli, Bogra by extending the school building with an extra room, thus converting it into an activity corner. In order to help the students commute, IDLC also provided two school vans. The activity corner for the children includes a reading corner, arts and crafts corner and an audio-visual corner. IDLC Bogra Branch team dedicated their time and effort in ensuring the construction, procurement and installations were done on time. 013 Rangamati Sajek Ensuring Education For The Farthest Corners Of Bangladesh IDLC as part of its sustainability initiative, to enhance access to education for the remotest corners of the country, has completed the construction of school house for the students of Agamir Pathshala, Sajek. This project was implemented in collaboration with Agami Education Foundation and facilitated by IDLC Nandankanon Branch team. On 20 February 2019, the school house with its newly renovated lavatory, was officially inaugurated amidst a half-day sports event engaging all the 50 school children. Through this it was reinstated that IDLC attempts to contribute to the intellectual development of children by contributing positively to education and environment. And IDLC believes building schools and ensuring better infrastructure is one of the sustainable solutions that compliment this approach. Latarchar, Patuakhali First-ever Primary School established in Latarchar A Remote Village in Patuakhali One of the most rewarding experience of IDLC’s education projects in 2018 was probably realized after seeing the smiling faces of the 95 students’ enrolled in the first school at Latarchar, the construction of which was fund by entirely by IDLC. Latarchar is a remote village in Patuakhali where there was no schools until now. The two closest schools are at a distance of 5km, where it takes at least an hour to travel by foot and boat. Therefore, the only solution was to build a school within the community and to make that happen, IDLC partnered with Obhizatrik Foundation and donated educational tools and stationery for 120 students in the school. The school was officially inaugurated on 20th February 2019. This project and consequently the opening was co-facilitated by IDLC Barishal Branch team. 014 Faridpur Building a Library for Gerda School Bookworms IDLC as part of its sustainability drive to ensure greater access to education, officially inaugurated the newly-constructed library, and furnished with required furniture and fixtures in March 2019. IDLC believes a stable environment and permanent facility play key roles in a child’s development. And as part of our drive to positively contribute to the national human capital index, IDLC will continue taking such initiative to ensure better access to education. The entire project was conducted and facilitated by IDLC Faridpur Branch team. Gazipur Renovation and Extension of School Building at Gazipur IDLC as part of its sustainability initiative, to enhance access to education for the remotest corners of the country, has recently completed the extension and renovation of Begum Rina Model Academy at Gazipur. Begum Rina Model Academy, is a small school in Gazipur which only caters to children from low-income social economic backgrounds. The school authority runs the school with revenue generated from another school which caters to the more affluent communities. However, due to lack of immediate funding the school was not been able to accommodate the growing number of students. When the IDLC Gazipur team visited the location, upon careful assessment and due diligence it was agreed that the school can be further extended by two or three classrooms to accommodate the children. Thus the work which began in December was completed by end of January 2019. 015 OUR PARTNER ORGANIZATION Obhizatrik Foundation OBHIZATRIK Foundation is a government registered voluntary organization working since 2010 with 3500 volunteers across seven districts in Bangladesh. OBHIZATRIK has supported relief efforts in Bangladesh and Nepal, established three free schools with meals for 400 children, empowered 400 families by their livelihood project and currently operates free weekly clinics for the poor. The organisation is led by Ahmed Imtiaz Jami who is a global shaper of World Economic Forum. Our Work: We partnered with Obhizatrik Foundation to build the first-ever primary school in Latarchar a remote village in Patuakhali. With their help we were able to provide educational supplies and stationery for 120 students enrolled in the school. http://www.obhizatrik.foundation/ https://www.facebook.com/obhizatrik/ 016 OUR PARTNER ORGANIZATION Prothom Alo Trust The Prothom Alo Trust was formed as a not for profit organization in 2009 under the Trusts Act. Maintaining its 'non-profit' stature, the Prothom Alo Trust looks forward to working with people whenever mishaps, tragedies pose a threat of a ruthless end to their hopes, dreams and aspirations. The Trust aims to work with hapless victims of Acid Violence; it works towards raising awareness against substance abuse among the youth. Prothom Alo Trust strives to put a smile on people whenever tragedies strike so that their dreams do not die in the face of tragedies and they can regain hope, self-confidence and resume living life. Our Work: IDLC partnered with Prothom Alo Trust and initiated the six-year long project ‘Oditiya’ a scholarship program for females from marginalized communities, who are first in the their families qualified for University education. Website: https://www.prothomalo.com/trust Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Palotrust/ 017 HEALTHCARE Good 3 Health SDG GOALS ACHIEVED Partnerships 17 For The Goals We build and utilise partnerships SDG 17 with institutions and non-governmental organisations at national and community levels to bring practical solutions to underprivileged areas, particularly women and children, at greatest risk. We envision a nation with reduced rate of infant mortality and good health SDG 3 for all. All disasters, whether natural, large scale epidemics or based on conflict are health issues, affecting the health of the populations and bringing about substantial loss and disruption to public health systems. Apart from the direct impact from hazards such as trauma and injuries, disasters exacerbate the most common causes of childhood illness and death including diarrhea, pneumonia, malaria, malnutrition and neonatal causes due to disruption of health systems and essential services. In case of an emergency, our emergency health interventions are to provide support to governments and partners across the continuum from development, prevention, preparedness, response and recovery. Pure drinking water is often an issue of water-borne diseases and thus wherever we work, we try to ensure there is availability of safe and clean drinking water. If any discrepancy found, through our partners we try to ensure safe drinking water either by installing deep tube wells or ensuring the community has access to water filters. 018 HEALTHCARE 300 VOLUNTEER HOURS 60+ 2000 NEWBORNS HAVE ACCESS TO ENHANCED VOLUNTEERS MOBILISED INTENSIVE HEALTH CARE FACILITIES 2000 MOTHERS HAVE ACCESS TO SAFE-CHILD 48 BIRTH AND TREATMENT CHILDREN WITH CLEFT LIPS ENABLED TO SMILE 50 SENIOR CATARACT PATIENTS GIFTED WITH EYESIGHT 400 SENIOR CITIZENS PRONE TO CATARACT RECEIVED COUNSELLING AND MEDICINES 2 HEALTH CAMPS ACROSS THE COUNTRY 200 MINORS DIAGNOSED WITH 5000 CANCER RECEIVED EID-UL-FITR GIFTS PEOPLE FACILITATED WITH AND EDUTAINMENT BETTER HEALTHCARE AND COUNSELLING 019 OUR ACTS IN HEALTHCARE Matuail Enhancing Medical Facilities for the Mother and the Child In light of its corporate social responsibility, IDLC Finance Limited pledges to join all efforts towards better healthcare and facilities for all. Quality and affordable health care is a crucial determinant of human capital. With regard to this vision, IDLC Finance Limited recently donated a neonatal ventilator and furnished the NICU Mothers Room and Kangaroo Mother Care corner of ICMH with 50 hospital beds and air conditioners for two rooms. Institute of Child and Mother Health (ICMH) is dedicated to improve health and nutrition of mother and child, located in Matuail, Dhaka. Bogra A humble Effort to Make Everyone Smile Breaking Boundaries Health care is one of the basic human rights and IDLC Finance Limited prioritizes children from impoverished areas who cannot access affordable health care. 48 children from underprivileged communities born with cleft lips were operated on by ten doctors from Sadhinota Chikitshok Parishad, Bogra and Dhaka Medical College Hospital who volunteered to be part of a surgery camp organized by IDLC Finance Limited. As a part of its CSR initiative, IDLC organised the cleft lip surgery camp at the premises of TMSS Medical College and Rafattullah Community Hospital, Bogra. 30 volunteers were mobilised during the event in total, which was facilitated by IDLC Bogra Branch team. The camp was an effort to ensure that innocent children can smile to their hearts’ content disregarding all societal barriers. 020 Jashore Helping the Underprivileged Gain Back Clear Vision IDLC in partnership with Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation, organised a four-day cataract surgery camp at Jashore. 50 people of different age groups from underprivileged communities, diagnosed with cataract were operated on by doctors from Nova Medical Centre. Among the patients, almost 60 percent were female senior citizens and rest male senior citizens. The entire camp was co-facilitated by IDLC Jashore Branch team. 021 OUR PARTNER ORGANIZATION Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation was founded by Tazin Shadid in 2011 with a hope of empowering underprivileged people, break the cycle of poverty. Before starting Spreeha, he founded and ran a healthcare program for five years that provides healthcare to people living in urban slums. Spreeha is a merge of a bit of Social innovation, a bit of technological innovation and quite a lot of problem solving. Spreeha team is in relentless pursuit of empathizing with real human problems. Spreeha believes that big change happens through individual incremental changes. Our Work: IDLC collaborated with Spreeha and organised a cataract surgery camp at Nova Medical Centre in Jashore. 50 people of different age groups from underprivileged communities, diagnosed with cataract were operated on by doctors from Nova Medical Centre. Website: http://spreehabd.org/ Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/spreehabd/ 022 OUR PARTNER ORGANIZATION Institute of Mother and Child Health Matuail Situated beside the Dhaka-Chittagong highway at Matuail, Institute of Child and Mother Health (ICMH) has the largest Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) which treats critical newborns residing in nearby areas. With a capacity of accommodating 100 newborns at a time, this hospital currently admits 15 to 20 newborns each day on an average. Unfortunately, the facilities was not fully equipped to accommodate the influx of newborns with life threatening situations. Our Work: IDLC equipped the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of Institute of Child and Mother Health with a High Frequency Neonatal Ventilator to save infant lives and the mother’s room with 50 beds and air-conditioning and basic fixtures. The objective of this initiative was to provide an accommodation facility for local mothers and endow the NICU with necessary lifesaving equipment to treat their newborn babies under the supervision of trained staff at Institute of Child and Mother Health. Website: http://www.icmh.org.bd 023 ENVIRONMENT Renewable 7 Energy SDG Responsible GOALS ACHIEVED 12 Consumption Partnerships 17 For The Goals We are committed to protecting the environment and respecting our neighbours. We work hard to cause no harm to people. This is why we set ourselves such high environmental standards. These meet -all regulatory requirements and help attain SDG 7 Renewable Energy, SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals. We encourage partners in joint ventures we do not operate to apply our standards. We work in partnership with many non-governmental organisations and local communities to help us live up to the high standards we set ourselves. IDLC’s CSR activities are regulated by the Sustainable Finance Department of the Bangladesh Bank, formerly known as the CSR and Green Banking Department. We are also members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the CSR Centre (local network of UNGC in Bangladesh). 024 ENVIRONMENT 50 VOLUNTEER HOURS VOLUNTEERS 1000 600 SAMPLINGS WERE PLANTED & NURTURED AGES 12-16 STUDENTS ATTENDED GREEN WORKSHOPS 300 1200 STUDENTS RECEIVED PRACTICAL SESSIONS ON NURTURING PLANTS FAMILIES SUPPORTED THROUGH WINTER DRIVES 8000 CITIZENS OF BHULTA AREA NOW HAVE ACCESS TO CLEANER AIR 025 OUR ACTS IN ENVIRONMENT Bhulta Teaching Children to Conserve and Protect the Environment Over 300 school children of Bhulta School and College participated in a workshop on tree plantation organized by IDLC with technical collaboration of Green Savers, at their school premises. 1,000 saplings were planted by the participants throughout the event. The workshop aimed to familiarize the students with different species of plants and sensitize them about their role in preservation of natural resources. Hundreds of students, teachers and employees of IDLC and Green Savers attended the event and took an oath to protect the environment. The workshop entailed a Quiz held among the students, practical sessions on planting and nurturing trees and a wall painting, supervised by renowned artist Sabyasachi Mistry, with a message to inspire others to protect the environment. The event was facilitated by IDLC Bhulta Branch team. Northern Bangladesh Helping the Grief-Stricken Survive the Difficult Winter As part of its winter drive to facilitate warm clothing and accessories for the marginalised communities, IDLC donated blankets to 1200 families of northern region of Bangladesh. This effort was the in collaboration with Prothom Alo Trust, with an inspiration that this contribution will aid the Trust to spread warmth to the coldest regions of the country. 026 OUR PARTNER ORGANIZATION Green Savers Association Green Savers, an eco-friendly organisation, that has pragmatic steps to inspire and involve people to make Garden in their respective apartments with a vision to not only beautify the apartments but also fulfil the daily basic needs for some fruits and vegetables. Green Savers is a combination of creative ideas and modern scientific methods of rooftop, lobby-area, stairs, racks and gardening by students and advisers of The University of Dhaka and Sher-e-Bangla Agricultural University along with different public and private universities in Dhaka city. The mission of Green Savers Association is to fight climate change by enhancing the functions of plants within the urban ecosystem. Ahsan Rony is an environmental activist and the founder of Green Savers. To raise street awareness about the environmental hazards and importance of gardening in Dhaka city. Among others activities of Green Savers include; Informing people about every possible gardening System at different places in their apartment, produce formalin and chemicals free vegetables and fruits on roof in short time at low cost and utilise the open roof for urban horticulture to produce chemicals free fruits and vegetables Our Work: IDLC collaborated with Green Savers to install roof-top Garden for the students and teachers of Bhulta School. 1000 saplings were planted and 600 students counselled to inspire them to better nurture and conserve the surrounding environment. Website: http://www.greensaversinfo.org/ Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/greensaversinfo.org/ 027 EXTENDED RESPONSIBILITIES While all our CSR activities and interventions always fully comply with the Guidelines and laws of the land, they strive to meet the core needs, even beyond of what is mandated. As per our core values and aim to spread Happiness, we look keep our radars on to explore and identify matters that need extra attention and efforts. We look for and engage in ways to contribute towards the positive building of the community and the society as a whole. Such initiatives are targeted with an aim to attain almost all the SDGs, as and where applicable. Our goal is not only to be one of the first organisations to respond to a need or issue, but also one of the last to leave. In doing so, we bring immediate and long-term solutions to those who are in need. 028 OUR ACTS Fulfilling Their Dreams on the Cricket Field Playing cricket is a recreational activity for most, but for some it is a difficult dream to fulfil. To encourage these special, aspiring cricketers, IDLC Finance Limited sponsored a 4-day Tournament titled IDLC Physically Challenged Cricket Tournament which was organized by Bangladesh Cricket Association for The Physically Challenged (BCAPC), in which total 52 players participated in the tournament in four groups. IDLC Physically Challenged Cricket Tournament 2018 took place from 26 November 2018. The tournament consisted of 7 matches at the end of which the winner walked away with the Champion’s Trophy. Enjoying Eid Festivities with the Little Warriors The children affected with cancer deserve an Eid no less joyous than it is for the rest of us. On 16 June 2018 the day of Eid-ul-Fitr, IDLC in collaboration with MASTUL Foundation organized a half-day event titled Spread the Joy of EID for children suffering from cancer and admitted at three hospitals across Dhaka City. This initiative was part of IDLC CSR event to commemorate the spirit of giving and spread the joys of Eid-ul-Fitr among all. A total of 250 children aged between 2 (two) and 14 (fourteen ) years admitted during the time at Dhaka Medical College Hospital, Sir Salimullah Medical College and Mitfort Hospital were gifted with new dress, nutritious food box, toys and chocolates boxes. Also puppeteers and a magician entertained the children and their attendants on the day. 029 Multiplying Their Happiness on the Joyous Eve of Boishakh Every first day of the Bengali New Year is spent amidst joy and festivities with children. In 2018 privileged children enrolled under development projects of three organisationsMastul Foundation, Obhizatrik Foundation and Spreeha Bangladesh Foundation, greeted the Bengali New Year with enthusiasm and festivities. The children participated in an art competition judged by renowned artists Ahsan Habib and Sabyasachi Mistry. IDLC through this event set an example of fundraising for the community by giving an opportunity for development project beneficiaries and potential benevolent benefactors to meet and greet under one roof. Amidst the festive mood, the three organisations highlighted their project activities and demonstrated avenues and areas where funding was required. Calendars for the Visually Impaired Most of us take our sensory organs for granted, but how often do we question, what colours and alphabets mean to those who are visually impaired. We at IDLC CSR, believe all deserve a chance at some point in life and change is possible for those who do not quit. In an effort to celebrate this spirit of humanity and perseverance, IDLC financially facilitated the production of 800 copies of Braille calendars of 2018, in partnership with Protibondhi Nagorik Shangathaner Parishad (PNSP). 030 OUR PARTNER ORGANIZATION Mastul Foundation Mastul Foundation is welfare, non-profit, voluntary, non-governmental, research-based, and social development organization for the service of distressed humanity. From the very establishment of this foundation, it’s working on education, health service, entertainment for underprivileged children. Mastul Foundations envisions to create a better future for underprivileged children. It was established in the year 2013 with a view to providing help towards the underprivileged people by utilising the youths of Bangladesh. Our Work: IDLC in collaboration with MASTUL Foundation organised a half-day event titled Spread the Joy of EID for children suffering from cancer and admitted at three hospitals across Dhaka City. A total of 250 children aged between 2-14 years of age, received new dress, nutritious food box, toys and chocolates boxes and later puppeteers and a magician entertained the children and their attendants on the day. Website: http://www.mastul-foundation.org/ Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/MastulFoundation/ 031 MILESTONES DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Diversity and inclusion for an organization Additionally, women-owned enterprises are essentially mean its commitment to human rights economically disadvantaged and lack equal and fundamental freedoms, in particular the rights opportunity to compete for business of those belonging to minorities and those of opportunitiesdue to legal and other barriers. The indigenous peoples. This includes efforts and UN’s Sustainable Development Goal SDG 5 practices which ensure that different groups or underscores women’s empowerment as an individuals having different backgrounds are important development objective, in and of itself, culturally and socially accepted and welcomed, & and highlight the relevance of gender equality to equally treated. addressing a wide range of global challenges. IDLC resonates with this goal as well as reducing The idea is to empower people by inequalities SDG 10 and ensuring quality education for everyone SDG 4, and thus executes its respecting and appreciating what corporate social responsibility keeping in mind the makes them different, in terms of challenges experienced and opportunities available for such minority groups. Hence, in order to address age, gender, ethnicity, religion, diversity and meet our goal of uplifting as many disability, education etc. groups we plan and organise variuos types of events and activties across the country, some of Under the broad umbrella of diversity, gender which are highlighted accordingly. equality is one fundamental human right. Yet despite much progress, women and girls around the world and more acutely in Bangladesh do not fully experience equal rights. As a result, their potential as economic, social and sustainable development change-agents remains untapped. Women are underrepresented in power and decision-making roles. 032 PURNOTA FINANCING HAPPINESS OF WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS ‘Purnota’the meaning of this Bengali word is the entirety of something. Carrying much significance with its literal meaning, Purnota the Women Entrepreneur Loan (WEL) product offers a comprehensive package for the female business owners to take their ventures to the next level. Not only does the product offer loan facility with lower interest rate, it also facilitates the women in obtaining regulatory documents and license essential to conduct a business. Purnota Club has been established over the years with a view to capacity and skill development of the women, and advisory services like business management and vocational training. In a nutshell, IDLC Purnota is a complete business solution for women entrepreneurs, which provides loan, training, dedicated helpline, digital marketing, insurance, business facilitation and many other services. Launched in 2015, IDLC’s Purnota has now gone beyond just financing the businesses of women. Participating at Banker SME Women Purnota Fair 2018: Entrepreneur Conference and Product Showcasing Ventures by Women Display Fair 2018 Entrepreneurs across Different Cities IDLC participated at the 3-day BankerSME On the prestigious occasion of women’s day, IDLC Women Entrepreneur Conference and Product arranged “Purnota Fair 2018” for women entrepreDisplay Fair2018 at Shishu Academy from 8 to 10 neurs in different location nationwide. IDLC March, 2018. Fazle Kabir, Governor of Bangladesh arranged the fair showcasing the products Bank and Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury, Honorable produced by women entrepreneurs on 1-2 March, Speaker inaugurated the event. The event attracted 1516 March and 22-23 March respectively at a host of visitors and future potential women entreJashore, Cumilla, Rangpur and Faridpur. This preneurs where IDLC showcased the inspirational arrangement was for patronizing women entreprestory and products of Mahmuda Sultana, a neurs and to inspire them to move ahead. In this fair successful women entrepreneur. Besides informawomen entrepreneurs participated through microtion on various loan services/packages including site (idlc.com/purnotafair) based registration SME loan service, visitors and interested future platform from different districts. The core idea entrepreneurs also received clarifications and behind this initiative was to provide a platform possible solutions to their queries and concerns on where these budding entrepreneurs could showPurnota Loan Service at the IDLC stall. There was case their products in an open arrangement also an opportunity for free registration of training in through free stalls provided by IDLC. the subjects of Business Accounting and Digital Marketing where participants registered free for the training. 033 ODITIYA SCHOLARSHIP Women need to be empowered and equipped with the same opportunities that men enjoy in terms of access to any and every fundamental right. Our social responsibility activities and commitments to generate the maximum beneficial impact to the grassroots provides us with the license to operate our business, win the trust of our communities and embed philanthropy deeply into our culture. Through direct involvement and engaging partners in the respective communities we focus on increasing access to education in areas which we operate in, with a focus in remote communities. Our educational initiatives are designed to help improve the quality and determinants of education and the system as a whole. Against this backdrop, IDLC initiated a scholarship award project, in collaboration with Prothom Alo Trust for females who are first in their families to attain university level education from hard to reach, low – income for Women since 2012 and IDLC is proud to join Prothom Alo Trust in this drive towards greater woman anticipation. Matiur Rahman Arif Khan Editor CEO & Managing Director Prothom alo IDLC Finance Limited I am happy to welcome yet another batch of scholars Being the largest & most responsible financial under Prothom Alo Trust and Asian University for institution we always try to contribute to the Women first in the family scholarship program. We socioeconomic development of our country. We took this have stepped in the 6th year of our program, so far we initiative from that feeling of responsibility & to help have supported 65 students through this program, and women evolve economically with the help of education. proud to welcome 10 more aspiring young scholars. This year it is a privilege for me to have IDLC on board as the sponsor of the campaign. IDLC is one of the most trust-worthy financial organizations of the country and I believe their contribution will highly benefit the students in establishing themselves as qualified professionals in their future endeavours.I congratulate the previous graduates, who have already proved themselves as successful professionals in their careers. I again thank you IDLC and all other people associated to this launch event. I wish all the students a great success. Finally warm wishes to Asian University for Women and I hope they will keep up the aspiring work as always. 034 We bring forth testimonies of two of our bright scholars who have been granted the Oditiya scholarship in 2017 and 2018 batches: Getting into AUW was never part of Sumaiya Tabassum Suhi’s life plan, but she feels grateful that it happened. Originally from Tangail, Sumaiya was asked to get married soon after her H.S.C exam. “During that time I did not know how to stand up for myself,” she says. “I kept crying and my parents had to call the wedding off. Even though they were always very supportive, in Bangladesh, sometimes your parents are more affected by what the neighbors and society will think and say, even if that means going against your happiness.” One of Sumaiya’s friends suggested that applying for a scholarship in AUW. “I applied for it, and got this opportunity. I’ve been privileged enough to have parents who have given me the freedom to make my own choices, but that did not stop others from worrying over me going out of my home to get education. I decided to stick to my Sumaiya Tabassum Suhi decision of coming here. After one year in AUW, I can sense the (2017) change in me. I have learnt to stand up for myself and I am able to take charge of my life. Not only I have started believing in my own power, I encourage other girls in my community to reach for their dreams.” Shimi Chak’s mother is her greatest motivation. Her mother did not continue her education after her college. But she always inspired her daughter to carefully consider their higher studies opportunities, as she believes it offers much greater freedom to everyone. Before coming to AUW, Shimi got herself admitted into Noakhali Science and Technology University. “I always had plans to go for further education, but my parents were struggling financially for the expenses. When I got to know about AUW, my parents encouraged me to apply, even though my relatives were not convinced with a girl going for higher education.” Shimi wants to study Public Health and she believes AUW will help her become a confident human being. Shimi Chak (2018) When we stand for diversity, we stand by every entity of the society with each of their differences to have equal opportunities and leave no one behind. Mainstreaming differently abled people (DAP) and including them into the daily activities of perfectly abled people is also one of the goals deeply ingrained into the social stance we take as an institution. 035 IDLC PHYSICALLY CHALLENGED CRICKET TOURNAMENT 2018 IDLC as part of its responsibilities towards society, tries to normalize the concept of leading a happy, content life for every person alike. We encourage every pair of eyes to dream, and empower them to achieve it. As such, playing cricket could be just another fun, challenging sport for most; but for some it is worth a lot more, because it takes a lot more. In 2018, Bangladesh Cricket Association for the Physically Challenged (BCAPC) approached IDLC for a cricket tournament between the best of the cricketers who are differently abled. Thus the Physically Challenged Cricket Tournament took place in November 2018. 52 players from 4 different districts which includes Dhaka, Sylhet, Khulna, Rajshahi, came to play in this tournament. This tournament does not only represent the power of the physically challenged cricketers, this also proves they are as much part of the society any other abled individual and deserves a level-playing field. After a 3-day long tournament, team Dhaka took away the champions’ trophy and Khulna became the runners-up. The whole tournament was to initiate inclusion of the true passionate people who wants to prove their worth by their skills in cricket. 036 FINANCIAL LITERACY A major challenge relating to SDGs in Bangladesh is to put in place effective measures to mobilise resources, capitalise on new financing sources, and re-design the financial markets to ensure financial inclusion for the poor and other financially excluded groups and businesses. However, it is not always the problem of inclusion that makes one incapable of sketching out effective financial planning. Often a lack of basic understanding of the core, practical financial concepts and their day-to-day implications makes people inefficient in managing finances and also become overly dependent on a guardian. Financial literacy is the education and understanding of various fundamental financial concepts including topics related to managing personal finance, budgeting, and investing. The lack of financial literacy may lead to making poor financial choices that can have negative consequences on the financial well-being of an individual. Driven by the vision to fill in this knowledge deficit and create a society that is more financially aware, encouraged and competent, we launched the first ever online Olympiad called “IDLC FINANCE OLYMPIAD” on basic finance understanding for students aged 14 to 24 year. More than 20,000 students registered and participated in the online finance Olympiad from 10 October 2018 to 25 October 2018 at the end of which 50 deserving contestants were shortlisted for the offline round. Later 24 contestants competed for the champion’s title in two groups, in front of a live audience. We awarded the winners with laptops, mobile phone handsets, trophy, medals and certificates. It is expected that the online Olympiad will be returning in the coming year as Finance Olympiad 2.0. “Being a financial institution, we believe IDLC has a responsibility to impart knowledge and help enhance skills of the youth on financial literacy all across the nation to accelerate the socio-economic growth of Bangladesh.” – CEO & MD Moreover, the Finance Olympiad Finale also saw the inauguration of our new e-learning financial literacy microsite for the youth, called “ORTHER ORTHO”. Built on the same concept of imparting practical financial knowledge particularly to the youth all over the nation, Orther Ortho has been designed to be a one-stop, interactive online platform which will demonstrate financial dilemmas through fun comic characters ,informative articles and video tutorials, financial tools and quizzes. The multifaceted microsite will have a story-telling approach to depict real life instances of financial complexities through amusing yet relatable comic characters. What it will also consist of are various “finance hacks” which describe practical decision-making points in day-to-day financial planning most relevant to students. Orther Ortho is a nationwide long-term project which focus on improving the financial learning scenario of the nation. In doing so, IDLC is directly contributing towards achieving the target of ensuring quality education SDG 4 for all. 037 IDLC: THE COMPANY OUR PHILOSOPHIES OUR VISION OUR MISSION We will be the best financial brand in the country. We will focus on quality growth, superior customer experience and sustainable business practices. OUR CORE VALUES Integrity Customer Focus Trust and Respect Equal Opportunity Eco-friendly Passion Simplicity OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Grow and develop our talent pool Sustainably grow SME portfolio Fully leverage the core banking platform Focus on top-tier clients in the corporate Optimise distribution points segment Grow and diversify funding sources Consolidate capital market operations and Grow sales and service capabilities in the enhance capabilities consumer division Embrace internationally accepted corporate governance and sustainable business practices OUR SHAREHOLDING COMPOSITION 2018 Sponsor/ Directors 56.66% Institutions 17.54% Individuals 11.98% Foreign 13.82% 038 CORE HIGHLIGHTS, 2018 Profit after tax Total Loan Portfolio In BDT mn 5 Year CAGR: 26.53% In BDT mn 5 Year CAGR: 15.44% 83,934 71,499 2,277 2,171 62,217 1,780 55,212 47,069 1,459 1,246 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Return on Equity Return on Assets 20.95% 20.39% 21.29% 21.15% 2.60% 16.55% 2.28% 2.33% 2.20% 2.12% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Cost to income ratio Non-Performing Loan 40.02% 39.49% 3.06% 2.98% 37.94% 37.19% 35.92% 2.77% 2.02% 2.20% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 039 OUR RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SME Small Enterprise Finance Medium Enterprise Finance • SME Term Loan/Lease • Term Loan/Lease • Seasonal Loan • Commercial Vehicle Finance • IDLC Purnota – Women Entrepreneur Loan • Machinery Lease • Revolving Short Term Loan (RSTL) • Revolving Short Term Loan • Abashan Loan • Commercial Space Loan • Partially Secured Loan • SME Sachal Loan Supplier and Distributor Finance • Commercial Space Loan • Commercial Vehicle Loan • Factoring of Accounts Receivables • IDLC Udbhabon • Bill/Invoice Discounting • Startup Loan • Work Order Financing • SME Deposit • Distributor Financing CONSUMER Home Loan Personal Loan • Apartment/Home Purchase • Secured • Land Purchase • Unsecured • Building Construction • Commercial Space Loan Against Deposit (LAD) • Home Equity • Registra Loan Deposits • IDLC ASHA • IDLC ULLAS • Flexible Term Deposit Package • Regular Earner Package Car Loan • Brand New • Reconditioned 040 OUR RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CORPORATE Corporate Finance • Fund Raising through Zero Coupon & Coupon Bearing Bonds • Lease Financing • Commercial Paper • Term Loan Financing • Arrangement of Private Equity & Preference • Commercial Space Financing Shares • Project Financing • Corporate Advisory for Mergers • Short Term Loans (to meet working capital requirements) Green Banking Solutions • Specialized Products (for meeting seasonal demand) • Over 50 products offered under Green Banking and Sustainable Finance department as per Structured Finance Solutions Bangladesh Bank Green Re-finance scheme. • Debt Syndication (Local & Foreign Currency) • Working Capital Syndication • Agency & Trusteeship CAPITAL MARKET OPERATIONS IDLC Asset Management Limited • Bloomberg terminal for foreign clients • Research and Advisory Services • Mutual Funds • Alternative investment Funds IDLC Investments Limited Products • Corporate Advisory • Margin Loan IDLC Securities Limited Products • Discretionary Portfolio Management Services • Corporate Advisory • Cash Account • Issue Management • Margin Account • Underwriting • Easy IPO • Premium Brokerage for High Networth Individuals (HNIs), Institutions and Foreign Investors Services • Trade execution through the Dhaka and Chittagong stock exchanges • Internet based trading facilities • Online based IPO Application • Custodial and CDBL services 041 CONTRIBUTION TO THE NATIONAL ECONOMY IDLC is considered to be one of the major contributors through IDLC Purnota. Besides, IDLC SME Division has in the economy of Bangladesh both in monetary and increased its focus to serve the micro enterprises and non-monetary terms. IDLC was established in 1985 as has invested heavily on technological development to the first leasing company in the country and with its cater to the micro enterprises. The growth story of IDLC pioneering role has established and popularized lease SME Division is well represented by the increasing trend finance as an alternative and secured source of long of active SME clientele, a 16% rise in number of clients to term finance. IDLC is the largest employer, financial 13,998 in 2018, which was 12,584 in 2017. service provider and taxpayer among the non-banking financial institutions in the country. Environment-Friendly Technologies Taxes to Government Sustainable economic growth and a healthy environment are interlinked. Keeping this in mind, IDLC is also offering In 2018, IDLC deposited BDT 1,007 million to the 52 products under green financing umbrella covering the Government exchequer as corporate income tax and sectors like Renewable Energy, Waste Management, BDT 65 million as VAT against fee income; thus in total Non Fire Block Brick, Auto Brick Kiln, Green Industry, Fire BDT 1,072 million paid as Tax and VAT against the and Safety measures, Industrial Energy Efficiency and income earned by IDLC. Also, BDT 934 million was Recycling Industry. In the year 2018, IDLC has managed collected and deposited to the Government exchequer as to disburse as much as BDT 80 million under Green withholding tax (BDT 828 million), withholding VAT (BDT Financing umbrella; leading to a healthy portfolio of BDT 51 Million) and excise duty (BDT 55 million). Notably, we 648 million as of 31 December 2018. The increase received the prestigious accolade of being the Highest indicates IDLC’s drive towards sustainability. Tax Payer in the Financial Services Sector for the fiscal year 2017-2018, for our contribution to the Government Supporting Community through Various Exchequer, on the back of our profound governance CSR Activities culture. At IDLC, commitment to social welfare and community Employment Generation has been part of its corporate culture, and IDLC is much reputed for its contributions towards environmental and We create economic impact by creating employment and community development. We support economic growth giving appropriate training to the employees. As on by investing in programs that enable economic developDecember 31, 2018, IDLC Group accounts for 1,336 ment with a social purpose. With the aid of our talented employees, due to a recruitment of 105 employone-of-a-kind ‘Khushir Kheya’ platform, we have extendees during the year. During 2018, the group paid BDT ed our reach towards social and economic development 1,291.79 million as salaries and allowances to its by leaps and bounds, as we engage members of the employees and spent BDT 17.63 million for both local community in various social development initiatives that and foreign trainings. Moreover, at a time when job further enhances our effort towards ensuring a sustaincreation is a top priority for government, we continued to able economy. catalyse our lending to small and medium enterprises (SME), thereby helping accelerate both direct and indirect job creation. Focus on SME Financing SMEs are the key drivers of any economy, while narrowing income inequality and supporting poverty alleviation. According to economic census 2013, there are 7.1 million Cottage, Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (CMSMEs) in Bangladesh, making up 75% of the domestic economy, while accounting for 80% of industrial employment and 25% of the total workforce. Under this milieu, IDLC initiated SME financing back in 2006 and is one of the leading financial service providers to small businesses in Bangladesh. Today it comprises more than 42% of the total customer lending of IDLC. IDLC SME Division is also committed to the development of women entrepreneurs across the country by extending Women Entrepreneur Loans and nonfinancial services for women 042 VALUE ADDED STATEMENT for the year ended December 31, 2018 Value added is the wealth created by IDLC through extending lease financing, short-term finance (factoring of accounts receivable and work order financing), housing finance, merchant banking and corporate finance. The Value Added Statement shows the total worth created and how it was distributed to meet certain obligation and the portion retained for the continued operation and expansion of the Company. Value added Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 In BDT million % In BDT million % Operating revenue 11,284 9,266 Cost of borrowing (7,016) (4,902) 4,268 4,364 Other income 437 438 4,705 4,801 Provisions (366) (228) Operating expenses excluding staff costs and depreciation. (710) (726) Value added 3629 100% 3847 100% Distribution of value addition To Employees 1065 29% 1062 28% as remuneration To Government 835 23% 1057 27% as taxes To Shareholders 1320 36% 1131 29% as stock dividend ( Cash and stock ) Retained in the Business 409 11% 597 16% as capital and revenue reserve 271 7% 451 12% as depreciation 138 4% 146 4% 3629 100% 3847 100% Number of employees 1,150 1,137 Value added per employee 3.16 3.38 2018 2017 11% 29% 16% 28% To Employees 29% To Employees 36% 23% To Government 27% To Government To Shareholders To Shareholders Retained in the Retained in the business business 043 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our Value Chain Activities and Impacts Our vision, mission and values act as our sustainability In the process, we ensure our business activities are anchors. As we draw resources from our various capitals aligned with our core values and guided by our goveras inputs, they are utilized through our business activities nance framework, and also that our strategies and risk to generate business outputs in the form of products and mitigation efforts are in line and responsive to pressures service offerings. As a multi-segment financial institution, from the external environment and market forces. we rely heavily on our financial capital, depositors making up 85% of our funding basket. Our overall Business Models business model involves extending our presence physically and virtually. It also involves a high dependence on Having over 30 years of experience in the marketplace, IT; which together means a significant investment in our business model is designed to withstand market branches and technological infrastructure our manufacpressures and absorb macroeconomic shocks. In order tured capital. to make optimum contributions across the value chain, we are careful to strike a balance between different Our business model also requires us to invest in and stakeholder objectives. With a keen sense of changing develop our human capital for business growth through market dynamics and rapidly changing technology, our professional networks a key aspect of our social and management team strives to make the best use of our relationship capital as well as our intellectual capital, to available resources, expanding on them strategically. continuously innovate our offerings and improve our process efficiencies to add to our ability to be responsive and timely. Our various activities, in turn generate outcomes, which create value for our stakeholders and add back to our inputs, be it in the form of profits, employee compensation, reduction in carbon footprint, process efficiency or other material outputs. Key Resources Key Activities Customar Segment Cost Structure Revenue Stream Channels Partnerships Value Proposition 044 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Cost Resources Structure Key Activities Interest Expense Funds Infrastructure and Human Resources Risk Management Technology Intellectual Capital Innovate and sell Human Resource Natural & other products Administrative Expense resources Grow, develop and Dividend to Relationship with maintain relationships shareholders stakeholders Value Customer Continuous process Policy incentives Proposition Segment improvements SME Finance Create Brand Retail Products Awareness SME Corporate Finance Commit to social Corporate houses Products responsibilities Partnerships Consumer Loan Revenue Products Stream Saving Products Channels Shareholders Interest Income Central Bank Fees income Other Banks & NBFIs Branches Commissions Income Deposit Clients Direct Selling Investment Income Multilateral Telephone and Organizations Online Platform Investors Regulators Vendors NGOs IDLC SECURITIES LIMITED Key Resources Activities Cost Structure Funds Brokerage service Human Resources Grow develop and Business expenses Customer Intellectual Capital maintain relationships Segment Value Research Natural & other Proposition resources Create brand Individual Relationship with Cash Account awareness Local institutions stakeholders Premium Brokerage Proprietary investments Foreign institutions Policy incentives Easy IPO Margin Account Channels Revenue Stream Branches Partnerships Direct Selling Commissions income Telephone and Fees income Online Platform Investment income Stock exchange BSEC Shareholders Central bank Other Banks & NBFI’s Inverstors Regulators Vendors 045 IDLC INVESTMENTS LIMITED Resources Key Cost Activities Structure Funds Innovate and sell Business expenses Human Resources products Dividend to Intellectual Capital Value Grow develop and shareholders Natural & other Proposition maintain relationships resources Investment banking Create brand awareness Relationship with Discretionary portfolio Portfolio management stakeholders Customer management Proprietary investments Segment Policy incentives Margin loan Retail investors Institutions Channels Revenue Stream Partnerships Branches Investment income Direct Selling Interest income Shareholders Telephone and Fee income Investors Online Platform Commissions income Regulators Vendors IDLC ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED Cost Resources Key Activities Structure Funds Mutual fund management Infrastructure and Human Resources Portfolio management technology Intellectual Capital Proprietary investments Human resource Natural & other Innovate and Administrative resources sell products expense Relationship with Value Grow, develop and stakeholders Proposition maintain relationships Customer Policy incentives mutual fund Create brand awareness Segment Private equity Systematic Individuals investment plan Institutions Revenue Partnerships Channels Stream Branches Interest income Shareholders Direct selling Fees income BSEC Online platforms Commissions income Central bank Call center Investment income Other banks & NBFI’s Investors Regulators Vendors 046 BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW LENDING BUSINESS OPERATIONS SME Division Corporate Division IDLC’s SME Division, the largest segments of the The corporate division has experienced another wondercompany, provides various financing solutions for the ful year in its history in terms of profitability and asset Small and Medium Enterprises of Bangladesh. SME growth. All the business parameters showed positive sign division was launched in December of 2005 with term supported by high demand for fund in the market due to loan, working capital loan and lease financing options. shortage of funds. The year started with uncertainty Later, SME Division gradually introduced a number of surrounding liquidity issues in the industry. However the products and services to cater to the need of its increasmoney market exhibited signs of recovery in the second ing customer base. Throughout the year 2018, SME part of the year although credit demand was low due to Division made significant investments in human resourcconservative ‘’wait and see approach’’ among the entrees and infrastructure the two most critical building preneurs as we approached the national election in the blocks, which resulted in the creation of a robust structure last month of the year. In the midst of such macro-ecothat will facilitate sustainable growth. nomic condition IDLC’s corporate lending not only sustained but also thrived. The performance was enabled by efficient fund management through treasury. Based on Consumer Division such high demand of fund, corporate portfolio saw 37.88% growth in 2018. The robust portfolio growth After being launched in 1997, Consumer Division of IDLC coupled with high demand has also ensured a very has been contributing to the overall growth of the compasuccessful year for corporate division in terms of profitny by providing customer-centric solutions through ability.The corporate division has two sub wings which providing core loan services: Home Loan, Car Loan & help us increase the versatility in our product basket. Personal Loan. Besides, this division has been providing They are: diversified fund sourcing capabilities for the company • Structured Finance Department through collecting customer deposits from multifarious • Green Banking Division (Explained in detail) income groups consisting of both individual & corporate segments. We look forward to extending our customer base further through enhancing efficiency, offering more customized solutions and enhancing geographical coverage. 047 GREEN BANKING Rolling out Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS) in Business Activities Overview Environmental and climate change risk refers to the uncertainty/ probability of losses that may originate from Green Banking is the financial service that integrates any adverse environmental/climate change events. IDLC environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria into has been the pioneer in Bangladesh in adopting the investment decision making process for the sustainable “Environmental & Social Management System (ESMS)”, advantage of both clients and society at large. Green which is a global standard to minimize Environmental & Banking Unit (GBU) of IDLC is committed towards Social Risks from the financial operations of the organisustainable financing by prioritizing the ESG to contribute zation. It has a robust ESMS system which has been to the country’s overall financial growth and achieving developed with the assistance of FMO (The Netherlands Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the process. Development Finance Company) and FI Consult. In the IDLC is also concerned about reducing carbon footprints preparation of the ESMS system, IDLC has taken the from both its financing and in-house operations. IDLC following guidelines into consideration: Environmental & has developed its own Green Banking Policy which is Social Risk Management (ESRM) Guideline by Banglaaligned with the ‘Policy Guidelines for Green Banking’ by desh Bank, the Environment Conservation Rules 1997, Bangladesh Bank. IFC Performance Standards, and ADB Safeguard for Financing. Additionally, IDLC has adopted the 10 UNGC Green Finance Products (United Nations Global Compact) principles within the organizational frameworks as the only signatory of UNEP IDLC offers 52 green products under 8 categories as FI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance defined by Bangladesh Bank to cater the specialized Initiative) from Bangladesh. needs of different industries and segments. The products segments are renewable energy, energy efficiency, In-house Environmental Management alternate energy, waste management, recycling, environment-friendly brick production, green industry/ building IDLC upholds a vision to encourage and catalyze transand others such as occupational safety & health in formation towards sustainable business practices. In line factories. with the vision. the Agrabad branch of IDLC, situated in At the end of the year 2018, the Green Banking portfolio the World Trade Centre at Chittagong, achieved the stands at BDT 648mn and cumulative disbursement in prestigious LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environgreen segment is BDT 1,255mn. This year, IDLC has mental Design), Gold Certification from USGBC (United availed refinance worth of BDT 201mn from Bangladesh States Green Building Council) under the category of Bank. Initiatives have also been taken to revamp the ‘commercial interiors’. This branch is the first-of-its-kind business and to re-invigorate the business teams to to achieve such an endorsement under the aforemenembrace green finance products. tioned category among the financial institutions of Bangladesh. IDLC will gradually transform all other branches with green features as well. Cumulative Portfolio in different Segments Moreover, the Green Banking Unit periodically organizes in-house training & awareness programs for the employees to explain the concepts of green banking and 8.93% Renewable provides necessary technical assistances towards Energy strengthening organizational portfolio through Sustain5.34% Energy Efficient able Financing. Machineries Waste Even though Green banking is yet take off fully in this 31.64% Management country, Bangladesh Bank’s active participation in environmentally sustainable financing and its progress 8.43% Miscellaneous only means that it will continue to move ahead. As IDLC 42.03% Green Building aligns its business strategy to be consistent with individual and social needs, we intend to play a significant role in 3.63% Ecofriendly Brick advancing this environmentally-sustainable mode of Production financing. 048 BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW SUBSIDIARY BUSINESS OPERATIONS IDLC Investments Limited investors who prefer online trading, thereby democratizing market access. IDLC Finance commenced its merchant banking operations in 1999 through participating in underwriting of Core Highlights 2018 IPOs. The Company managed its first IPO as issue manager in 2003. IDLC managed the first IPO under the Average daily turnover of market decreased by book-building method in the capital market history of 37% while average daily turnover of IDLCSL Bangladesh in 2010. Aligning with regulatory requiredecreased by only 25.9 % to Taka 520.4 million. ments, the merchant banking operation was carved-out Thus, market share increased to 4.72% from and transferred to IDLC Investments Limited, a fully4.02% of previous year. owned subsidiary of IDLC Finance, which was established in 2011. Our products and services consists of Net brokerage commission income decreased Investment Banking, Discretionary Portfolio Manageby 30.6% to Taka 333.4 million ment and Margin Loan. Investment income grew by 4.8% to Taka 268 Core Highlights 2018 million Received “Euromoney Awards for Excellence Net interest income grew by 82.2% to Taka 2018” for being the best Investment Bank in 149.3 million Bangladesh Profit before tax and provision decreased by During 2018, our operating income and operat10.0% to Taka 518.0 million ing profit stood at Taka 256.57 million and Taka 162.17 million, respectively Net profit decreased by 3.7% to Taka 365.5 million Considering high market volatility, IDLC Investments prudently effected a decline of its margin Shareholder’s equity grew by 11.8% lending exposure to Taka 1,399 million in 2018, down from Taka 1,978 million in 2017. Assets grew by 19.3% to Taka 4,934.7 million Considering market downtrend, investment Secured 2nd position with substantial increase exposure shrunk by 5.07% to Taka 2,133 million in market share in 2018, from Taka 2,247 million in the previous year. Enhanced retail and strategic sales efforts Achieved significant footing in foreign sales IDLC Securities Limited operation IDLC SL, one of the top brokerages of Bangladesh, Conducted two overseas roadshow in USA commenced operations in 2006. The company provides brokerage services to more than 16,500 retail, local & Remodelled sell-side research & foreign brokerforeign institutional investors through reliable trading age business platforms of both the Dhaka and Chittagong stock exchanges. It also serves more than 2,500 customers of Reviewed and restructured our operational risk its enlisted merchant banks as a panel broker. It possessmanagement process es a proven track record of delivering quality customer services while maintaining high standard of compliance and corporate ethics. Additionally, the company offers premium brokerage services to High Net Worth (HNWs), Institutional and foreign investors. Premium brokerage services is a prime bundle of research and advisory support in addition to trade execution. Moreover, IDLC SL has a reliable online trading system under its in-house developed Order Management Unit which was launched in 2010 with the principal objective to facilitate those 049 IDLC Asset Management Limited Core Highlights 2018 IDLC Asset Management Limited, a fully owned subsidiLaunched “IDLC Growth Fund” in February ary of IDLC Finance Limited, was incorporated in Bangla2018 with an initial fund size of BDT 500.0 desh on 19 November 2015, vide registration no. million. C-127068/2015 as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act, 1994. The Company was Launched IDLC Systematic Investment Plan awarded with asset management license on 7 June 2016 (SIP), first of its kind in the market. with a paid-up capital of BDT 100,000,000 (One hundred million only). We expect to operate in the nascent but Received license to operate as Fund Manager growing asset management industry of Bangladesh. The of Alternative Investment Funds as per BanglaCompany’s principal objective is to conduct the business desh Securities and Exchange Commission of asset management, primarily through launching and (Alternative Investment) Rules, 2015. managing mutual funds, to cater the diverse investor needs. Alongside, we also plan to manage Alternative investment funds and provide related corporate advisory services. 050 HUMAN CAPITAL Employee Spread Our Human Capital 1.57% 10.47% Our human capital consists of our employees as well as their health and wellbeing, their expertise, their experi70.98% 16.98% ence, their innovative capacity and their motivation Creating Value Core management Our human capital creates value through their passion, Senior level management dedication and commitment in reaching the objective of Mid-level the organisation. management Junior level management Talent Development The primary goal of our human resource department is to Performance & Rewards ensure that we have the right people at the right time in the right position. Building a team is much more than Our employees are reviewed against their job objectives choosing the best talent from the market. The HR departset in online performance appraisal system which are ment always tries to play a pivotal role in driving strength reviewed semi-annually and annually. Our performance from diversity and inclusion of IDLC core values and appraisal process enables us to emphasize on the leadership behaviours within our talents as the strategic growth of our employees as well as identify their learning partner in building a robust organisation. and career development needs. As a part of this process, through constructive dialogue, our employees are also encouraged to work on areas where there is scope of improvement. We also get to identify our high-potential Number of employees for our succession-planning program. This Trainings No. of Trainings Participants process also helps us to ensure that the contributions of Foreign 16 42 our employees are properly recognized and appropriateCustomized 26 622 ly rewarded. Local/Public 92 216 In-house 62 1,293 Total 196 2,173 Attrition Succession Planning 28.00% Succession planning is critical to us, as it enables us to ensure leadership continuity and avoid extended and 19.00% 20.10% 19.30% costly leadership vacuum. We prefer to promote from 15.87% within the organisation so we can create greater career opportunities for our people. During the year, we had several internal moves and promotions into leadership positions, reflecting that we have been able to the depth in our talent pool, consequent to which our succession pipelines for key management positions got strengthened. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 051 HR and Compensation Committee about human resources and communicating this information to the interested parties. It is an attempt to identify The committee is responsible for ensuring companywide and report the investment made in human resources of scope for equal opportunity and transparency in terms of the company that are currently not accounted for in the suitable recruitment, compensation on the basis of merit, conventional accounting practices. qualification and competency, adequate training and development facilities and performance appraisal and promoPer Employee Productivity tions based on individual performance and contribution. Furthermore, the committee looks into any other benefits-related issues that arises from time to time, includParticulars 2017 2018 ing review of comparable market statistics regarding human Number of Employee 1318 1336 resources. Operating Cost (BDT Mn) 1.77 1.72 Training Cost (BDT Thousand) 18.59 15.27 Ethical Standards Operating Profit (BDT Mn) 2.99 2.64 We adhere to the highest ethical standards and consider Gross Turnover (BDT Mn) 8.48 9.55 it to be a key business priority. We expect our employees Operating Income (BDT Mn) 4.77 4.36 to fully embrace statutory compliances. It is mandatory Profit Before Tax (BDT Mn) 2.82 2.34 for all our employees to read and sign the Code of Profit After Tax (BDT Mn) 1.73 1.63 Conduct every year as a sign of recurrence to the princiLoan Portfolio (BDT Mn) 54.25 62.83 ples enshrined in it. IDLC encourages employees to act with integrity and spread the message of social responsiDeposit Portfolio (BDT Mn) 45.41 52.59 bility to the community. Culture Catalyst Objectives and Benefits Corporate culture sets the tone for our teams. It is a set of The aim of HR accounting is to depict the potential of the values and attitude that supports our people as they employees in monetary terms which mainly helps in support the corporate vision and mission. IDLC puts decision making of ascertaining how much investment effort in creating an organisational environment through the company has made on its employees and how much the implementation of policies and programs that help return it can expect from this investment. It furnishes individuals and teams to grow and sustain. In order to cost/value information for making management decision achieve these, a safe, supportive environment for about acquiring, allocating, developing and maintaining employees are ensured. For proper engagement and human resources in order to attain cost effectiveness. It motivation, our focus is to help employees maintain work allows management personnel to monitor and effectively life balance. Hence, IDLC has started Flextime practice in use human resources. And it also provides valuable order to encourage employees to consider flexible information to the investors interested in making long working hours. We believe that a better work-life balance term investments in service sector companies. During can improve employee motivation, performance, and the year 2018, even though our gross turnover per productivity. Therefore, IDLC wants to support its employemployee increased by 12.65% and our operating cost ees achieve a better balance between works and their per employee decreased by 2.86%, our per employee net other life priorities and interests. Work life balance is profit after tax declined owing to growth in interest possible because we exercise objective based perforexpense, capital market operations and competitive mance appraisal system that enables employees to pressures restricting the fee based incomes. However, maintain standard operating time for different job roles our efforts in expanding our lending business and mobiand improve efficiency. lizing deposits are well reflected as the per capita loan and deposit portfolio increased significantly. Human Resource Accounting Financial Reporting Standards Human Resource Accounting involves accounting for the company’s management and employees as human While the IFRS do not currently have standards requiring capital that provides future benefits. In the HRA HRA, it could be argued that they are moving closer to approach, expenditures related to human resources are providing more flexible approaches to accounting reported as assets on the balance sheet as opposed to measurements and reporting. Over the past few years, the traditional accounting approach which treats costs our human capital have evolved significantly and the related to the company’s human resources as expenses impact is prominent in our recent year’s performance. In on the income statement that reduce profit. HRA term of attracting further human capital, we want to suggests that in addition to the measures themselves, become one of the top few employers of choice. In order the process of measurement has relevance in to achieve this, following steps are to be taken to in the decision-making involving organisations. So we can say coming days: HRA is the process of identifying and measuring data 052 Strengthen the Talent Acquisition process by Bring more flexibility in the way we work; introducing renewed evaluation process; Inculcate more bottom up approach in decision Build Line Managers’ capability to lead more making process; effectively with coaching & feedback tools; Celebrate and recognize achievements to Focus on developing home grown talents for inspire and engage talents; leadership roles leveraging Succession Planning process; Introduce ‘Line of Sight’ for Objective setting at organisational level and communicate the Strengthen Gender Diversity; strategy down the line and Drive a competitive reward strategy at all level. NATURAL CAPITAL Our Natural Capital In-house Environmental Management Our natural capital encompasses the ecosystem and With a vision to encourage market transformation natural resources that are affected by our business. towards sustainable business practice, we will continue our efforts to deliver environment friendly policies within Environmental & Social Management our organisation. Testament to our efforts, our Agrabad System (ESMS) branch achieved the prestigious LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold Certification At IDLC, we always keep mother planet and its sustainfrom USGBC (United States Green Building Council) ability in our consideration while conducting our operaunder the category of commercial interior. The branch is tion, In this regard, we are further improving our credit the first of its kind to achieve such acknowledgment appraisal process from an Environment and Social (E&S) under the aforementioned category among the financial perspective – we evaluate all environmental and social institutions of Bangladesh. factors, such as project impacts on the environment & the community in the long run, prior to approving a loan. Green Office Guide Environmental Initiatives Our Green Office Guide, consisting of a set of general instructions, helps us achieve better in-house environOur environmental initiatives are conducted under the mental management across the organisation through banner of both CSR and Green Banking. Whereas CSR activities such as saving electricity, minimization of is more focused on external developmental initiatives water/paper and keeping the office clean and hygienic. such as awareness campaigns, tree plantation, public events etc., Green Banking is more aligned with green financing, E&S risk management and in-house environGreen Marketing and Training mental management. As a part of CSR activity, Green Banking Unit performs regular training programs on “Green Awareness” across Green Banking whole IDLC. To develop knowledge base of business RMs, GBU arranges training sessions throughout the In addition to our traditional financing approach, we have year. GBU also actively presents IDLC as a market leader made strides towards Green Banking supporting in promoting sustainability in different market segment. sustainable and environmentally viable development with a range of specially designed products and services at preferential terms and rates. 053 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance represents a strategy for IDLC is committed to continually review all its corporate companies to ensure a framework of control for its governance policies and guidelines to ensure administrative and management practices. This is transparency in its practices and the delivery of the achieved through procedures that are aligned with highest ethical standards and quality information to its recognized standards that respond to the interests of stakeholders on an ongoing basis. shareholders and other stakeholders. Proper governance ensures fairness, transparency and accountability and safeguards the interests of all IDLC considers that its corporate governance practices stakeholders, especially the minority shareholders. comply with all the aspects of the revised Corporate Empirical research also suggests that corporations that Governance Code (CGC) notification No. SEC/CMRRCadhere to good governance practices are not only more D/2006-158/207/Admin/80, dated June 3, 2018, and sustainable but also tend to generate higher profitability. notification No. SEC/CMRRCD/2006-158/208/Admin/81, dated June 20, 2018, on financial reporting and disclosure issued by Bangladesh Securities and Exchange IDLC’s six core areas emphasize its effective corporate Commission (BSEC) and all aspects of Bangladesh governance strategy as demonstrated in the diagram. Bank’s DFIM Circular No. 7, dated September 25, 2007 The company’s corporate governance model is and subsequent circulars thereon DFIM Circular No. 09, rigorously aligned with its wellarticulated vision, dated October 08, 2007, DFIM Circular No. 18, dated mission, goals and objectives. October 26, 2011 and DFIM Circular No. 06, dated June 17, 2012. The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for proper governance, which includes setting out the Company’s strategic aims, providing the In addition to establishing the highest standards of corporate governance, IDLC also embraces best necessary leadership to implement such aims, governance practices across all its activities. The supervising the management of the business and independent role of the Board of Directors, separate and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship. independent role of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board is collectively accountable to the Officer, distinct roles of the Company Secretary, Chief Company’s shareholders for good governance to Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer and different Board Committees enable IDLC to achieve facilitate efficient and effective management excellence in corporate governance. towards delivering long-term shareholder value within appropriately established risk parameters. The sustenance of effective corporate governance remains a key priority of IDLC’s Board. To exercise clarity about the Directors’ responsibilities towards shareholders, corporate governance must be dynamic and remain focused on the Company’s business objectives and create a culture of openness, transparency and accountability. Keeping this in mind, clear structures and ownership supported by well understood policies and procedures to guide the activities of the Company’s management have been instituted and institutionalized. 054 OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Approval Appoinment Shareholders External Auditors Management Committee Bangladesh Bank Other Committees Recommendation 01) Credit Evaluation Committee Board of Directors 02) Asset Liability Management Committee 03) HR and Compensation Committee OUR GOVERNANCE Recommendation 04) Corporate Governance Committee Audit Committee Executive Committee 05) BASEL Implementation Committee 06) Integrity Committee Oversight 07) Central Compliance Unit Regulators 08) Risk Management Forum CEO & Managing Director 09) ICT Steering Committee External Auditor’s 10) ICT Security and Risk Management Committee 1) Bangladesh Bank appointment proposal Delegation of 11) IDLC Ladies Forum 2) Registrar of Joint Stock authority Companies and Firms Responsible to 055 Small Enterprise Consumer IDLC Securities 3) Bangladesh Securitie & Assets Corporate Finance Limited Exchange Commission External auditor Medium Enterprise appoinment chain SME Division Wealth Corporate Structured 4) Dhaka Stock Exchange Finance Management Division Finance IDLC Investments Limited Limited Business Functions Supplier Finance Green Banking 5) Chittagong Stock Customer Experience Department IDLC Asset Exchange Limited Management Limited Micro Finance 6) National Board of Revenue Human CEO’s Strategic Credit Risk Marketing Finance Transformation Team Resource Planning Management Communication & CSR Support Information Change Operational Risk Administration Functions Operations Management Treasury Technology Management Internal Control Corporate Special Asset & Compliance Affairs Management OUR GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS OF 2018 Steering Safety and Business Continuity Integrity & towards automation reliance Plan (BCP) Governance Increased focus towards Conducted Informations Initiated and implemented Introduction of the process improvement and System Appraisal Audit & the BCP drill on a full day Integrity Policy automation Vulnerability Assessment trial on November 06, by external auditor KPMG 2018 for our major Bangladesh operational hubDIlkusha Introduction of the Formation of the IT branch. Integrity Awards. Steering Committee, a sub-committee of the Management Committee, to prioritize IT projects. Outcome Outcome Outcome Outcome Automation of several Greater reliance on Successful delivery of Awarding an individual backward and forward information and better operations from employee for Outstanding linkage of data sources; service from our designated disaster performance with centralized operations management zones Integrity under Integrity team. without any hamper in Award Policy; Initiation of formation of service. Central MIS system Revision of Technology Inspiring employees for Policy. their better performance with integrity. Board of Directors & it’s Sub-committees Legal & Politics & Vision Mission Regulatory Procedures Frameworks Corporate Governance Objectives Strategy Anti-Money Code of Transparency & Smart goals Organisational Laundering Conduct Accountability Hierarchy measures & Whistleblowing policy Monitoring & Internal Control Philosophies 056 OUR GOVERNANCE Board of Directors The Board of IDLC considers that its constitution should comprise Directors with an appropriate mix of skill, experience and personal attributes that allow the Directors individually and the Board collectively to discharge their responsibilities and duties under the law efficiently and effectively, understand the business of the Company and assess the performance of the management. The composition of the Board embraces diversity. The Directors possess a wide range of local and international experience, expertise and specialized skills to assist in decision-making and leading the Company for the benefit of its shareholders. Board of Name Directors & it’s Al Mahmood Aziz Chairman, NED Sub-committees Atiqur Rahman NED Chairman Monower Uddin Ahmed IND, NED Chairman Chairman, IDLC IL Md. Abdul Wadud NED Member Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman FCA NED Member Mahia Juned NED Md. Kamrul Hassan FCA NED Member Syed Shahriyar Ahsan NED Member Member Mati Ul Hasan NED Member Niaz Habib IND, NED Chairman, IDLC SL Matiul Islam Nowshad CMgr, FCMI IND, NED Chairman, IDLC AML Arif Khan CFA FCMA NED Member Chairman, IDLC AML NED = Non-Executive Director; ED = Executive Director; IND = Independent Director IDLC’s policy on appointment of Directors The Directors of IDLC are : Nominated Non-Executive Directorsnominated from the senior management of the Sponsor shareholders Non-executive Independent Directorsrecommendation received from various sources for highly capable and seasoned professionals. New Director recommendation Nominated Director Independant Director Nominated by Sponsor/Director Shareholder Recommended from various sources Appointment by the Board Nominated Director Independant Director Nominated by Sponsor/Director Shareholder Recommended from various sources Approval by Shareholders at the AGM Approval of appoinment of Independant Director Appointment of existing directors by rotation 057 In relation to the selection and appointment of new Director, the All the Non-Executive Directors are nominated by their respecexisting Board of Directors possess the following duties and tive institutions except for the Independent Directors. All the responsibilities: Directors bring forth independent judgment and considerable knowledge to perform their roles effectively. The Board of • Regularly review the size and composition of the Board and the mix of expertise, skills, experience and perspectives Directors ensures that the Company’s activities are always that may be desirable to permit the Board to execute its conducted with adherence to stringent and the highest possible functions; ethical standards and in the best interests of all stakeholders. • Identify any competencies not adequately represented and agreed to the process necessary to be assured that None of the directors of the Board, except the CEO & Managing a candidate nominated by the shareholders with those Director, are involved in the day-to-day operations of the Compacompetencies is selected; ny; rather, they provide their valuable insights and guidance to • The Directors are appointed by the shareholders in the the management in the meeting of the Board and its committees. Annual General Meeting (AGM). Casual vacancies, if any, are filled by the Board in accordance with the stipulations of the Companies Act, 1994, and the Articles of IDLC; Adequate number of Independent • The CEO & Managing Director is appointed by the Board Directors in the Board and their independence subject to the consent of the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and approval of Bangladesh Bank; As per the revised Corporate Governance Code (CGC) of • Any change in the members of the Board requires intimaBangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC), at tion to the Bangladesh Bank, all scheduled banks and least one-fifth of the total directors of the Board shall be Financial Institutions (FIs), Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC) and the stock exchanges. Independent Directors. Retirement and re-election of Directors Thus, in compliance with the guideline, three (3) Directors out of the total twelve (12) Directors are independent, having no share As per IDLC’s Articles of Association, one-third of the nonor interest in IDLC. Independence of the respective Independent executive Directors, except Independent ones, are required to Directors is confirmed during selection and appointment of the retire from the Board every year in Annual General Meeting Directors and they remain committed to continue with such (AGM), comprising those who have been in office the longest independence throughout their tenure. since their last election. A retiring Director shall be eligible for re-election. Board composition However, as per the governance code of BSEC, independent 1 directors are appointed for a tenure of 3 (three) years with renewal option for another term of 3 (three) years. Independent directors are appointed by the board and be 3 Nominated approved by the shareholders in the AGM. Non-executive Director 8 Independent Non-Executive Adequate representation of non-executive Director directors Executive Director We maintain the minimum requirement of non-executive directors as per guideline of Bangladesh Bank and BSEC, as the only Executive Director is the CEO & Roles and responsibilities of the Board Managing Director while the rest 11 are Non-Executive Directors (including 3 independent Directors). The Board is committed to the Company to achieve superior financial performance and long-term prosperity, while meeting Composition of the Board, ensuring adequate number of Nonstakeholder expectations of sound corporate governance Executive Directors and their independence practices. The Board determines the corporate governance arrangements for the Company. As with all its business IDLC’s Board comprises of eleven (11) Non-Executive Directors activities, the Board is proactive with regards to corporate including three (3) Independent Directors and one (1) Executive governance and puts in place those arrangements that it considDirector, the CEO & Managing Director. Directors possess a ers in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders and wide range of skills and experience over an array of professions, consistent with its responsibilities to other stakeholders.A high businesses and services. performing board works effectively with the CEO to fulfill its roles to induce the best performance for the organisation and to deliver the optimum value to its stakeholders. This is illustrated in the model below: 058 THE BOARD ENVIRONMENT BOARD INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL BOARD ROLES Strategy Board Dynamics CEO Selection, Monitoring & Evaluation Board Competencies Board Structures Board Behaviours Monitoring Knowledge Policies Personality Risk Management Skills Processes Values Compliance Abilities Procedures Norms Policy Framework Contacts Committees Board-Management relations Networking Stakeholder Communication Decision Making Effective Governance Work with and through the CEO Organizational Performance The functions of the board may be segregated into four categories as specified below. Process for Structural Strategic Governance board functioning Board composition and Formulation & implementation Company’s performance Board meetings & preparation diversity of strategy Leadership pool Board competencies & skills Risk and crisis management Group dynamics & training development CEO selection & Managing the quality of Policies and goal setting Compliance compensation conversation Director recruitment and Succession planning Governance Interaction with management orientation Board evaluation 059 Stakeholders Responsibilities reserved to the Board Approval of business strategy and vision in line with efforts to drive shareholder value creation. Approval of business plans, assuring that sufficient resources are available to implement and monitor the strategy. Approval and monitoring of major investments or divestitures and strategic commitments. Determination of capital structure and dividend policy. Approval and monitoring of financial reporting. Oversight of risk management, internal controls and compliance systems as per the Bangladesh Bank’s ‘Core Shareholders Risk Guideline’. Recommendation for appointment or removal of external auditors and determination of the remuneration and terms of appointment of the auditors. Approval of annual budgets including major capital expenditure proposals. Regular review of financial performance and overdue situations. Monitoring the adequacy, appropriateness and operations of internal controls. Ensure that technology and information systems are sufficient to operate the organisation effectively and sustain competitiveness. Benchmarking value creation for customers, clients and partners. Customers Reinforcement of the corporate culture and core values and ensuring that the Company remains an employer of choice. Review and approval of the CEO and Executive Management team’s arrangements, remuneration and benefits. Employees Oversight of succession planning for the CEO, Executive Management team and such other Executives as the Board may deem fit. Oversight of the management of social, economic and environmental concerns consistent with the delivery of Community sustainable outcomes for stakeholders and achievement of the Company’s incident and injury-free vision. Reinforcement of reputation, brand and community relations. Review of the size and composition of the Board. Directors Director’s nomination, selection, removal, succession planning and remuneration. Review of the Board’s performance. The Chairman of the Board and the CEO Roles of the Chairman of the Company are different individuals The principal features of the role of the Chairman comprise the following: The Chairman of the Board is not the Chief Executive of the Company. The Chairman and the CEO & Managing Director are • Providing leadership to the Board; different individuals. The role of the Chairman and the CEO & • Taking responsibility for the Board’s composition and Managing Director are independent and separate. development; • Ensuring proper information for the Board; Planning and conducting Board meetings effectively; Roles and responsibilities of the Chairman as • Getting all Directors involved in the Board’s work; defined by the Board • Ensuring the Board’s focus on key tasks; • Engaging the Board in assessing and improving its The Chairman runs the Board. The Chairman serves as the performance; primary link between the Board and the management and works • Overseeing the induction and development of Directors; with the CEO and Company Secretary to set the agenda for and Board meetings. It is the Chairman’s responsibility to provide • Supporting the CEO & Managing Director. leadership to the Board and ensure that the Board works effectively and discharges its responsibilities as Directors of the Company. The role and responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board is defined and set by the Board. 060 Responsibilities of the Chairman attention in the coming year. Ensure effective operations of the Board and its committees The following criteria are considered for the evaluation: in conformance with the highest standards of corporate governance; Ensure effective communication with shareholders, host Membership governments and other relevant constituencies and ensure accountability and that the views of these groups are understood by the Board; governance Set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to promote constructive debate and effective decision making; Ensure that all Board Committees are properly established, BoardBoard management operations composed and operated; relations Support the CEO & Managing Director in strategy formulation and, more broadly, provide support and give advice; Ensure an effective relationship among Directors, acting as the principal conduit for communication and issues relating Planning Legal responsibilities to business strategy, planned acquisitions and corporate governance; Establish a harmonious and open relationship with the CEO & Managing Director; Financial Ensure that Board Committees are properly structured and overview all corporate governance matters are fully addressed; and Encourage active engagement by all members of the Board A board is a team of knowledge workers, and to do its job, the Independence of non-executive directors board needs the same resources and capabilities that any other from day to day operations successful team of knowledge workers needs such as knowledge, information, power, motivation, and time. All the Non-Executive Directors are nominated by their respecSelf-evaluation is not an easy issue for any group to deal with. It tive institutions except for the Independent Directors. All the is particularly difficult in the case of boards because it requires Directors bring forth independent judgment and considerable board members to make judgments and decisions about knowledge to perform their roles effectively. The Board of themselves and about issues that affect all stakeholders. Directors ensures that the Company’s activities are always The effectiveness of the evaluation very much depends on how conducted with adherence to stringent and the highest possible the board structures the evaluation process. It should consist of ethical standards and in the best interests of all stakeholders. three phases: The first—setting annual board objectives at the None of the directors of the Board, except the CEO & Managing beginning of the fiscal year. The process picks up again at the Director, are involved in the day-to-day operations of the Compaend of the year, when, in the second phase, the board secretary ny; rather, they provide their valuable insights and guidance to collects and disseminates information about the board’s the management in the meeting of the Board and its committees. activities. With that information in hand, in the third phase, board members can judge how close they came to meeting their Annual appraisal of the Board’s performance objectives while also examining the adequacy of the resources available to them over the year. and disclosure Appraising a board’s performance can clarify the individual and collective roles and responsibilities of its directors, and better knowledge of what is expected of them can help boards become more effective. Any discussion of performance appraisals must necessarily cover two broad areas—the what and the how. In the case of a board, what should be appraised is its ability first to define its responsibilities and establish annual objectives in the context ofthose general responsibilities, and then its record in achieving those objectives. Before a board can even begin to evaluate its performance in these broad areas of responsibility, it must articulate the specific actions that each of them implies. In other words, boards must set objectives for themselves within those broad categories against which they can eventually measure their performance. The board creates a set of objectives annually—generally speaking, at the beginning of the fiscal year—that reflects the directors’ collective judgment about which aspects of the board’s overall responsibilities need particular 061 Performance Review Effective chairman Balanced Culture Individual performance People & Strong chairman/ CEO relationship Team & Behaviour management Clarity of objective targets Key performance and structure indicators Board Scope and Performance Role Measures Products Agenda and Communication Structured Collective performance and calendar and reporting engagement measurement processes Performance Review Annual evaluation of the CEO & Managing Director by the Board The Board of Directors evaluates the CEO & Managing Director based on the goals set for him considering the company vision and mission at the beginning of each year. The annual financial budget and other job objectives are discussed, reviewed and finalized by the Board at the start of the financial year. The Board considers both financial and non-financial goals during the appraisal. Establish expectations Guide Assess The board undertakes a The board agrees goals and detailed review using: On going advice, particularly from the key expectations for the CEO 1. Financial goals Chairman 2. Non-financial goals The board negotiates perforThe board formally mance goals with the CEO discusses the findings Set expectations PERFORMANCE Formal Appraisal Expectations for the CEO Performance assessment performance are agreed by CEO and process formally reviewed at Board Endorsed by the board board meeting 062 Evaluation based on financial performance Evaluation based on Non-Financial goals At the end of each quarter, the CEO & Managing Director is The CEO & Managing Director is also evaluated based on nonevaluated based on the financial targets. The evaluation is done financial goals in an ongoing basis. The non-financial criteria based on both: include, but are not constricted to things such as: • Achievement of targets against budget; • The confidence of the shareholders in the CEO, as • Achievement of targets against the achievement of reflected in the stock price of the company; those targets in the previous year. • The relationship of the company with the regulators; In addition, at the end of each year, an annual assessment and evaluation of the achievements of pre-agreed targets is done. During this evaluation, the deviations from target, and the reasons for the deviations are discussed and assessed. Training and Development of Directors The Board ensures that a structured Director Learning and Education Programme is in place for its members. This The Board recognizes the importance of ensuring that Directors programme shall ensure members have access to an appropriare continuously being developed to acquire or enhance the ate continuing education programme and are kept up to date requisite knowledge and skills to discharge their duties with current business, industry, regulatory and legislative effectively. developments and trends that will affect the Company’s business operations. All new Directors appointed to the Board attend a formal induction programme to familiarize themselves with the Group’s Financial and accounting knowledge and strategy and aspiration, understanding of the line of businesses expertise of Directors and corporate functions, key financial highlights, audit, compliance and risk management. Our Board of Directors consists of members who possess a wide variety of knowledge and experience in finance, economy, The programme is conducted by the CEO & Managing management, business administration, marketing and law. This Directors/ Heads of the business units as well as Senior ensures that together, they formulate the right policy for the Management. The Company Secretary also provides the new development of the business while having the specialized skills Directors with an information kit regarding disclosure obligaand the ability to foresee developments across a larger perspections of a Director, Board Charter, Code of Ethics, the Constitive and with enough independence to audit the management in tution of the Company, Board Committees’ Terms of Reference, a balanced manner. and Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, amongst Among them, two Directors are Fellow members of the Institute others. of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB), naming Mr. Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman and Mr. Md. Kamrul Hassan The Board, together with the Board members of the subsidiaries FCA. They provide guidance in matters applicable to accounting of IDLC would also attend offsite Strategy Meeting to have an and audit-related issues to ensure compliance and reliable in-depth understanding and continuous engagement with financial reporting. Management pertaining to the Group’s strategic direction. In addition, the Directors are constantly updated on information relating to the Group’s development and industry development through discussion at Board meetings with the Senior Management team. 063 EXPERTISE OF DIRECTORS Professional background Length of service Our Board comprises of experts from various fields that provide All members of our Board are extensively accomplished in their a well-rounded view to the company that helps in effective respective fields, and proffer their adept and seasoned knowlstrategic management and implementation. The following edge on the back of over 20 years of experience. Majority of our diagrams depict the areas of expertise and the composition of directors falls within the experience bracket of 31 to 40 years; the tenure of service of our board members. assuring the stakeholders in their decision-making process and governing capabilities. Professional background Length of service 25% Accounting, finance 17% 33% 8% Insurance 33% Banking 17% HR Management 8% Entrepreneurship, Business management 42% 8% 20-25 years 8% Risk Management, 26-30 years Sustainble Development 31-40 years Over 40 years The number of Directors required to constitute a quorum is six (6), out of the eleven Directors. During 2018, a total of twelve Holding of Board meetings (12) Board meetings were held. As advised by the Bangladesh Bank, the meeting of the Board of a financial institution shall be held at its Corporate Head Office (CHO) or in the town in which its CHO is located. In compliance with this directive, the meeting of the Board of Directors is normally held at the registered Corporate Head Office of the Company. The meeting is held frequently, at least once a month, to help the Board discharge its responsibilities and functions as mentioned above. The meeting is scheduled well in advance and the notice of each Board meeting is given in writing to each Director by the Company Secretary. Process of holding Board meetings The Company Secretary prepares the detailed agenda for the meeting. The Board papers comprising the agenda, explanatory notes and proposed resolutions are circulated to the Directors well in advance for their review. The members of the Board have complete access to all the information of the Company, enabling them to work efficiently. The members of the Board are also free to recommend inclusion of any matter in the agenda for discussions, subject to the permission of the Chairman of the meeting. The Company Secretary, the Chief Financial Officer and Head of Internal Control and Compliances always attend the Board meetings and the senior management is invited to attend the Board meetings to provide additional inputs of the items being discussed by the Board and make necessary presentations. 064 Key Activities of the Board in 2018 The following table shows a breakdown of the matters considered by the Board in 2018, in addition to business agenda. Quarter-wise Overview of Main Recurring Board Activities of 2018 • Authorization of Financial Statements and Annual Report 2017 • Dividend recommendation January – March • Appointment of Auditors and determination of Audit Fees • Approval of Performance Bonus for 2017 • Holding of Annual General Meeting • Review of Base Rate for the Fourth Quarter 2017 • Endorsement of First Quarter Financial Statement 2018 (January – March) April – June • Employee Salary revision • Review of Base Rate for the First Quarter 2018 July – September • Endorsement of Second Quarter Financial Statement 2018 (March June) • Review of Base Rate for the Second Quarter 2018 • Endorsement of Third Quarter Financial Statement 2018 (September – July) October – December • Approval of Budget for the year 2019 • Modification of Credit Policy • Review of Base Rate for the Third Quarter 2018 KEY ACTIVITIES OF 2018 Issuance of Zero Coupon Bond Purchase of Land for IDLC Tower Change in Director of the Board Revision of Employee Salary Structure Inclusion of “IDLC FL Integrity Award Policy” Compliance with the Code of Conduct for the members of the Board Declaration of Dividend Revised Technology Policy Approval of the IDLC’s Budget 2019 Adoption of Directors’ report to the shareholders for the year 2017 Appointment of Statutory Auditors and fixation of their remuneration Appointment of Corporate Governance Auditors and fixation of their remuneration 065 Directors’ remuneration Monitoring changes in relevant legislation and the regulatory environment, and taking appropriate action; Directors are not entitled to any remuneration other than attendLiaising with external regulators and advisers, such as ing the meeting of the Board and its committees. lawyers and auditors; Bangladesh Bank vide its DFIM Circular No. 13 dated November Filing statutory returns to regulatory bodies such as 30, 2015, re-fixed the maximum limit of remuneration to the RJSC, Bangladesh Bank, Securities & Exchange Directors for attending meetings of the Board and its committees Commission (SEC), Stock Exchanges, Central Depositoat Taka 8,000 per meeting per Director. ry System etc; Overseeing the preparation of company's statutory Directors’ report on preparation and annual report and dispatching to stakeholders in timely presentation of financial statements and manner; corporate governance Assist management in corporate tax planning and ensure efficient and effective tax management and compliance The Board of Directors accepts the responsibility for the prepawith regard to tax withholding and statutory reporting to ration of the financial statements, maintaining adequate records tax authority; for safeguarding the assets of the Company, preventing and Analyse tax implications in new diversified investments detecting fraud and/ or other irregularities, selecting suitable and assist management; accounting policies and applying those policies consistently and To take competitive tax advantage from different alternamaking reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates where tive investment options; necessary. Oversee the filing of annual tax return, liaise with tax The Board of Directors are also responsible for the implementaconsultants time to time and attend hearing to tax office tion of the best and the most suitable corporate governance as and when required; practices. Statutory reporting to Bangladesh Bank, SEC, NBR and other regulatory bodies under Financial institutions Act, Role of the Company Secretary (CS) 1993, Companies Act 1994, Securities & Exchange Regulations etc and The Company Secretary acts as a mediator between the Liaison with the outside parties for company affairs. Company, its Board of Directors, stakeholders, the government and regulatory authorities. Role of the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) In compliance with the Corporate Governance Code, the A Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is the senior executive role with Company Secretary has defined roles and responsibilities primary responsibility for managing the company's finances, approved by the Board, which are indicated below: including financial planning, management of financial risks, record-keeping, and financial reporting. To ensure the compliance of the company in relation to In compliance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Chief financial and legal practices, as well as issues of corpoFinancial Officer (CFO) has defined roles and responsibilities rate governance; approved by the Board, which are indicated below: To act as a point of communication between the board of directors and company shareholders, reporting in a timely To participate in planning and policy making, and and accurate manner on company procedures, perforunshouldering responsibility for the overall financial mance and developments; management of the Company; To develop and oversee the systems that ensure the To regulate, supervise and implement a full and accurate company complies with all applicable codes, as well as its set of accounting books and records reflecting all its legal and statutory requirements; activities in a manner commensurate with the relevant Holding, managing and administering board and commitlegislation such as Companies Act, 1994, Securities and tee meetings and general meetings of shareholders; Exchange Commission 1969, Financial Institutions Act, Organizing, preparing agendas for, and taking minutes 1993, International Accounting Standards and Banglaof board meetings, audit committee meetings, executive desh Accounting Standards; committee and other committees of the Board, annual To implement budgetary and financial control system to general meetings (AGMs) and extra-ordinary general monitor the performance of the company, its flow of funds, meeting of the shareholders; the adherence to the budget; Overseeing maintenance of statutory books, including To comply with all reporting, accounting and audit requireregisters of members, directors and registrar of meeting ments imposed by the capital market authority and minutes; regulatory bodies; Dealing with correspondence, ensuring decisions made To prepare annual budget, financial and business plans, are communicated to the company stakeholders; feasibility studies for new diversification; Contributing to meeting discussions, as and when To alert management and Board any irregularity, lack of required, and advising members of the legal, governance, compliance, lacunas and problems whether actual or accounting and tax implications of proposed policies; potential concerning the financial system, financial plans, accounting, taxation which could or does have financial implication; 066 To ensure proper tax management and compliance Role of the Head of Internal Audit and system; Compliance (HIAC) To help management maintain a proper capital structure with optimum leverage to bring more return on equity Head of Internal Audit and Compliance (HIAC) is the senior holders; executive role with primary responsibility for managing the To supervise and oversee the Accounts and Finance company's audit, internal control system, risks, compliance to Department; internal & external regulation, and reporting. To safeguard the asset of the company by ensuring In compliance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Head efficient usage and control of assets; of Internal Audit and Compliance (HIAC) has a defined role and To plan and control organisational cost; responsibilities approved by the Board, which are indicated Oversee the smooth operation of the finance and below: accounting function, tax management of the Company to provide sound day to day financial stewardship for the Ensure proper internal control system are in place for Company; smooth operation of the company; Involve vigorously in business strategies, formulate long Check compliance to internal and external regulation of term business plans and keep close liaison with the Board the company; of the Company; Coordinate analysis of risk in different areas of operations; Plan, organize, direct and monitor the financial and Prepare annual audit plans based on the results of the administrative functions to ensure achievement of risk analysis; objectives and goals; Schedule planned audits and coordinate planning for Supervise collection of business plans and targets from specific audits; other departments and ensure proper coordination for Prepare audit programs and approaches that meet the preparing annual budget of the Company; objectives of audits, with a focus on compliance to internal Overseeing and supervising preparation of various control design and testing; monthly management reports, MISs and variance Perform audit work including preparing work papers, analysis of actual with the budgets and report abnormalidocumenting control weaknesses or inefficiencies and ties; managing the completion of the audit within the given In timely manner, to ensure proper budgetary control timeframe; system and provide; Prepare draft audit report and conduct exit meetings to Enhanced control and analysis on business unit's obtain management concurrence and responses; revenues and expenditures; Prepare final audit reports and circulate the report to CEO Report on factors influencing business performance and and auditee; to assess and evaluate the financial implications for new Place summary of audit report to the audit committee; diversified operation and existing venture; Conduct special investigation on the allegation of fraud, Ensure overall accuracy of the accounting system, forgery noticed by the management; financial statements prepared at month end and year end, Contribute to process improvements of existing departincluding Profit and Loss Account, Balance Sheet, Cash mental procedures and tools; Flow Statement, Statement of Changes in Equity and Perform other duties and special projects as assigned by internal and external statutory returns; the CEO or Audit Committee and Oversee the monthly management accounts with detailed Create awareness in developing a culture of risk and analysis of performance; control throughout the organisation. Review and supervise the activity based and branch profitability statement of the company to assess the Committees of the Board performance of different financial products and branches; As per Bangladesh Bank guidelines, IDLC, being a Financial Monitor and supervise the preparation of half yearly Institution (FI) can only form two subcommittees of the Board: statutory accounts and ensure compliance of requireAudit Committee (AC) and Executive Committee (EC). No other ments of regulatory bodies in preparing and circulating subcommittee of the Board is permitted by Bangladesh Bank. the half yearly accounts to shareholders; Moreover, for ensuring good governance in the company, BSEC Designing presentation of annual statutory financial has advised that the Board shall have at least two sub-commitstatements and notes to the accounts to ensure proper tees: Audit Committee and Nomination and Remuneration compliance of Companies Act, Securities and Exchange Committee. Regulations, Financial Institutions Act, International and Bangladesh Accounting Standards' (IASs and BASs) and other applicable laws related to disclosures of financial information; Liaise with the External Auditor and oversee the audit procedure and Prepare statutory annual report and circulate to stakeholders within the time frame. 067 New Director Recommendation Audit Executive Committee Committee Section no. Name of Committee Members of the Functions of the Number of of the Board Committee Committee meetings held in 2018 1.15.1 Executive Committee Atiqur RahmanChairman Establishing strategic and 12 Md. Abdul WadudMember operational plans SyedShahriyarAhsanTaking prompt decisions to adapt to Member changes in the market Mai Ul HasanMember Determine and outline the area of Arif Khan CFA FCMAMember business focus area where 1.15.2 Audit Committee (See Monower Uddin AhmedExamine any matter relating to the 6 Section 3 below for Chairman financial affairs of the Company; details) Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman Recommend financial statements FCAMember to the Board for authorization; Md. Kamrul Hassan FCARecommend external auditors for Member appointment; Syed Shahriyar AhsanMember Review all audit and inspection reports, internal control systems and procedures, accounting policies and adherence to compliance requirements 068 IDLC’s Vision, Mission and Strategies Board-approved vision and mission statements of the company The Board of Directors, at its 193rd meeting held on May 13, 2012, redefined the Company’s vision, mission, strategic objectives and value statements. Adhering to our value statements, we are driving towards our vision. Management Committee and its subcommittees Name of the Functions of the Year 2018 No. Committee Members of the Committee Committees 1 Management Arif Khan CFA, FCMA, CEO & Managing Director Oversee IDLC in accordance Meetings held: weekly Committee M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director & with its Constitution and Notable accomplishments: Head of Business applicable laws and 1. Review of the Business Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer and regulations; Continuity Plan; Head of Credit Overseas ongoing operations; 2. Formation of the Central Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer Segregation of the responsibiliMIS segment; (CTO) ties and accountability of the 3. Issuance of the zero Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division committee from those of the coupon bond; Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division Executive Officer to ensure 4. Re-engineering of the Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate good governance; Consumer Division Division Monitoring achievement Business Model; Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human against strategic plans and 5. Authorizing extension of Resources allocated budget ; the Core Banking Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations Making key decisions for the Software. Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Company’s management and Financial Officer operations under the official Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of delegation of authority from the Treasury &Strategic Planning Board. Mahbub-ul-Kader, CAMS, Group Head of Internal Control and Compliance Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, FCA, Head of Group Corporate Affairs & Taxation and Group Company Secretary Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA, Managing Director, IDLC Investments Limited Md. Saifuddin, Managing Director, IDLC Securities Limited Rajib Kumar Dey, Managing Director, IDLC Asset Management Limited 1.1 Management Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA, CEO & Managing Evaluates all projects/ proposals Meetings held: Twice in a Committee Director of the Company from the risk point week M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director & of view. Approved business proposHead of Business als having a group Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer and exposure limit as given Head of Credit below: Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division 1. Corporate & SME Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division segment: Existing clientMesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate BDT 50 mn & New clientDivision BDT 70 mn Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of 2. Residential and Treasury & Strategic Planning Commercial Real Estate Finance: BDT 30 mn 069 Name of the Functions of the Year 2018 No. Committee Members of the Committee Committees 1.2 Asset Liability Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA, CEO & Managing To instill a systematic manageMeetings held: 13 Management Director ment process for tracking the Notable accomplishments: Committee M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director & Balance Sheet risks in a timely 1. Effectively managed (ALCO) Head of Business manner. liquidity and interest rate risk Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer and To proactively review and through proactive policy Head of Credit manage potential liquidity risk measures amid tight liquidity Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division and Interest rate risk which may condition in the market; Syed Javed Noor, GM Head of Consumer arise from market movements, 2. Maintained spread within Division regulatory changes and/or a satisfactory margin; Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate changes in economic/political 3. Ensured compliance with Division environment. all regulatory guidelines. Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief To review and set deposit-pricFinancial Officer ing and asset-pricing strategy of Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of IDLC. Determine deposits and Treasury and Strategic Planning assets growth in the right bucket for better Asset Liability Management (ALM) of IDLC. To ensure compliance with the regulations of Bangladesh Bank in respect of statutory obligations involved within the parameters of Balance Sheet Risks. 1.3 Remuneration Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Partner with the Human Meetings held: 7 Committee (HR Director Resource function in driving the Notable accomplishments: & Compensation M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director & people agenda in alignment Committee) Head of Business with the Organisational Strategy From 2019 onwards, the Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer related to total reward system. committee would convene (CTO) Ensure consistency of atleast once in a month for Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer and application of policies and a formal meeting Head of Credit procedures across the Group. Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division Ensure equal opportunity and Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division transparency in terms of Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate suitable recruitment, Division performance evaluation and Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human other benefitsrelated issues Resource Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic Planning 1.4 Corporate Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Ensures that the Corporate Meetings held: 4 Governance Director Governance practice within the Notable accomplishments: Committee Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer and Company is as required by the Head of Credit Bangladesh Securities and Aligning Code of Conduct Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Exchange Commission (BSEC) and IDLC's governance Financial Officer and the Bangladesh Bank. framework with the BSEC Mahbub-ul-Kader, CAMS, Group Head of Recommends and advises Corporate Governance Code Internal Control and Compliance course of action in the areas date June 3, 2018. Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, FCA, Head where there is a scope of of Statutory Reporting & Group Company improvement. Secretary 070 Name of the Functions of the Year 2018 No. Committee Members of the Committee Committees 1.5 BASEL Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director Apply the action plan of Meetings held: 4 Implementation Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer and BASEL-II and review thereof; Notable accomplishments: Committee Head of Credit Communicate issues related to Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief the implementation of BASEL-II • Ensuring credit rating for Financial Officer to the management; eligible clients to constrain Mahbub-ul-Kader, CAMS, Group Head of Internal Assist in carrying out the Risk Weighted Asset of Control and Compliance quantitative impact study (QIS), portfolio; Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, FCA, Head of if necessary; • Ensuring alignment of Statutory Reporting & Group Company Secretary Engage in capacity building and business strategies and training according to the training planning with BASEL need assessment (TNA) for the guidelines to ensure sound concerned officials; and Capital Adequacy Ratio Establish a planning and (CAR) as indicated by the supervisory review as required improving trend of the CAR by Pillar-II of BASEL-II over the years. framework. The reviews of the BASEL Implementation Committee include Review of action taken in previous BIU meetings Economic and market status and outlook Credit, market and operational risks related to capital adequacy Review of BASEL implementation status 1.6 Integrity M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director & Create awareness on code of Meetings held: 2 Committee Head of Business integrity and good governance Notable accomplishments: Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer across the company; (CTO) Identify the scopes where Implementation of the Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME efficiency of employee can be Integrity Award Policy and Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division developed and arrange selecting the employee for Md. Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate appropriate training in this Integrity Awards. Division regards; Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Amend existing policies and Resources procedures as per requireMahbub-ul-Kader, CAMS, Group Head of Internal ments; Control & Compliance Evaluate and reward the respective employees for integrity and good work; Improve e-governance system; Develop complaint management system; Implement code of conduct. 071 Name of the Functions of the Year 2018 No. Committee Members of the Committee Committees 1.7 Central M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director & Keeping updated with changes in Meetings held: 4 Compliance Head of Business regulations regarding the Notable accomplishments: Unit (CCU) combatting of money laundering Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit & and terrorist financing, and Collection • Ensured continued accordingly adopting changes to Mahbub-ul-Kader, CAMS, Group Head of Internal IDLC’s AML and ATA compliance compliance with national Control and Compliance policy AML/CFT laws and Supervising money laundering regulations; and terrorist financing control • Review of the AML/CFT procedures of the company so as policies and ensure its to ensure legal and regulatory requirements compliance across the Issuing necessary instructions organisation; across the company in line with • Reviewed and approved company policy and Bangladesh suspicious transaction Bank directives reporting. Ensuring that proper KYC along with effective risk assessment and control procedures are in place Providing advisory services to business and operational units on various issues linked with alleged money laundering activities or transactions Maintaining ongoing awareness on evolving money laundering risks and their compliance procedures through formal and informal training, workshop and seminars Development of adequate testing procedures to detect and prevent lapses in compliance Monitoring business activities of branches through AML and ATA selfassessment procedure and provide corrective measures 1.8 Risk Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer and Design overall risk management Meetings held: 12 Management strategy Head of Credit Notable accomplishments: Communicate views of the Board Forum (RMF) and senior management regarding Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer the risk management culture and (CTO) • Reviewing the risk risk appetite across the Company Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Prepare risk management policies framework; and procedures Resources • Reviewing the risks Monitor the prescribed/ threshold Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations limits of risk appetite set by the identified during the years regulator and/ or by the Company Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief • Successful formation of the itself Financial Officer Develop and observe the use of Operational Risk Managemodels to measure and monitor Mohammad Jobayer Alam, Head of Treasury & ment Wing; risks Strategic Planning Develop and oversee implementa• Reviewing and Compilation tion of stress testing Shafayet Hossain, Head of Special Asset of Standard Operating Oversee the capital management Management functions in accordance with the Procedure for every activity risk-based capital adequacy Mahbub-ul-Kader, CAMS, Group Head of across the organisation. measurement accord, i.e. Internal Control and Compliance BASEL-II/ III Determine the most cost-effective Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, FCA, Head way to minimize risks of Group Corporate Affairs & Taxation & Group Highlight risks in portfolios and deficiencies of the Company on a Company Secretary timely manner and report the Jane Alam Romel, Group Chief Marketing Officer analyses to the Managing Director as well as the Board of Directors with specific recommendations and suggestions Review market conditions, identify external threats and provide commensurate recommendations for precautionary measures Develop overall information system/ MIS to support the risk management functions of the Company 072 Name of the Functions of the Year 2018 No. Committee Members of the Committee Committees 1.9 ICT Steering Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA, CEO & Managing Monitor management methods to Meetings held: 4 Committee Director determine and achieve strategic Notable accomplishments: goals M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director & 1. Approved the project for Provide guidance related to risk, Head of Business the year funding, or sourcing Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer Ensure project priorities and 2. Prioritize the IT projects (CTO) assessing feasibility for ICT and resource assignment for Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer & Head proposals the approved projects Ensure that all critical technology of Credit 3. Take the status update of projects have a component for Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division the ongoing IT projects “project risk management” Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division Consult and advise on the 4. Provide necessary Md. Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate selection of technology to be guidance to ensure Division implemented compliance Ensure that vulnerability assessAkhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human ment of new technology is Resources performed Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Provide direction and guidance Financial Officer regarding architecture design, Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations need for legislative and regulatory compliance Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Ensure compliance to regulatory Treasury & Strategic Planning and statutory requirements Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, FCA, Head of Corporate Affairs and Taxation Mahbub-ul-Kader, CAMS, Group Head of Internal Control and Compliance Other stakeholders as decided by the committee 1.10 ICT Steering Asif Saad Bin Shams, Chief Risk Officer & Head Ensure development and Meetings held: 2 Committee ICT of Credit implementation of ICT security Notable accomplishments: Security and objectives, ICT security related Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer Risk policies and procedures (CTO) •Provide guide lines and Management Provide ongoing management Committee Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief support to the Information support to prepare the IT Financial Officer security processes risk framework Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations Ensure continued compliance •Review of system audit by with the business objectives, external IT Auditor Mahbub-ul-Kader, CAMS, Group Head of regulatory and legal requireInternal Control and Compliance ments related to ICT security Muhammad Sazzad Hossain, Head of Support to formulate ICT risk Operational Risk Management management framework/process and to establish acceptable ICT risk thresholds/ICT risk apatite and assurance requirements Periodic review and provide approval for modification in ICT Security processes 1.11 IDLC Ladies Shamima Akter Lovely, Head of Human Ensuring all women employees Number of meetings held: 3 Forum Resources, Capital Market Operations and Head the opportunity for networking Notable accomplishments: (IDLC LF) and provide a common platform of Organisational Development & Talent to share and raise various issues Management 1. Effective hosting of the and problems like discrimination, harassment, negative attitude Annual Ladies Forum Executive Committee towards women and any other meeting; issue that may affect women 2. Ensuring proper employees within the Company. Comprises of 11 women employees representing management of issues Enabling IDLC’s management to different divisions and branches of the Group raised . better understand and address issues and develop strategies Secretary accordingly. Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR All female employees of the Group 073 Terms of reference of Audit Committee – Audit Committee empowering to investigate employees and retain external counsel Appointment of members and composition The role of the Committee is further expounded on and clarified of the Audit Committee in the Terms of Reference (ToR) of the Audit Committee, which Composition of the Audit Committee consisting of an was revised in light of directives contained in DFIM Circular No. Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors 13, dated 26 October, 2011 issued by the Bangladesh Bank and CGC of BSEC. According to the revised ToR of the Audit In compliance Corporate Governance Code of BSEC, the Committee, its principal duties and responsibilities include the Committee consists of four (4) non-executive members of the following: Board including an Independent Director who is the Chairman of the Committee. The quorum of the meeting shall not be filled In respect of internal control: until and unless the Independent Director attends the meeting. 1. Evaluating whether the management: The Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the Audit a. Has an appropriate internal control and compliance Committee. culture with regards to risk management, including approval of the Internal Audit and Compliance Plan and review of the Internal Audit and Compliance Audit Committee Composition Report; Nominated b. Has clearly defined the duties and responsibilities 1 Non-executive of officials and director c. Has full control over the operations of the Company 2. Reviewing the appropriateness of management information Independent non-executive system (MIS) including information technology system and its director use 3. Reviewing whether the management is complying with the recommendations made by internal and external auditors 4. Reviewing existing risk management procedures to ensure 3 that processes are effectively run within the Company 5. Reviewing all fraud, forgery and internal control weaknesses discovered by internal, external or regulatory auditors and thereafter keeping the Board of Directors informed of all discoveries and subsequent corrective measures Qualification of the Chairman In respect of financial statements: Mr. Monower Uddin Ahmed, one of the Independent and NonExecutive Directors, is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, 1. Reviewing whether financial statements were prepared in possessing of vast experience. All the members of the Commitcompliance with all directives and guidelines prescribed by the tee are ‘financially literate’ as defined by the corporate Bangladesh Bank and other applicable standards governance code. In the absence of the Chairperson of the Audit 2. Engaging in discussions with external auditors and the Committee, the remaining members may elect one of management prior to the finalization of the financial statements themselves as Chairperson for that particular meeting, in that 3. Attending and answering questions related to accounts and case there shall be no problem of constituting a quorum as audit at the AGM required under condition No. 5(4) (b) [where presence of an independent director is a must] and In respect of internal audit: the reason of absence of the regular Chairperson shall be duly 1. Reviewing the activities and organisational structure of recorded in the minutes. internal audit and ensuring that there is no barrier or limitation to the performance of an independent internal audit; Chairperson of the Audit Committee shall remain present in the 2. Assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of internal audit; Annual General Meeting (AGM): 3. Assessing whether the management is appropriately considering compliance of recommendations made by the internal Provided that in absence of Chairperson of the Audit Committee, auditors with regards to the observations identified by them and any other member from the Audit Committee shall be selected 4. Placing recommendations before the Board of Directors in to be present in the annual general meeting (AGM) and reason case of change of accounting policies for absence of the Chairperson of the Audit Committee shall be recorded in the minutes of the AGM. 074 In respect of external audit: Holding of the Audit Committee meeting 1. Hold meeting with the external or statutory auditors for review during 2018 of the annual financial statements before submission to the As per its Terms of Reference and the BSEC Corporate GoverBoard for approval or adoption; nance Code dated 03 June 2018, the Audit Committee is 2. Review the Management’s Discussion and Analysis before required to hold at least four (4) meetings in a year. During the disclosing in the Annual Report; year ended 31 December 2018, the Committee held Six (6) 3. Appraising the audit procedures and reviewing the managemeetings. ment letter submitted by external auditors; 4. Assessing whether the management has appropriately considered the observations and recommendations made by the external auditors; Quorum of the Audit Committee meetings 5. Oversee the determination of audit fees based on scope and magnitude, level of expertise deployed and time required for The number of Directors required to constitute a quorum is effective audit and evaluate the performance of external two (2) or two third of the members of the Audit Committee, auditors; and whichever is higher, where presence of an independent director 6. Placing recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding is a must according to the BSEC Corporate Governance Code the appointment of external auditors. dated 03 June 2018. The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary of the Committee. In respect of compliance with existing regulations: The Audit Committee and Internal Control and Compliance Reviewing whether the rules and regulations set by regulatory authorities (Bangladesh Bank and other regulatory bodies) as IDLC’s Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department is well as internal policies and guidelines approved by the Board of tasked with reviewing the Company’s system of internal controls Directors are being complied with. including the conduct of regular audits of all operational units. ICC is operationally independent in that its members are not Miscellaneous: involved in the Company’s operational activities and that the Head of ICC (HoICC), in addition to his direct reporting line to Placing quarterly reports before the Board of Directors on the CEO & Managing Director, also has access to the Audit rectification / correction status of errors, fraud, forgery and other Committee. irregularities identified by internal auditors, external auditors and The Audit Committee is responsible for approving the annual the Bangladesh Bank inspection teams. audit plan of ICC and reviewing the plan’s subsequent implementation. Undertaking development functions through implementing an improved infrastructure and reporting system and Performing all other supervisory activities as assigned by the Board as well as evaluating its own efficiency on a regular basis Reporting of the Audit Committee Composition of the Audit Committee: The Audit Committee reports directly to the Board of Directors The Audit Committee comprises of 4 members of the Board, and under certain circumstances, can also report to the BSEC. which includes all Non-Executive Directors, which covers the requirement clause of having more than two-thirds of the Immediate reporting to the Board of Directors the Audit Commitmembers being Non-Executive Directors. tee shall immediately report to the Board of Directors in the following cases: Relevant Expertise of the Committee: On conflict of interest; All four of the Committee incumbents possess working experiSuspected and presumed fraud or irregularity or ence in the fields of finance, accounting and audit. Two of these material defect in the internal control system; members of the Committee, Mr. Kamrul Hassan FCA and Mr. Suspected infringement of laws, including securities-relatMohammad Mahbubur Rahman FCA, are Fellow members of ed laws, rules and regulations and the Institute of Chartered Accounts of Bangladesh (ICAB), and Any other matter which should be disclosed to the Board have specialized expertise required for the role. of Directors immediately Accessibility of Head of Internal Audit No such issues arose at IDLC during the year ended 31 Decemto the meeting of the Audit Committee ber 2018. The Head of Internal Control and Compliance, Mr. Mahbub-ulKader has direct access to the Audit Committee, which in turn is directly accountable to the Board. 075 Immediate reporting to the Bangladesh coordinated and reviewed their functions and reported to the Securities and Exchange Commission Audit Committee. Before presenting the financials before the board, the committee at its 66th meeting held on February 17, If the Audit Committee has reported to the Board of Directors 2019 reviewed their activities and hold a discussion with them in about anything that has a material impact on the financial this regard. And the committee and the auditors, both have conditions and results of operations of, and where the Audit expressed their Committee finds that such rectification has been unreasonably satisfaction. ignored, the Audit Committee shall report such findings to the SEC, upon reporting of such matters to the Board of Directors for three such instances or completion of a period of 9 (nine) Selection of appropriate accounting policies months from the date of first reporting to the Board of Directors, While reviewing the financial statements for 2018 by the Audit whichever is earlier. Committee, they have reviewed that the financial statements were prepared following appropriate accounting policies that are No such circumstances arose during the year ended 31 Decemin line with applicable accounting standards adopted by Institute ber 2018. of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh . Objectives of the Audit Committee Review of interim financial statements before The Audit Committee shall assist the Board of Directors to presenting to the board for authentication ensure that the financial statements reflect a true and fair view of In compliance with Bangladesh Bank DFIM circular No. 13, the state of affairs of the Company. The committee will also dated October 26, 2011 as well as the Terms of Reference (ToR) ensure good monitoring systems within the business. of the Audit Committee, the committee reviews the interim financials before presenting before the board. The principal functions of the Audit Committee are to exercise oversight over IDLC’s risk management, financial reporting and Review of reliability of management regulatory compliance functions. information used for such computation Based on the effectiveness of the internal control process along Internal controls are well conceived, properly with its proper application and effective measures taken to administered and satisfactorily monitored prevent possible fraud and forgery, the Audit Committee expressed its satisfaction to the board on the reliability of Based on the review of activities of ICC department in 2018, the management information used for preparation these financial Audit Committee is of the view that the internal control and statements. compliance procedures are well conceived, properly administered and satisfactorily monitored . Ensuring compliance with Laws, Regulations Internal Control and Risk and timely settlements of statutory dues Management Being compliant ensuring sustainable business is the ultimate Acknowledgment of Directors’ responsibility focus of IDLC. IDLC puts its best effort to remain compliant with all applicable laws and regulations including the regulatory in respect of internal control of IDLC reporting in due course. IDLC has never been penalized for any IDLC’s Board of Directors acknowledges its overall responsibility regulatory non-compliance. for maintaining the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls. The Board is of the view that the Audit committee’s involvement in the internal control framework is designed to manage the Group’s review of the external audit functions risks within an acceptable risk profile, rather than completely eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the policies, goals and On the basis of the proposal of the Audit Committee, the objectives of the Group. The Board therefore believes that it can board recommended A. Qasem & Co. Chartered Accounprovide only reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance tants, a partnership firm in Bangladesh and a member firm of regarding effectiveness against material mis-statements of Ernst & Young Global Limited, to the shareholders in the 33rd management and financial information or against financial AGM to appoint them as statutory external auditors of the losses and fraud. company for 2018. Accordingly the shareholders have approved their appointment. Internal control IDLC has adopted the definition of internal control provided by Before their appointment as statutory auditors, declaration of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway their independence from IDLC was obtained, in compliance with Commission (COSO) in its Internal Control — Integrated FrameDFIM Circular no. 04, dated April 30, 2015 of Bangladesh Bank. work. Accordingly, the Company defines internal control as a process, affected by its Board of Directors, management and In compliance with the BSEC corporate governance code, the other personnel, which is designed to provide reasonable statutory auditors did not perform any activities other than the assurance regarding the achievements of objectives relating statutory audit.During their tenure, ICC department has to the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability 076 of both external and internal financial and non-financial reportd. Information and communication ing and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The The information and communication component facilitates the control system applies across the IDLC Group to all divisions functioning of the other components by providing information and departments of its operations. that is necessary for the attainment of Company objectives and by establishing a continuous process for collecting, sharing and Key features of the internal control system disseminating necessary information from both within and The Company’s internal control system consists of five interreoutside the Company. Towards this end, the Company has lated components: established information systems that deal with internally generated data as well as external events, activities and conditions relevant to business decision-making to produce a. The control environment operational, functional and compliance-related information. In The control environment refers to the orientation, awareness addition to Flexcube, our other customized software have greatly and actions of those in the governance and management roles enriched the capabilities of the Company’s information systems. with regards to the Company’s internal control and its In a more general sense, the IDLC culture encourages sharing importance in the entity. Elements under IDLC’s control environof information and opinions across the management hierarchy ment include: and among different businesses, functions and departments. Active participation by those charged with governance e. Monitoring as evidenced through regular meetings of its Board of Monitoring ensures that controls are operating as intended and Directors and Audit Committee; that they are appropriately modified in response to changing conditions. At IDLC, this is achieved through a variety of The communication and fostering of an environment measures including ongoing monitoring which occurs in the that consistently requires integrity and ethical behavcourse of, and as a part of, day-to-day operations as well as ior as evidenced by regular communication and separate management reviews, evaluations and periodic confirmation of its Code of Conduct and zero internal audits of various departments and business functions. tolerance for illegal or unethical behavior; The Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department acts as A formal well-defined organisational structure, setting a second line of defense through conducting tests on the out key areas of authority and responsibility and efficiency and effectiveness of the control systems through audit. appropriate reporting lines that is relevant to the nature and size of the Company’s business; A prudently designed management structure, clearly defined responsibilities, delegation of authorities, risk awareness, Human resource policies that demonstrate the establishment of accountability at each level and a system of Company’s commitment towards recruiting employperiodic reporting and performance monitoring represent the ees who meet established standards of competence key elements of the internal control framework employed at and ethical behavior IDLC. b. Risk assessment Directors’ reviewing the adequacy of internal Risk assessment refers to the process/(es) with which the control Company identifies and assesses risks in the achievement of its objectives. A changing external and internal environment Subject to the caveats of reasonable assurance mentioned means that risk assessment is a dynamic process and must earlier, the Board confirms that it has reviewed and assessed occur at all levels of the organisational structure, ranging from the Group’s system of internal controls with regards to its branch and department level reviews of portfolios, functions and adequacy and effectiveness in providing reasonable assurance operations to ManCom and ALCO meetings at the very top level regarding the achievement of objectives relating to the effectiveof the management. ness and efficiency of operations, reliability of both external and internal financial and non-financial reporting and compliance c. Control activities with the applicable laws and regulations. Control activities are the policies and procedures that help ensure that the management directives are carried out. Control Identification of key risks IDLC is exposed activities have various objectives and are applied throughout the to – both internally and externally Company at all levels and in all functions. These include activities such as authorization, reviews, reconciliations and Risk is the element of uncertainty or the possibility of loss that verifications. prevails in any business transaction in any place, in any mode and at any time. Risk is an integral part of the financing business. Risk management entails the adoption of several measures to strengthen the ability of an organisation to cope with the vagaries of the complex business environment in which it operates. 077 A well-structured and proactive risk management system is in overall management of compliance risk is reviewed and approplace within the Company to address risks relating to: priately amended to ensure conformity with the guidelines. • Credit risk • Market risk Reputation risk • Liquidity risk Reputation risk may be defined as the risk of loss arising from • Operational risk damages to an organisation’s reputation. The guidelines set out the respective roles of the Board and the senior management in Money laundering and terrorist financing risk managing reputation risk and also require financial institutions to implement a sound and comprehensive risk management The new Integrated Risk Management Guidelines for Financial process to identify, monitor, control and report all reputational Institutions specify a number of additional risks that financial risks. institutions are now required to manage and report in a more structured manner. The key among these are: IDLC has already established a set of non‐financial reputational risk indicators and put in place a structured process for monitorStrategic risk ing these and any other matters that might give rise to potential reputational risks. Till date, no material reputational risk issue Strategic risk has been defined as the risk of potential losses involving the Company has been identified. that might arise from adverse business decisions, sub-standard execution and failure to respond adequately to changes in the Environmental and social risk business environment. The guidelines set out the respective roles of the Board of Directors, senior management and IDLC is focused on sustainability, shifting from the traditional business units in managing strategic risks, identify the minimum financing approach. In this regard, the Company is strengthensteps to be followed in the strategic risk management process ing its credit appraisal process to be much more stringent from and also suggest measures for strategic risk control. an environment and social (E&S) perspective, evaluating all the environmental and social factors such as project impacts on IDLC has been managing strategic risks ever since its inception. the environment and the community in the long run, prior to This is evident from the Company’s constantly evolving business sanctioning a loan. model over the years. The Company has a clear strategic vision as to what it wants to become and a mission statement that Directors’ reviewing the adequacy of internal enumerates the steps required to achieve its vision. Strategic issues are discussed at a variety of forums including meetings control of the Management Committee and of the IDLC Board. Over the Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC): To evaluates all past few years, a separate Strategic Planning department has projects / proposals of financing activities of the Company been instituted to assist senior management in this regard. The from the risk point of view. culmination of all these efforts are reflected in annual strategy Risk Management Forum (RMF): To introduce proactive and budget sessions, where the Company sets outs its plans for risk management procedures in line with international the next year. With the introduction of the new guidelines, more best practices framework. changes will be made to the strategic risk management process Risk Analysis Unit (RAU): To act as the secretariat of the as and when required. Risk Management Forum with responsibility for identifying and analysing the various types of risks appropriately and Compliance risk in a timely manner. Central Compliance Unit (CCU): Responsible for Compliance risk is defined as the current or prospective risk of supervising the anti-money laundering (AML) and anti-terlegal actions and / or material financial losses that an organisarorism activities (ATA) at IDLC. tion may suffer as a result of its failure to comply with laws, its own regulations, code of conduct and standards of the best practice as well as from the possibility of incorrect interpretation of laws or regulations. The guidelines set out the respective roles of the Board, senior management and compliance function units in managing compliance risks and also require formulation of a written compliance risk management policy. Historically, IDLC has always fostered a compliance-oriented culture. This has been reinforced in a variety of ways, ranging from formal requirements to sign declarations of compliance with the IDLC Code of Conduct (requiring compliance with the laws and regulations) to ongoing communication from the senior management stressing the need to do business under the highest levels of compliance. In general, compliance risk management is embedded in the day-to-day management of business processes and practices of the Company. With the introduction of the Integrated Risk Management Guidelines, the 078 Establishing a variety of monitoring mechanisms including Ethics and Compliance the creation and empowerment of an operationally independent internal audit team with reporting responsiDisclosure statement on ethics bilities to the audit committee. Ensuring instant action with zero tolerance for identified The IDLC Group remains committed to upholding the highest instances of unethical and/or non-compliant behavior. standards of ethics and compliance by its employees. This commitment is reflected in its Code of Conduct that covers, among other issues, the following areas: Code of Conduct for Board members The Board of Directors of IDLC is committed to the highest Their relationship with and responsibilities to IDLC. standards of conduct in their relationship with IDLC employees, Their relationship with and responsibilities to customers. customers, members, shareholders, regulators and the public. Compliance with laws and regulations. This refers to conducting our business in accordance with Acting in a professional and ethical manner. all applicable laws and regulations and also represents our Protection of business assets. commitment to the spirit of the law. Our actions should reflect Disclosure of conflicts of interest. IDLC’s values, demonstrate ethical leadership and promote a Prohibition of any conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, work environment that upholds IDLC’s reputation for integrity, deceit or misrepresentation including insider trading. ethical conduct and trust. This Code is intended to provide a statement of the fundamental principles applicable to our Dissemination of the statement of ethics and Directors. Code of Conduct Our Directors are encouraged to bring forth questions about All IDLC employees are required to sign an annual declaration particular circumstances that may involve one or more of the confirming that they have read and understood the Code of provisions of this Code to the Chairman of the Board. Conduct. The Human Resources department circulates the required declaration, and ensures that all employees signed In compliance with the revised corporate governance code the declaration. The Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) issued by the BSEC, the Board shall lay down the Code of department, through regular audits, assesses whether any Conduct of all Board members and annual compliance of the employees have breached the Code of Conduct. Code has to be recorded. Board’s commitment to establishing high Scope of the Code of Conduct levels of ethics and compliance within IDLC (a) A member must observe the Board’s Code of Conduct The IDLC Board acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring whenever he/she: that the Company’s business activities are conducted in • Conducts the business of the Board accordance with the highest standards of ethics and compli• Acts as a representative of the Board ance. (b) The Board’s Code of Conduct shall not have any effect in relation to the activities of a Board member undertaken other The Board views adherence to ethical standards and complithan in an official capacity, except and in so far as otherwise ance as an integral part of the broader corporate governance indicated framework and seeks to adopt a holistic approach in ensuring its implementation. As part of this, it has instituted a number of (c) Where a Board member acts as a representative of the Board approaches to underline its commitment to high standards of at the meeting of another public body or Committee, he/she ethical behavior: must, when acting in that capacity, comply with the Board’s Code of Conduct, except and in so far as it conflicts with any Setting down standards of expected behavior through the other legal obligations to which he/she may be subject to. formulation and communication of a Code of Conduct. Installing a system of internal controls, which is reviewed, evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis. Positioning Company policies and procedures on ethical foundations to ensure that ethical considerations are integrated in the day-to-day decision-making, activities and processes. Establishing a clearly-defined organisational structure that assigns responsibility and authority for the conduct of organisational functions while at the same time ensuring accountability for individual actions. 079 General obligation The Company’s confidential and proprietary information shall not be inappropriately disclosed or used for the personal gain or The Code of Conduct for Board members of the Company advantage of any Board member other than the Company. includes: These obligations apply not only during a Board member’s term but thereafter as well. A. Prudent conduct and behavior Each Board member should seek to use due care in the perforF. Fair dealing mance of his / her duties, be loyal to the Company, act in good In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board faith and in a manner that such a Board member reasonably members shall endeavor to deal fairly and should promote fair believes to be not opposed to the best interests of the Company. dealing by the Company, its employees and agents with customA Board member shall seek to: ers, suppliers and employees. i. Make reasonable efforts to attend Board and Committee meetings G. Compliance with laws and regulations ii. Dedicate time and attention to the Company In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board iii. Seek to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, confidenmembers shall comply and endeavor to ensure that the tiality obligations and corporate policies of the Company management is causing the Company to comply with all applicaiv. Act in the best interest of, and fulfill their fiduciary obligations ble laws, rules and regulations. to, the Company’s shareholders v. Use due care and diligence in performing their duties of office In addition, if any Board member becomes aware of any and in exercising their powers attached to that office information that he / she believes constitutes evidence of material violation of any securities or other laws, rules and regulations B. Business opportunities applicable to the Company or the operation of its business, by In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board the Company or any employee or another Board member, then members shall avoid: such a Board member should bring such information to the (i) Appropriating corporate business opportunities for attention of the CEO & Managing Director of the Company. themselves that are discovered through the use of Company property or information or their position as Board member H. Insider trading (ii) Using Company property or information, or their position as The Board members shall not engage in insider trading with Board member, for personal gain respect to the purchase and sale of the Company’s securities. (iii) Competing with the Company The Board members shall not buy or sell securities while in possession of material non-public information about the issuer C. Conflict of interest of that security, whether the issuer is IDLC or any another Each Board member shall endeavor to avoid having his or her company. The Board members shall also not pass such informaprivate interests interfere with: tion to someone who may buy or sell securities. The Code of (i) The interests of the Company Conduct for Board members sets forth guidelines for conduct (ii) His or her ability to perform his or her duties and responsibiliand they affirm compliance with the Code on an annual basis. ties objectively and effectively Accordingly, IDLC’s Board designed the Code of Conduct for all The Board members shall avoid receiving or permitting the members of the Board and its annual compliance has been members of their immediate family to receive improper personal recorded for 2017. benefits from the Company, including loans from or guarantees of obligations by the Company. Existence of effective anti-fraud programs & controls through whistle-blower mechanism A Board member shall make a full disclosure to the entire Board In recent times, the Company has come to identify the risk of of any transaction or relationship that such a member reasonfraud as one of the emerging issues in the overall risk manageably expects could give rise to an actual conflict of interest with ment framework. Planned anti-fraud initiatives include the the Company and seek the Board’s authorization to pursue such introduction of a whistle-blower mechanism. Whistleblower transactions or relationships. Guideline has been approved on December 17, 2017 Additionally, emphasis is placed on strengthening existing processes or D. Company property activity levels and anti-fraud controls are embedded within the In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board overall system of internal controls. members shall endeavor to ensure that the management is using the Company’s assets, proprietary information and Redress of investor’s complaints and resources to be used by the Company and its employees only for recommendation legitimate business purposes. IDLC has a formal complaint and recommendation management process that is open to all stakeholders including both investors E. Confidential information and customers. A dedicated complaints cell is headed by a The Board members shall maintain confidentiality of information senior member of the management for dealing with complaints entrusted to them in carrying out their duties and responsibiliand recommendations. Those may also be dropped at complaint ties, except where disclosure is approved by the Company or boxes kept at all IDLC branches or can be submitted online on legally mandated or if such information is in the public domain. the IDLC website: www.idlc.com. 080 Remuneration Committee Remuneration of senior executives Remuneration for senior executives is market-based and IDLC’s Remuneration Committee has been established with competitive in order to attract, motivate and retain skilled and the senior executives in the name “HR and Compensation competent employees. The total remuneration package to Committee” on 24 May 2007 to provide a forum for discussion on senior executives comprises basic pay, allowances, retirement the Company’s various HR-related issues. benefits (Gratuity and Provident Fund) and other benefits as per company’s policies. Executives are also paid a variable amount Roles and responsibilities of the Committee each year (yearly performance bonus) determined based on the The principal role and function of the HR and Compensation performance of the company and the outcome in the executive’s Committee is to assist the human resource department in personal area of responsibility and individually established developing and administering a fair and transparent procedure targets that were set in the beginning of the year. for setting policies on the Group’s overall human resource strategy. The responsibility of the committee is to ensure wide, equal opportunity and transparency in terms of suitable Human Capital recruitment, compensation on the basis of merit, qualification IDLC considers its human resources as its most important asset. and competence, adequate training and development facilities, We mobilize people and teams through engaging them with performance evaluation and promotion based on individual leading and cutting-edge financial industry practices and also as performance and contribution and other benefits-related issues an attractive employer. IDLC offers a broad spectrum of opportuwith regards to the Company’s operating results and comparanities for both professional and personal development as well ble market statistics. as a work environment that is characterized by respect, trust, cooperation and collaboration. We do so because the knowlRoles and responsibilities of the Committee edge, skills and enthusiasm of our employees are a major force As per Bangladesh Bank guideline, IDLC being a financial that enables us to achieve consistent growth. IDLC believes its institution can only form 2 (two) committees: Executive Commithuman resource is the most important driver of building and tee and Audit Committee, as sub-committee of the Board. running the Company. Each and every employee is considered, developed and motivated to contribute optimally towards the Key policies with regard to remuneration of achievement of corporate goals. directors, senior management and employees Human resources policy In compliance with the latest circular issued by Bangladesh Bank, vide DFIM Circular No. 13, dated November 30, 2015, Disclosure of general description of the policies and practices directors are only entitled to the remuneration for attending the codified and adopted by the Company with respect to human meeting of the board and its sub-committees. resource development and management, including succession Also in compliance with the DFIM Circular No. 02, dated March planning, merit-based recruitment process, performance 25, 2015, of Bangladesh Bank, the remuneration of the appraisal system, criteria for promotion and reward and motivaCEO & Managing Director is approved by the Bangladesh Bank tion, training and development, grievance management and as recommended by the board. counselling. Remuneration of all other employees are determined by the CEO & Managing Director. Organisational chart IDLC’s organisational chart outlines the internal structure of Number of Meetings held and work performed the Company. It emphasizes on the roles, responsibilities There were seven meetings of the HR Compensation Commitand relationships between individuals within the Company. It is tee in the 2018. used to depict the structure of IDLC as a whole as well as the Company segregated by divisions and departments. Work Performed in 2018 Structure The four meetings were held with following agenda: January 2018The Company’s management structure comprises the 1) Employee promotion phase I CEO & Managing Director and the management team (Man2) Performance bonus Com). The ManCom is responsible for developing organisationJune 2018al and business strategies, embracing innovation and ensuring 3) Salary revision that the Company conforms to best governance and operating practices. The ManCom is also responsible for organisational Remuneration of chairman, directors, CEO effectiveness and the development of IDLC’s values and culture. The ManCom is responsible for managing IDLC’s performance and senior executives and key business issues in line with the Company’s long-term CEO & Managing Director strategy and for talent and performance management. The Remuneration paid to the CEO & MD as approve by Bangladesh ManCom is chaired by the CEO & Managing Director and the Bank . team meets face-to-face on a regular basis. 081 Management Committee (ManCom) Succession Planning and Talent Management The Management Committee is a group elected among the management staff to take responsibility of the governance and Succession planning and talent management should be treated strategic direction of IDLC. The role of the Management as continuous practice whereby Management and Board Committee is to oversee IDLC in accordance with its Constituprepared for transitions at any time at a multiple level throughout tion under the Financial Institutions Act, 1993. the Company. This includes not only the Key Management Personnel level but also their direct reporting lines and other The Committee is responsible for all aspects of the ongoing critical positions. operations of IDLC. It delegates day-to-day operations to the Executive Officer. A significant feature of good governance is IDLC Ladies Forum (IDLC LF) a clear segregation of the responsibilities and accountability of IDLC has launched its first Ladies Forum through a formal the committee from those of the Executive Officer. ManCom is ceremony with the participation of all the female employees always aware of IDLC’s operations, keeps an eye on the big from different levels of positions, working areas and distribution picture, monitors the strategic plan and if and whether the goals points to address their views, problems and opinions to facilitate are being met. It needs to be satisfied that current events are in a better working environment for them. This Forum will provide accordance with IDLC policies and objectives within the overall all women employees the opportunity for networking and provide budget. a common platform to share and raise various issues and Performance review problems like discrimination, harassment, negative attitude towards women and any other issue that may affect women The CEO is responsible for setting financial targets as well as employees within the Company. This will enable IDLC’s manageoperational and management goals for the members of the ment to better understand and address these issues and ManCom. Both short-term and long-term goals form part of develop strategies accordingly. the performance management of all senior executives. Longterm goals are directly linked with the Company’s vision. Shortterm goals are generally directly linked to the objectives of the Company. The CEO and the Evaluation Committee conduct a detailed review of the performance of senior executives against these goals on an annual basis at the end of each year. Communication and Relationship with Shareholders Strategy to facilitate effective Way of communication with the communication with shareholders stakeholders It is the Company’s policy that all external communication by the The following diagram illustrates the multiple channels of Company will: communication with shareholders. • Be factual and subject to internal vetting and authorization before issue • Not omit material information • Express information in a timely, clear and objective manner IDLC strongly believes that all stakeholders should have access to complete information on its activities, performance and product initiatives. 082 Annual General Meetings Average shareholders' representation in: • Past 5 years: 70.35% • 2018: 70.06% (AGM for the year 2017) IDLC Website Updates of recent financial information and latest investor information 2018 Shareholders visits Analyst briefing materials Around 77 visits by 385 shareholders Channels of 083 communication with stakeholders Reports and Announcements 2018 Investor meeting Over 53 investor meetings • Annual report & Sustainability report • Quarterly financial statements Teleconference meetings with potential foreign investors • Price sensitive disclosures • Announcements and press releases 2018 Analyst briefings Quarterly analyst briefings discussing each quarter including year end financial performances a. Communication through website Total Number of Shareholders against Total Number of Shares The Company’s website www.idlc.com displays, inter-alia, the Annual Reports, half yearly reports, quarterly reports, monthly 12,418 12,263 10,787 8,309 8,064 8,439 business reviews, product offerings, recent announcements, presentations and event updates. All disclosures required by the Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission, Listing Regulations of the Dhaka Stock Exchange Limited and the Chittagong Stock Exchange Limited and the Bangladesh Bank in the form of Price Sensitive Informa160,875,000 201,093,750 251,367,187 251,367,187 377,050,780 377,050,780 tion (PSI) are made adequately and promptly. In addition to ensuring timely compliance, this also enables dissemination of information to all stakeholders and the public through print and online media. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 b. Communication through quarterly reports Total No. Shares No. of Shareholders The Company reports to its shareholders four times a year through quarterly and half-yearly reports and a detailed Annual Report. Shareholding representation at the AGM in the last 5 years c. Quarterly earning disclosure In the following day of the authentication of quarterly financial statements by the board, IDLC arranges a quarterly earning disclosure meeting with the analyst, press and foreign investors through webinar to explain and update further about the company in addition to the financials. 71.92% 67.44% 70.63% 71.72% 70.06% Policy on ensuring participation of shareholders AGM No. AGM No. AGM No. AGM No. AGM No. The Members whose names would appear in the Register of 29 30 31 32 33 Members of the company and/or in the Depository on the ‘Record Date’ will be eligible to attend AGM and entitled to the Dividend as approved. Communication through AGM A Member may appoint a proxy to attend and vote in his/her All shareholders have the right to attend the Annual General place by filling proxy form as per Article 103 of the Articles of Meeting where they can meet and communicate with the Association of the company. The proxy form, duly completed and Directors and express their views regarding the Company’s stamped, must be deposited at the office not later than 72 hours business, its future prospects and other matters of interest. The before the time scheduled for holding the meeting; shareholders are always encouraged to attend the meetings or, if they are unable to attend, to appoint proxies. Pursuant to Article 81 of the Articles of Association, a corporate The shareholders who attend the AGM have the option to ask member of the company, by resolution of the Board of Directors questions and give suggestions to the Board members during or other Governing Body of such body corporate, may authorize the AGM. The CEO & Managing Director, on behalf of the Board, such person as it thinks fit, to act as representative at any answers the queries of the shareholders. meeting of the members of the company; Process of communicating the schedule Soft copy of the Annual Report, Attendance Slip and Proxy Form along with the Notice will be sent to all the Members by email At least 14 to 21 days before the AGM, soft copies of the Annual registered with CDBL as per our record. The Members may also Report and notice of the AGM are mailed to shareholders as on collect the Proxy Form from the Registered Office of the the Record Date. Notice of the AGM is sent to the Dhaka Stock company. These will also be available in the website of the Exchange (DSE), Bangladesh Securities and Exchange company: www. idlc.com; Commission (BSEC), online newspapers and print media. The notice of the AGM is also made available on the company Members/proxies are need to register their entry at the AGM in website. the counter at the entrance of the AGM venue. 084 AGM attendance % of Non Executive Directors, more responsibly through the use of environmental or social Independent Directors & Statutory Auditors covenants in the facility agreements. This project will not only satisfy the Central Bank’s requirements but also enable IDLC to comply with internationally-acceptable risk management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% standards. Furthermore, execution of the green banking policy, 78% 75% which is in line with IFC Performance Standard, ADB Safeguard 67% Policy and Bangladesh Bank guidelines is considered as yet 56% another milestone towards sustainability. 44% IDLC’s Overall Governance AGM No. AGM No. AGM No. AGM No. AGM No. 29 30 31 32 33 At IDLC, the Board of Directors are responsible to shareholders 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 for ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and Non Executive Independent Statutory that it achieves its strategic objectives. It meets regularly to Directors Directors Auditors determine the Company’s strategic direction, to review the Company’s operating and financial performance, to set the Company’s risk appetite and to provide oversight that the Environmental and Company is adequately resourced and effectively controlled. Social Obligation The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out in its Terms of Reference (ToR) that address a wide range of corporate governance issues and list those items that are specifically Policy and practices on environmental and reserved for decision by the Board. Matters requiring Board social obligation approval include: • Group strategy, business plans and performance monitoring At IDLC, we believe in the concept of a sustainable business, • Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and one that integrates good governance, environmental issues and dividend policy social concerns with its business strategies to maximize value • Group risk appetite and framework and risk management for stakeholders. IDLC’s sustainability model is based on the 3P policies approach – People, Planet and Profit: • Corporate governance • Others (shareholder documentation, Board and committee succession planning, constitution of Board committees, Board effectiveness review, committee reports and key business Profit policies) In pursuit of business sustainability and within the ambit of our integrated reporting framework, our governance structure, CSR stewarded by our well-composed Board (as detailed above with regards to their core responsibilities), helps in value creation People Planet over the medium and long term. Activities undertaken At IDLC, we are also focusing on Earth and its sustainability, shifting from the traditional financing approach. In this regard, we are making our credit appraisal process to be much more stringent from an environmental and social (E&S) perspective – evaluating all the environmental and social factors such as project impacts on the environment and the community in the long run, prior to approving a loan. IDLC is in the process of adopting an extensive environmental and social management system (ESMS) across the organisation with assistance from FMO, a Dutch development bank, and FI Konsult, IDLC’s appointed consultant for this project. The overall goal of this project is to help IDLC identify customers with potentially high environmental and social risks, enable them to evaluate the E&S performance of such customers through its due diligence and credit appraisal processes and make those customers, especially who are not in compliance with local E&S regulations, behave 085 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND GRI REPORTING The aim of our sustainability reporting approach is to enable our stakeholders, including investors, to make a more informed assessment of the value of IDLC and its prospects as this report is organized around our business and CSR activities and milestones together integrated to reflect relevant SDGs. Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting IDLC since 2011, has been publishing the Annual Sustainability Report in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. The report is prepared in accordance with sustainability reporting guidelines G4 issued by GRI which reflect IDLC’s contribution towards creating economic, social and environmental value. In accordance with the G4 stakeholder engagement section, we have collected information from several sources, both financial and non-financial. The IDLC team has tried to identify sustainable business objectives by understanding stakeholder expectations which are correlated. This is to ensure that IDLC can meet the objectives, modify existing practices and, if required, embrace corrective measures through the IDLC business model, annually. Sustainability Dimension Targeted Stakeholders Sustainable Objectives Provide quality products that meet customer needs Deliver professional services in accordance with Customers IDLC policies and relevant technical and professional standards Suppliers/Implementing Adhere to proper procurement regulations from both Economic Agencies and Others company policy perspective and local laws Ensure compliance with all regulatory guidelines and directives Regulators Respect the confidentiality and privacy of customers, people and others with whom they do business Consistently encourage enhancing human capital in terms of intellect and skills and work towards harvesting a healthy, ethical and equitable working environment Employees Engaging staff in activities, sports, volunteering work other than business as usual, to achieve a balanced Social and productive environment which is beneficial to both employees and IDLC Enhancing financial access to the marginalized Implementing projects and acts for marginalized communities and the underprivileged, to address Local communities requirements of the society in education and skills development, healthcare and overall poverty alleviation Environmental/ Non-Government Conducting business without harming the Environmental Organizations environment Anti-corruption measures implemented by the Circular and directives issued by organisation Regulators Central Bank of Bangladesh Company’s vision and compliance of initiatives in line with SDG 086 Sustainability Dimension Targeted Stakeholders Sustainable Objectives Employee engagement and championing volunteerism Corporate governance, ethics and compliance Enhance positive brand image Non-discrimination, diversity and equal Management Discussions (one-on-one) & Groups opportunities Social obligations through capacity development of the underprivileged and women empowerment Superior customer experience through continuous improvement Every branch to own projects so there is co-ownership of CSR projects Career growth and development opportunities Employees Discussions Fair treatment and Work-life balance Safe and healthy work environment Employee grievance management Material Aspects Identified As per GRI, materiality is the threshold of the sustainability subjects covered by the guidelines – known as ‘Aspects’ – which become sufficiently important that they should be reported. Based on the issues raised by the stakeholders during the engagement process, the following material aspects have been identified and included in this report: Economic Compliance Employment, occupational health and safety Training and education Diversity and equal opportunity Non-discrimination Local communities Anti-corruption Marketing communications Customer privacy Boundary Defined The report details how IDLC addresses the material issues stated above and how these significantly influence performance, both within and outside the organization. 087 Category Aspects Material within the organisation Material outside the organisation Economic Economic performance Yes NA Procurement practices Yes Yes Energy Any negative influence on protected This aspect is material for the Biodiversity and/ or high biodiversity areas caused environment and for the communities Environmental Compliance by IDLC’s operations may lead to fines/ living close to protected and/ or high sanctions/ loss of license to operate/ biodiversity areas. negative publicity. Social I. Labour practices and decent work Employment, occupational health and Yes NA safety Training and education Yes NA Yes material for communities where Diversity and equal opportunity Yes IDLC creates job opportunities Equal remuneration Yes NA II. Human rights Child labour Yes NA Security practices Yes NA Non-discrimination Yes Yes III. Society/ local communities Local communities Yes – aspect is material for local NA communities where IDLC has operates or invests Yes Yes aspect is material for IDLC’s Anti-corruption customers and other stakeholders IV. Product Responsibility Yes aspect is material for IDLC’s Customer health and safety Yes customers Yes aspect is material for IDLC’s Marketing communications Yes existing and potential clients Yes Maintaining privacy of sensitive customer information is one of the Yes aspect is material for IDLC’s Customer privacy major priorities of IDLC’s staff and a customers significant part of its employee Code of Conduct. 088 GRI – G4 Reporting Index This report is ‘In Accordance’ with “Core” standards of the G4 Guidelines as stated in the following pages. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE CONTENT/CHAPTER PAGE Strategy and Analysis Statement of the Chairman of the Board 001 G4 – 1 Statement of the CEO & Managing Director 003 Statement of Corporate Governance 054-085 Organizational Profile G4 – 3 IDLC Finance Limited G4 – 4 Our range of products and services 040-041 G4 – 5 Corporate Head Office: Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan 1, Dhaka 1212 G4 – 6 Countries Served: Bangladesh G4 – 7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form: Public Limited Company G4 – 8 The Company 038 Our branches our located across districts including Dhaka (Dhaka, Uttara, Savar, Keraniganj and Imamganj), Narayanganj (Narayanganj and Bhulta), Gazipur (Gazipur and Tongi), Narshingdi, Chittagong (Nandankanon), Kushtia, Mymensingh, Comilla, Bogra, Natore, Jessore, Khulna, Sylhet (Sylhet, Habiganj), Rangpur, Khulna, Barisal, Faridpur, Rajshahi, Chowmuhani. G4 – 9 The Company 038 G4 – 10 The Company | Human Capital 051-053 G4 – 11 100% employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4 – 12 The nature of our operations limits dependence on material or service procurement from external bodies. Our major Our major suppliers include providers of office equipment’s, including furniture, computers, kitchen appliances etc.; agencies for event organization; contractors for maintenance of our branches; third-party agencies providing office assistants, security guards, cleaners etc. G4 – 13 The Company 038 Business Segment Review 047-050 G4 – 14 Statement of Corporate Governance 054-085 G4 – 15 Our Approach 006 Focus Areas 007 Green Banking 048 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4 – 17 IDLC’s subsidiaries, IDLC Investments Limited and IDLC Securities Limited and IDLC Asset Management Liability have been included in the consolidated financial statements and accordingly have been covered in the Annual Financial Report 2018 and Annual Sustainability Report 2018 089 G4 – 18 Reporting Parameters G4 – 19 Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 086 Material Aspects identified 005 G4 – 20 Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 086 Boundary defined for each Material Aspect 087 G4 – 22 No information has been restated from that of the last report 090 G4 – 23 This report has been prepared following the GRI-G4 guidelines Organizational Profile G4 – 24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization include Regulators, Management and Employees G4 – 25 Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 086 G4 – 26 G4 – 27 Organizational Profile G4 – 28 January 1, 2018 – December 31, 2018 G4 – 29 April 2018 G4 – 30 Annual G4 – 31 Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, Mobile +88-0173-0374585, Email: hayesha@idlc.com G4 – 32 GRI Content Index G4 – 33 No external assurance has been sought for this report Governance G4 – 34 IDLC’s Corporate Governance 054-085 G4 – 40 G4 – 45 G4 – 46 G4 – 51 G4 – 52 Ethics and Integrity G4 – 56 The Company 038 G4 – 58 Corporate Governance 054-085 Human Capital 051-053 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES IDLC has tried to identify sustainable business objectives by understanding stakeholder expectations which are correlated. This is to ensure that IDLC can meet the objectives, modify existing practices and if required, take corrective measures through the business model annually. 090 Indicators by Aspects CATEGORY : ECONOMIC Economic Performance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – EC 1 The Company 038 Our Approach 006 G4 – EC 4 Focus Area 007 Khushir Kheya 008 Our Acts and Initiatives 009-037 G4 – EC 8 Our Acts and Initiatives 009-037 CATEGORY : ENVIRONMENTAL Energy PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – EN6 Our Acts and Initiatives 009-037 Green Banking 048 Biodiversity PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – EN 11 IDLC does not own, lease or manage any operational site that are adjacent to protected areas and/or areas of high G4 – EN 12 IDLC does not engage in any business or operation that has any form of direct and/or indirect impact on biodiversity Biodiversity PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – EN 29 IDLC has neither been party to any non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations of the country nor has it faced any fines in this regard CATEGORY : SOCIAL PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – LA 1 Human Capital 051-053 G4 – LA 2 Human Capital 051-053 G4 – LA 3 13 staff underwent maternity leave in 2018, with a 100 percent retention rate 091 Training and Education PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – LA 9 Human Capital 051-053 IDLC HR conducted 144 local and foreign trainings in 2018, selected trainings are listed below: Effective Leadership and People Management Maximizing Selling Using NLP SME Project Based Exposure Visit to India Effective Supervisory Management & Team Building Accelerated Strengths Coaching Team Leadership & Management Leading for Change Building next-generation web ASP.NET MVC Core AML/CFT Regulations and its Compliance at Sylhet Region Credit Risk Management and Analysis of Credit Proposal Sales Excellence: Science of Relationship Selling (Level-1) G4 – LA 10 Sustainability Reporting Through SDG & CSR Domestic & International Factoring Monetary Policy Statement January-June 2018 Loan Recovery, Aspects of Debt Re-scheduling & Re-structuring and NPL Management CIB Business Rules and Online Systems Cluster Financing for SME Azure Cloud Service The Cyber Security Conference Money & Banking Data Reporting Impact Analysis on Access to Finance Islamic Banking Operation Managing Non-Performing Loans, Loan Recovery and Related Laws Development of Climate Change Proposal for GCF Working Capital Financing Legal Aspects Of General Banking and Credit Operational Risk Management in Banks Information System Audit in Banks Achieving Sustainable Development Goals-Challenges & Way Forward Credit Risk Grading for Lending Decision Registered Mortgage: Identification and Verification of Land Documents Land Documentation G4 – LA 11 Human Capital 051-053 Employment PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – LA 12 The standard notice period is one month for such operational changes; however, this period may vary depending on the nature of operation and duties and responsibilities of the concerned officials Equal Remuneration for Women and Men PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE IDLC offers similar basic salaries to all male and female staff for each employment category. G4 – LA 13 Any difference in gross salary is determined by the individual’s performance, not his/her gender 092 CATEGORY : HUMAN RIGHTS Non-discrimination PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – HR 3 No incident of discrimination has been notified to the Human Resource Department by employees through formal or informal channels CATEGORY : SOCIETY Local Communities PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE Our Approach 006 G4 – SO 1 Focus Area 007 Khushir Kheya 008 Our Acts and Initiatives 009-037 Contribution to the national economy 042 Anti-corruption PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – SO 4 Corporate Governance 054-085 IDLC’s policy mandates immediate dismissal of employees proven to be involved in any form G4 – SO 5 of corruption within and/or outside the organization, and IDLC strictly adheres to this policy. Formal channels are in place for stakeholder to file complaints against any malpractice by any IDLC staff and accordingly actions are taken by the respective departments Compliance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – SO 8 IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with laws and regulations of the country and has not faced any fines/ non-monetary sanctions in this regard. CATEGORY : PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Marketing Communications PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – PR 7 IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorships Customer Privacy PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – PR 8 IDLC has not been party to any incident related to breaches of customer privacy and/or loss of customer data 093 CREATING OPPORTUNITIES B e y o n d t h e A c t o f R e s p o n s i b i l i t y Tel: +88 (02) 8834990 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Facsimile: +88 (02) 8834377 Bay's Galleria (1st Floor) Contact Center: 16409 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan-1, Dhaka-1212 E-mail: contactcenter@idlc.com Web: www.idlc.com
