www.abyrint.com Communication on Progress Period: January 2018 January 2019 abyrint. [26 November 2019] Statement of continued support of the UN Global Compact To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Abyrint reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communications. Sincerely yours, Ivar Strand Managing Director 2 abyrint. 1 Description of actions As a Firm we adhere to both national and international laws with respect human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In addition, the firm has established policies to ensure there are no violations. A number of actions have been taken in the last 12 months. 1.1 Human Rights Principle Commitment Actions taken 1. Businesses should Abyrint recognizes the • Ensured that all work support and respect the importance of ensuring with our employees, protection of that human rights are not applicants for internationally violated. Abyrint pledges employment, or our proclaimed human rights. its support to the customers are in line 2. Businesses should Universal Declaration of with the firm’s ensure that they are not Human Rights and the Harassment and complicit in human rights Guiding Principles on Discrimination policy. abuses. Business and Human These align with Rights: Implementing the internationally United Nations' Protect, proclaimed human Respect and Remedy rights. Framework’. • Ensured employees are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. • Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. 1.2 Labor Principle Commitment Actions taken 3. Businesses should Abyrint complies with the • Abyrint adhere to the uphold the freedom of conventions set forth by Norwegian Working association and the the International Labor Environment Act effective recognition of Organization (ILO), the Condition, which has the right to collective UN and the Norwegian the purpose to “… bargaining. Government. ensure safe working conditions and equal 3 abyrint. 4. Businesses should treatment among uphold the elimination of workers, and to forced or compulsory ensure that the labor. working environment 5. Businesses should forms a basis for uphold the effective health-promoting and abolition of child labor. meaningful work situation.”1 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of • Provided training to discrimination in respect new staff on the firm’s of employment and Harassment and Discrimination policy. occupation. • Ensured that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. 1.3 Environment Principle Commitment Actions taken 7. Businesses should Abyrint strives to manage • Implemented policy support a precautionary environmental impacts that all company cars approach to proactively. are to be electric. environmental • Scrutinized the challenges. necessity of each flight 8. Businesses should in order to minimize undertake initiatives to CO2 emissions. promote greater • Encouraged environmental employees to limit responsibility. food waste at offices 9. Businesses should through an awareness encourage the campaign. development and • Ensured emergency diffusion of procedures to prevent environmentally friendly and address accidents technologies. affecting the 1 https://www.regjeringen.no/en/topics/labour/the-working-environment-and-safety/innsikt/theworking-environment-act/id447107/ (10/25/2019) 4 abyrint. environment and human health. 1.4 Anti-Corruption Principle Commitment Actions taken 10. Businesses should Abyrint recognizes the • Assessed the risk of work against all forms of importance of ensuring corruption when corruption, including that human rights are not doing business. extortion and bribery. violated due to our • Ensured contracts business activities. with clients include Abyrint supports the appropriate antiUniversal Declaration of corruption measures. Human Rights and the Guiding Principles on • Staff are informed Business and Human directly on the firm’s Rights: Implementing the business conduct United Nations' Protect, policies, which covers Respect and Remedy corruption and Framework’. financial misconduct. 2 Measurement of outcomes • Percentage of Abyrint’s employees that the Harassment and Discrimination policy has been communicated to. • Average hours of training that Abyrint’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period. • Estimated yearly CO2 emission from business travel as a factor in assessing the overall costs and benefits from travelling. • Total number and percentage of Abyrint’s employees that the Business Conduct policy has been communicated to. • Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anticorruption. 5 abyrint.
