Wade Living with acromegaly Salt Lake City, USA (c) Ipsen 03.2019 / Matthew Bender / CAPA Pictures 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT INCLUDING THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT SUMMARY INTRODUCTION 2 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements 131 INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES 3 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity 134 3.4 Significant engagement following the accounts settlement date of 31 December 2018 138 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 5 1.1 Group overview and strategy 6 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 139 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company 6 4.1 Main company social and environmental 1.1.2 Group Strategy 7 responsibility risks 140 1.1.3 Business Model 9 4.2 Human resources 143 1.2 Group activity and corporate structure 9 4.2.1 Group workforce 143 1.2.1 The Group’s Products 9 4.2.2 Human Resources Framework 145 1.2.2 Major Contracts 16 4.3 Environment, Health and Safety 148 1.2.3 Research and Development 19 4.3.1 Regulatory Issues 148 1.2.4 Intellectual Property 23 4.3.2 EHS Policy 150 1.2.5 Main Markets 26 4.3.3 EHS 2018 Performance 154 1.2.6 Regulation 26 4.3.4 Internal resources 162 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure 27 4.3.5 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication 163 4.4 Social & societal information 167 2 RISKS AND CONTROL 29 4.4.1 Social relations 167 2.1 Risks Factors 30 4.4.2 Societal information 168 2.1.1 Business Risks 30 4.5 Methodological note on the social and environmental reporting 173 2.1.2 Industrial and Environmental Risks 31 2.1.3 Financial Risks 32 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1.4 Regulatory and Legal Risks 33 AND LEGAL INFORMATION 179 2.2 Risk Management and Internal Control 34 5.1 Board of Directors and Executive Management 180 2.2.1 Organization 34 5.1.1 Board of Directors 181 2.2.2 Information Management 36 5.1.2 Executive Management 204 2.2.3 Risk Management Framework 37 5.1.3 Compensation of Corporate Officers 211 2.2.4 Control Activities 38 5.1.4 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated 2.2.5 Review and Assessment of Internal Control 39 agreements and commitments 225 5.2 Information related to the Company 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 41 and its share capital 228 5.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association 228 3.1 Management report for the financial year 42 5.2.2 Share Capital 230 3.1.1 Significant events during the year 42 5.2.3 Shareholding 236 3.1.2 Analysis of results 43 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing 49 6 ANNEXES 241 3.1.4 Appendices 52 6.1 Person responsible 242 3.1.5 Subsequent events 58 6.1.1 Attestation of the person responsible 3.1.6 Group outlook 58 for the registration document 242 3.2 Consolidated financial statements 2018 59 6.1.2 Person responsible for financial information 242 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement 59 6.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees 242 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation 6.2 Third party information, statements by experts of net profit 61 and declarations of interests 243 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow 62 6.3 Consultation of legal documents 243 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ 6.4 Cross-reference tables 243 equity 63 6.4.1 Cross-reference table for the Registration Document 243 3.2.5 Notes 65 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table 246 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 114 6.4.3 Cross-reference table of the Management Report and of the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate 3.3 2018 Company financial statements 117 Governance 247 3.3.1 Summary document 117 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing of the financial 3.3.2 Notes on the annual financial statements 119 statements 249 This registration document has been established in accordance with the Appendix 1 of the European Commission Regulation n°809/2004 dated April 29, 2004. Société anonyme with a share capital of €83,808,761 Registered office: 65 quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt 419 838 529 R.C.S. Nanterre 2018 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT including the Annual Financial Report Pursuant to the provisions of its general regulations, in particular article 212-13, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) has registered this registration document on 26 March 2019. This document may not be used in support of any financial operation unless it is accompanied by a prospectus approved by the AMF. This document has been prepared by the issuer, and its signatories assume responsibility for its contents. Pursuant to the provisions of article 28 of EC regulation 809/2004 of 29 April 2004, readers are referred to the Document de Référence for Ipsen recorded by the AMF on 23 March 2018 under number D.18-0180 for the 2017 financial year and on 27 March 2017 under number D.17-0231 for the 2016 financial year, for the following financial information, prepared under IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards): historical and consolidated financial statement (including the auditors’ reports). INTRODUCTION In this registration document, unless stated otherwise, Investors are urged to pay careful attention to the risk factors the terms “Company” and “Ipsen” refer to Ipsen S.A. and described in paragraphs 2.1.1; 2.1.2; 2.1.3 and 2.1.4 of this the term “Group” refers to Ipsen and its subsidiaries and registration document before making their investment shareholdings. decision. One or more of these risks may have an adverse effect on the Group’s activities, condition, results of operations This registration document contains for ward-looking or on its targets and forecasts. Furthermore, other risks not statements about the Group’s targets and forecasts, yet identified or considered as significant by the Group could especially in Chapter 3.1.6. Such statements may in certain have the same adverse effects. cases be identified by the use of the future or conditional This registration document also contains details of the markets tense or by forward-looking words including but not limited in which the Group operates. This information is notably taken to “believes”, “targets”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “should”, from research produced by external organizations. Given the “aims”, “estimates”, “considers”, “wishes” and “may”. These very rapid pace of change in the pharmaceutical sector in statements are based on data, assumptions and estimates that France and the rest of the world, this information may prove to the Company considers to be reasonable. They are subject to be erroneous or out of date. change or adjustment owing to uncertainties arising from the vagaries inherent in all research and development activities, Forward-looking statements, targets and forecasts shown in as well as in the economic, financial, competitive, regulatory this registration document may be affected by risks, either and climatic environment. In addition, the Group’s business known or unknown, uncertainties or other factors that may activities and its ability to meet its targets and forecasts may lead to the Group’s future results of operations, performance be affected if certain risk factors described in Chapter 2.1 – and achievements differing significantly from the stated or “Risk factors” of this registration document arise. In addition, implied targets and forecasts. These factors may include attainment of the targets and forecasts implies the success changes in economic or trading conditions and regulations, of the strategy presented in section 1.1.2 – “Strategy” of this as well as the factors set forth in Chapter 2.1 – “Risk factors” registration document. of this registration document. The Company makes no undertaking and gives no guarantee as to the attainment of the targets and forecasts shown in this registration document. 2 2018 Ipsen Registration document INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES 2018 Group Sales by therapeutic area 2018 Group Sales by geographic area Other Specialty European Care Oncology North America Countries 67.6% 86.5% 27.7% 19.9% Rares Diseases Rest of 3.1% the World Neuroscience 18.5% 15.8% Major Western European Consumer Healthcare countries 13.5% 33.9% Core Operating Income (in millions euros) and core Core consolidated Net Profit (in millions euros) operating margin (as a % of sales) 659.9 503.6 491.6 29.7% 362.7 26.4% 2017 2018 2017 2018 Ownership of the Company’s share capital Dividend per share paid for the financial year (in euros)* at 31 December 2018 Mayroy SA 1.00 1.00 Employee FCP 56.4% 0.3% Treasury shares 0.9% Other registered shareholders 0.9% Directors Free Float (ex. Mayroy SA) 2017 2018 41.3% 0.2% * Proposed by the Ipsen S.A. Board of Directors, for vote at the next Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 3 INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES Share price performance on the stock exchange Ipsen has implemented a Sponsored Level I American Shares in Ipsen S.A. have been traded on the Eurolist by Depositary Receipt (ADR) program and trades on the overEuronext™ market (Compartment A) since 7 December 2005, the-counter market in the United States under the symbol when the IPO (Initial Public Offering) price was €22.20 per share. IPSEY. Ipsen shares joined the Deferred Settlement System on 28 March 2007 and joined the SBF120 index on 24 December 2007. Share information 2018 trading data ISIN Code FR0010259150 Average share price €128.5 Euronext Code IPN.PA Highest price (31/08/2018) €153.2 ADR Code IPSEY Lowest price (02/01/2018) €101.4 SRD / PEA Eligibility Yes / Yes Stock market capitalization (1) €9,457.8 M Total Shares (1) 83.8 M Average daily volume 107,145.1 (1) As of 31 December 2018. Comparison between Ipsen’s share price performance and the principal stock market indicators between 2 January 2018 and 31 December 2018 (Source: Reuters) Price (Base 100 on 2 January 2018) Volume 160 3,500,000 3,000,000 140 2,500,000 120 2,000,000 1,500,000 100 1,000,000 80 500,000 60 0 January 18 February 18 March 18 April 18 May 18 June 18 July 18 August 18 September 18 October 18 November 18 December 18 Volumes Ipsen SBF 120 S&P Pharma CAC Mid 60 4 2018 Ipsen Registration document 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1.1 GROUP OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 6 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company 6 1.1.2 Group Strategy 7 1.1.3 Business Model 9 1.2 GROUP ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 9 1.2.1 The Group’s Products 9 1.2.2 Major Contracts 16 1.2.3 Research and Development 19 1.2.4 Intellectual Property 23 1.2.5 Main Markets 26 1.2.6 Regulation 26 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure 27 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 1.1 GROUP OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company ■■ 1.1.1.1 Legal Entity Overview carcinoma population; Onivyde®, a differentiated product with overall survival benefit addressing a high unmet Registered name medical need in pancreatic cancer; and Decapeptyl®, an Ipsen established and growing product in Europe and China for Registered office the treatment of prostate cancer; 65 Quai Georges Gorse, 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt, France • Neuroscience (15.8% of Ipsen’s sales) with the key product Dysport® for therapeutic and aesthetic indications; Telephone number • Rare Diseases (3.1% of Ipsen’s sales) with Nutropin®, a liquid +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00 formulation of recombinant human growth hormone and Legal Form and applicable laws Increlex®, a recombinant insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) of human origin. The Company is a limited liability company incorporated under French law with a Board of Directors governed by the Consumer Healthcare provisions of Book II of the French Commercial Code. The Consumer Healthcare business is the historical business Registration details of the Group with several strong regional brands. It generated sales of €300.3 million in 2018, or 13.5% of the Group’s sales. The Company is registered in the Trade and Companies China, France and Russia account for 59.7% of Consumer Registry in Nanterre under registration number 419 838 529. Healthcare sales. Its Legal Entity Identifier number is 549300M6SGDPB4Z94P11. The Consumer Healthcare business is transforming from a Date of incorporation and term prescription-based promotional model to a combination of prescription and over-the-counter (OTx). The Company was incorporated on 28 July 1998, for a fixed period, except in the case of early dissolution or extension, Key brands include Smecta®, a naturally extracted purified of ninety-nine years from its registration in the Trade and clay for the symptomatic treatment of acute diarrhea; Companies Registry, or until 18 August 2097. Tanakan®, a standardized extract from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba for the treatment of various neurological and neuro■■ 1.1.1.2 Group Overview sensorial disorders; Forlax®, an osmotic laxative indicated for the symptomatic treatment of constipation in adults and Ipsen is a global specialty-driven biopharmaceutical group children; and Fortrans®, a colon cleansing solution indicated focused on innovation and Specialty Care. for patients in preparation for endoscopic, radiological The Group develops and commercializes innovative medicines examinations or colonic surgery. in three key therapeutic areas – Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases. Its commitment to oncology is ■■ 1.1.1.3 History and Development exemplified through its growing portfolio of key therapies for of the Company neuroendocrine tumors, renal cell carcinoma, hepatocellular The Group was founded in 1929 when Doctor Henri Beaufour carcinoma, pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer. Ipsen created Laboratoires Beaufour in Dreux for the launch of also has a well-established Consumer Healthcare business. Romarène ®, a naturally-occurring product derived from With total sales of €2,224.8 million in 2018, Ipsen sells more rosemary for the treatment of digestive disorders. The 1970s than 20 drugs in over 115 countries, with a direct commercial were marked by a period of expansion for the Group’s activities presence in more than 30 countries. in organic products during which Ipsen launched Tanakan® and Specialty Care Smecta®, which remain major products for the Group today. Ipsen has built its strength in Specialty Care through a robust During the 1970s, the Group focused its activities on engineering portfolio of drugs with leading international research hubs and peptide products and set up Biomeasure (now known as Ipsen solid long-term partnerships. Bioscience, Inc.), which became the Group’s peptide product research facility based close to universities around Boston. T h e S p e c i a l t y C a r e b u s i n e s s g e n e r a te d s a l e s o f Through Biomeasure, the Group established and fostered €1,924.5 million in 2018, or 86.5% of the Group’s sales. The strong relationships with several American universities. These Group focuses on: partnerships led to the marketing of Decapeptyl®, which was • Oncology (67.6% of Ipsen’s sales) with Somatuline ®, a launched in 1986 and fueled the Group’s international expansion. best-in-class somatostatin analog for the treatment In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Group continued its of neuroendocrine tumors; Cabometyx ®, the first and international expansion by setting up subsidiaries and offices only monotherapy TKI demonstrating significant clinical outside of France and acquiring foreign companies. improvements in both first-line and second-line renal cell carcinoma, and also the first and only TKI with proven, In 1994, the Group acquired the UK-based company significant OS in a second-line advanced hepatocellular Speywood (known at the time as Porton International), which 6 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY is responsible for developing Dysport® and in 1995, the Group Recently, the Group completed two important transactions launched its second sustained-release peptide, Somatuline® to accelerate its evolution toward becoming a leading global in France. biopharmaceutical company: The Group went public in December 2005 on the Eurolist • In 2016, the Group acquired the exclusive commercialization market of Euronext™ in order to accelerate and support its rights for current and potential future cabozantinib growth in Specialty Care and to enter the world’s largest indications outside of the United States and Japan; pharmaceutical market in the United States. From 2010 onwards, the Group increased its focus and • In early 2017, the Group acquired Onivyde®, the oncology investment in its toxin research platform. The Group‘s active asset from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals. policy of building partnerships allows it to obtain resources for programs it does not wish to finance independently and to ■■ 1.1.1.4 Group’s Main Products create value through the licensing of products that arise from its research but are not deemed to be part of its core business The following table presents the main therapeutic indications (see part 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). for the Group’s main products. 2018 sales Therapeutic area (1) Product name (in millions Principal therapeutic indications (2) euros) Specialty Care: 86.5% of full year sales Oncology Somatuline® 846.7 Neuroendocrine tumors; acromegaly Oncology Cabometyx ® 148.2 Renal cell carcinoma, second-line hepatocellular carcinoma Oncology Onivyde® 109.4 Metastatic pancreatic cancer Oncology Decapeptyl ® 372.6 Advanced metastatic prostate cancer; uterine fibroids; precocious puberty; endometriosis; female sterility (in vitro fertilization), early stage breast cancer Neuroscience Dysport® 347.8 Motor muscular disorders (cervical dystonia; adult and children spasticity, blepharospasms and hemifacial spasms) and medical aesthetics (glabellar lines, lateral canthal lines, hyperhidrosis) Rare Diseases NutropinAq® 45.9 Growth failure in children due to growth hormone (GH) deficiency, Turner syndrome or chronic renal failure and GH deficiency in adults Rare Diseases Increlex® 24.1 Long-term treatment of growth failure in children and adolescents with severe primary insulin-like growth factor-1 deficiency (severe primary IGF-1) Consumer Healthcare: 13.5% of full year sales Gastroenterology Smecta® 126.5 Chronic and acute diarrhoea; symptomatic treatment of pain linked to oesogastroduodenal conditions and colic Gastroenterology Forlax® 39.8 Constipation Gastroenterology Fortrans / Eziclen ® ® 31.4 Intestinal cleaning Gastroenterology Etiasa ® 4.2 Inflammatory bowel diseases Cognitive disorders Tanakan® 37.7 Mild cognitive impairment related to age; pathophysiological deficiencies; vertigo; retinal deficits; acute or chronic hearing impairment; tinnitus (1) Products are classified into therapeutic areas based on their primary indications. (2) Therapeutic indications of products vary from country to country. For more details about the sales geographical breakdown, see the management report (part 3.1.2 “Analysis of results”). 1.1.2 Group Strategy ■■ 1.1.2.1 The Group’s vision and ambition Group with the scale, expertise and stability needed to make a sustainable difference for people in the quickly-evolving Ipsen is a dynamic and growing global specialty-driven healthcare environment. biopharmaceutical group focused on innovation and Specialty Care that is improving people’s lives through differentiated and Strong Foundation innovative medicines in Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Ipsen is built on a strong foundation with a 90-year heritage Diseases. The strong position in Specialty Care, combined of family ownership, a solid and diversified portfolio with with the heritage in Consumer Healthcare, provides the a fast-growing and dynamic Specialty Care business, a 2018 Ipsen Registration document 7 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY stable Consumer Healthcare business, and with significant market-leading brands by enhancing consumer innovations, competitive advantages: capturing the underlying market growth in emerging markets and strengthening the European business. • Proven financial strength through a significant and recurring cash flow and strong balance sheet; A Development and Commercial Powerhouse driven by innovation • A global footprint in over 100 countries, with close to 50% of revenues generated outside Europe. The Group entered Building an innovative and sustainable pipeline is essential for the U.S. market in 2008 which now represents the fastestcontinued growth and is a key objective for the Group. Ipsen growing region and the top affiliate in terms of sales. The has focused its internal resources and efforts on becoming a Group also benefits from an important historical presence Development Powerhouse while increasingly turning toward in emerging markets such as China and Russia; external sourcing for new assets. • Proven expertise in cutting-edge technologies, such as Ipsen is built around a culture of open innovation, which drives toxin engineering and advanced drug delivery systems, research, development and commercialization. The Group which can be employed together at an early stage of identifies, develops and integrates innovative products that development; are a strategic fit for its portfolio and that deliver value for patients. It brings together the best minds to tackle some of • The geographic proximity of its research, development and the most difficult diseases and it does so by developing longinnovation teams based in the United States (Cambridge, lasting, mutually-beneficial partnerships and through open MA) and in Europe (Milton Park, Oxford, United Kingdom and smart collaborative innovation. – Dublin, Ireland – Berlin, Germany – Dreux and Les Ulis, Paris Saclay, France) to highly-regarded university research Externally-sourcing innovation (see part 1.2.3.1 “Research centers which enable the Group to benefit from available and Development Activities”) is a key tenet of Ipsen’s business scientific expertise and to hire highly-qualified personnel; model. This principle, along with its strong track record and growing U.S. presence has positioned the Group as a partner • A recognized ability to secure and manage large-scale of choice from early-stage development and academic partnerships with the world’s leading and innovative partnerships to late-stage and product commercialization. pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as With an open innovation model in mind, the Group has placed Exelixis, Lexicon, Servier, Teijin, Galderma and Menarini; its three R&D centers at the heart of internationally-reputed • An effective management team with significant experience scientific hubs: Paris-Saclay in France, Oxford in the United in the pharmaceutical industry. Kingdom and Cambridge in the United States. A New Era The Group’s biotech mindset, combined with the scale and advantages of a global pharmaceutical company, has help Innovation is driving the business in a rapidly-transforming establish the company as a development and commercial healthcare environment. The Group’s global footprint and powerhouse in its core focus areas, with a proven ability to the recognized leadership across the core focus areas of bring new, life-changing therapies to market. This approach Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases position it to take is core to Ipsen ambition to launch at least one new drug or on the challenges faced by patients and caregivers. meaningful indication every year. Specialty Care: Business Development In Specialty Care, Ipsen is focused on three key therapeutic areas, Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases, in which Ipsen will continue to invest in business development in its Ipsen can establish a leadership position and leverage its three key therapeutic areas. The Group continues to be active expertise from drug development to commercialization. in its business development efforts and is evaluating assets in its key therapeutic areas in all phases of clinical development. • Specialty Oncology where the Group currently has products for neuroendocrine tumors, renal cell carcinoma, pancreatic The criteria for all transactions is to be strategically aligned, cancer, prostate cancer and more recently hepatocellular financially viable and the Group’s ability to integrate the asset carcinoma; and obtain synergies. • Neuroscience in both the therapeutic segment which is ■■ 1.1.2.2 2020 Financial Targets currently focused on spasticity and the aesthetics segment In May 2017, Ipsen provided the following 2020 financial through the partnership with Galderma; targets: • Rare Diseases, with a small presence today and the desire to further expand with new opportunities. • Sales greater than €2.5 billion. Consumer Healthcare: • Core Operating Income margin greater than 30% of sales. In Consumer Healthcare, the Group maintains a sustainable This guidance excludes the impact from any further business and growing business. To sustain growth, Ipsen is completing development and covers the impact from potential increased the OTx (1) model transformation and leverage its three main Somatuline® competitive threats. (1) Combination of prescription and over-the-counter. 8 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.1.3 Business Model 1.2 GROUP ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.1 The Group’s Products ■■ 1.2.1.1 Specialty Care Products launched in 2001 and allows the product to be presented in a pre-filled, ready-to-use syringe (single use only) for easier Oncology administration. A pre-filled ready-to-use device was launched Somatuline® and Somatuline® Autogel® / Depot® in 2011 with a retractable needle enabling the safe delivery of the full dose with every injection. A new delivery system with Active substance and indications a further improved design was approved in the first European Somatuline® is a somatostatin analog made from the active in October 2018, after which each national health authority substance lanreotide which inhibits the secretion of growth has to issue national approval. 16 countries have issued the hormones and certain other hormones by the digestive national approval. system. The main indications of Somatuline ® and Somatuline ® Somatuline ® Autogel® is the first semi-solid formulation for Autogel® / Depot® are the following: injection without any polymeric excipient since the active substance itself controls the sustained release. Somatuline® • Neuroendocrine tumors Autogel® releases the active substance over the duration of –– Treatment of symptoms associated with carcinoid at least 28 days, thus requiring just one deep subcutaneous syndrome related to neuroendocrine tumors. Somatuline® injection per month when compared with the two or three inhibits the production of certain hormones secreted in injections previously required. This unique formulation was excess by these tumors; 2018 Ipsen Registration document 9 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE –– Treatment of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine Cabometyx® tumors (GEP-NETs) in adult patients with unresectable Active substance and indications locally advanced or metastatic disease to improve progression-free survival (PFS); Cabometyx ® (active substance: cabozantinib) is a small molecule administered orally in the form of tablets that acts as • Acromegaly a targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). Treatment of acromegaly when circulating levels of growth With a unique mechanism of action targeting ME T hormone and /or Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 remain (hepatocyte growth factor receptor) and AXL (tyrosine kinase abnormal after surgery and/or radiotherapy, or in patients receptor) beyond VEGFR (Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor who otherwise require medical treatment. Somatuline ® Receptor), Cabometyx® has the potential to overcome the inhibits growth hormone release and thus improves control resistance induced by prior antiangiogenic therapies. The of this disorder by relieving the symptoms associated with mechanism of action for Cabometyx ® has been shown to elevated levels of this hormone. inhibit angiogenesis and the migration and proliferation of tumor cells. Marketing Cabometyx® is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal Somatuline was initially launched in France in 1995 and the ® cell carcinoma (RCC) in both treatment-naïve adults with Somatuline® Autogel® formulation was launched in 2001 for the intermediate or poor risk as well as in adults following prior treatment of acromegaly and carcinoid syndrome associated vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-targeted therapy. with neuroendocrine tumors. In 2015, the EMA approved Cabometyx® is the first and only targeted therapy in secondSomatuline® Autogel® for the treatment of GEP-NET in adults line RCC to demonstrate clinically and statistically significant with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. improvement across three endpoints (PFS, OS and ORR), with a convenient regimen of one tablet daily as well as Somatuline ® Depot ® was first approved by the U.S. Food the first and only single agent targeted therapy in first-line and Drug Administration in 2007 for the treatment of treatment of a RCC to demonstrate superiority over sunitinib, acromegaly. In 2014, Somatuline® Depot® was approved for the former standard of care across PFS and disease control. the anti-proliferative treatment of GEP-NET in adults with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. The Marketing label was extended in September 2017 for the treatment of Cabometyx ® was first launched in Europe in Germany in carcinoid syndrome associated with neuroendocrine tumors. late 2016, and was also made accessible in most Western Somatuline® Depot® became the first and only somatostatin European countries. analog FDA-approved for these two last indications. As of 31 December 2018, Cabometyx ® was available in Somatuline Depot received Orphan Drug Designation in ® ® 24 countries with reimbursement in 2L RCC and in 7 countries the U.S. for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors with with reimbursement in 1L RCC. In 2018, sales of Cabometyx® exclusivity until 2021. amounted to €148.2 million. As of 31 December 2018, Somatuline® Autogel® / Depot® was In November 2018, the European Commission approved marketed in 57 countries for the treatment of acromegaly and Cabomety x ® as a monotherapy for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors. hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in adults who have previously been treated with sorafenib. This approval allows for the In 2018, Somatuline ® Autogel ® / Depot ® was the first and marketing of Cabometyx® in this indication in all 28 member fastest growing product of the Group with sales amounting states of the European Union, Norway and Iceland. €846.7 million, of which 52.7% were generated in North Cabometyx® is prescribed primarily by oncologists. America. Cabomet y x ® stems from a par tnership with E xelixis Somatuline ® Autogel ® / Depot ® is prescribed mainly by (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). endocrinologists, oncologists, gastroenterologists, and digestive surgeons. Competition In RCC, many other treatments are approved in Europe. Competition Some products have been marketed for several years like Sutent® (Pfizer), Nexavar ® (Bayer), Afinitor ® (Novartis), and The main competitor of Somatuline® Autogel® is Sandostatin® Inlyta® (Pfizer). Two other products received approval in 2016 LAR®, a somatostatin analog called octreotide developed by in second-line RCC: Opdivo® (BMS), and Kisplyx® (Eisai) in Novartis for the treatment of acromegaly and neuroendocrine combination with Afinitor®. tumors. However, the approved indications are not identical as Sandostatin does not have the anti-proliferative In the most recent ESMO RCC guidelines, only Cabometyx® indication for GEP-NET in the U.S. Other competitors in and Opdivo® are considered standard of care therapies in the acromegaly market are: Somavert®, a growth hormone second line post-TKI. Nexavar ®, Afinitor ®, and Inlyta ® are receptor antagonist developed by Pfizer, and Signifor® LAR® only considered as treatment options, while Kisplyx ® in developed by Novartis. combination with Afinitor® was not included. 10 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE In first-line RCC, four other therapies are currently approved gemcitabine in combination with Abraxane®, a microtubule as of 31 December 2018: sunitinib, pazopanib, tivozanib, inhibitor, developed and marketed by Celgene, indicated temsirolimus and the combination of bevacizumab and in combination with gemcitabine as first-line treatment for interferon alfa. Only Cabometyx demonstrated superiority advanced pancreatic cancer. over sunitinib, which was considered as the standard of care to date. Decapeptyl® Active substance and indications In January 2018, combination therapy of ipilumab and nivolumab received European approval for the initial treatment Decapeptyl® is a synthetic hormone with active ingredient of advanced renal cell carcinoma patients with intermediate triptorelin, a decapeptide analog of GnRH (Gonadotrophin and poor risk. Releasing Hormone). GnRH is a hormone secreted by the hypothalamus, which initially stimulates the release of pituitary In Europe, only one other product, Stivarga ® (Bayer), is gonadotrophins (hormones produced by the pituitary gland) and approved for second-line HCC. in turn controls hormonal secretions by the testicles and ovaries. Onivyde® (irinotecan liposome injection) The indications of Decapeptyl® are as follows: Active substance and indications • Treatment of locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer: Onivyde® is a unique encapsulation formulation of irinotecan. In this indication, Decapeptyl® temporarily increases the The sucrose octasulfate salt in a long-circulating liposomal concentration of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone, form is designed to increase the length of tumor exposure to but continuous administration paradoxically leads to a irinotecan and its active metabolite SN-38. reduction in plasmatic testosterone concentration. After two to three weeks of treatment, testosterone is reduced Irinotecan, a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor, is a derivative of to levels below the castration threshold, thereby depriving camptothecin that relieves torsional strain in DNA by inducing prostate tumors of one of the main hormones promoting single-strand breaks, rotating the cleaved strand around tumor development; the double helix axis and re-ligating the cleaved strand to • Uterine fibroids: Decapeptyl ® is used to reduce the risk re-establish intact duplex DNA. Both irinotecan and its active of blood loss following ablative surgery to remove uterine metabolite SN-38 bind reversibly to the topoisomerase I-DNA fibroids and to relieve symptoms such as abdominal pain, complex and prevent re-ligation of these single-strand breaks. dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation), and menorrhagia The liposome is a unilamellar lipid bilayer vesicle, which (excessive menstrual bleeding) associated with uterine encapsulates an aqueous space containing irinotecan. fibroids through the reduction in their hormonal stimulation; Onivyde ® is indicated, in combination with fluorouracil and • Endometriosis: Decapeptyl® is used as a treatment aimed leucovorin, for the treatment of patients with metastatic at suppressing estrogen secretion, which deprives the adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after disease progression ectopic endometrial tissue of the critical stimulus it needs following gemcitabine-based therapy. to grow; Marketing • In vitro fertilization: Decapeptyl® is used in association with gonadotrophins to induce ovulation for in vitro fertilization Onivyde has been approved in the EU in 2016, for the ® followed by embryo transfer; treatment of metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after disease progression with gemcitabine-based therapy, in • Precocious puberty: Decapeptyl® is used to inhibit overcombination with 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin. secretion of hormones by the pituitary gland, which improves the height age/bone age ratio; Onivyde ® was developed by Merrimack Pharmaceuticals. • Endoc r i ne -re sp onsi ve e a r ly-stag e bre ast c a nce r: The acquisition of Onivyde® from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals Decapeptyl® monthly is used in pre-menopausal women closed in April 2017. The Group currently markets Onivyde® at high risk of recurrence following chemotherapy, in in the U.S. and retains exclusive U.S. commercialization combination with tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor. rights to potential future indications for the drug. Servier has Triptorelin leads to ovarian function suppression, which in ex-U.S., ex-Taiwan commercialization rights to Onivyde® and combination with tamoxifen (anti-œstrogen) or aromatase PharmaEngine has commercialization rights in Taiwan. inhibitor (inhibitor of œstrogen synthesis) deprives the breast Onivyde® sales reached €109.4 million in 2018. tumor of the main hormones promoting its development. Onivyde® is prescribed by oncologists. Decapeptyl® is available in daily, monthly, quarterly, and semiannual sustained-release formulations. Competition The main competitors of Onivyde ® are fluorouracil-based Marketing combination regimens of generic chemotherapy agents Decapeptyl® was the Group’s second largest product in terms including: Folfirinox® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan and of sales in 2018 with Major Western European countries (G5) oxaliplatin), Folfox® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin), accounting for 49.3% of total sales and China representing a and Folfiri® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, and irinotecan). large portion of Decapeptyl® sales (20%). Oniv yde ® is indicated following gemcitabine-based At 31 December 2018, Decapept yl ® had marketing therapy. The most common gemcitabine-based therapy is authorizations in over 76 countries, including 28 in Europe. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 11 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Decapeptyl ® is prescribed primarily by the following enhances the detection and guides the resection of tumors specialists: urologists, oncologists, radiotherapists, pediatric in patients with known or a high suspicion of bladder cancer. endocrinologists, gynecologists, obstetricians, and in vitro fertilization specialists. Decapeptyl® stems from a partnership Marketing with Debiopharm (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). H ex v i x ® ste ms f ro m a pa r tn e r s hip w i th Photo cu re (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). The Group is responsible Competition for the commercialization of Hexvix ® primarily in Western Competitors’ products vary depending on therapeutic European countries. indications. For prostate cancer, the main competitors are: Enantone® (Takeda/Wyeth/ Abbott), Zoladex® (AstraZeneca), Cometriq® Eligard ® (Astellas) and, for in vitro fertilization, Cetrotide ® Active substance and indications (Merck Serono) and Orgalutran® (MSD). Cometriq® (active substance: cabozantinib) is a small molecule Xermelo ® administered orally in the form of capsules that acts as a targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). Active substance and indications Cometriq ® targets three important intracellular pathways Xermelo ® is a novel, orally-administered, inhibitor of the in medullary thyroid cancer (MTC): RET, VEGFR, and MET. enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH). Through inhibition The mechanism of action for Cometriq® has been shown to of TPH, the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of serotonin, inhibit angiogenesis and the migration and proliferation of Xermelo® is designed to reduce the production of serotonin tumor cells. Cometriq® has also been found to disrupt tumor within neuroendocrine tumors, thus reducing the presence of vasculature and induce tumor cell death in preclinical models. some of the symptoms associated with carcinoid syndrome, in particular diarrhea and the secretion of 5HIAA. Cometriq® was approved in the U.S. and Europe based on the Phase III, international, multicenter, randomized, double-blind Xermelo® is indicated for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome study (EXAM). diarrhea in patients inadequately controlled by somatostatin analog therapy. This study demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in progression free survival with Marketing Cometriq ® as compared to placebo, corresponding to a In September 2017, the EMA approved Xermelo ® for the decrease of 72% of the risk of disease progression in patients treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with with progressive locally advanced (not amenable by surgery) a somatostatin analog. or metastatic MTC. As of 31 December 2018, Xermelo ® had marketing Cometriq® is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with authorizations in 32 countries (including 28 EU countries, progressive, unresectable, locally-advanced or metastatic ex-U.S. and Japan), and reimbursed in 11 countries. medullary thyroid carcinoma. Cometriq ® has orphan drug status and fulfils an unmet medical need in medullary thyroid Xermelo® is prescribed by the same physicians that prescribe cancer. Somatuline® and other somatostatin analogs (endocrinologists, oncologists, gastroenterologists, and digestive surgeons), as Marketing the treatment is an add-on to this therapy. As of 31 December 2017, Cometriq ® obtained marketing Xe r m e l o ® s te m s f ro m a p a r t n e r s h i p w i t h L ex i c o n authorization in 27 countries, with Germany representing the Pharmaceuticals (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). largest amount of product sales. Competition Cometriq ® is prescribed primarily by oncologists and endocrinologists. Cometriq® stems from a partnership with Xermelo® currently has no direct competition as it is a first-inExelixis (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). class drug, with little or no other validated therapies available in this particular patient segment. Competition Hexvix ® The main competitor for the product is Caprelsa® (SanofiGenzyme) which is used to treat patients with MTC that Active substance and indications cannot be removed through surgery or that has spread to Hexvix ® (hexaminolevulinate, 85 mg) is a photosensitizing other parts of the body. agent used in blue-light cystoscopy as adjunct to standard white contributing to the diagnosis and management of bladder Neuroscience cancer. After intravesical instillation of hexaminolevulinate, Dysport® porphyrins will accumulate intracellularly in bladder wall lesions. The intracellular porphyrins (including PpIX) are Active substance and indications photoactive, fluorescing compounds which emit red light Dysport® is a botulinum neurotoxin type A product, which is a upon blue light excitation. As a result, premalignant and substance derived from a bacteria (clostridium botulinum) that malignant lesions will glow red on a blue background. False blocks acetylcholine release from nerve endings resulting in fluorescence may be seen as a result of inflammation Hexvix® the relaxation of hyperactive muscles. 12 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Dysport® is approved in the following therapeutic indications On 16 June 2017, the FDA expanded the approved use of in adults: Dysport® for injection for the treatment of spasticity in adults, based on its supplemental Biologics License Application • Treatment of focal spasticity in adult upper and/or lower (sBLA) in lower limb spasticity. limbs. Spasticity is characterized by uncontrollable muscle overactivity, which leads to muscle contraction and soft In aesthetics, Ipsen and Galderma have been exclusive tissue shortening resulting in impairment of activities of partners since 2007 for the research, development and daily living, function, mobility and social isolation. Spasticity distribution of Ipsen’s botulinum toxin type A product for generally occurs in the first six months following an acute or aesthetic and dermatological indications in some European progressive central or peripheral disorder such as stroke, countries (under the brand name Azzalure ® ) and in other spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury multiple sclerosis territories including the United States and Canada since 2014 or cerebral palsy. (these agreements are presented in detail in section 1.2.2 of this registration document). • Treatment of Cervical Dystonia (CD). CD is the most common adult-onset form of focal dystonia, an orphan In June 2017, Ipsen entered into an exclusive, three-year neurological condition characterized by involuntary and agreement with Saol Therapeutics to promote Dysport ® sustained muscles spams. Symptomatic presentation of for approved therapeutic indications in adult spasticity and CD can be abnormal neck posture and degree of head pediatric lower limb spasticity in the United States. rotation, neck and shoulder pain and involuntary twisting or Dyspor t ® is administered by trained physicians e.g. jerking of the head. neurologists, physical medicine & rehabilitation specialists, • Treatment of blepharospasm spasm. Blepharospasm is an neuropediatricians, orthopedic surgeons, ENT specialists, abnormal and involuntary contraction of the eyelid, that can ophthalmologists, dermatologists, and plastic surgeons. be chronic and persistent. In 2018, Ipsen’s in vitro Cell Based Assay was approved by • Treatment of hemifacial spasm. Hemifacial spasm is a regulatory authorities in several countries, notably in the E.U., benign neuromuscular disease characterized by irregular, Switzerland and Canada. involuntary muscles contraction on one side of the face. The Cell-Based Assay is replacing the in vivo LD50 test • Treatment of severe primary hyperhidrosis of the axillae. used to establish the stability and potency of its toxin-based Hyperhidrosis (HH) is characterized by excessive sweating product (Dysport® and Azzalure®), which will lead to a drastic due to the overactivity of the sweat glands and affects reduction of animal-based testing. This major milestone is the about 1%-3% of the population. result of Ipsen’s commitment to animal welfare. Dysport® is also approved in children aged 2 years and older Competition for: Dysport ®’s main competitors are Botox ® (Allergan) and • Treatment of focal lower limb spasticity. Cerebral Palsy (CP) to a lesser extent Xeomin ® (Merz) for both aesthetic and is the most frequent cause of spasticity in children and the therapeutic indications. Competitive intensity in the BoNT leading cause of childhood disability affecting movement market is expected to increase further as more competitors, and posture, causing limitation of activity. mainly from Asia, enter the U.S. and European markets. Dysport ® is approved in aesthetics for the temporar y Rare Diseases improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe: NutropinAq® • Glabellar lines, Active substance and indications • Lateral canthal lines (crow's feet lines), NutropinAq ® is a liquid formulation of recombinant human growth hormone administered using the “NutropinAq ® in adult patients under 65 years, when the severity of these Pen”. Growth hormone is involved in several physiological lines has an important psychological impact on the patient. processes, such as growth in stature and bone development Marketing in children and, in later adult life. Dysport ® was initially launched in the United Kingdom in NutropinAq® is a ready-to-use liquid formulation in the form of 1991 and had marketing authorization in 87 countries as of solution for injection (in a cartridge (10 mg/2 ml)). 31 December 2018. NutropinAq® is indicated for the following: In the United States, on 30 April 2009, the Food and Drug • Long-term treatment of growth failure in children due to Administration ( FDA) approved the Biologics License inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone; Application (BLA) for Dysport ® (abobotulinumtoxinA) in cervical dystonia and for the temporary improvement in the • Long-term treatment of growth failure associated with appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines in adults Turner syndrome in girls over two years old; aged 65 years and under. • Treatment of grow th failure in prepuber tal children As of 31 December 2018, Dysport remains the first and only associated with chronic renal insufficiency ahead of kidney botulinum toxin approved by the FDA for this indication. transplantation; 2018 Ipsen Registration document 13 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE • Treatment of adults with growth hormone deficiency of Marketing either childhood or adult onset. As of 31 December 2018, Smecta® had market authorization Marketing in about 90 countries. In 2018, Smecta® sales represented 5.7 % of total Ipsen sales, of which 71.4% were generated in As of 31 December 2018, the Group had obtained marketing China, France, and Russia, the product’s main markets. authorizations in 34 countries. The product has been launched in 23 countries across Europe since 2004. Smecta® is Ipsen’s leading Consumer Healthcare product in terms of sales. Growth hormones are prescribed by pediatric and adult endocrinologists. Smecta® is prescribed by general practitioners, gastroenterologists, and pediatricians. The product can also NutropinAq ® stems from a partnership with Genentech in be dispensed without prescription under pharmacist advice 2002 (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). or as an OTC self-medication for patients. Competition Competition Six other companies have marketed recombinant growth Smecta’s ® main competitors are Imodium ® (Johnson & hormones for several years: Pfizer (Genotropin ® ), Eli Lilly Johnson), Ercéfuryl® (Sanofi), Ultralevure ® (Biocodex), and (Humatrope ® ), Novo Nordisk (Norditropin® ), Merck Serono Tiorfan® (Bioproject Pharma). (Saizen ® ) and Ferring (Zomacton ® ). Omnitrope ® (Sandoz), a biosimilar product to Pfizer’s Genotropin®, was launched LP 299V® more recently. In April 2016, Ipsen signed a license and supply agreement with Probi for the commercialization of its probiotic strain Increlex ® lactobacillus plantarum 299v (LP299V®). Probi is a Swedish Active substance and indications publicly-traded bioengineering company that develops effective and well-documented probiotics. The agreement The active substance in Increlex ® (mecasermin) is a covers in total 18 markets, many with high-growth potential, recombinant DNA-derived human insulin-like growth factor with an option to include additional countries. (IGF-1). IGF-1 is the direct hormonal mediator of stature and bone growth and must be present for normal growth of bones In 2017, the product was launched in France, Czech Republic, and cartilage in children. Romania, the Baltics and Algeria. Increlex ® is approved for the treatment of Severe Primary Forlax® IGF-1 deficiency in children and adolescents (from 2 to 18 years of age), an extremely rare disease affecting less than Active substance and indications 1/10 000 children. Forlax® is an oral osmotic laxative, designed and developed by Ipsen, and indicated for the treatment of constipation in Marketing both adults and children. The active substance in Forlax® is Increlex ® has been marketed in the United States since Macrogol 4000, a linear polymer of polyethylene glycol (PEG) the beginning of 2006 and in the European Union since of high molecular weight. August 2007. Marketing Recombinant IGF-1 is prescribed by pediatric endocrinologists. Forlax® was first registered in France in 1995. The marketing authorization was later extended to 21 other EU countries Competition through a mutual recognition procedure. Increlex® is the only treatment available for patients living with Severe-Primary IGF-1 deficiency in the U.S. and European As of 31 December 2018, Forlax ® was granted marketing union. No competitor exists in these territories. authorizations in about 55 countries. In 2018, 45.9% of Forlax® sales were generated in France. ■■ 1.2.1.2 Consumer Healthcare Products Forlax ® is primarily prescribed by general practitioners, Smecta® gastroenterologists, gynecologists and pediatricians. The product can also be dispensed without prescription under Active substance and indications pharmacist advice or as an OTC self-medication for patients. Smecta ® is an oral formulation of pharmaceutical clay To position Forlax ® as an OTC self-medication product, a indicated in the treatment of acute diarrhea in both adults liquid form has been launched in selected European markets. and children, and the symptomatic treatment of digestive pain and chronic diarrhea in adults. The active substance Competition in Smecta ® is diosmectite, a natural clay processed and Forlax’s ® main competitors are other osmotic laxatives, purified for therapeutic use. Ipsen is actively working on life including lactulose products such as Duphalac ® (Solvay cycle management with new flavors, forms, or line extensions Pharma), other PEGs such as Transipeg® (Roche Nicholas) (e.g. in-licensing of LP299V and promotion under the Smecta and Movicol® (Norgine Pharma), and stimulant laxatives (e.g. brand). bisacodyl) such as Dulcolax® (Boehringer Ingelheim). 14 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE In France, two generics of Forlax® were marketed by Mylan Tanakan® and Qualimed in March 2009. Today, Ipsen produces two Active substance and indications generic products marketed by Biogaran and Sandoz. Tanakan® is indicated for the treatment of various neurological and neuro-sensorial disorders. Tanakan ® contains natural Fortrans® substances with antioxidant and neuro-protective properties. Active substance and indications Tanakan® is indicated for the treatment of cognitive disorders Fortrans is aimed at intestinal cleaning before endoscopy ® (memory or attention deficit) in the elderly. procedure (coloscopy), surgery, or radiology. The active The active substance in Tanakan ® – EGb 761® – is substance in Fortrans® is Macrogol 4000, a linear polymer a standardized extract from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba of polyethylene glycol (PEG) of high molecular weight with (dioecious tree in the Ginkgoaceae family) cultivated and added electrolytes. extracted under controlled conditions. Marketing Marketing Fortrans® is considered to be the “gold standard” for bowel As of 31 December 2018, Tanakan ® was approved in cleansing preparation before coloscopy. As of 31 December approximately 66 countries, mainly in Europe, Russia, and 2018, Fortrans ® held marketing authorizations in about Asia. 57 countries. In 2018, 24.0% of Tanakan® sales were generated in Russia, where the product is offered as a self-medication OTC Fortrans® is available in more than 40 countries. Russia and product. Poland are the two largest markets. Adenuric® Eziclen® Active substance and indications Active substance and indications Adenuric® (febuxostat) 80 mg and 120 mg (tablets) is indicated for the treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia with clinical Eziclen® is a next-generation osmotic laxative, indicated in manifestations of urate deposition (including a history or adults, for cleaning the bowel before endoscopy procedure presence of tophus and/or gouty arthritis). (coloscopy), surgery or radiology. In 2015, some indications were added for Adenuric® 120 mg Marketing for the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in adult patients undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic On 31 December 2018, Eziclen® was marketed by Ipsen or its malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis local partners in 19 countries. Syndrome (TLS). In 2009, Ipsen acquired from Braintree the exclusive Marketing manufacturing, marketing and distribution rights of the In 2009, Ipsen gained EU Marketing Authorization, and in proprietary formulation BLI-800 for the European Union, the October 2009, the Group granted exclusive licensing rights to Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), some Asian the Menarini Group for Adenuric® in 41 countries. In addition, countries (including China) and some North African and Ipsen continues to promote the product in France together South American countries. The agreement is presented in with Menarini. detail in section 1.2.2 “Major Contracts” of this registration document. Prontalgine®, Buscopan®, Suppositoria Glycerini, and Mucothiol® and Mucodyne® Etiasa® In February 2017, Ipsen entered into a definitive agreement to Active substance and indications acquire a portfolio of select Consumer Healthcare Products from Sanofi. Etiasa ® (mesalazine) is indicated in inflammatory bowel diseases (Ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s Disease), for the The most significant product was Prontalgine®, an analgesic treatment of mildly to moderately-active condition and for the treatment of moderate to severe pain, which maintenance of remission. was available only in France. The portfolio also included Buscopan ®, an antispasmodic; Suppositoria Glycerini, a Marketing laxative; and Mucothiol® and Mucodyne®, expectorants for cough and flu. When combined, these regional brands span a In 2015, Ipsen renewed its exclusive agreement with geographic scope of eight European countries. Ethypharm for the distribution and promotion of Etiasa® in China. The drug is now manufactured by Ethypharm in its Akkadeas Portfolio Shanghai subsidiary. The drug’s principal competitors in In 2017 Ipsen acquired Akkadeas Pharma which possessed China are other 5-ASA products such as Pentasa®, Salofalk®, diversified gastrointestinal-focused portfolio including Mesalazine generic, and Sulfasalazine. probiotics, medical devices and food supplements in Italy. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 15 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.2 Major Contracts The Group markets its products either directly through the treatment of paraphilia (sexual perversions) in the same its sales force or through third parties under licensing or territories as for Decapeptyl® with the exclusion of Switzerland other agreements. Furthermore, the Group has earned the and Liechtenstein in which the commercialization right is confidence of third parties that have entrusted it with selling granted to Debiopharm. their products such as Cabometyx®, Decapeptyl®, Hexvix®, and NutropinAq®. In certain cases, the Group has entered into Exelixis (California, USA) agreements with third party companies to manufacture drugs In 2016, the Group and Exelixis Inc. signed an exclusive or raw materials. licensing agreement for the commercialization and further T he Group complements the implementation of its development of cabozantinib, Exelixis’ lead oncology asset. internal Research and Development program by entering The parties have agreed to collaborate on the development into partnership agreements with university teams and of cabozantinib for current and potential future indications, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These and Ipsen has exclusive commercialization rights worldwide partnerships help the Group gain access to cutting-edge outside the United States and Japan. technologies in complex areas of expertise. This agreement includes the rights to Cometriq ® currently This partnership strategy helps the Group finance the approved in the United States and the European Union (EU) for development of its products while extending its range of the treatment of adult patients with progressive, unresectable, existing products. The Group is constantly looking for highlocally-advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid cancer quality, complementary, and long-lasting marketing, research (MTC), and Cabometyx® currently approved in the U.S. and and development partnerships. the European Union (EU) for the second-line treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who have received first-line antiangiogenic therapy and for the first-line ■■ 1.2.2.1 Agreements in Specialty Care treatment of adults with intermediate or poor risk advanced 1.2.2.1.1 Agreements in Oncology RCC. In November 2018, Ipsen received approval from the European Commission for Cabometyx® for the treatment of Debiopharm (Lausanne, Switzerland) hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in adults who have previously The Group has maintained an ongoing relationship with been treated with sorafenib. Debiopharm since 1983 when it entered into its first licensing deal to manufacture and market Decapeptyl ® in locallyUnder the agreement Exelixis received a $200 million upfront advanced cancer or metastatic prostate cancer. This payment, as well as several regulatory milestone payments licensing agreement was renewed in 2002 and in 2007. ($60 million upon the approval in Europe for second-line RCC, The agreement covers Debiopharm’s expertise and patents $50 million upon the approval in Europe for first-line RCC and related to the active substance triptorelin and its various additional milestone payments when the EMA was granted salts (particularly the pamoate formulation), which are sold approval for HCC, as well as additional regulatory milestones under the Decapeptyl ® and Pamorelin ® trademarks, both for potential further indications). The agreement also includes of which were assigned to Ipsen in 2010. The daily, oneup to $545 million of potential commercial milestones and month, and three-month acetate and pamoate formulations of tiered royalties to Exelixis of up to 26% on Ipsen’s net sales of Decapeptyl® are no longer protected by any invention patents. cabozantinib in its territories. The licensing agreement with Debiopharm grants the Group Photocure (Oslo, Norway) the right to manufacture and market Decapeptyl® worldwide On 26 September 2011, the Group signed a marketing with the exclusion of North America and certain other and supply agre eme nt with Photocure, a spe cialt y countries, principally Israel, Japan, and English-speaking pharmaceutical company specializing in photodynamic African countries. Pursuant to the agreement, the Group technologies applied to cancer and dermatology. Under the commercializes Decapeptyl® under a daily formulation as well agreement, the Group was granted an exclusive license to as under monthly, 3-month, and 6-month sustained-release commercialize the product for the diagnosis and resection formulations. of bladder cancer under the Hexvix ® trademark, a brand This licensing agreement has no termination date. Each owned by Photocure. Ipsen obtained the exclusive license party may terminate the agreement entirely or on a countryworldwide, except in the United States, the Nordics, and by-country basis at any time as of 31 December 2020, with certain other countries where Ipsen may decide to return the a two-year notice and an effective termination date as of rights to Photocure under certain conditions. The product 31 December 2022 at the earliest. is designed to improve the detection and resection of noninvasive bladder cancer by inducing specific fluorescence In addition, on 30 April 2008, the Group and Debiopharm in malignant cells in the bladder during a cystoscopic entered into a license agreement granting the Group the procedure. The product was approved in Sweden in 2004 exclusive right to commercialize triptorelin under the trade and was subsequently approved in many European countries names Salvacyl®, Salvacyl LP®, Moapar®, and Salvapar® for as well as in the United States. 16 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.2.1.2 Agreements in Neuroscience 1.2.2.1.3 Agreements in Rare Diseases Public Health England (PHE) (former Health Protection Genentech (San Francisco, CA, USA) Agency (HPA)) (Porton Down, United Kingdom) Distribution agreement covering NutropinAq® The Group entered a licensing agreement with the PHE in The exclusive distribution agreement reached in 2002 by 1994 covering the botulinum toxin type A complex, which is the Group with Genentech covers NutropinAq ®, a liquid the active substance in Dysport®. Until December 2036, the formulation of human growth hormone for daily use produced Group holds an exclusive worldwide license to use and sell using recombinant DNA technology. Under this agreement, the botulinum neurotoxin type A produced by the PHE and the Group has the exclusive right to market worldwide (with the co-exclusive right with the PHE to manufacture this toxin the exception of North America, Mexico, Brazil, and Japan) using the PHE processes. Further to an amendment in 2001, NutropinAq ® and the NutropinAq ® Pen Cartridge ® (i.e. the the Group began producing botulinum toxin type A in 2004. configuration used for the daily administration of the liquid The Group is now discharged from the obligation to purchase formulation of NutropinAq®) and any improvement made to botulinum toxin from PHE. these products for a period of 20 years starting from the date Under this agreement, the Group pays the PHE royalties on which NutropinAq® was launched on the market. based on revenues generated from the sale of products The Group agreed to pay Genentech milestone payments containing botulinum toxin type A, particularly those realized when certain net sales figures are reached. The Group under the Dysport ® brand name, together with minimum also agreed to pay royalties based on the total amount of royalty clauses. annual sales of each product in the territory covered by the Galderma (Lausanne, Switzerland) distribution agreement. The European patent owned by In February 2007, under the terms of a development and Genentech protecting the product expired on 29 July 2013. distribution agreement, Ipsen granted Galderma Pharma S.A., Increlex® agreements a Swiss company currently owned by Nestlé, exclusive rights to develop, promote, and distribute specific formulations The Group and Genentech entered into two Increlex® (IGF-1) of its botulinum toxin type A product in aesthetic medicine license agreements: in 2002 for the U.S. and 2003 for the indications in the European Union and certain Eastern rest of the world. Under these agreements, the Group was European countries and Central Asia. The Group also granted granted the exclusive global right to develop, manufacture, Galderma first rights of negotiation for aesthetic medicine and commercialize IGF-1 in all indications except central indications outside Galderma territories. nervous system diseases. In consideration for these rights, the Group paid certain amounts to Genentech dependent The product is distributed in Europe under the Azzalure ® on sales reaching certain levels and royalties on sales. trademark owned by Galderma. A z zalure ® is mainly Both agreements expired in the fourth quarter of 2018 and commercialized in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Ipsen retains global rights to develop, manufacture and Portugal, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and Poland. Ipsen owns commercialize IGF-1 on a royalty-free basis. all regulatory approvals and all data arising from development activities. Teijin (Tokyo, Japan) The Group granted Teijin exclusive rights in Japan to develop In the context of the first rights of negotiations granted to and market Somatuline ® Autogel ® for the treatment of Galderma to further expand the territories, the Group granted acromegaly, SSTR-2 for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy, to Galderma exclusive rights, to promote and distribute under and BIM 44058 (PTHrP analogue) in the treatment of severe the trademark Dysport ® certain formulations of botulinum osteoporosis. toxin in aesthetic indications in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand. In June 2012, Teijin received marketing approval in Japan for Somatuline® 60/90/120 mg for subcutaneous injection for the In July 2014, the Dysport distribution rights in the U.S. and treatment of acromegaly and pituitary gigantism. Canada, initially held by Valeant, were granted to Galderma. The agreement was further expanded to include new On 3 July 2017, Teijin received approval from the Japanese neurotoxins in addition to Azzalure ® and Dysport®, namely Ministr y of Health, L abour and Welfare for Ipsen's their respective liquid formulations. Ipsen gained control of subcutaneous drug Somatuline® (lanreotide) for the treatment the intellectual property for Galderma’s liquid toxin in the of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP NET). U.S., Canada, Brazil, and Europe, while Galderma retained commercialization rights. In addition, the distribution rights Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (The Woodlands, TX, USA) were extended until 2036. In October 2014, the Group entered into an exclusive In January 2016, the Group and Galderma expanded their licensing agreement with Lexicon Pharmaceuticals for Ipsen partnership to China, India and South Korea. The partnership to commercialize Xermelo ® (telotristat ethyl) outside North was expanded in 2017 to include Hong Kong, Macau and America and Japan, with a focus on the treatment of carcinoid Taiwan and in 2018 to include Singapore and Thailand. syndrome. Through an amendment in March 2015, Ipsen was granted exclusive rights in Canada. Lexicon retains sole rights The Group supplies the finished product to Galderma, and to commercialize Xermelo® (telotristat ethyl) in the U.S. and Galderma pays Ipsen royalties based on sales of the product. Japan. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 17 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Under the agreement, Lexicon is eligible to receive up to a final decision in the arbitral proceedings was issued by $148.5 million, comprising a $24.5 million upfront payment the arbitral tribunal, which found that Radius did not breach and additional payments contingent upon achievement of Ipsen’s contractual right to elect to co-promote abaloparatide clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones. In addition, in France. However, the arbitral tribunal found that Radius Lexicon is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of Xermelo® breached its obligation to provide Ipsen with certain know(telotristat ethyl) in the licensed territory. how for use in Japan, and as a result, ordered Radius to pay Ipsen (i) $10 million (including pre-award interest), (ii) On 28 February 2017, Lexicon announced that the U.S. $5 million if abaloparatide receives marketing approval in Food and Drug Administration approved Xermelo® (telotristat Japan, and (iii) a fixed mid-single-digit royalty based on net ethyl), for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea sales of abaloparatide in Japan. (See section 2.1.3.2.2 “Legal in combination with somatostatin analog (SSA) therapy in and Administrative Proceedings”). adults inadequately controlled by SSA therapy. The drug was approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) on Rhythm (Boston, MA, USA) 19 September 2017. In 2010, the Group granted Rhythm an exclusive worldwide In addition to this European submission, Ipsen continues the license for the research, development and commercialization implementation of its global regulatory filing applications for of Ipsen’s compounds and intellectual property related to marketing authorization in the territories where the Group analogs of the peptide hormone MSH and ghrelin, which operates. Ipsen obtained approval of Xermelo® in Switzerland regulate food intake, energy homeostasis, and gastrointestinal on 28 March 2018, in Australia on 14 September 2018 and in f u n c t i o n. R h y t h m P h a r m a c e u t i c a l s i s d e v e l o p i n g Canada on 11 October 2018. setmelanotide, an MC4 receptor agonist for the treatment of rare genetic disorders of obesity. Under the terms of the Radius (Cambridge, MA, USA) license agreement, Ipsen will receive progressive payments of In 2005, the Group signed a licensing agreement with Radius up to $40 million upon the achievement of certain development under the terms of which the Group granted Radius the and commercial milestones and royalties on future sales of exclusive right to develop, manufacture, and distribute a the products. Rhythm will continue to use Ipsen’s recognized compound belonging to the Group known as BIM 44058 formulation expertise to develop innovative delivery systems (abaloparatide) using the sustained-release formulation for the peptide programs. technology developed by the Group for the development of a drug for the treatment of osteoporosis. Allergan GI (Madison, NJ, USA) In 2013, Rhythm was split into two entities to continue the This license was granted globally, with the exception of Japan development of separate programs and the Group granted (except for manufacturing), where the Group already granted Motus Therapeutics an exclusive worldwide license for the an exclusive license to this compound to the Japanese group research, development and commercialization of Ipsen’s Teijin. Radius is responsible for the overall development compounds and intellectual property related to its peptide of the compound and incurs all the relevant costs. Radius ghrelin agonist. Motus Therapeutics was acquired by is responsible for manufacturing the compound and also Allergan in 2016. Allergan GI (formerly Motus Therapeutics) holds the marketing authorizations and the responsibility for is developing relamorelin for the treatment of diabetic marketing the product. Abaloparatide was approved by the gastroparesis, chronic idiopathic constipation, and anorexia FDA in April 2017, which triggered a milestone payment from nervosa. Under the terms of the license agreement, Ipsen Radius to Ipsen of €8 million. In Europe, following a negative will receive progressive payments of up to $40 million upon CHMP opinion for marketing authorization in March 2018 and the achievement of certain development and commercial a re-examination procedure, the CHMP communicated a milestones and royalties on future sales of the products. negative trend vote in July 2018. Radius pays the Group different fixed sums depending on ■■ 1.2.2.2 Agreements in Consumer Healthcare the success of the various registration of the end product, as Teijin (Tokyo, Japan) well as royalties based on the level of sales generated by the product. The licensing agreement will end upon (i) the expiry In July 2006, the Group and Teijin signed a distribution and of the last remaining patent covering the product or (ii) the promotion agreement which determined the definitive terms of expiry of a period of ten years from the date on which the Ipsen’s exclusive rights to febuxostat in Europe. Febuxostat’s product was first sold, whichever is later. Upon expiry of the development costs in Europe are the responsibility of the agreement, Radius is set to benefit from a free and perpetual Group, except for any costs associated with conducting license to the licensed rights. clinical trials that may be requested by the regulatory authorities prior to the registration of febuxostat in Europe, In October 2016, the Group initiated proceedings against which are shared between Teijin and the Group. Radius before the International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce based on potential In October 2009, the Group sublicensed its exclusive breach of various provisions of the license agreement, including development and commercialization rights for Adenuric ® the Group’s option to co-promote the finished product with in Europe, including Russia and certains CIS countries to Radius in France and on the license related to the use by Menarini. In addition, Ipsen continues to promote the product Ipsen of certain know-how for use in Japan. In June 2018, alongside Menarini in France. 18 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Febuxostat was launched by Menarini in 2010 in Europe colonic cleansing before colonoscopy, a diagnostic procedure and 2017 in Russia, under the trade mark Adenuric ®. The for colorectal cancer screening. This agreement covers product was launched in the United States by Takeda in countries within the European Union, Russia and certain March 2009 under the trademark Uloric ® and in Japan by Commonwealth of Independent States, selected Asian Teijin in May 2011. countries (including China), and some North African and Latin American countries. Schwabe (Karlsruhe, Germany) The Group has longstanding links with Schwabe, particularly Braintree is to receive royalties on Ipsen’s sales as well as concerning Ginkgo biloba extracts and EGb 761®, the active payments upon the achievement of certain milestones such substance in Tanakan®. The relationship between the Group as product launches and commercial sales thresholds. The and Schwabe are based on the 2005 cooperation agreement product is marketed under the Eziclen® trademark in most concerning, among other things, the procurement and supply countries of the European Union and under the Izinova ® of Ginkgo biloba leaves, and the manufacture of Ginkgo biloba trademark in some other countries, including France and the extracts, notably EGb 761®. United Kingdom. Braintree Laboratories (Braintree, MA, USA) Ethypharm (Saint-Cloud, France) In September 2009, the Group signed a licensing agreement In 1997, the Group entered into an exclusive agreement with Braintree Laboratories Inc., a U.S. company specialized in with Ethypharm a French pharmaceutical company for the the development, manufacturing, and marketing of specialty distribution and promotion in China of the product mesalazine pharmaceuticals. Pursuant to the agreement, the Group (5ASA) developed and manufactured by Ethypharm. The acquired exclusive distribution, marketing and manufacturing product is commercialized under the trademark Etiasa® for rights to Braintree’s proprietary formulation, BLI 800, in the treatment of Inflammatory Bowel Disease. 1.2.3 Research and Development In 2016, Ipsen started a process of transformation of the R&D As of 31 December 2018, more than 600 employees model with the aim of building both valuable and a sustainable were assigned to Research and Development including pipeline of innovative assets in three therapeutics areas: 200 contributing through Pharmaceutical Development. Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases. For the financial year 2018, Research and Development To do so, the Group focuses on accelerating priority internal expenses totaled €302.1 million, compared to €265.8 million projects, effectively managing the R&D portfolio and actively in 2017. externally sourcing assets through business developments. Novel botulinum toxin-based drug discovery in The mission of the R&D organization is to deliver at least one Neuroscience: new molecular entity or meaningful indication every year. The engineering of new botulinum toxins is primarily ■■ 1.2.3.1 Research and Development Activities carried out in Ipsen R&D facilities in Milton Park (Oxford, UK), in partnership with Les Ulis (Paris-Saclay) and/or in The Group’s R&D efforts aim to respond to unmet medical collaboration with academic research centers and biotechs. needs to develop innovative therapeutic solutions and utilizing Botulinum toxins have a unique potential for very broad an entrepreneurial, collaborative approach in order to build a therapeutic applications in many areas including: neurology, sustainable portfolio. urology, oncology, endocrinology, regenerative medicine, etc. The R&D team in Milton Park is very experienced in Research and Development primarily focuses on two areas: botulinum toxin biology supported by an extensive patent • Discovery, development, and regulatory approval of new portfolio. Additionally, the Group is one of the few to master molecular entities; the manufacturing and testing of botulinum toxin at its plant in Wrexham (United Kingdom) as well as the technologies • Lifecycle management of products marketed by the Group needed to explore new applications and to develop new toxinthrough the: based products. The Group is developing novel recombinant fast-acting and long-acting neurotoxins that have potential –– Extension and expansion of labelled indications; advantages of better control, robustness as well as quality and –– Development of new indications; process manufacturing. It also allows the Group to leverage its development, manufacturing and commercialization –– Development of new formulations and delivery systems; expertise in the neurotoxin market. –– Registration in new geographical areas. Pharmaceutical development is located at the Dreux, Berlin, Additionally, the Group partners on in-licensing development Dublin and Wrexham sites and aims to design and develop opportunities when appropriate to deliver its strategy. formulations and innovative delivery systems for new chemical 2018 Ipsen Registration document 19 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE entities or for marketed products. These novel technologies and clinical research. The Group believes its Research and are able to optimize the efficacy of active ingredients while Development programs and the geographical distribution improving the quality of life of patients and facilitating the use of its Research and Development centers allow it to attract of these products by health care professionals. talented scientists, which makes the Group highly competitive in the field of pharmaceutical R&D compared with other Investment in translational sciences groups of similar size. Research and Development at Ipsen strives to be at the forefront of major advances emerging in science and medical The Research and Development Center in Paris-Saclay practice such as the progression of molecular medicine (France) and biomarkers which are revolutionizing the diagnosis and Ipsen Innovation, the Research and Development Center prognosis of diseases and the selection of the best treatment in Les Ulis, located in the Paris-Saclay hub, was opened leading based on genetic markers to the emergence of in 1969 and a new facility was built in 1996. The scientists personalized medicine. This commitment to translational focus on novel medicines in the fields of Neuroscience and sciences is reflected in a willingness to invest in biobanking Oncology. Notably, the Pharmacodynamic and Metabolism during clinical trials, bioinformatics predictive biometry group in Les Ulis has expanded to support Ipsen projects based on simulation modelling and requiring large data from discovery to market. The Group has also established banks (a partnership has been signed with IBM-Watson a pre-clinical and clinical development organization together to that extent), in-depth knowledge of pathophysiological/ with the Global Regulatory Affairs, Pharmacovigilance and molecular mechanisms of diseases and from the outset to Quality departments to support the design and execution of identify biomarkers which will accompany the development the worldwide development strategy to bring to market the of candidate drugs with the potential to become companion new compounds developed by Ipsen. diagnostics. Resources in translational Oncology have been increased since June 2017, following the shift from drug The Research and Development Center in Cambridge discovery to in-licensing and other modes of acquisition of (Massachusetts, United States) translational knowledge. Ipsen Bioscience is located in the heart of the Cambridge biotech hub in order to allow broader access to external Partnership policy and open innovation resources and knowledge in terms of innovative molecules Internal Research and Development ef for ts are also and drug candidates. Cambridge is a “Center of Innovation” supported through an active partnership policy, which is led combining activities of research and assessment of these new by the scientific affairs group, from basic research through molecules based on a strategic and operational partnership clinical development. The Group’s partnership philosophy between the R&D and Business Development teams. stems from the recognition that Ipsen’s R&D staff members are highly skilled in their fields but are a tiny fraction of the The Group has clinical Research and Development teams expertise available worldwide in the scientific community. whose task is to coordinate and perform global clinical Thus, it is essential to look for synergies between internal research related to Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare projects and skills and those of other leading-edge players in Diseases, and a dedicated regulatory group that focuses on medical and pharmaceutical R&D in the context of a strongthe Group’s regulatory activities with the FDA. willed open innovation policy. The Research and Development Center in Milton Park At the research stage, the Group has established numerous (Oxford, UK) academic collaborations with Massachusetts General Ipsen Bioinnovation, located in a leading innovation hub at Hospital, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical the Milton Park campus in Oxfordshire, represents Ipsen's School in Boston, MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, technological platform for toxins, with expertise in engineering and Inserm in France. Since 2008, Ipsen has been involved in recombinant and modified toxins for new therapeutic solutions a long-term partnership with the prestigious Salk Institute (La in Neuroscience and co-locates research scientists with the Jolla, California) on basic research in areas of Ipsen’s interest. major R&D activities of clinical development, scientific affairs, The Group has also forged partnerships on specific projects regulatory affairs, pharmacovigilance, project management, with innovative biotechs, thereby accessing new compounds and publication. and promising technologies for the discovery of new drug candidates. ■■ 1.2.3.3 The Portfolio of Research and Ipsen is considering different ways to invest in innovation Development Projects and in 2018 contributed to a venture capital fund investing 1.2.3.3.1 The research and development process in pre-IND (Investigational New Drug) to late clinical phase At the end of the research stage that results in the selection of a assets. In 2018, Ipsen also partnered with Arix Bioscience, candidate molecule for development, the process of securing MD Anderson and BioLabs. approval for this new molecule or compound by the regulatory authorities may take eight to twelve years and is typically ■■ 1.2.3.2 Research and Development Centers broken down into five stages: the pre-clinical stage and FIH The Group has strategically established an international clinical trial Phase I (Phase I or first-in-human study) to assess network of research and development centers in geographical safety and pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics of the areas where it has access to world-class expertise in scientific compound; Phase II to characterize safety and efficacy across 20 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE a dose-range of the tested compound in patients; Phase III to approaches is conducted. The scope of the Exploratory confirm both safety/efficacy and therapeutic benefit in a large Development phase is up to the clinical proof of concept (PoC). patient population and Phase IV (post-approval). Once both early efficacy and short-term safety have been established from the PoC and meet the Product Target Profile, During the research stage, which usually lasts three to the drug can proceed to the confirmatory development phase. five years, the Group’s researchers synthesize innovative Exploratory Development benefits from innovative questionmolecules and study their effects on cell systems or isolated based development plans, adaptive design, modeling and organs, in vitro, or in animal subjects, to better understand simulation, biomarkers, and translational science/medicine. their pharmacological, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological properties. An analysis of the study results makes it possible This approach allows: 1) shortening of the time to decision to select the compound that meets the set treatment goals to (Go/No-Go) to proceed to confirmatory trials using a parallel move forward in development. rather than sequential development path, 2) de-risking projects before large investments are made, and 3) more The pre-clinical stage of development aims to gather the efficient management of the project portfolio. pre-clinical safety toxicological and pharmacokinetic data essential for initial administration in humans and for preparing 1.2.3.3.2 The development programs the regulatory dossier to start clinical trials that are subject to The table below lists the Group’s clinical programs. This table approval from regulatory authorities and ethics committees. is subject to change depending on numerous factors that can be extremely unpredictable. The Group might experience The development continues with clinical trials that are delayed completion of clinical trials, treatment failures, principally intended to provide evidence of the safety and absence of marketing authorization, and the occurrence efficacy of the drug in humans. When the results support the of a technical or administrative event beyond the Group’s targeted indication, a registration dossier is then submitted reasonable control. A summary of risks is described in to the regulatory authorities to assess and decide on its Chapter 2.1 “Risk Factors” of this document and a detailed marketing authorization. description of the products development programs is given in part 1.2.1 “The Group’s Products”. At Ipsen, after a clinical candidate has been selected, the next stage of project centric and cross-functional development The molecule portfolio in development is the following: Product under development Indications Development stage Oncology Decapeptyl® 3M Endometriosis – China Phase III Cabometyx® Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 1L Approved Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) 2L Approved Cabometyx® in combination with Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 1L Phase III nivolumab (1) Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) 1L/2L Phase I Cabometyx in combination with ® Solid tumors Phase Ib atezolizumab (2) Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) 1L Phase III Onivyde® Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC) 2L Phase II Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) 1L Phase II Breast cancer Phase I Satoreotide GEP NET Phase I/II Non-NET indications Phase I/II IPN-01087A Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma Phase I IPN60090 (MD Anderson) Phase I Neuroscience Dysport® Paediatric upper limb spasticity (PUL) Phase III Glabellar Lines – China Submitted Hallux Valgus Phase II Vulvodynia Phase II Dysport® Solution (liquid) Glabellar Lines Phase III Fast acting toxin rBoNT/E First-in-human clinical trials Phase I Long acting toxin rBoNT/A Multiple therapeutic and esthetic indications Long acting toxin rBoNT/A’ Multiple therapeutic and esthetic indications Rare Diseases Somatuline® Autogel® Acromegaly – China Submitted (1) Study sponsored by Exelixis and Bristol-Myers Squibb. Ipsen opted in to co-fund this study. (2) Study sponsored by Exelixis and Roche. Ipsen opted in to co-fund this study. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 21 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Oncology injection) for the treatment of patients with metastatic Somatuline® Autogel® in neuroendocrine tumors adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after disease progression following gemcitabine-based therapy, in combination with The Group continues to develop this product with the first fluorouracil and leucovorin. Ipsen has gained exclusive European approval for the Somatuline® new delivery system. commercialization rights for the current and potential future Decapeptyl® indications for Onivyde ® in the U.S., as well as the current licensing agreements with Servier for commercialization The Group continues to develop new indications and rights ex-U.S. and PharmaEngine for Taiwan. The acquisition formulations of Decapeptyl® in China. also included the Merrimack commercial and manufacturing Cabometyx® infrastructure for Onivyde®. In 2016, the Group and Exelixis Inc. signed an exclusive The Group continues to advance the Onivyde ® clinical licensing agreement for the commercialization and further development program, including clinical studies in patients with development of cabozantinib, Exelixis’ lead oncology asset. previously untreated, metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, The parties have agreed to collaborate on the development patients with small cell lung cancer who have progressed on of cabozantinib for current and potential future indications, or after platinum-based first line therapy, and patients with and Ipsen has exclusive commercialization rights worldwide metastatic breast cancer. outside the United States and Japan (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). In addition, numerous investigator-sponsored studies are ongoing to explore Onivyde ® in monotherapy and in The Group also opted to participate in the funding of combination with other treatments for different types of several trials with Exelixis and other partners to explore the cancer. combination of cabozantinib with other agents in different solid tumors: Satoreotide • Cabozantinib in combination with nivolumab in firstThe Group acquired these molecules with the acquisition of line advanced RCC. The Phase III CheckMate 9ER study, OctreoPharm Sciences in June 2015. OctreoPharm Sciences sponsored by Exelixis and Bristol-Myers Squibb, was was a private German life sciences company focusing on the initiated in July 2017. This trial evaluates Cabometyx® in development of innovative radioactive-labelled compounds for combination with Opdivo® versus sunitinib in patients with molecular imaging diagnostics and therapeutic applications. previously untreated, advanced or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Systemic Radiation Therapy (SRT) uses the ability of one single peptide to target specific receptors to deliver a • Cabozantinib in combination with atezolizumab in radionuclide directly to a tumor aiming to either diagnose pr eviously untr e ate d adva nce d hepatoce llula r or treat, depending on the radioactive agent. This targeting carcinoma. The Phase III COSMIC-312 study, sponsored approach provides an exciting theranostic opportunity by Exelixis and co-funded by Ipsen, was initiated in for both detection and treatment of the disease with the November 2018.The pivotal trial evaluates Cabometyx® in possibility to reach precision medicine and to differentiate as combination with Tecentriq® versus sorafenib in previously per other current therapeutic solutions available. untreated advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). • Cabozantinib in combination with atezolizumab in 68 Ga-satoreotide trizoxetan is an NET imaging tool utilizing locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. The dosepositron emission tomography (PET, PET/CT) and is currently escalation stage of a Phase I trial sponsored by Exelixis and in clinical development, and 177Lu-satoreotide tetraxetan is Roche was initiated in June 2017 to evaluate cabozantinib in Systemic Radiation Therapy. combination with atezolizumab (Tecentriq®) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) or IPN-01087 renal cell carcinoma (RCC). In 2016, the Group entered into a licensing agreement with • Cabozantinib in combination with nivolumab in 3B Pharmaceuticals, a German company, to develop novel advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . This radiopharmaceuticals in oncology. Ipsen acquired exclusive Phase I/II trial is sponsored by Exelixis and Bristol-Myers worldwide rights to develop and commercialize a novel small Squibb. molecule radiopharmaceutical targeting the neurotensin receptor-1. Ipsen announced that the first patient has been In addition, numerous investigator-sponsored studies are dosed in a Phase I/II study for the first-in-class radionuclide ongoing to explore Cabometyx ® in monotherapy and in 177 Lu-IPN01087 (formerly known as 3BP-227). The key combination with other treatments for different types of objective of the Phase I dose-escalation trial is to evaluate cancer. the safety and activity, as well as to identify the optimum systemically-administered dose of radiation to treat patients Onivyde® with any of the following solid tumors expressing NTSR1: In April 2017, the Group completed its acquisition of an pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, colorectal cancer, gastric oncology asset from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, in cancer, gastrointestinal stromal tumors, Ewing sarcoma and Cambridge, MA, known as Onivyde ® (irinotecan liposome squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 22 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Neuroscience also by fostering the development of alternative formulations Dysport® (e.g. liquid formulation that is a ready-to-use and convenient alternative to the current dry formulation) The Group has now completed several Phase III trials worldwide including the United States since 2011 to reinforce Ipsen’s world class R&D centers are pushing technological therapeutic indications, focusing on spasticity. The indication boundaries to develop the next generation of recombinant for pediatric upper limb spasticity (PUL) is the last spasticity tox ins, including fast and long-acting neurotox ins, Phase III trial currently under development. This meets an FDA expected to address a broad range of clinical conditions. request for all neurotoxin manufacturers. As of 31 December 2018, Ipsen is the only company with recombinant toxins in preclinical and Phase I trials. Ipsen continues to explore the potential for new Dysport ® (abobotulinum toxin A) indications in two new therapeutic Rare Diseases areas to address unmet patient needs with the launch of Somatuline® Autogel® in acromegaly Phase II clinical trials studies assessing Dysport ® in the treatment of Hallux Valgus & Vulvodynia in June 2018 and The Group continues to develop this product with the submission of an acromegaly indication in China. 1.2.4 Intellectual Property ■■ 1.2.4.1 Patents initially designated countries which are considered important for the Group. As a result, the 53 applications in Europe and The Group’s intellectual property strategy consists of seeking the 17 PCTs currently filed are likely to yield a significantly protection for patents, copyrights, and brand names related higher number than the 70 national patents already issued. to its products and processes and to defend its intellectual property rights vigorously throughout the world. In countries where the Group seeks legal protection through patents, the duration of legal protection for a particular The Group considers that protection of patented technologies product is generally 20 years from the Group’s filing date. This and products is essential to the success of its business. As protection may be extended in some countries, particularly in of 31 December 2018, the Group held 2,271 patents, 1,009 the European Union and the United States. The protection, of which were issued in European countries and 129 in the which may also vary by country, depends on the type of United States (in the majority of cases, each international patent and its scope. In most industrialized countries, any new application includes several national applications and one active substance, formulation, indication, or manufacturing European application upon expiry of the 30-month priority process may be legally protected. The Group conducts period). ongoing checks to protect its inventions and to act against As of the same date, the Group had 597 patent applications any infringement of its patents and/or trademarks. pending. The expiry dates of patents currently held by the Group for The European patent applications and international patent its main products are listed in the table below. The Group applications by definition designate a large number of countries benefits from protection in terms of intellectual property rights in which protection can be obtained later. In practice, many of through licensing agreements for products and compounds these applications will result in the issuance of patents in the that have been patented by other companies. Product Patent holder Patent expiration date Specialty Care Oncology Somatuline® Autogel® – formulation Ipsen Patent now expired (Europe) and 2020 (USA)(1) – preparation process Ipsen 2031 (Europe) and 2032 (USA) Somatuline® Tulane University Patent now expired Decapeptyl ® – Pamoate formulation Debiopharm Patent now expired – Acetate formulation Syntex Patent now expired Decapeptyl® 6 month formulation Debiopharm 2028 (Europe) (2) (1) In the United States, an extension (PTE) has been granted which extends the patent term until March 2020. (2) Oppositions have been filed against one EP patent. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 23 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Product Patent holder Patent expiration date Cabometyx ® – compound Exelixis 2024 (Europe) (3) – polymorphic form Exelixis 2030 (Europe) (4) – process/formulations Exelixis 2030-2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) Cometriq® – compound Exelixis 2024 (Europe) (3) – polymorphic form Exelixis 2030 (Europe) (4) – process/formulations Exelixis 2030-2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) Hexvix® Photocure 2016 + SPC (5) École Polytechnique Lausanne 2019 Onivyde® – composition Ipsen 2025 (Europe) (6) and 2025-2028 (USA) (7) – indications Ipsen 2033 (Europe (8) and USA); 2035-2037 (Europe and USA) (if patents granted) – formulation Ipsen 2036 (Europe & USA) (if patents granted) Xermelo ® – compound Lexicon 2027 (Europe) (9) – polymorphic form Lexicon 2028 (Europe) (10) – preparation process and Lexicon 2028 (Europe) intermediates – dosage forms Lexicon 2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) 177 Lu-satoreotide tetraxetan – compound Salk Institute (11) 2027 (Europe) and 2029 (USA) 68 Ga-satoreotide trizoxetan – compound Salk Institute (11) 2027 (Europe) and 2029 (USA) Neuroscience Dysport®(12) – No patent filed Dysport® liquid formulation Ipsen 2025 (Europe) (13) 2025 (USA) Endocrinology NutropinAq® Genentech Patent now expired (Europe) Increlex ® – Medical use Genentech Patent now expired – Medical use Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals 2024 (Europe) and 2025 (USA) (previously known as Tercica) – Formulation Genentech Patent now expired – Manufacturing process Genentech Patent now expired (3) Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) in a number of European countries (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain) which will extend the patent term until 2029 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (4) Oppositions have been filed against the EP patent. At the end of the opposition procedure, the EP patent has been maintained under an amended form which still covers the product. Opponents appealed the decision. (5) The European patent is extended (via SPC) in a number of European countries until 2021 in Switzerland and 2019 in the other countries (Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, France, Great Britain, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands and Portugal). (6) Applications for an extension via a SPC have been filed in Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany Spain, France, the United Kingdom, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, Slovenia, Denmark, Poland, and Portugal, which will extend the patent term until 2030 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. An opposition has been filed against the EP patent. (7) Applications for Patent Term Extension have been filed for two US patents which, if granted, would extend the patent life until 2027 or 2029, respectively. (8) An opposition has been filed against the EP patent. (9) Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in a number of European countries (Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Switzerland and Great Britain) which will extend the patent term until 2032 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (10) Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in Bulgaria which will extend the patent term until 2032 if the SPC is granted. (11) The Salk Institute for Biological Studies; Universitat Bern; University Hospital Basel. (12) There is no patent on the indications and formulation currently marketed but applications are pending in the field of botulinum toxin. (13) An opposition had been filed against a first EP patent. At the end of the opposition procedure, the EP patent has been maintained under an amended form without limiting the scope of the patent. The opponent appealed this decision. Oppositions were also filed against the second EP patent granted in February 2015. 24 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Product Patent holder Patent expiration date Primary Care Smecta® – process Ipsen 2025 (if patent granted) – new aroma formulation Ipsen 2028 (Europe and USA) – new formulation Ipsen 2031 (if patent granted) Forlax® – No patent filed Tanakan® Schwabe / Indena Patent now expired (Europe & USA) Nisis and Nisisco ® ® – active substance Ciba Geigy Patent now expired (Europe) – preparation process of oral Novartis Patent now expired (Europe) formulation Adenuric® (febuxostat) – active substance Teijin Patent now expired (Europe) – polymorphic form 2019 (Europe) (14) – solid composition 2023 (Europe) (15) Eziclen® / Izinova® Braintree 2023 (Europe) (16) (14) The EP patent granted in November 2009 has been maintained under an amended form relating to a therapeutic composition of a polymorphic form of febuxostat during the opposition procedure. The patent will expire in June 2019. Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in a number of European countries (Albania, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain) which will extend the patent term until 2023 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (15) Based on this EP patent, a SPC has been granted in Estonia which extends the patent term until 2023. (16) Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in a number of European countries (Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, Estonia, France, Great Britain, Greece, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal and Romania) which will extend the patent life until 2028 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. The Group deems it appropriate to clarify the terms of review Registrations protect not only the product names in Latin for patent applications: characters but also the product names in local characters (Cyrillic, Mandarin...). (1) Submission of the patent application. The Group’s key products, namely Somatuline ® (and (2) Review of the application by the patent offices (e.g. the Somatuline ® Autogel ® ), Decapeptyl ® (and Diphereline ® ), National Institute of Industrial Property – INPI – France Cabometyx® and Cometriq®, Dysport®, Onivyde®, Xermelo®, or The European Patent Office – EPO). Patent offices are Smecta ® (and Smectago ® and Smebiocta ® ), Tanakan ®, independent and do not give visibility on the timing of Forlax ®, Fortrans®, Eziclen® and Izinova®, and the number examination or on the status of requests. In general, the of trademarks held by the Group (or under licence) at review of a patent application takes between three and six 31 December 2018, are shown in the table below. years. (3) O nce the review is completed, offices grant patents Number Brands and trademarks or reject the application. Rejection can be appealed, a of applications procedure which can take two more years, again without Somatuline® / Somatuline® Autogel® 304 visibility on the timing of the boards of appeal that exist in patent offices. Decapeptyl® / Diphereline® 255 Cabometyx / Cometriq ® ®(1) 191 As a result, the Group is not able to give more information on the schedules of patent applications under review. Dysport ® 322 Onivyde® 87 ■■ 1.2.4.2 Brand Names and Trademarks Brand name and trademark protection vary from country to Xermelo ®(2) 89 country. In some countries, this protection is based primarily Smecta / Smectago / Smebiocta ® ® ® 1,063 on the use of the brand name, while in others it results from Tanakan® 247 its registration. Trademark rights are obtained under national trademarks, international registrations or EU-wide trademarks. Forlax ® 293 Registrations are generally granted for a period of ten years Fortrans ® 113 and are indefinitely renewable, although in some cases, their maintenance is related to the continued use of the trademark. Eziclen / Izinova ® ® 131 (1)  The Trademarks Cabometyx® and Cometriq® are owned by the Regarding trademarks, the Group, in particular, holds the company Exelixis, Inc. product names used. These trademarks provide protection (2)  The Trademark Xermelo® is owned by the company Lexicon for pharmaceutical products included in Class 5 of the Pharmaceuticals, Inc. International Classification of Products and Services. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 25 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE The Group also holds registrations for the company names ■■ 1.2.4.3 Domain Names that make up the Group as well as the slogan and logo which As of 31 December 2018, the Group had 1,898 domain constitute its graphic charter. names (reserved or in the process of being reserved). The Group defends its trademark rights by filing oppositions against applications of identical or similar trademarks and may initiate legal action to have its rights recognized. 1.2.5 Main Markets ■■ 1.2.5.1 Market Data ■■ 1.2.5.2 Competitive Position Sectorial information by therapeutic area and region is The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. In recent detailed in section 3 of this registration document for the 2018 years, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced an and 2017 financial years. increasing level of horizontal and vertical concentration. Within this competitive environment, the Group faces The Group develops and commercializes innovative medicines competition from other companies to develop and secure in three key therapeutic areas – Oncology, Neuroscience and marketing authorizations for new pharmaceutical specialties Rare Diseases. Its commitment to Oncology is exemplified in targeted therapeutic areas, as well as for specific products through its growing portfolio of key therapies for prostate that generate similar therapeutic results to those generated cancer, neuroendocrine tumors, renal cell carcinoma, by medicines marketed by the Group. Numerous companies hepatocellular carcinoma and pancreatic cancer. Ipsen also that compete with the Group to develop and secure marketing has a well-established Consumer Healthcare business. The authorizations for new medicines are significantly larger than Group’s main drug markets and their sizes are detailed in the Group and are accordingly able to invest more resources section 1.2.1 of this registration document (“The Group’s in Research and Development as well as in marketing, which Products”). may provide them with the advantage of offering a larger Additionally, in terms of marketing, this strategy has led range of products and having access to larger sales forces. the Group to concentrate its efforts on key prescribing For example, Dysport ® faces competition from Botox ® physicians, mainly specialists, who are responsible for drug (Allergan ), a well-established botulinum toxin, while prescriptions or who may induce such a prescription from Somatuline® faces competition from Sandostatin® (Novartis). other practitioners. By developing a strong reputation with The Group also competes with other pharmaceutical these prescribing specialists in highly specific and specialized companies in its search for suitable partners to ensure areas, the Group believes it is able to direct its marketing the growth of its research and development and marketed activities selectively and cost efficiently, thereby reducing the products portfolio. The Group’s competitive position is need for a large sales force. detailed in section 1.2.1 of this registration document. 1.2.6 Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulation Price-setting and control covers nearly all aspects of the Group’s activities from Regulation may cover the setting and control of selling prices Research and Development to manufacturing facilities, in certain countries in which the Group markets its products. processes, and marketing. In each country where Ipsen These controls are implemented pursuant to law or because markets its products or conducts research, the Group has to the government or other healthcare agencies in a given comply with the standards of local regulatory authorities and country are the principal purchasers of products or reimburse by any other national regulatory authority. These authorities purchasers for their cost. Price control mechanisms vary namely include the European Medicines Agency (EMA), in the way they operate from country to country. This may the French Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health lead to significant differences between markets, which may Products (ANSM), the Medicines & Healthcare Products be amplified by exchange rate fluctuations. These pricing Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom, and the differences may also be exploited by parallel import companies Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States as which buy branded products in markets where prices are low well as various other regulatory bodies, depending on the and sell them in markets where prices are higher. relevant market. 26 2018 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE In recent years, efforts by government authorities to curb In some European countries, governments also influence healthcare spending have led to tighter controls on reimbursement the prices of drugs indirectly through control of national policies and price setting in most of the countries in which the health systems that fund a significant portion of costs related Group operates, particularly in Europe. Measures intended to these products. In France, for instance, a government to curb direct costs come in various forms, which include authority sets the price of reimbursable drugs taking into mandatory price cuts (or a refusal to accept price increases), a account the product’s value. The price set for a drug depends larger share of the cost being covered by the patient (reduction notably on the improvement in medical performance of the in the amount reimbursed by the third party), the withdrawal of new drug with existing treatments. In addition, when fixing the certain products from the lists of reimbursable products, the price of a product, the national agency takes into account the alignment of reimbursed prices with the lowest product price price of the same drug in other countries. in a given therapy category, analysis of the cost/benefit ratio of The governments of many countries in which the Group drugs prescribed, and efforts to promote growth in the generic operates continue to introduce new measures to reduce drugs market as the co-pay regulation (“tiers-payant contre public health expenses, some of which have affected the génériques”) introduced in July 2012 in France. Group sales and profitability over the last years. 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure Ipsen S.A. acts as a holding company with regards to Ipsen S.A. is controlled by a company incorporated in its affiliated companies and has no operational activities. Luxembourg, Mayroy S.A. Description of this company and Certain senior managers are employed by Ipsen S.A. under its shareholding is to be found in chapter 5.2.3. certain conditions and invoicing provisions described in paragraph 3.3.4. The Group comprises 54 consolidated ■■ 1.2.7.1 Organizational Structure af f ili ate s, w hic h a re s how n a s su c h in note 29 in The stated percentages in the following chart indicate the paragraph 3.2.5. proportion of both non-diluted, share capital and voting These companies are categorized as Research rights (1) held in each company. and Development, manufacturing, management, or commercialization entities. (1) The stated percentages for Ipsen S.A. shareholders indicate the proportion of share capital. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 27 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Group Organization chart as of 31 December 2018 Free Float Mayroy S.A. Other Luxembourg 41.3% 56.4% 2.3% IPSEN S.A. France 100% IPSEN PHARMA S.A.S. France 0.0001% 0.0001% 35.76% 64.24% 1% BEAUFOUR IPSEN INDUSTRIE S.A.S. 100% IPSEN PRODUTOS 75% SUTREPA S.A.S. IPSEN POLAND LLC France FARMACEUTICOS S.A. France 99% Poland 100% 0.0001% Portugal 24.99% 100% IPSEN FARMACEUTICA BV IPSEN MANUFACTURING IPSEN PHARMSCIENCES S.A.S. IPSEN SpA The Netherlands 100% IRELAND Ltd France 100% Italy Ireland 100% INSTITUT PRODUITS IPSEN RÉ S.A. IPSEN KOREA SYNTHESE (Ipsen) IPSEN PHARMA GmbH Luxembourg 100% 100% South Korea Sweden 100% Germany 10% 100% 100% IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS Inc. IPSEN OOO United States 100% BEAUFOUR IPSEN Int. H.K. Ltd Russia OCTREOPHARM SCIENCES GmbH 90% Hong Kong 100% Germany IPSEN PHARMA BIOTECH S.A.S. IPSEN PHARMACEUTICALS Ltd 0.0001% France 100% AKKADEAS Srl Ireland IPSEN UKRAINE SERVICES LLC 1% Italy 49% 99% Ukraine ST JEAN D’ILLAC S.C.A. 100% IPSEN BIOSCIENCE Inc. 50% 51% 50% France United States IPSEN PHARMA KAZAKHSTAN IPSEN CONSUMER 50% Kazakhstan IPSEN INNOVATION S.A.S. HEALTHCARE S.A.S. 100% IPSEN Ltd 0.0001% France 100% France ELSEGUNDO Ltd 100% United Kingdom 89.85% 100% Ireland PETERSFIELD Ltd IPSEN N.V. 99.97% IPSEN PHARMA TUNISIE SARL 39.75% Hong Kong 50% Belgium Tunisia 0.001% 0.003% 10.14% 0.03% 10% WALLINGSTOWN COMPANY LINNEA S.A. IPSEN PHARMA SRL IPSEN E.p.E Ireland Switzerland 50% Romania 0.10% 100% Greece 80% 0.399% 100% BEAUFOUR IPSEN 99.99% IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS WALLINGSTOWN COMPANY Ltd 50% LINNEA Inc. FARMACEUTICA LTDA CANADA Inc. Ireland United States 0.01% Brasil 100% Canada 90% GARNAY Inc. IPSEN MEXICO S. DE RL DE CV 99.96% 100% IPSEN DEVELOPMENTS Ltd United States 50% PERECHIN COMPANY 0.04% Mexico United Kingdom Ireland NAIAPHARM S.A.S. IPSEN PHARMA KFT IPSEN PHARMA S.A. 10% France 100% Hungary 90% 100% Spain 25% PORTPIRIE COMPANY 75% IPSEN (BEJING) PHARMACEUTICAL IPSEN PHARMA SRO Ireland SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Co. Ltd STERIX Ltd 100% Czech Republic United Kingdom 100% 10% China 100% 0.399% CARA PARTNERS Ireland IPSEN PHARMA SINGAPORE IPSEN BIOINNOVATION LIMITED 0.001% Singapore 9.16% United Kingdom 90.84% 39.75% 100% 0.10% BB & Cie S.A.S. BEAUFOUR IPSEN TIANJIN 96% IPSEN BIOPHARM Ltd France 100% PHARMACEUTICALS Co. Ltd United Kingdom 100% China MONTANA Ltd 50% 100% IPSEN Pty Ltd Ireland IPSEN TIANJIN Australia PHARMACEUTICAL TRADE Co. Ltd China 100% 100% POTHOLD Ltd 0.0001% United Kingdom IPSEN PHARMA ALGERIE SPA Algeria 49.996% 100% SPECWOOD Ltd United Kingdom ■■ 1.2.7.2 Incorporations and Discontinuations company has been created in Algeria: Ipsen Pharma Algerie In order to facilitate and encourage the development of the SPA. Group’s activity in Eastern Europe, companies have been In January 2019, Ipsen Pharma SAS, which previously owned set-up or representative offices transformed into subsidiaries, 80% of its Greek subsidiary Ipsen E.p.E, has acquired 100% in Romania, Czech Republic and Hungary. In addition, to of its share capital. further implement the Group’s activities on a local scale, a 28 2018 Ipsen Registration document 2 RISKS AND CONTROL 2.1 RISKS FACTORS 30 2.1.1 Business Risks 30 2.1.2 Industrial and Environmental Risks 31 2.1.3 Financial Risks 32 2.1.4 Regulatory and Legal Risks 33 2.2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL 34 2.2.1 Organization 34 2.2.2 Information Management 36 2.2.3 Risk Management Framework 37 2.2.4 Control Activities 38 2.2.5 Review and Assessment of Internal Control 39 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS 2.1 RISKS FACTORS The Group operates in a rapidly evolving environment which uncertainties set out below are not the only ones faced by the may pose many risks to the Group, some of which are outside Group. Other risks and uncertainties of which the Group is of its control. Investors are advised to carefully review each not currently aware or of which it does not consider material of the risks described below as well as all the information may also have an unfavorable impact on its business, financial contained in this registration document. The risks and situation and results. 2.1.1 Business Risks # Risk name Risk description 2.1.1.1 Market competition The Group operates in well-stablished, rapidly-evolving, and very competitive markets, in particular, and dependence on Oncology: products • The Group’s competitors include major international pharmaceutical groups whose size, experience, and capital resources exceed those of the Group; • The Group may have to face competition from generic products; • The Group may adapt quickly to new technologies, scientific changes, digital and advanced analytics introduced by competitors. Since a few products make up the majority of Group sales, with Somatuline, Decapeptyl®, Dysport®, Cabometyx® and Onyvide® representing two thirds of sales in 2018, the competitive threat to Ipsen’s business model and performance is accrued. Details of the competitive environment of the Group’s main products are set out in section 1.2.1 of this registration document. 2.1.1.2 Risks of failure In order to build an innovative and sustainable pipeline the Group invests substantial amounts in in Research in Research and Development. In 2018, the Group spent €302.1 million on Research and Development, Development representing around 13.6% of consolidated sales. Ipsen will be unable to recover these investments if the Group’s clinical trials are not as successful as anticipated or if such products do not receive regulatory approval. The Research and Development process is long and there is a substantial risk that drugs may not be approved. 2.1.1.3 Risks of The Group’s activities are largely dependent on information systems. Despite all the measures in cyberattacks place to secure its processes, the Group may have to deal with incidents, notably connected to malicious acts against such information systems, such as cyber-attacks that could lead to activity disruptions, fraud, the loss or alteration of critical data, or theft or corruption of data. 2.1.1.4 Dependence on Ipsen depends on third parties: third parties • To optimize the Research and Development portfolio: the Group enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to carry out pre-clinical and clinical trials; • To manufacture certain products: the Group subcontracts the production of certain active ingredients to third parties or purchases finished products directly from its partners or their subcontractors; • To develop and market certain products: third parties could behave in ways that are damaging to the Group’s business (see paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”); • Related to intellectual property: (1) the Group’s intellectual property: third parties collaborating with Ipsen may claim the benefits from intellectual property rights for the Group’s inventions or may not ensure that the Group’s unpatented technology remains confidential; (2) Third party intellectual property: The Group is dependent on intellectual property rights held by third parties in order to manufacture and market several of its products. 2.1.1.5 Risks related to The Group is dependent on prices that are set for drugs and is vulnerable to the potential drug approval, withdrawal of certain drugs from the list of reimbursable products by governments and the relevant pricing and regulatory authorities in the countries in which it operates. In general terms, the Group is faced reimbursement with uncertainty related to the prices set for its products, since pharmaceutical prices have come under severe pressure over the last few years (recommendation to use generic drugs, lower prices or reimbursement, other restrictive measures that limit increases in the cost of medical services, parallel imports). 30 2018 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISKS FACTORS # Risk name Risk description 2.1.1.6 Risks associated The Group operates throughout the world. As such, the Group faces various risks specific to its with international international activities, in particular, and the following: activities • Risks arising from unexpected regulatory or political changes such as changes in tax regulation and regulations on trade and tariffs, such as Brexit, protectionist measures; • Risks arising from limitations on the repatriation of earnings; • Risk of financial default on the part of certain public and private operators with which the Group conducts business; • Risks arising from the validity of various intellectual property rights being deferred; • Risks arising from various labor regulations; • Risks arising from political or economic changes affecting a given region or country; • Risks arising from increased difficulties in recruiting staff and managing operating entities abroad; • Risks arising from the occurrence of natural disasters in the areas at risk in which the Group and/ or its major partners do business; • Risks arising from the absence of an international agreement on regulatory standards; • Risk incurred by employees when travelling for their missions. 2.1.1.7 Risks related to To build a sustainable pipeline of innovative assets, the Group is transforming the R&D model acquisition and by accelerating focused internal projects, de-prioritizing select internal programs and externally integration activities sourcing assets. In this respect, the Group invests in business development through innovative deal structures in its three key therapeutic areas. Despite dedicated processes in place, acquisitions could fail or underperform in case of inappropriate due diligence or unsuccessful integration. 2.1.1.8 Ethics & Despite its continued commitment to upholding the highest ethical standards, Ipsen could face Compliance risks various Ethics and Compliance risks, such as: • Risk of off-label promotion: The Group’s employees or third parties involved in the promotion of CSR Ipsen products could fail to observe the ethical principles laid down by the Group, and promote products off-label; • Risk of improper influence / conflict of interests: Ipsen employees or third parties involved in Ipsen activities could put themselves in a situation where there is an actual, apparent or perceived conflict of interest between their role within Ipsen and their own financial or personal situation, which could influence their ability to act in the best interest of Ipsen. These conflicts of interest could involve external stakeholders such as HCPs, HCOs, payers, members of regulatory bodies or government officials; • Risk of corruption: Ipsen employees or third parties involved in Ipsen activities could promise, offer, give, receive or solicit any kind of value or advantage to another person to distort someone’s conduct or to obtain an undue favor or advantage; • Risk of non-compliance with pharmaceutical regulations / code: There is a risk for Ipsen employees or third parties involved in Ipsen activities to be non-compliant with requirements of international and country regulations and Pharma Codes (e.g. IFPMA, EFPIA, PhRma, country codes, U.S. price reporting) in interactions with HCPs, HCO and other stakeholders, in all promotional and non-promotional interactions (e.g. meetings, congresses, fee for services etc.). Details of the Ethics and Compliance program are set out in Chapter 4 of this registration document. 2.1.2 Industrial and Environmental Risks # Risk name Risk description 2.1.2.1 Supply shortages Despite a strong end-to-end supply chain organization, the marketing of certain products by the and other Group has been and could be affected by supply shortages and other disruptions. Such difficulties disruptions risks may be of both a regulatory nature (e.g. the need to correct certain technical problems in order to bring production sites into compliance with applicable regulations) and a technical nature (e.g. CSR difficulties obtaining supplies of satisfactory quality, difficulties manufacturing active ingredients, or drugs complying with their technical specifications on a sufficiently reliable and uniform basis at the required volume). Supply shortages and other disruption risks may impact patients and may result in a significant reduction in sales for one or more products. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 31 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS # Risk name Risk description 2.1.2.2 Environment and Environmental laws in various countries impose real and potential obligations on the Group with safety risks regards to repairing environmental damage or refurbishing contaminated sites. Stricter laws relating to the environment, health, and safety as well as more rigorous enforcement CSR measures than those in force currently could generate considerable liabilities and costs for the Group and make the Group’s handling, production, use, reuse, or processing of substances or pollutants subject to more rigorous inspection measures than those currently observed. The Group uses dangerous substances in performing its business, and claim related to the Group’s handling, storage, use or reuse of those substances could generate considerable liabilities and costs for the Group. The Group is exposed not only to environmental risks related to environmental contamination but also to health risks (accidental contamination or occupational disease) linked to the fact that Ipsen’s employees handle active or toxic substances in the course of their research or production activities. These risks also exist for third parties with which the Group works. The Group’s EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) policy is described in Chapter 4. 2.1.3 Financial Risks # Risk name Risk description 2.1.3.1 Exchange rate risks A significant share of sales comes from countries where the Group’s reporting currency, the euro, is the functional currency. However, due to its international business, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates that may impact its results. Several types of risks can be distinguished: • The transactional exchange rate risk related to business and operational activities • Exchange rate risk associated with financing contracted in a currency different from functional currencies The Group’s policy is to hedge against the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on its net income compared to its budget. Exposure to currency risk is assessed by the subsidiaries before being forwarded to the Treasury Department. The Group hedges, based on the estimates, the major currencies. To reduce its exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates, Ipsen uses derivative instruments such as forward sales or purchase contracts, currency swaps, and NDF (Non-Deliverable Forwards). 2.1.3.2 Interest rate risks Given its level of long-term debt as of 31 December 2018 (note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in chapter 3 of the registration document), the Group has limited exposure to interest rate risks. The financial impact of interest rate risks is described in note 23 (“Derivative Financial Instruments”) to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2018 in chapter 3 of the registration document. 2.1.3.3 Liquidity and The Group’s policy consists of diversifying its counterparties so as to avoid excessive concentration counterparty risks and in dealing with first rate counterparties. As of 31 December 2018, the Group’s cash and cash equivalents amounted to €310.9 million largely invested in term accounts and term deposits. More detailed analysis of the Group’s liquidity position is described in section 3.1.3.2 related to the Group’s net cash position. 2.1.3.4 Share price The Company’s share price could fluctuate significantly in response to the following types of events: fluctuation • Changes in the Group’s or its competitors’ financial performance from one period to another • The announcement by the Group or one of its partners of the success or failure of one of the Group’s Research and Development programs conducted either on its own or in conjunction with a third party / failure of the commercial launch of a new product • Announcements by competitors or announcements concerning the pharmaceutical industry • Announcements regarding changes in the Group’s executive team or key personnel. 32 2018 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISKS FACTORS 2.1.4 Regulatory and Legal Risks # Risk name Risk description 2.1.4.1 Risks related to The expiration of a patent may result in substantial competition due to the emergence of a generic intellectual property drug. The Group cannot be certain that: • It will be able to develop other patentable inventions • Patents for which it has applied will be granted • Any patents granted to it or that are the subject of licenses granted to it will not be challenged and judged to be invalid or unenforceable • The protection afforded by a patent will be sufficiently broad so as to exclude competitors • Other persons or entities will not claim rights including ownership rights over patents and other intellectual property rights owned by the Group or which are the subject of licenses granted to it • The Group’s competitors will infringe its patents or circumvent them through innovations in design. The information related to the patents held by the Group is detailed in section 1.2.4.1 (“Patents”). 2.1.4.2 Undesired The Group cannot be certain that it will not be faced with undesired or uncontrolled disclosure of disclosure of critical critical information including private data or strategic information, which might adversely affect the information company’s financial position, competitive situation, or share value. The Group has set up procedures to control the dissemination of this information to protect either the CSR confidentiality of sensitive information, particularly to protect its intellectual property or competitive positions, or to ensure that privileged information is disseminated to investors in a manner that complies with the legislation in force. 2.1.4.3 Counterfeiting risks As a manufacturer of medication, the Group is exposed to the risk that third parties might attempt to counterfeit its products and sell counterfeit products as if they were the Group’s products. CSR Counterfeit products are not approved by the competent regulatory authorities and could prove dangerous for the patients. To the extent that counterfeit products are sold as being those of the Group, its reputation could be affected and the patients’ confidence in the Group’s products could be undermined. In addition, some of the Group’s products could be withdrawn from the market if counterfeit products are sold. 2.1.4.4 Product liability The Group’s business exposes it to product liability risk, and its insurance coverage could be risks insufficient to protect it against such risks should the need arise. Product liability constitutes a substantial risk for the Group and one that increase with the Group’s business expanding into new CSR markets and continuing to grow in the United States (where the costs associated with product liability claims can be particularly onerous). Although the Group is not currently involved in any substantial proceedings arising from product liability and including significant damages claims, the Group could be faced with claims related to the safety of its products, and in particular products relating to neurology (marketed under the brand names Dysport® and Azzalure®) which may cause, or appear to cause, serious side effects or potentially dangerous interactions with other drugs if misused or not properly prescribed. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 33 2 RISKS AND CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT 2.2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Ipsen aims to continuously improve its internal control and risk • Implementation of the instructions and directives provided management environment to be compliant with the “Cadre by the Executive Leadership Team; de Référence” issued by “l’Autorité des marchés financiers” • Effectiveness of Group internal processes, notably those (AMF) and with measures described in the COSO II standard aimed at protecting Group assets; (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission). • Reliability of financial data and, more generally, of all data included in published statements. Introduction The Group’s internal control rules apply to all Company Risk management objectives are to: entities under exclusive control within the meaning of the IFRS • Secure the general Group objective of improving patient standards. The main internal control components that are health and quality of life by providing effective therapeutic further explained in this report are as follows: solutions for unmet medical needs; • An organization that gives a clear definition of responsibilities, • Create and preserve the value, assets and reputation of the with competent and adequate resources using appropriate Group; information systems, procedures, processes, tools and • Make decisions and processes secure to reach Group rules; objectives by taking into account risk factors; • Reliable and relevant information management that enables • Ensure consistency between the Group’s actions and its every employee, whatever his/her level to fulfil his/her values; responsibilities; • Mobilize employees around a shared vision of the • A risk management framework; Company’s main risks and around the specific risks in their • Control activities aimed at monitoring risks and securing own area of activity; objectives; • Protect Group employees and the environment. • A regular review and assessment of the internal control framework. Internal control and Compliance is implemented by operational management and employees to provide Executive Management and shareholders with reasonable assurance about the achievement of the following objectives: • Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; 2.2.1 Organization General framework –– Translate Ipsen’s strategic vision and ambition into annual If necessary, local management is in charge of applying, objectives for the organization, adapting and supplementing Group procedures. The constant –– Validate annual budget; collaboration between the Global Quality, Risk and Insurance, • Act as an efficient decision-making body: Global Internal Audit and Ethics & Compliance departments at various levels and on numerous subjects is an important –– Monitor financial performance and review division/ consistency factor for internal control. function corrective action plans, endorse recommended financial communication and guidance, Operational Committees –– Align the organization, processes, talent and capabilities Executive Leadership Team (ELT) to deliver on Ipsen’s annual objectives, The ELT is leading the strategic direction of Ipsen and its –– Assess talent and ensure succession planning, implementation. The ELT is chaired by the Chief Executive –– Endorse the launch of key cross-functional projects, fund Officer and meets on a monthly basis. them adequately and monitor progress made on a regular basis, Scope of responsibility of the ELT: –– Implement Deal Review Board (DRB) decisions on Merger • Set Ipsen’s strategy and ambition: and Acquisitions (M&A) / Business Development and Licensing (BD&L) deals; –– Set Ipsen’s long-term strategy and ambition and endorse the corresponding 10-year strategic plan and 5-year • Promote efficient governance and decision-making process: business plan in line with the strategy, –– Ensure Ipsen policies and procedures are consistent, –– Approve R&D pipeline priorities, built on ethical principles, appropriate organizational 34 2018 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT structures, well-defined responsibilities and demonstrated • Act as the point of contact for anyone who would like to competencies, address Ethics and Compliance issues, and to address them in a confidential manner. –– Coordinate with Global Ethics & Compliance, Global EHS, Global Quality, Global Internal Audit functions and The Ethics & Compliance team covers all geographies where Enterprise Risk Management, to ensure adequate level of the Group operates. risk mapping and mitigation, The Group’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer periodically –– Monitor deployment of enterprise-wide robust and reports on the state of progress of the Ethics and Compliance effective internal control and audit, quality and risk program to the Board of Directors’ Ethics Committee. management systems, Risk Management organization –– Monitor performance achieved in Ethics & Compliance, EHS and Global Quality. The following organization supports the framework described in section 2.2.3. Each ELT member has set up his/her own leadership team. Risk Management and Insurance department The composition of the ELT is given in section 5.1.2 of this Reporting to the Executive Vice President General Counsel, Registration Document. the Risk Management and Insurance department’s role is to guarantee that a relevant process of identification and Deal Review Board (DRB) management of the Group’s major risks is in place. Its main The DRB assists Ipsen’s managament in decision-making for objectives are: M&A and Corporate Business Development activities. • The distribution of a culture of risk management to The permanent members are: the EVP Chief Business Officer, ensure a homogeneous approach to risk management, the EVP Chief Financial Officer, the EVP General Counsel, the in compliance with the Group’s policies. This objective EVP R&D, Chief Scientific Officer, the EVP Chief Commercial includes elaborating on the Group Risk Map; Officer Specialty Care and the EVP Strategy & Transformation. • Providing methodological and technical support to the divisions (risk identification, analysis and processing, Specialty Care Innovation Board (SCIB) engineering prevention and protection, risk exposure The SCIB assists Ipsen’s managament in decision-making monitoring); on Ipsen’s R&D portfolio within budget / 5Y Business Plan • The definition of the transfer policy of residual risks to the envelope as approved by the ELT. insurance market, the conception and the management of the Group’s insurance programs as described in the The SCIB is co-chaired by the EVP R&D, Chief Scientific paragraph 2.1.6; Officer and the EVP Chief Commercial Officer Specialty Care. • The piloting of a crisis management process and corporate Ethics & Compliance security organization. A Code of Ethical Conduct governs all Group employees. Risk Committee The Code of Ethical Conduct is one of the key elements of The Risk Committee includes individuals representing the Ethics and Compliance program which is more precisely transversal Group functions with its members connected to defined through Policies, Procedures and Education. The either a member of the ELT or directly to the Chief Executive Company’s Ethics and Compliance department, reports Officer. The Risk Committee’s mission is to facilitate the directly to the Chief Executive Officer. Its mission is to: implementation of the risk management approach and to • Maintain an effective compliance and ethics program control its efficiency. The Risk Committee members meet at that ensures a culture of integrity enabling the Company least once a quarter. to conduct its global business with the highest ethical standards, in full compliance with all applicable laws and Quality and Safety regulations and the Group Code of Conduct; Global Quality Function • To regularly review and improve our compliance and The Company has one Global Quality Function that reports ethics program to ensure it remains current with respect to to the Executive Vice President, Technical Operations, with a significant risks, developments and trends; dotted reporting to the Chief Executive Officer. This function supports the research, development, manufacturing and • Communicate and train employees and relevant third distribution activities across the product life cycle and is parties to these standards; accountable for Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and • Monitor the enforcement of these standards within the Good Distribution Practices (GDP) compliance across the Group entities; Group. Its role is to establish, improve and maintain an integrated global Quality Management System that complies • Develop and maintain Ethics & Compliance due diligence with Good Laborator y Practices (GLP), Good Clinical for third parties; Practices (GCP), Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), Good • Develop a continuous improvement approach with the Distribution Practices (GDP) and Good Pharmacovigilance update of these standards; Practices (GVP) for clinical and commercial products. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 35 2 RISKS AND CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT The Global Regulatory Safety and Quality (GRSQ) group Safety and Quality, and is led by a Vice President, who is accountable for Good Vigilance Practices (GVP), Good i s a l s o t h e Eu r o p e a n U n i o n Q u a l i f i e d Pe r s o n fo r Clinical Practices (GCP) and Good Laboratory Practices Pharmacovigilance. With patient safety central to Ipsen’s (GLP) and is well-aligned with the global quality function, with work, the Global Patient Safety department ensures the shared responsibility (and functional reporting) for quality proactive evaluation and communication of evolving safety oversight, specifically related to R&D GXP compliance. knowledge of all Company drug products, so that benefitrisk is optimized for patients, both in clinical development Each manufacturing plant and development unit has a Quality and after market launches. To do this Ipsen maintains a Group that is on site and is responsible for assuring site GMP sustainable cross-functional Pharmacovigilance System that and GDP compliance. These manufacturing plants have a is compliant with pharmacovigilance legislation worldwide. local auditing program, integrated with the global program, The Pharmacovigilance System, described in detail in the and site-specific procedures and processes that are aligned Pharmacovigilance System Master File, operates throughout with the Group Quality Manual. Site Quality heads have a the full life cycles of our products and extends across the entire functional reporting to the Senior Vice President, Quality. company, including all affiliate staff, specifically, but not limited to, those with direct pharmacovigilance responsibilities. Quality Governance A Group Quality Council meets on a semi-annual basis Quality Systems Evaluation Board (QSEB) to discuss quality vision and strategy for the Company. It The QSEB is chaired by the Senior Vice President of includes the Chief Executive Officer, ELT members and the Global Quality. The European Union Qualified Person for Senior Vice President Quality. Pharmacovigilance is also a permanent member of this board. QSEB’s role is to decide on non-routine global issues that Quality Management system impact the quality and/or safety of Company products that The Quality Management System is described in the Group require awareness beyond the site level. The QSEB: Quality Manual which: • Ensures resolution of critical product quality issues; • Gives an overview of the Company’s Quality Management • Ensures reporting of relevant issues to key stakeholders; System; • Ensures or proposes corrective actions; • Defines the GXP policies and procedures used to ensure that the Company’s products and services meet GXP • Ensures follow up on relevant actions; regulatory requirements and business objectives in a consistent, compliant and reliable manner; • Ensures issues are communicated to the ELT and CEO. • Defines the Quality governance structure, which includes Expenditures and Cash control financial framework a Group Quality Council, a Quality Leadership Team, Financial authorization manufacturing site Quality Councils, Global R&D Quality and Commercial Operations Quality Councils; The financial authorization procedure lays down the financial approval levels for managers who are authorized to enter into • Defines the GXP documentation system; commitments. • Defines the roles of Group GXP personnel as well as senior Financing and Treasury management. The Company has a centralized cash management system to optimize its financial assets and liquidity. Exchange rate and The Group Quality Manual is co-signed by the Chief Executive interest rate risk exposures are centralized by the Treasury Officer and Senior Vice President of Quality. department in order to cover the risks related to commercial Pharmacovigilance and industrial activities, the variations of perimeter and/or financing structure. The Global Patient Safety (Pharmacovigilance) Department is part of the Research and Development Division that reports A Treasury charter defines the rules and principles for to the Senior Vice President Head of Global Regularity, managing financing, treasury, and risks. 2.2.2 Information Management Reliable and relevant information, provided to the right people of Directors Audit Committee. Operational and finance at the right time is a key element in the internal control and risk management are informed annually of existing coverage and management. procedures. Information on Risk Management and Insurance Information on Audit findings and conclusions A major risk mapping for the Company validated by the Internal Audit reports are communicated as presented in ELT and proposed once a year for approval by the Board section 2.2.4. 36 2018 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT Information on product Quality and Safety Department also ensures that all Company entities produce Information on product Quality and Safety is ensured by the consistent information that complies with the Company Quality and Safety functions as presented in paragraph 2.2.1. accounting policies. A Finance Handbook is made available to all employees to provide them with the reference information Financial information they need. Reporting to the Finance Department, internal control over The Group Finance Department also verifies that the financial financial reporting is responsible for: and accounting information reported externally by the • Preparing consolidated financial statements in accordance Company is fair and comprehensive. with the applicable laws and regulations; The Company has implemented an ERP system, which • Managing the budgeting and forecasting processes; is contributing to the optimization of financial processes and activity management. This ERP system has been • Reviewing Group performance and any variance against implemented across the majority of the Company’s research forecasts and providing the ELT with the relevant Key and commercial entities. Further deployment is planned in the Pe r fo r m a n c e I n d i c ato r s to s u p p o r t th e s tr ate g y coming years to the extend ERP’s geographical coverage. implementation; External Communications committee • Reviewing periodical management reporting for each of the Company’s entities; The Investor Relations department, which is overseen by the Executive Vice President Finance, and the Corporate • Managing fiscal affairs; Communications department, which is overseen by the • Ensuring effective treasury management and financing for Chief Executive Officer, are both responsible for preparing all Company entities; external communications documents for approval by the Chief Executive Officer, ELT and the Chief Medical Officer. • Controlling the integrity of financial reporting. The Corporate Disclosure Committee meets as required Preparation of consolidated financial statements to prepare communications and statements related to The Group Finance Department centralizes information unforeseen events, which could potentially have a significant reported by the Finance department of each Company entity impact on the value of Company shares, and to decide, when and produces consolidated financial statements for the appropriate, if communications must be postponed. Group. Financial controlling The financial statements reported by each Company entity Financial controlling is organized on the basis of the Group’s are analyzed before consolidation. business activities. The Group Finance Department issues The financial statements are reconciled with the management budgets and forecasts instructions and controls the quality indicators monitored by the Group Finance Department. of information related to the Actuals and Planning exercises. As part of its responsibility for producing consolidated The Group’s Finance Department analyses the Group’s actual financial statements, the Group Finance department draws performance and variances against forecasts and identifies up accounting manuals, management reporting packages and quantifies the risks and opportunities involved in budget and the chart of accounts to be used for preparing the and forecast information. The Finance Department also consolidated financial statements. The Group Finance advises the operational managers on financial matters. 2.2.3 Risk Management Framework The Risk Management framework described below has Risk identification and analysis been defined in accordance with measures described in the Risks are identified and analyzed through an annual risk COSO II standard (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations mapping process that documents the main risks of the of the Treadway Commission) and refers to the “Cadre de Group’s divisions and prioritizes them in terms of impact and Référence de l’AMF”. level of control. Risk Management Components Risk mapping now covers all entities and critical processes within the Group. The Group’s Risk Management Policy Statement and Framework describes Risk Management objectives and Once a year, a Group Major Risks Map is validated by the ELT terminology, defines roles & responsibilities, and documents and submitted for approval to the Chief Executive Officer and approaches to risk identification, assessment, prioritization, to the Board of Directors Audit Committee. treatment, and monitoring. Risk factors The Risk Management organization is described in The Group’s main risk factors are described in chapter 2.1 of section 2.2.1. this registration document. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 37 2 RISKS AND CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT Risk treatment and insurance semester, or upon request of any of its members, to review For every major risk identified, an owner is designated to and approve the forex policy, provide guidelines, and monitor it and to ensure that the corrective action plan is validate the hedging strategy. implemented. The process and all related information are In 2018, the Group hedged the budgeted amount of foreign coordinated by the Group’s Risk Management and Insurance currency cash flow to mitigate the effect of currency rate Department. Some risks are transferred to the insurance changes. market. In 2018, the Group Treasury department bought currency The Group has put in place worldwide insurance coverage derivatives (forward exchange contracts and “vanilla” with top-ranking insurance companies. options). The instruments purchased to hedge exposure are primarily denominated in USD, RUB, GBP, BRL, CNY/CNH, Product liabilit y insurance cove rs all the products PLN, CZK, HUF, RON, AUD, CHF. The Group’s policy is to manufactured, marketed, and sold by the Group as well hedge for the budget period to come. Detailed information as all clinical trials that the Group conducts. The level of can be found in section 2.1.4.2 of this report. coverage for clinical trials generally exceeds that required under applicable local regulations. • Interest rate risks: As part of its interest rate risk management, the debt of the In order to mitigate risk volatility of product liability risk in the Group is mainly composed by fixed interest rate following insurance market, a part of the Group’s liability insurance the issuance of public bond in June 2016 for €300 million. program is financed through its reinsurance subsidiary. The reinsurance subsidiary is a regulated company ruled by the • Counterpart and liquidity risks: Luxembourg Control authorities. Within the scope of its activities, the Finance Department The Group also maintains insurance cover relative to its makes forecasts regarding the Group application of funds general activities, which mainly industrial and Research and and resources and implements financial instruments Development sites insurance, business interruptions as well aligned with these forecasts, which are duly submitted to as environmental liability insurance. and approved by the Board of Directors. This cash position is mainly centralized and the selection of investment options An actuarial study made in 2018 by an external consultant has is carried out by the Treasury Department in pursuance of a shown a relevant adequation between the limitations of the formalized charter which defines: main insurances of the Group and its insurable risks. –– the treasury management objectives; Generally speaking, the Group’s policies carry certain –– the criteria in terms of asset allocation and risk restrictions, exclusions, limitations, and deductibles that are diversification; common practice for policies of this type. –– the methodology for monitoring the performance and position of the Group cash flow. The Group considers the limitations of its insurance coverage as reasonable and conservative given the Group’s business In accordance with its treasury charter, the Group Treasury activities and the potential risks. Department is in charge of optimizing liquidity, overseeing the selection of banking establishments with which it Financial Risk Management subscribes to foreign exchange derivatives, and ensuring Financial Risk Management hedges the following risks: financial asset allocation is safe and liquid. • Foreign exchange risks: Within the scope of its commercial operations, the Group’s Treasury Department ensures that the credit limits Due to its global business, the Group is exposed to applicable to its international customers are respected fluctuations in exchange rates that may impact its results. (notably distributors and agents), in particular upon the The Group hedges the budgeted amount of foreign receipt of new orders. It also monitors the overall status of currency cash flow to mitigate the effect of currency rate average payment timescales of customers in its entities. changes through standard currency derivatives. Detailed information can be found in section 2.1.4.2 of this report. Within the scope of its partnerships, and with the support of the Group’s Legal Department and respective Development A “Market committee” managed by the Vice President Departments, the Group’s Finance Department approves Treasury and composed also of the Executive Vice President contractual provisions that aim to protect the Group from Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President General the potential negative consequences of the possible failure Counsel and Vice President Chief Risk Officer meets every of its partners. 2.2.4 Control Activities Audits into the global market, financial reporting, and business ethics The pharmaceutical industry is regulated at both the national and compliance requirements. Global audits within Ipsen are and international level. A strict framework of laws and conducted by two functions; Global Internal Audit and Quality standards govern all Company business activities. These laws Audit. In addition, industrial and research and development govern the Group’s research and development, manufacture sites are responsible for their own site level audit plans. of active substances and drugs, promotion and distribution 38 2018 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT Global Internal Audit Auditors on a periodic basis to ensure their respective work Global Internal Audit provides the independent assurance will be complementary. that key business risks are being managed appropriately and GXP Quality Audit that the risk management and internal control frameworks are G XPs refer to the qualit y systems related to Good operating effectively. Global Internal Audit reports to the Chief Manufacturing Practices, Good Clinical Practices, Good Executive Officer and to the Chief Financial Officer. Global Laboratory Practices, Good Distribution Practices and Good Internal Audit also has direct and regular access to the Audit Pharmacovigilance Practices. Committee of the Board. The GXP Quality Audit (Quality Audit) Group reports into the As part of Global Internal Audit governance, an Audit Charter VP of Quality System, Technical Operations who reports to (approved by the Chief Executive Officer and the Audit the SVP Global Quality, Technical Operations. GXP Quality Committee) is in effect. This Audit Charter defines the Global Audit assures audits of all GXP (Good Practices) areas are Internal Audit’s scope of audit services as covering all areas of performed, including on many of the Group sites as well as Ipsen’s activities, functions, and processes. These audits may service providers and suppliers where GXPs apply. Audit include, but are not limited to, audits of country managed units, frequencies are proceduralized using a risk-based approach. Group functions, internal control frameworks, compliance Annual audit schedules are determined at the start of the year. requirements, Information Technology, Environmental, Critical audit observations are escalated for prompt attention. Health and Safety and independent assessments of the Corrective and Preventative Action plans are developed and effectiveness of Ipsen’s Good Quality Systems across the owned by management in response to audit observations Good Pharmaceutical Practices (GXPs) where GXPs apply and the status of all quality audit action plans are tracked to (Note: in this case GXPs refer to the quality systems related completion. to Good Manufacturing Practices, Good Clinical Practices, Good Laboratory Practices, Good Distribution Practices and Audit compliance to quality targets is measured routinely and Good Pharmacovigilance Practices). The GXP good practices Global Internal Audit is provided with regular status updates audits (quality audits) are covered under the GXP Quality Audit from the Quality Audit program. program as described below. The GXP Quality Audit group also coordinates with the The Global Internal Audit plan is risk-based and developed Global Internal Audit department to assure efficiencies are using a variety of inputs including the Group Risk Map and maximized. inputs from Global Ethics and Compliance and the ELT. This audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee on an annual External Audit basis. In accordance with the law, Group financial statements are audited by Statutory Auditors. Their responsibility Audit repor ts containing findings and specific encompasses all Group companies included in the scope of recommendations are generated and distributed to relevant consolidation. Each company, with the exception of certain management with a copy to the relevant ELT members companies which are not material to the consolidated financial responsible for the audited areas. Key findings and main statements, is subject to an audit or limited review as required. conclusions are communicated within an Executive Summary report to the Board of Directors Audit Committee (referred Apart from the legal requirements, the Statutory Auditors to as the Audit Committee) and to ELT members. Corrective produce a report on their work summarizing all key audit points and Preventative Action plans are developed and owned by identified and their resolution, as well as recommendations on management in response to audit observations and the status the Group internal control system. The Statutory Auditors’ of all actions is tracked to completion. Report is presented to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Global Internal Audit works with other internal assurance type functions such as Risk Management, Ethics and Compliance In addition, Group manufacturing plants, clinical research and Quality Audit to enable consistency of objectives. Global programs and information systems are also frequently Internal Audit liaises with the Company’s external Statutory inspected by regulatory agencies and periodically by the Company’s partners. 2.2.5 Review and Assessment of Internal Control Global Internal Audit periodically presents a summary of key including dashboard and trend data, on the progression of observations and trend analysis resulting from its internal the respective audit plans along with an assessment as to the audit assignments to the ELT. Global Internal Audit is also overall level of internal control. responsible for providing a summary update on the Quality Statutory Auditors and Global Internal Audit met periodically Audit program to the Audit Committee. The SVP Quality is throughout 2018 including as part of the Audit Committee responsible for providing regular updates on quality audit updates. outcomes to the ELT. Global Internal Audit met with the Audit Committee twice in 2018 and provided summary reports and status updates, 2018 Ipsen Registration document 39 40 2018 Ipsen Registration document 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3.1 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 42 3.1.1 Significant events during the year 42 3.1.2 Analysis of results 43 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing 49 3.1.4 Appendices 52 3.1.5 Subsequent events 58 3.1.6 Group outlook 58 3.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 59 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement 59 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit 61 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow 62 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 63 3.2.5 Notes 65 Note 1 Significant events and transactions during the period having an impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018 67 Note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation 67 Note 3 Accounting principles and methods, and compliance statement 68 Note 4 Operating segments 78 Note 5 Personnel 81 Note 6 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses 86 Note 7 Other operating income and expenses 86 Note 8 Restructuring costs 87 Note 9 Net financial income (expense) 87 Note 10 Income taxes 88 Note 11 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 90 Note 12 Goodwill 90 Note 13 Other intangible assets 92 Note 14 Property, plant & equipment 94 Note 15 Equity investments 95 Note 16 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 96 Note 17 Non-current financial assets and other non-current assets 96 Note 18 Detail of the change in working capital requirement 97 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 99 Note 20 Consolidated equity 100 Note 21 Provisions 101 Note 22 Bank loans and financial liabilities 103 Note 23 Derivative financial instruments 104 Note 24 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet 106 Note 25 Information on entities consolidated as joint operations 107 Note 26 Information on related parties 108 Note 27 Commitments and contingent liabilities 109 Note 28 Post closing events with no impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018 111 Note 29 Consolidation scope 111 Note 30 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 113 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 114 3.3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117 3.3.1 Summary document 117 3.3.2 Notes on the annual financial statements 119 Note 1 Significant events during the year 119 Note 2 Accounting principles and valuation methods 119 Note 3 Notes on the balance sheet 121 Note 4 Notes to the income statement 125 Note 5 Other information 127 Note 6 Subsidiaries and affiliates 130 Note 7 Cash flow statement 130 Note 8 Subsequent events 130 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements 131 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity 134 3.4 SIGNIFICANT ENGAGEMENT FOLLOWING THE ACCOUNTS SETTLEMENT DATE OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 138 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.1 Significant events during the year All press releases are available on the Group’s website previously untreated advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. (www.ipsen.com). The co-primary endpoints of the trial are progression-free survival and overall survival. An exploratory arm will also Acquisitions and Agreements evaluate cabozantinib monotherapy in this first-line setting. 21 Februar y 2018 – Arix Bioscience plc ( “Arix” ), a COSMIC-312 is a multicenter, randomized, controlled phase global healthcare and life science company supporting 3 pivotal trial that aims to enroll approximately 640 patients at medical innovation, and Ipsen, a global specialty-driven up to 200 sites globally. biopharmaceutical company focused on innovation and specialty care, announced a strategic agreement to develop Regulatory and commercialize innovative therapies. 17 May 2018 – Ipsen announced that the European 29 May 2018 – Ipsen, a global biopharmaceutical group, Commission (EC) has approved Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) and The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center for the first-line treatment of adults with intermediateor poorannounced a global licensing and joint development risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (aRCC). This approval agreement for a pre-clinical oncology drug candidate allows for the marketing of Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) in this discovered by researchers in MD Anderson’s Institute for indication in all 28 member states of the European Union, Applied Cancer Science (IACS). MD Anderson will progress Norway and Iceland. the drug candidate through Phase I clinical development with Ipsen being responsible for further global development and 15 November 2018 – Ipsen announced that the European commercialization. Commission (EC) has approved Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) as a monotherapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in 19 July 2018 – Ipsen, a global biopharmaceutical group adults who have previously been treated with sorafenib. focused on innovation and specialty care, announced an This approval allows for the marketing of Cabometyx ® agreement with BioLabs to open a life science co-working (cabozantinib) in this indication in all 28 member states of the facility within Ipsen’s new North America global hub in Kendall European Union, Norway and Iceland. Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts. The shared laboratory space, called the ‘Ipsen Innovation Center – BioLabs’ (IPSENGovernance ICB) will be a fully equipped 15,000 square-feet combined of fice and laborator y facility dedicated to suppor ting 12 January 2018 – Ipsen announced the appointment of entrepreneurs and startup companies developing the next Richard Paulson as Executive Vice-President and Chief generation of therapeutics for patients. Executive Officer of Ipsen North America, responsible for all commercial operations throughout the region. The role Research and Development reports directly to David Meek, CEO of Ipsen, and Mr Paulson will be a member of the Ipsen Executive Leadership Team. 16 January 2018 – Ipsen and Exelixis, Inc. announced detailed results of the pivotal phase 3 CELESTIAL trial in 13 March 2018 – Ipsen announced the appointment of two patients with previously treated advanced hepatocellular key executive positions in its Executive Leadership Team. carcinoma (HCC). In CELESTIAL, cabozantinib provided a Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch, Ph.D., J.D., joins as Executive statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement Vice-President, Chief Business Officer, and Régis Mulot joins versus placebo in overall survival (OS). as Executive Vice-President, Chief Human Resources Officer. 20 November 2018 – Ipsen and 3BP announced the first patient has been dosed in a Phase I/II study for the firstOther in-class radionuclide 177Lu-IPN01087 (formerly known as 3BP-227). IPN01087 is a compound that targets cancer cells 4 June 2018 – Ipsen announced that it has initiated a share in patients with advanced solid tumors which express the respurchase program. It has appointed an investment Neurotensin Receptor Subtype 1 (NTSR1). services provider to purchase 250,000 Ipsen S.A. shares, or about 0.30% of the share capital, over a period of at least 05 December 2018 – Exelixis and Ipsen announced the 3 months. The shares purchased under this agreement will be initiation of a phase 3 pivotal trial (COSMIC-312) of cabozantinib mainly allocated to cover its free share allocation plans and its in combination with atezolizumab versus sorafenib in new employee share ownership plan. 42 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.2 Analysis of results ■■3.1.2.1 Comparison of Consolidated Sales for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2018 and 2017 Sales by therapeutic area and by product Note: Unless stated otherwise, all variations in sales are stated excluding foreign exchange impacts, established by recalculating net sales for the relevant period at the rate from the previous period) 4th Quarter Full Year % % (in million euros) % Variation at % Variation at 2018 2017 2018 2017 Variation constant Variation constant currency currency Oncology 414.6 325.6 27.4% 27.2% 1,503.0 1,185.6 26.8% 29.9% Somatuline ® 227.2 189.2 20.1% 19.7% 846.7 702.5 20.5% 24.4% Decapeptyl ® 100.2 89.6 11.8% 12.8% 372.6 348.7 6.9% 8.1% Cabometyx ® 47.4 20.6 130.2% 131.0% 148.2 51.7 186.5% 187.5% Onivyde® 33.7 19.7 71.3% 68.5% 109.4 56.9 92.4% 100.8% Other Oncology 6.2 6.6 -5.4% -5.3% 26.0 25.8 0.9% 1.1% Neuroscience 88.7 88.2 0.6% 5.6% 351.5 331.6 6.0% 12.8% Dysport ® 87.3 87.2 0.1% 5.0% 347.8 328.2 6.0% 12.6% Rare Diseases 16.9 17.3 -2.4% -3.0% 70.0 74.7 -6.4% -5.1% NutropinAq ® 10.5 12.3 -14.9% -14.7% 45.9 51.8 -11.5% -11.3% Increlex ® 6.4 5.0 28.2% 24.9% 24.1 22.9 5.3% 8.9% Specialty Care 520.3 431.1 20.7% 21.6% 1,924.5 1,591.9 20.9% 24.7% Smecta® 31.3 36.1 -13.3% -11.0% 126.5 123.8 2.2% 5.3% Forlax® 11.2 10.4 7.3% 8.4% 39.8 42.1 -5.5% -4.4% Tanakan® 12.1 14.8 -17.8% -15.3% 37.7 41.4 -9.1% -6.0% Fortrans/Eziclen® 9.3 8.7 7.3% 11.3% 31.4 32.1 -2.3% 1.7% Etiasa ® 4.1 3.1 30.5% 29.3% 4.2 17.8 -76.2% -75.6% Other Consumer Healthcare 16.1 14.9 7.7% 7.9% 60.7 59.5 1.9% 2.6% Consumer Healthcare 84.1 88.0 -4.5% -2.6% 300.3 316.8 -5.2% -2.9% Group Sales 604.4 519.2 16.4% 17.5% 2,224.8 1,908.7 16.6% 20.1% * Including Smectite sales previously recorded in Other Consumer Healthcare. Full year 2018 sales highlights by 5.1%. Over the period, the relative weight of Specialty Group sales reached €2,224.8 million, up 20.1%, driven Care continued to increase to reach 86.5% of Group sales by Specialty Care sales growth of 24.7% and Consumer compared to 83.4% in 2017. Healthcare sales growth of 2.7% re-stated from the Etiasa® In Oncology, sales reached €1,503.0 million, up 29.9% new contractual set-up (or down 2.9% as reported). year-on-year, driven by the continued strong performance Specialty Care sales amounted to €1,924.5 million, up of Somatuline® as well as the launches of Cabometyx® and 24.7%. Oncology and Neuroscience sales grew by 29.9% Onivyde ®. Over the period, Oncology sales represented and 12.8%, respectively, and Rare Diseases sales decreased 67.6% of total Group sales compared to 62.1% in 2017. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 43 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Somatuline® – Sales reached €846.7 million, up 24.4% yearperformance in the U.S. Over the period, Rare Diseases sales on-year, driven by continuous growth in North America of represented 3.1% of total Group sales compared to 3.9% in 38.2% from strong volume growth and market share gains, 2017. strong double-digit growth in most European countries, Consumer Healthcare sales reached €300.3 million, up notably Germany, Sweden, France and the UK, as well 2.7% year-on-year re-stated from the Etiasa® new contractual as the contribution from Japan following the launch of the set-up (or down 2.9% as reported). Sales were positively neuroendocrine tumor indication in 2017. impacted by the good performance of the Smecta® brand Decapeptyl ® – Sales reached €372.6 million, up 8.1% and the contribution from the products acquired in 2017. Over year-on-year, positively impacted by volume growth in most the period, Consumer Healthcare sales represented 13.5% of European countries, notably in France, Spain and the UK, as total Group sales, compared to 16.6% in 2017. well as by good performance in China. Smecta® – Sales reached €126.5 million, up 5.3% year-onCabometyx® – Sales reached €148.2 million, driven by good year, driven by good growth in China (impacted by a negative performance in all European countries including Germany, inventory effect in 2017), France as well as in Korea, Russia France and the UK, as well as new launches in other countries and Central Asia. including Australia. In the fourth quarter of 2018, sales Forlax® – Sales reached €39.8 million, down 4.4% year-onincreased by 22.2% over the third quarter of 2018. year, impacted by lower sales to partners and the importation Onivyde® – Sales amounted to €109.4 million. In the fourth delay in Algeria. quarter of 2018, sales were up 68.5% year-on-year and Tanakan® – Sales reached €37.7 million, down 6.0% year-onincreased by 22.8% over the third quarter of 2018 driven by year, impacted by a continuous market slow-down in France strong sales to ex-US partner in the fourth quarter. and the importation ban in Algeria. In Neuroscience, sales of Dysport® reached €347.8 million, Fortrans/Eziclen® – Sales reached €31.4 million, up 1.7% up 12.6% driven by the resupply and strong performance in year-on-year, driven by good performance in China, Vietnam Brazil, solid volume growth in the U.S. in the therapeutics and Ukraine, partly offset by the negative inventory impact market as well as the good performance of Galderma in and competitive pressure in Eastern European Countries. the aesthetics market in Europe. For the Full Year 2018, Neuroscience sales represented 15.8% of total Group sales Etiasa® – Sales reached €4.2 million, down 75.6% year-oncompared to 17.4% in 2017. year, due to the new contractual set up in China. In R a r e D is e a s e s , s a le s of NutropinAq ® re ac he d Other Consumer Healthcare – Sales reached €60.7 million, €45.9 million, down 11.3% year-on-year, impacted by up 2.6% year-on-year, supported by the contribution of lower volumes across Europe. Sales of Increlex ® reached products acquired in 2017 and other drug-related products, €24.1 million, growing by 8.9% year-on-year, driven by the offsetting the Adrovance® erosion in France. 44 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Sales by geographical area Group sales by geographical area in the fourth quarter and full year 2018 and 2017: 4th Quarter Full Year % % (in million euros) % Variation at % Variation at 2018 2017 2018 2017 Variation constant Variation constant currency currency France 80.8 64.9 24.5% 24.6% 282.0 247.7 13.8% 13.9% Germany 51.1 43.3 18.1% 18.1% 184.1 152.1 21.1% 21.1% Italy 22.9 22.5 1.8% 1.8% 101.5 90.7 11.9% 11.9% United Kingdom 24.5 22.3 9.7% 9.8% 95.0 80.3 18.4% 19.5% Spain 24.8 20.5 20.9% 20.9% 91.1 73.6 23.7% 23.7% Major Western European 204.1 173.6 17.6% 17.6% 753.8 644.4 17.0% 17.1% Countries Eastern Europe 57.0 53.9 5.8% 11.7% 198.0 196.4 0.8% 6.2% Other Europe 60.2 54.7 10.1% 15.2% 245.7 199.0 23.5% 27.4% Other European Countries 117.2 108.5 8.0% 13.5% 443.7 395.3 12.2% 16.9% North America 176.3 127.7 38.1% 35.5% 615.6 467.0 31.8% 37.9% Asia 56.5 55.5 2.0% 2.6% 207.3 205.7 0.8% 3.5% Rest of the World excluding Asia 50.3 54.0 -6.9% -2.7% 204.3 196.3 4.1% 11.3% Rest of the World 106.8 109.4 -2.4% 0.0% 411.7 401.9 2.4% 7.3% Group Sales 604.4 519.2 16.4% 17.5% 2,224.8 1,908.7 16.6% 20.1% Sales in Major Western European countries reached Sales in Other European Countries reached €443.7 million, €753.8 million, up 17.1% year-on-year. Over the period, sales up 16.9% year-on-year, suppor ted by the launch of in Major Western European countries represented 33.9% of Cabometyx® in certain countries, Onivyde® sales to Ipsen’s total Group sales compared to 33.8% in 2017. partner, the strong growth of Dysport® as well as the solid performance of Somatuline ® and Decapeptyl ®. Over the France – Sales reached €282.0 million, up 13.9% yearperiod, sales in the region represented 19.9% of total Group on-year, mainly driven by the Cabometyx ® ramp-up, the sales compared to 20.7% in 2017. strong sales of Decapeptyl ® and the sustained growth of Somatuline®. Sales in North America reached €615.6 million, up 37.9% year-on-year, driven by the continued strong growth of Germany – Sales reached €184.1 million, up 21.1% yearSomatuline® as well as the Onivyde® launch contribution and on-year, driven by the Cabometyx® ramp-up and the strong the good performance of Dysport® in the therapeutics market. growth of Somatuline®. Over the period, sales in North America represented 27.7% of Italy – Sales reached €101.5 million, up 11.9% year-on-year, total Group sales compared to 24.5% in 2017. mainly driven by the launch of Cabometyx®, and supported by Sales in the Rest of the World reached €411.7 million, the good performance of Decapeptyl® as well as Somatuline®. up 7.3% year-on-year, driven by the resupply and strong United Kingdom – Sales reached €95.0 million, up performance of Dysport® in Brazil, the growth of Somatuline® 19.5% year-on-year, driven by the strong performance of in Japan, partly offset by the negative impact of the new Cabometyx®, Somatuline® and Decapeptyl. Etiasa® contractual set-up in China. Over the period, sales in the Rest of the World represented 18.5% of total Group sales Spain – Sales reached €91.1 million, up 23.7% year-on-year, compared to 21.1% in 2017. driven by the contribution of Cabometyx ® and the good performance of Somatuline® and Decapeptyl®. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 45 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.2.2. Comparison of Core consolidated income statement for 2018 and 2017 Core financial measures are performance indicators. Reconciliation between these indicators and IFRS aggregates is presented in Appendix 4 “Bridges from IFRS consolidated net profit to Core consolidated net profit”. 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million (in million % change % of sales % of sales euros) euros) Sales 2,224.8 100% 1,908.7 100% 16.6% Other revenues 123.6 5.6% 103.0 5.4% 19.9% Revenue 2,348.4 105.6% 2,011.8 105.4% 16.7% Cost of goods sold (454.2) -20.4% (385.6) -20.2% 17.8% Selling expenses (787.4) -35.4% (715.9) -37.5% 10.0% Research and development expenses (302.1) -13.6% (265.8) -13.9% 13.7% General and administrative expenses (165.7) -7.4% (140.8) -7.4% 17.7% Other core operating income 21.1 0.9% 0.4 0.0% N.A. Other core operating expenses (0.3) 0.0% (0.5) 0.0% -46.7% Core Operating Income 659.9 29.7% 503.6 26.4% 31.0% Net financing costs (5.3) -0.2% (8.1) -0.4% -34.9% Other financial income and expense (20.1) -0.9% (18.4) -1.0% 8.7% Core income taxes (144.1) -6.5% (115.7) -6.1% 24.5% Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using 1.1 0.0% 1.4 0.1% -22.8% the equity method Core consolidated net profit 491.6 22.1% 362.7 19.0% 35.5% – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 491.9 22.1% 362.1 19.0% 35.9% – Attributable to non-controlling interests (0.4) 0.0% 0.6 0.0% N.A. Core EPS fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. 5.91 4.36 35.5% shareholders (in euros per share) Reconciliation from Core consolidated net profit to IFRS consolidated net profit (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Core consolidated net profit 491.6 362.7 Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) (53.2) (37.6) Other operating income or expenses (25.5) (33.6) Restructuring (16.0) (13.0) Impairment losses (9.8) 12.8 Other 2.0 (18.5) IFRS consolidated net profit 389.1 272.9 IFRS EPS fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (in euros) 4.68 3.28 Sales Other revenues were also positively impacted in 2018 by the At the end of December 2018, the Group’s consolidated Sales new contractual set-up implemented in the third quarter of reached €2,224.8 million, up 16.6% year-on-year and up 2017 for Etiasa® in China. 20.1% excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Cost of goods sold Other revenues At the end of December 2018, Cost of goods sold amounted to O ther revenue s for the f inancial ye ar 2018 totaled €454.2 million, representing 20.4% of Net sales, compared to €123.6 million, up 19.9% versus €103.0 million at the €385.6 million or 20.2% of Net sales at the end of December end of December 2017. The evolution was attributable to 2017. The productivity efficiency and positive mix effect have higher royalties received from partners, mainly Galderma for been fully compensated by the increase of royalties paid to Dysport®, Menarini for Adenuric® and Servier for Onivyde®. partners. 46 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Selling expenses Core consolidated net profit In 2018, Selling expenses amounted to €787.4 million, up In 2018, Core consolidated net profit increased by 35.5% to 10.0% versus 2017, representing 35.4% of Net sales versus. €491.6 million, with €491.9 million fully attributable to Ipsen 37.5% in 2017, an improvement of 2.1pts. The evolution S.A. shareholders. This compares to Core consolidated net reflects the commercial efforts deployed to support the profit of €362.7 million, with €362.1 million fully attributable to Cabometyx® launch in Europe, the growth of Somatuline® in Ipsen S.A. shareholders in 2017. the United States and in Europe as well as the commercial Core Earning per share investment for Onivyde® in the United States. In 2018, Core EPS fully diluted came to €5.91, up 35.5% Research and Development expenses versus €4.36 per share in 2017. For the financial year 2018, Research and Development expenses totaled €302.1 million, compared to €265.8 million ■■3.1.2.3 F  rom Core financial measures to IFRS in 2017. The Group increased investments in Research reported figures and Development in Oncology, especially for Cabometyx®, Reconciliations between IFRS 2017 / 2018 results and the Oniv yde ® and the Systemic Radiation Therapy ( SRT ) Core financial measures are presented in Appendix 4. programs, as well as in Neuroscience, mainly for the new Dyspor t ® indications and the recombinant neurotoxin In 2018, the main reconciling items between Core consolidated programs. net income and IFRS consolidated net income were: General and Administrative expenses Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) In 2018, General and Administrative expenses amounted Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) in to €165.7 million, compared to €140.8 million at the end of 2018 amounted to €73.1 million before tax, compared to December 2017. The increase resulted primarily from the €53.3 million before tax in 2017, mainly due to the higher reinforcement of the corporate functions supporting Ipsen’s amortization of intangible assets from Cabometyx ® and growth and the impact of the Group’s positive performance on Onivyde®. variable compensation. General and administrative expenses Other operating income and expenses and represented 7.4% of Net sales, in line with last year. Restructuring costs Other Core Operating Income and expenses Other non-core operating income and expenses for 2018 amounted to an expense of €30.4 million before tax, mainly At year-end 2018, Other Core Operating Income and expenses related to the termination of R&D studies, costs arising from amounted to an income of €20.8 million versus an expense of the Group’s transformation programs and a settlement with €0.1 million in 2017. This evolution is due to the impact of the Galderma in Brazil, partially compensated by a favorable currency hedging policy. settlement with a U.S. partner. Restructuring costs came to Core Operating Income €21.9 million before tax, impacted by the relocation of the U.S. commercial affiliate to Cambridge, Massachusetts. Core Operating Income in 2018 reached €659.9 million, representing 29.7% of sales, compared to €503.6 million in In 2017, Other non-core operating expenses totaled 2017, representing 26.4% of sales, a growth of 31.0% and an €48.9 million before ta x, and restructuring expenses increase in profitability of 3.3 points. amounted to €18.8 million before tax, consisting mainly of integration costs related to the Onivyde ® acquisition, the Net financing costs and Other financial income and adaptation of the R&D structure and programs, the cost of a expense settlement with a partner in Japan and a reorganization plan In 2018, the Group incurred Net financial expenses of in Europe. €25.3 million, versus €26.6 million in 2017. Net financing costs decreased by €2.8 million, driven by the decrease of Impairment losses the net debt level over the period. Other financial income and In 2018, the Group recognized an impairment loss of expense increased by €1.6 million, mainly attributable to the €15.0 million before tax on the intangible asset of Xermelo® cost of hedging implemented to mitigate the foreign exchange as sales expectations have been revised down in 2018 by exposure of the Group and the impact of the Onivyde® earnthe Group following a more restricted label received from out re-evaluation under IFRS. EMA for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with somatostatin analogue (“SSA”) therapy in Core income taxes adults inadequately controlled by SSA therapy. In 2018, Core income tax expense of €144.1 million resulted In 2017, a net reversal of impairment of €14.8 million before from a core effective tax rate of 22.7% on core profit before tax was recognized at Group level mainly related to: tax compared to a core effective tax rate of 24.3% in 2017. The decrease in the core effective tax rate is mainly attributable to • the reversal of the IGF-1 / Increlex ® impairment for the decrease of U.S. corporate income tax rate following the €50.4 million following the completion of the transfer to U.S. tax reform. the new manufacturing site, approved by both the EMA 2018 Ipsen Registration document 47 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR (European Medicines Agency) and the FDA (Food and Drug Consolidated net profit Administration), securing the production of Increlex®; Consolidated net profit was €389.1 million at 31 December • the impairment of Prontalgine® for €33.9 million following 2018, showing an increase of 42.6% versus 2017 at the consequence of the decree announced by the French €272.9 million. Ministry of Health on 12 July 2017, listing all medicines containing codeine, dextromethorphan, ethylmorphine Earning per share or noscapine on the list of medicines available only by Fully diluted EPS was €4.68 in 2018 versus €3.28 in 2017. prescription. Other ■■3.1.2.4 Operating segments: Core Operating In 2018, Other items amounted to an income of €2.0 million Income by therapeutic area related to discontinued operations. Segment information is presented according to the Group’s In 2017, Other items amounted to an expense of €18.5 million two operating segments, Specialty Care and Consumer and were mainly related to the negative impact of the U.S. Healthcare. tax reform on U.S. tax losses carried forward offset by the recognition of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets in All costs allocated to these two segments are presented in the U.S. as well as to discontinued operations. the key performance indicators. Only corporate overhead costs and the impact of the currency hedging policy are not Consequently, IFRS reported indicators are: allocated to the two operating segments. Operating income The Group uses Core Operating Income to measure its In 2018, Operating income totaled €519.4 million versus performance. Core Operating Income is the indicator used by €397.2 million in 2017, with an Operating margin of 23.3%, up the Group to measure operating performance and to allocate 2.5 points compared to 2017. resources. Sales, Revenue and Core Operating Income are presented by therapeutic area for the 2018 and 2017 financial years in the following table: Variation (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Change % Specialty Care Sales 1,924.5 1,591.9 332.6 20.9% Revenue 1,987.1 1,643.1 344.0 20.9% Core Operating Income 740.4 570.6 169.8 29.8% % of sales 38.5% 35.8% Consumer Healthcare Sales 300.3 316.8 (16.5) -5.2% Revenue 361.3 368.7 (7.3) -2.0% Core Operating Income 83.9 91.8 (7.8) -8.5% % of sales 27.9% 29.0% Total Unallocated Core Operating Income (164.5) (158.8) (5.7) 3.6% Group total Sales 2,224.8 1,908.7 316.1 16.6% Revenue 2,348.4 2,011.8 336.6 16.7% Core Operating Income 659.9 503.6 156.3 31.0% % of sales 29.7% 26.4% In 2018, Specialty Care sales grew to €1,924.5 million, Income for Specialty Care amounted to €740.4 million, up 20.9% over 2017 (24.7% at constant exchange rates), representing 38.5% of sales. This compares to €570.6 million reaching 86.5% of total consolidated sales at 31 December in the prior-year period, representing 35.8% of sales. The 2018, versus 83.4% a year earlier. In 2018, Core Operating improvement reflects the continued growth of Somatuline® in 48 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR the United States and Europe, the contribution of Cabometyx® €83.9 million, representing 27.9% of sales, compared to and Onivyde®, as well as the performance of Dysport® and 29.0% in 2017, reflecting commercial investments to support Decapeptyl®, along with increased commercial and research the OTx strategy. & development investments. In 2018, Unallocated Core Operating Income came to a In 2018, Consumer Healthcare sales came to €300.3 million, negative €164.5 million, compared to a negative €158.8 million down 5.2% year-on-year (or down 2.9% at constant exchange in the year-earlier period. The evolution is mainly attributable to rates), but growing by 2.7% once restated from the new the reinforcement of the unallocated corporate functions and contractual set-up in China for Etiasa®, partially compensated the impact of the Group’s positive performance on variable by the good performance of the Smecta ® brand and the compensation, partially compensated by the favorable impact contribution of the products acquired in 2017. In 2018, Core of the currency hedging policy. Operating Income for Consumer Healthcare amounted to 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing In 2018, the Group had a net cash increase of €220.8 million, bringing closing net debt to €242.5 million. ■■ 3.1.3.1 Analysis of the consolidated net cash flow statement (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening net cash / (debt) (463.3) 68.6 Core Operating Income 659.9 503.6 Non-cash items 41.2 18.1 Change in operating working capital requirement 3.6 (45.2) (Increases) decreases in other working capital requirement 5.3 40.1 Net capex (excluding milestones paid) (120.4) (94.7) Dividends received from entities accounted for using the equity method 0.9 0.9 Operating Cash Flow 590.5 422.8 Other non-core operating income and expenses and restructuring costs (31.7) (53.4) (cash) Financial income (cash) (25.9) (16.8) Current income tax (P&L, excluding provisions for tax contingencies) (89.3) (53.0) Other operating cash flow 14.9 9.4 Free Cash Flow 458.4 309.0 Dividends paid (83.5) (70.6) Net investments (Business Development and milestones) (120.2) (789.2) Share buyback (24.6) (18.1) FX on net indebtedness (10.2) 33.8 Other (discontinued operations and financial instruments) 0.9 3.3 Shareholders return and external growth operations (237.6) (840.9) CHANGE IN NET CASH / (DEBT) 220.8 (531.9) Closing net cash / (debt) (242.5) (463.3) 2018 Ipsen Registration document 49 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Operating Cash Flow settlement with a U.S. partner, offset by costs arising from In 2018, Operating Cash Flow totaled €590.5 million, up the Group’s transformation programs and a settlement with €167.7 million (+39.7%) versus 2017, mainly driven by higher Galderma in Brazil. In 2017, €53.4 million of payments included Core Operating Income (up €156.3 million). Onivyde® integration costs, the impact of the transformation of the R&D model, a settlement with a partner in Japan and Non-cash items increased for the full year 2018 by costs arising from the change in corporate governance. €41.2 million versus an increase of €18.1 million in 2017, impacted by the increase in depreciation and a change in The €25.9 million in financial expenses paid in 2018, vs. long-term management incentive programs. €16.8 million in 2017 resulted mainly from higher hedging costs. Working capital requirement for operating activities decreased by €3.6 million in 2018, compared to an increase The change in current income tax stemmed mainly from the of €45.2 million in 2017. The change at 31 December 2018 growth of income, partially compensated by the improvement stemmed mainly from the following: in the effective tax rate resulting from the U.S. tax reform. • a €29.8 million increase in inventories during the year, Shareholders return and external growth operations in-line with business growth; In 2018, the dividend payout to Ipsen S.A. shareholders • a €29.0 million increase in trade receivables, in-line with amounted to €83.0 million. sales growth and positively impacted by higher cash collection on overdue invoices, compared to a €84.6 million Net investments in 2018 amounted to €120.2 million, including increase in trade receivables in 2017; additional milestones paid to Exelixis for €98 million, an equity • a €62.4 million increase in trade payables as of 31 December investment in Arix Bioscience for €17 million, the milestones 2018, as compared to an increase of €77.6 million in 2017. paid following the license agreement signed with MD Anderson Cancer Center in May 2018, additional milestones In 2018, Other working capital requirement needs decreased paid to 3B Pharmaceuticals for a total of €14 million and the by €5.3 million, mainly driven by an increase in tax liabilities final payment for the acquisition of Akkadeas Pharma for partially compensated by other receivables. €8 million, partly offset by the milestone received from Servier Net capital expenditure amounted to €120.4 million in 2018, for Onivyde ® for €20 million and from Galderma for the compared to €94.7 million in 2017, and mainly included territory extension in Asia for a net total of €12 million. projects to support increased production capacity at industrial Net investments at 31 December 2017 amounted to sites in the United Kingdom, the United States and France, as €789 million, including the acquisition of Onivyde ® from well as corporate investments in information technology and Merrimack Pharmaceuticals on April 3, 2017 for €665 million, digital projects. corresponding to the purchase price and future earn-outs Free Cash Flow (discounted and probabilized under IFRS), the acquisition of In 2018, Free Cash Flow came to €458.4 million, up Consumer Healthcare products in European territories from €149.4 million (+48.3%) versus 2017, mainly driven by Sanofi for €86 million, and the equity stake in Akkadeas an improvement in Operating cash flow and lower Other Pharma for €5 million, as well as additional milestones paid operating income or expenses and restructuring costs, to Exelixis for €26 million following the exclusive license partially compensated by higher financial expenses and agreement signed in 2016 and to Lexicon for €10 million. current income tax. This was partially offset by milestone payment received from Radius and from Galderma for the territory extension in Asia Other non-core operating income and expenses and for a total of €15 million. restructuring costs of €31.7 million included a positive 50 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.3.2 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net cash (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Current financial assets (derivative instruments on financial operations) 0.7 1.4 Closing cash and cash equivalents 310.9 209.3 Bonds (297.9) (297.5) Other financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) (**) (88.1) (102.8) Non-current financial liabilities (386.0) (400.3) Credit lines and bank loans (4.0) (46.0) Financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) (**) (164.1) (227.6) Current financial liabilities (168.1) (273.6) Debt (554.1) (673.9) Net cash / (debt) (*) (242.5) (463.3) (*) Net cash / (debt): derivative instruments booked in financial assets and related to financial operations, cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts, bank loans and other financial liabilities and excluding financial derivative instruments on commercial operations. (**) Financial liabilities mainly exclude €15.8 million in derivative instruments related to commercial operations in 2018, compared to €20.4 million one year earlier. Analysis of Group cash Estimated impact of IFRS 16 standard Ipsen S.A. issued on 16 June 2016, a €300 million unsecured The Group completed the diagnostic of the main impacts of seven-year public bond loan with an annual interest rate of the standard IFRS 16 – Leases. The main contracts concerned 1.875% issued on 16 June 2016. In addition, €300 million in by this standard are property leases and vehicle rentals. bilateral long-term bank loans were contracted with a maturity The Group will utilize the simplified retrospective method for of 6.5 years. As of 31 December 2018, none of the bank loans the first application of this standard as of 1 January 2019. were drawn down. The Group estimates that the application of IFRS 16 will lead Ipsen S.A. also has a syndicated loan of €600 million maturing to an increase in the financial liabilities between €170 and on 17 October 2022. As of 31 December 2018, no amount €200 million as of 1 January 2019. was drawn down on this facility. Ipsen S.A. has a program of “NEU CP Negotiable EUropean” Commercial Paper, for €600 million, of which €141 million was issued as of 31 December 2018. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 51 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.4 Appendices ■■3.1.4.1 Consolidated income statement (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Sales 2,224.8 1,908.7 Other revenues 123.6 103.0 Revenue 2,348.4 2,011.8 Cost of goods sold (454.2) (385.6) Selling expenses (787.4) (715.9) Research and development expenses (302.1) (265.8) General and administrative expenses (165.7) (140.8) Other operating income 39.0 3.1 Other operating expenses (121.7) (105.5) Restructuring costs (21.9) (18.8) Impairment losses (15.0) 14.8 Operating Income 519.4 397.2 Investment income 3.1 1.1 Financing costs (8.4) (9.2) Net financing costs (5.3) (8.1) Other financial income and expense (20.1) (18.4) Income taxes (108.1) (101.4) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method 1.1 1.4 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 387.0 270.7 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 2.0 2.3 Consolidated net profit (loss) 389.1 272.9 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 389.5 272.3 – Attributable to non-controlling interests (0.4) 0.6 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 4.67 3.27 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 4.65 3.25 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.02 0.03 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.02 0.03 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 4.70 3.3 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 4.68 3.28 52 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.4.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 ASSETS Goodwill 395.6 389.0 Other intangible assets 1,011.9 930.2 Property, plant & equipment 474.5 418.9 Equity investments 65.2 43.3 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 15.5 14.7 Non-current financial assets 92.9 112.7 Deferred tax assets 131.9 142.0 Other non-current assets 4.4 4.8 Total non-current assets 2,191.8 2,055.6 Inventories 198.5 167.4 Trade receivables 463.0 437.2 Current tax assets 47.7 58.0 Current financial assets 5.5 29.6 Other current assets 126.4 96.3 Cash and cash equivalents 344.5 228.0 Total current assets 1,185.6 1,016.4 TOTAL ASSETS 3,377.4 3,072.0 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 83.8 83.7 Additional paid-in capital and consolidated reserves 1,366.0 1,171.7 Net profit (loss) for the period 389.5 272.3 Foreign exchange differences 1.8 (2.3) Equity attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 1,841.1 1,525.4 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 2.3 10.5 Total shareholders' equity 1,843.4 1,535.9 Retirement benefit obligation 63.8 67.6 Non-current provisions 44.5 33.3 Other non-current financial liabilities 386.0 400.3 Deferred tax liabilities 19.7 21.5 Other non-current liabilities 61.0 71.7 Total non-current liabilities 574.9 594.3 Current provisions 21.1 16.6 Current financial liabilities 184.2 294.7 Trade payables 379.8 319.1 Current tax liabilities 11.4 2.4 Other current liabilities 329.0 290.2 Bank overdrafts 33.6 18.7 Total current liabilities 959.2 941.8 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 3,377.4 3,072.0 2018 Ipsen Registration document 53 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.4.3 Cash flow statements 3.1.4.3.1 Consolidated statement of cash flow (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Consolidated net profit (loss) 389.1 272.9 Share of profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method before (0.2) (0.5) impairment losses Net profit (loss) before share from entities accounted for using the equity 388.9 272.4 method Non-cash and non-operating items – Depreciation, amortization, provisions 142.6 105.8 – Impairment losses included in operating income and net financial income 15.0 (14.8) – Change in fair value of financial derivatives (2.0) (1.3) – Net gains or losses on disposals of non-current assets 4.8 2.7 – Foreign exchange differences (6.5) 16.9 – Change in deferred taxes 19.2 48.3 – Share-based payment expense 12.8 10.1 – Other non-cash items (1.1) 3.8 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 573.8 444.0 requirement – (Increase) / decrease in inventories (29.8) (38.2) – (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (29.0) (84.6) – Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 62.4 77.6 – Net change in income tax liability 26.5 6.6 – Net change in other operating assets and liabilities (33.0) 17.4 Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities (2.9) (21.2) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 570.9 422.9 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (107.4) (84.9) Acquisition of intangible assets (180.1) (155.9) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 3.2 0.4 Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (30.2) (1.6) Payments to post-employment benefit plans (1.2) (0.6) Impact of changes in the consolidation scope (7.4) (549.5) Change in working capital related to investment activities 49.6 20.5 Other cash flow related to investment activities (0.8) (5.5) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (274.3) (777.2) Additional long-term borrowings 0.9 1.5 Repayment of long-term borrowings (3.9) (3.3) Net change in short-term borrowings (107.3) 218.3 Capital increase 2.6 6.9 Treasury shares (10.3) (17.5) Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. (83.0) (70.2) Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (0.5) (0.4) Change in working capital related to financing activities (0.7) (0.1) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES (202.2) 135.2 CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 94.4 (219.1) Opening cash and cash equivalents 209.3 422.5 Impact of exchange rate fluctuations 7.3 5.9 Closing cash and cash equivalents 310.9 209.3 54 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.4.3.2 Consolidated net cash flow statement (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening net cash / (debt) (463.3) 68.6 CORE OPERATING INCOME 659.9 503.6 Non-cash items 41.2 18.1 (Increase) /decrease in inventories (29.8) (38.2) (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (29.0) (84.6) Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 62.4 77.6 Change in operating working capital requirement 3.6 (45.2) Change in income tax liability 26.5 6.6 Change in other operating assets and liabilities (excluding milestones received) (21.2) 33.5 Other changes in working capital requirement 5.3 40.1 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (107.4) (84.9) Acquisition of intangible assets (excluding milestones paid) (26.7) (19.2) Disposal of fixed assets 3.2 0.4 Change in working capital related to investment activities 10.5 8.9 Net capex (excluding milestones paid) (120.4) (94.7) Dividends received from entities accounted for using the equity method 0.9 0.9 Operating Cash Flow 590.5 422.8 Other non-core operating income and expenses and restructuring costs (cash) (31.7) (53.4) Financial income (cash) (25.9) (16.8) Current income tax (P&L, excluding provisions for tax contingencies) (89.3) (53.0) Other operating cash flow 14.9 9.4 Free Cash Flow 458.4 309.0 Dividends paid (including payout to non-controlling interests) (83.5) (70.6) Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (25.3) (1.6) Acquisition of other financial assets (1) – (5.4) Impact of changes in consolidation scope (2) (8.0) (671.1) Milestones paid (3) (117.2) (39.3) Milestones received (4) 36.0 14.7 Other Business Development operations (5.7) (86.5) Net investments (Business Development and milestones) (120.2) (789.2) Share buyback (24.6) (18.1) FX on net indebtedness (10.2) 33.8 Other (discontinued operations and financial instrument) 0.9 3.3 Shareholders return and external growth operations (237.6) (840.9) CHANGE IN NET CASH / (DEBT) 220.8 (531.9) Closing net cash / (debt) (242.5) (463.3) (1) Acquisitions of shares in non-consolidated companies is mainly comprised of an equity investment in Arix Bioscience for €17 million and an additional investment in an external innovation fund for €8 million. (2) Impact of change in consolidation scope reflects the last equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma. (3) Milestones paid correspond to payments subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Group’s partnership agreements. They mainly include €98 million milestones paid to Exelixis, a total of €14 million paid to MD Anderson Cancer Center following the license agreement signed in May 2018 and to 3B Pharmaceuticals for additional milestones. The amounts paid were recorded as an increase in intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The transactions were included in the “Acquisition of intangible assets” line item in the consolidated statement of cash flow (see Appendix 3.1). (4) Milestones received are amounts collected by Ipsen from its partners. The €36 million received are related to a milestone from Servier following the Onivyde® acquisition closed in 2017 and a milestone received from Galderma for territory extension in Asia for €15 million. The amounts were recorded as deferred income in the consolidated balance sheet and then recognized in the income statement as “Other revenues” in case of dynamic license or directly in “Other revenues” in case of static license. Milestones received were included in the “Net change in other operating assets and liabilities” line item in the consolidated statement of cash flow. (see Appendix 3.1). 2018 Ipsen Registration document 55 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.4.4 Bridges from IFRS consolidated net profit to Core consolidated net profit IFRS Amortization of Other operating CORE Restructuring Impairment (in million euros) 31 December intangible assets income or Other 31 December Costs losses 2018 (excl. software) expenses 2018 Sales 2,224.8 2,224.8 Other revenues 123.6 123.6 Revenue 2,348.4 – – – – – 2,348.4 Cost of goods sold (454.2) (454.2) Selling expenses (787.4) (787.4) Research and development expenses (302.1) (302.1) General and administrative expenses (165.7) (165.7) Other operating income 39.0 (17.9) 21.1 Other operating expenses (121.7) 73.1 48.3 (0.3) Restructuring costs (21.9) 21.9 – Impairment losses (15.0) 15.0 – Operating Income 519.4 73.1 30.4 21.9 15.0 – 659.9 Net financing costs (5.3) (5.3) Other financial income and expense (20.1) (20.1) Income taxes (108.1) (20.0) (4.9) (6.0) (5.2) – (144.1) Share of net profit (loss) from entities 1.1 1.1 accounted for using the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing 387.0 53.2 25.5 16.0 9.8 – 491.6 operations Net profit (loss) from discontinued 2.0 (2.0) – operations Consolidated net profit 389.1 53.2 25.5 16.0 9.8 (2.0) 491.6 – Attributable to shareholders 389.5 53.2 25.5 16.0 9.8 (2.0) 491.9 of Ipsen S.A. – Attributable to non-controlling (0.4) (0.4) interests Earnings per share fully diluted attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 4.68 0.64 0.31 0.19 0.12 (0.02) 5.91 (in € per share) The reconciliation items between Core consolidated net paragraph “From Core financial measures to IFRS reported profit and IFRS consolidated net profit are described in the figures”. 56 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR IFRS Amortization of Other operating CORE Impairment (in million euros) 31 December intangible assets income or Restructuring Other 31 December losses 2017 (excl. software) expenses 2017 Sales 1,908.7 1,908.7 Other revenues 103.0 103.0 Revenue 2,011.8 – – – – – 2,011.8 Cost of goods sold (385.6) (385.6) Selling expenses (715.9) (715.9) Research and development expenses (265.8) (265.8) General and administrative expenses (140.8) (140.8) Other operating income 3.1 (2.7) 0.4 Other operating expenses (105.5) 53.3 51.7 (0.5) Restructuring costs (18.8) 18.8 – Impairment losses 14.8 (14.8) – Operating Income 397.2 53.3 48.9 18.8 (14.8) – 503.6 Net financing costs (8.1) (8.1) Other financial income and expense (18.4) (18.4) Income taxes (101.4) (15.7) (15.4) (5.9) 1.9 20.7 (115.7) Share of net profit (loss) from entities 1.4 1.4 accounted for using the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing 270.7 37.6 33.6 13.0 (12.8) 20.7 362.7 operations Net profit (loss) from discontinued 2.3 (2.3) – operations Consolidated net profit 272.9 37.6 33.6 13.0 (12.8) 18.5 362.7 – Attributable to shareholders 272.3 37.6 33.6 13.0 (12.8) 18.5 362.1 of Ipsen S.A. – Attributable to non-controlling 0.6 0.6 interests Earnings per share fully diluted attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 3.28 0.45 0.40 0.16 (0.15) 0.22 4.36 (in € per share) 2018 Ipsen Registration document 57 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.5 Subsequent events There were no significant subsequent events. 3.1.6 Group outlook 2019 Financial Guidance Group has updated its 2019 financial objectives which are The Group has set the following financial targets for 2019: disclosed in section 3.4. • Group sales growth year-on-year at constant currency 2020 Outlook greater than +13.0%; based on the current level of In May 2017, Ipsen provided the following 2020 financial exchange rates, sales growth at current rates would be targets: positively impacted by around 1.0%. • Sales greater than €2.5 billion. • Core operating margin around 31.0% of net sales, • Core Operating Income margin greater than 30% of sales. excluding incremental investments in pipeline expansion initiatives. This guidance excludes the impact from any further business development and covers the impact from potential competitive The 2019 Financial Guidance issued on 14 February 2019 threats to Somatuline®. does not consider the Clementia acquisition to come. The 58 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement (in million euros) Notes 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Sales 4.2 & 4.3 2,224.8 1,908.7 Other revenues 4.4 123.6 103.0 Revenue 2,348.4 2,011.8 Cost of goods sold (454.2) (385.6) Selling expenses (787.4) (715.9) Research and development expenses (302.1) (265.8) General and administrative expenses (165.7) (140.8) Other operating income 7 39.0 3.1 Other operating expenses 7 (121.7) (105.5) Restructuring costs 8 (21.9) (18.8) Impairment losses 6 (15.0) 14.8 Operating Income 4.1 519.4 397.2 Investment income 9 3.1 1.1 Financing costs 9 (8.4) (9.2) Net financing costs 9 (5.3) (8.1) Other financial income and expense 9 (20.1) (18.4) Income taxes 10.1 (108.1) (101.4) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity 16 1.1 1.4 method Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 387.0 270.7 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 11 2.0 2.3 Consolidated net profit 389.1 272.9 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 389.5 272.3 – Attributable to non-controlling interests (0.4) 0.6 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 20.2 4.67 3.27 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 20.3 4.65 3.25 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 20.2 0.02 0.03 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 20.3 0.02 0.03 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 20.2 4.70 3.30 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 20.3 4.68 3.28 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 59 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comprehensive income statement (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Consolidated net profit 389.1 272.9 Actuarial gains and (losses) on defined benefit plans, net of taxes 7.6 (4.6) Financial assets at fair value through other items of comprehensive income (OCI), (3.7) net of taxes Other items of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to 3.8 (4.6) the income statement Revaluation of financial derivatives for hedging, net of taxes (18.1) 16.0 Foreign exchange differences, net of taxes 4.3 (57.5) Financial assets available for sale, net of taxes 12.9 Other items of comprehensive income likely to be reclassified to the income (13.7) (28.6) statement Comprehensive income: Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and (losses) 379.2 239.7 recognized directly in equity – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 379.6 239.2 – Attributable to non-controlling interests (0.4) 0.5 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 60 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit (in million euros) Notes 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 ASSETS Goodwill 12 395.6 389.0 Other intangible assets 13 1,011.9 930.2 Property, plant & equipment 14 474.5 418.9 Equity investments 15 65.2 43.3 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 16 15.5 14.7 Non-current financial assets 17.1 92.9 112.7 Deferred tax assets 10.2 131.9 142.0 Other non-current assets 17.2 4.4 4.8 Total non-current assets 2,191.8 2,055.6 Inventories 18.2.1 198.5 167.4 Trade receivables 18.1 463.0 437.2 Current tax assets 18.1 47.7 58.0 Current financial assets 18.2.2 5.5 29.6 Other current assets 18.2.3 126.4 96.3 Cash and cash equivalents 19.2 344.5 228.0 Total current assets 1,185.6 1,016.4 TOTAL ASSETS 3,377.4 3,072.0 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 20.1 83.8 83.7 Additional paid-in capital and consolidated reserves 1,366.0 1,171.7 Net profit (loss) for the period 389.5 272.3 Foreign exchange differences 1.8 (2.3) Equity attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 1,841.1 1,525.4 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 2.3 10.5 Total shareholders' equity 1,843.4 1,535.9 Retirement benefit obligation 5.3.2.2 63.8 67.6 Non-current provisions 21 44.5 33.3 Non-current financial liabilities 22.1 386.0 400.3 Deferred tax liabilities 10.2 19.7 21.5 Other non-current liabilities 18.2.4 61.0 71.7 Total non-current liabilities 574.9 594.3 Current provisions 21 21.1 16.6 Current financial liabilities 22.1 184.2 294.7 Trade payables 18.1 379.8 319.1 Current tax liabilities 18.1 11.4 2.4 Other current liabilities 18.2.4 329.0 290.2 Bank overdrafts 19.1.2 33.6 18.7 Total current liabilities 959.2 941.8 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 3,377.4 3,072.0 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 61 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow (in million euros) Notes 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Consolidated net profit 389.1 272.9 Share of profit (loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method 16 (0.2) (0.5) before impairment losses Net profit (loss) before share from companies accounted for using the 388.9 272.4 equity method Non-cash and non-operating items – Depreciation, amortization, provisions 6.1 142.6 105.8 – Impairment losses included in operating income and net financial income 6.2 15.0 (14.8) – Change in fair value of financial derivatives (2.0) (1.3) – Net gains or losses on disposals of non-current assets 4.8 2.7 – Foreign exchange differences (6.5) 16.9 – Change in deferred taxes 10.2 19.2 48.3 – Share-based payment expense 12.8 10.1 – Other non-cash items (1.1) 3.8 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 573.8 444.0 requirement – (Increase)/decrease in inventories 18.1 (29.8) (38.2) – (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables 18.1 (29.0) (84.6) – Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 18.1 62.4 77.6 – Net change in income tax liability 18.1 26.5 6.6 – Net change in other operating assets and liabilities 18.1 (33.0) 17.4 Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities (2.9) (21.2) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 570.9 422.9 Acquisition of property. plant & equipment 14 (107.4) (84.9) Acquisition of intangible assets 13.1 (180.1) (155.9) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 3.2 0.4 Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies 15 (30.2) (1.6) Payments to post-employment benefit plans 5.3.2.6 (1.2) (0.6) Impact of changes in the consolidation scope (7.4) (549.5) Change in working capital related to investment activities 18.1 49.6 20.5 Other cash flow related to investment activities (0.8) (5.5) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (274.3) (777.2) Additional long-term borrowings 22.1 0.9 1.5 Repayment of long-term borrowings 22.1 (3.9) (3.3) Net change in short-term borrowings 22.1 (107.3) 218.3 Capital increase 2.6 6.9 Treasury shares (10.3) (17.5) Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. 20.5 (83.0) (70.2) Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (0.5) (0.4) Change in working capital related to financing activities (0.7) (0.1) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES (202.2) 135.2 CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 94.4 (219.1) OPENING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 19.1.1 209.3 422.5 Impact of exchange rate fluctuations 7.3 5.9 CLOSING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 19.1.2 310.9 209.3 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 62 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity Reserves Equity related to Cash flow Net profit Total attributable (in million Share Share Consolidated Treasury Total retirement hedge (loss) for Group to noneuros) capital premiums reserves (3) shares equity benefit reserves the period equity controlling obligations interests Balance at 31 December 83.7 739.1 532.5 (32.7) 14.6 (84.1) 272.3 1,525.4 10.5 1,535.9 2017 First-time application of IFRS 15 – Revenue from – – 14.0 – – – – 14.0 – 14.0 Contracts with Customers (see note 3.2.1) Balance at 83.7 739.1 546.5 (32.7) 14.6 (84.1) 272.3 1,539.4 10.5 1,549.9 1 January 2018 Consolidated – – – – – – 389.5 389.5 (0.4) 389.1 net profit (loss) Gains and (losses) recognized – – 0.6 7.6 (18.1) – – (9.8) (0.0) (9.9) directly in equity (1) Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and losses – – 0.6 7.6 (18.1) – 389.5 379.6 (0.4) 379.2 recognized directly in equity Allocation of net profit (loss) from – – 272.3 – – – (272.3) – – – the prior period Capital increases 0.1 2.6 0.0 – – 0.0 – 2.7 – 2.7 (decreases) Share-based – – (18.3) – – 43.5 – 25.2 – 25.2 payments Own share purchases and – – – – – (22.8) – (22.8) – (22.8) disposals Dividends – – (83.0) – – – – (83.0) (0.4) (83.4) Other – – (0.1) – – – – (0.1) (7.5) (7.5) changes (2) Balance at 31 December 83.8 741.7 718.0 (25.1) (3.4) (63.3) 389.5 1,841.1 2.3 1,843.3 2018 (1) Detailed in the note “Comprehensive income statement”. (2) The decline in minority interests resulted from the acquisition of the outstanding share of Akkadeas Pharma S.R.L.’s capital not already owned. (3) The main sources of consolidated reserves were as follows: • Reserves on financial assets at fair value; • Translation reserves; • Retained earnings. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 63 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reserves Equity related to Cash flow Net profit Total attributable (in million Share Share Consolidated Treasury Total retirement hedge (loss) for Group to noneuros) capital premiums reserves shares equity benefit reserves the period equity controlling obligations interests Balance at 83.6 732.9 411.2 (28.1) (1.4) (65.2) 225.9 1,358.9 3.3 1,362.2 1 January 2017 Consolidated – – – – – – 272.3 272.3 0.6 272.9 net profit (loss) Gains and (losses) recognized – – (44.5) (4.6) 16.0 – – (33.0) (0.2) (33.2) directly in equity (1) Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and losses – – (44.5) (4.6) 16.0 – 272.3 239.2 0.5 239.7 recognized directly in equity Allocation of net profit (loss) from – – 225.9 – – – (225.9) – – – the prior period Capital increases 0.2 6.2 (0.0) – – (0.1) – 6.2 – 6.2 (decreases) Share-based – – 10.1 – – 0.8 – 10.9 – 10.9 payments Own share purchases and – – – – – (19.6) – (19.6) – (19.6) disposals Dividends – – (70.2) – – – – (70.2) (0.5) (70.8) Other changes – – – – – – – – 7.2 7.2 Balance at 31 December 83.7 739.1 532.5 (32.7) 14.6 (84.1) 272.3 1,525.4 10.5 1,535.9 2017 (1) Detailed in the note “Comprehensive income statement”. The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 64 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.5 Notes NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND TRANSACTIONS NOTE 4 OPERATING SEGMENTS 78 DURING THE PERIOD HAVING AN IMPACT ON THE 4.1 Core operating income by operating segment 79 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.2 Sales by geographical region 79 AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 67 4.3 Sales by therapeutic area and product 80 1.1 New indications for Cabometyx® 67 4.4 Other revenues 80 4.5 Other information 80 NOTE 2 CHANGES IN THE SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 67 2.1 2018 financial year 67 NOTE 5 PERSONNEL 81 2.2 2017 financial year 67 5.1 Headcount 81 5.2 Employee expenses 81 NOTE 3ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND METHODS, 5.3 Long-term employee benefits 81 AND COMPLIANCE STATEMENT 68 5.3.1 Benefit plans 81 3.1 General principles and compliance statement 68 5.3.1.1 Retirement benefit obligations 81 3.2 Standards and interpretations that became applicable 5.3.1.2 Other long-term benefits 81 as of 1 January 2018 68 5.3.2 Measurement and recognition of liabilities 81 3.2.1 Application of IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts 5.3.2.1 Assumptions used 82 with Customers 68 5.3.2.2 Reconciliation of balance sheet assets and liabilities 82 3.2.2 Application of IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments 69 5.3.2.3 Reconciliation of income statement expenses 82 3.3 Standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed 5.3.2.4 Movements in net liability recognized by the European Union and not adopted early in the balance sheet 83 by the Group 69 5.3.2.5 Movements in defined benefit plan obligations 83 3.4 Standards, amendments and interpretations published 5.3.2.6 Movements in plan assets 83 but not yet endorsed by the European Union 70 5.3.2.7 Allocation of plan assets 84 3.4.1 IASB publications not yet endorsed 5.3.2.8 Future probable plan benefits 84 by the European Union 70 5.4 Share-based payments 84 3.4.2 IASB publications following the closing date 70 5.4.1 Share option plans granted by Ipsen 84 3.5 Measurement bases used in preparing 5.4.1.1 Details of share option plans 84 the consolidated financial statements 70 5.4.1.2 Valuation of plans 85 3.6 Use of estimates 70 5.4.1.3 Change in number of options outstanding 85 3.7 Consolidation methods 70 5.4.2 Bonus share plans 85 3.8 Business combinations 70 5.4.2.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans 85 3.9 Operating segments 71 5.4.2.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans 86 3.10 Conversion of financial statements in foreign currencies 71 3.11 Conversion of receivables, payables, transactions, NOTE 6 DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION, PROVISIONS and flows denominated in foreign currencies 72 AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 86 3.12 Other intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 72 3.13 Property, plant & equipment 72 6.1 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment 3.14 Leases 72 losses included in the cash flow statement 86 3.14.1 Finance leases 72 6.2 Impairment losses 86 3.14.2 Operating leases 73 6.2.1 2018 financial year 86 3.15 Impairment of assets 73 6.2.2 2017 financial year 86 3.15.1 Type of asset tested 73 3.15.1.1 Goodwill 73 NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES 86 3.15.1.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life 73 3.15.1.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life 73 NOTE 8 RESTRUCTURING COSTS 87 3.15.1.4 Tangible fixed assets and long-term financial assets 73 3.15.2 Impairment tests methods used by the Group 73 NOTE 9 NET FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) 87 3.15.2.1 Goodwill 73 3.15.2.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life 73 3.15.2.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life 73 NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES 88 3.16 Government grants 74 10.1 Tax expense 88 3.17 Financial assets 74 10.1.1 Effective tax rate 88 3.17.1 Financial assets at amortized cost 74 10.1.2 Reconciliation between the effective and nominal 3.17.2 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive tax expense 88 income 74 10.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 89 3.17.3 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 74 10.3 Type of deferred taxes recognized on the balance sheet 3.17.4 Fair value of financial instruments 75 and the income statement 89 3.18 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 75 NOTE 11 NET PROFIT (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED 3.19 Inventories 75 OPERATIONS 90 3.20 Cash and cash equivalents 75 3.21 Stock option plans 75 NOTE 12 GOODWILL 90 3.22 Retirement benefit obligations 75 3.22.1 Post-employment benefits 75 12.1 Net goodwill carried in the balance sheet 90 3.22.2 Other employee benefits 76 12.2 Impairment of goodwill 91 3.23 Provisions 76 NOTE 13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 92 3.24 Financial liabilities 76 3.25 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 76 13.1 Movements 92 3.25.1 Hedge accounting 76 13.2 Breakdown of intangible assets by asset type 94 3.25.2 Other derivative instruments 76 3.26 Sales 76 NOTE 14 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT 94 3.27 Other revenues 77 3.28 Cost of sales 77 NOTE 15 EQUITY INVESTMENTS 95 3.29 Research and Development 77 3.29.1 Internal Research and Development 77 NOTE 16 INVESTMENTS IN COMPANIES ACCOUNTED 3.29.2 Research and Development acquired separately 77 FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD 96 3.29.3 Research and Development acquired in a business combination 77 3.29.4 Research tax credits 78 NOTE 17 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 3.30 Other operating income and expenses 78 AND OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 96 3.31 Taxes 78 17.1 Non-current financial assets 96 3.32 Earnings per share 78 17.2 Other non-current assets 97 2018 Ipsen Registration document 65 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 18 DETAIL OF THE CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL NOTE 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS REPORTED REQUIREMENT 97 IN THE BALANCE SHEET 106 18.1 Movements 97 18.2 Breakdown 98 NOTE 25 INFORMATION ON ENTITIES CONSOLIDATED 18.2.1 Inventories 98 AS JOINT OPERATIONS 107 18.2.2 Current financial assets 98 25.1 Balance sheet items 107 18.2.3 Other current assets 98 25.2 Income statement items 107 18.2.4 Other current and non-current liabilities 99 NOTE 26 INFORMATION ON RELATED PARTIES 108 NOTE 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 99 26.1 Director and executive compensation 108 19.1 Net Cash and cash equivalents 99 26.2 Transactions with related parties 108 19.1.1 Opening net cash and cash equivalents 99 26.2.1 In the income statement 108 19.1.2 Closing net cash and cash equivalents 99 26.2.2 In the balance sheet 108 19.2 Cash and cash equivalents 99 26.2.3 Off-balance sheet commitments 108 NOTE 20 CONSOLIDATED EQUITY 100 NOTE 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 109 20.1 Share capital 100 27.1 Operating commitments 109 20.2 Basic earnings per share 100 27.1.1 Operating commitments given 109 20.3 Diluted earnings per share 100 27.1.2 Operating commitments received 109 20.4 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 101 27.2 Financial commitments 109 20.4.1 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 27.3 General risks 109 to calculate basic earnings per share 101 27.4 Liquidity risk and counterparty risk 110 20.4.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 27.5 Other commitments 110 to calculate diluted earnings per share 101 27.5.1 Capital expenditure commitments 110 20.5 Dividends paid 101 27.5.2 Commitments related to rental agreements 110 27.5.3 Risk of acceleration of borrowings 111 NOTE 21 PROVISIONS 101 27.5.4 Endorsements, pledges and guarantees given 111 21.1 Movements 101 27.5.5 Commitments arising from Research 21.2 Impact on consolidated income 102 and Development agreements 111 NOTE 22 BANK LOANS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 103 NOTE 28 POST CLOSING EVENTS WITH NO IMPACT ON 22.1 Movements 103 THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.2 Breakdown by maturity and currency 104 AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 111 NOTE 23 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 104 NOTE 29 CONSOLIDATION SCOPE 111 23.1 Interest rate risk hedging 104 29.1 Fully consolidated companies 112 23.2 Exchange rate risk hedging 104 29.2 Companies consolidated as joint operations 23.2.1 Application of IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments 104 for the Group’s share of net profit or loss 113 23.2.2 Transactional foreign exchange risk 105 29.3 Companies consolidated using the equity method 113 23.2.3 Financing foreign exchange risk 105 23.3 Derivative financial instruments reported NOTE 30 FEES PAID TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS 113 in the balance sheet 106 66 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 Significant events and transactions during the period having an impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018 ■■1.1 New indications for Cabometyx® 20, 40, 60 mg as a monotherapy for hepatocellular On 17 May 2018, Ipsen announced that the European carcinoma (HCC) in adults who have previously been treated Commission (EC) had approved Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) with sorafenib. The approval allows for the marketing of for the first-line treatment of adults with intermediate or poorCabometyx® (cabozantinib) in this indication in all 28 member risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (aRCC), allowing for the states of the European Union, Norway and Iceland. marketing of Cabometyx® in this indication in all 28 member The EC’s approval of the MAA (Marketing Authorization states of the European Union, Norway and Iceland. Application) was based on the results of the global placeboThe decision was based on the CABOSUN trial, which controlled CELESTIAL phase 3 pivotal trial which met its demonstrated that cabozantinib significantly prolongs primary endpoint of overall survival (OS), with cabozantinib progression-free survival (PFS) compared to sunitinib in providing a statistically significant and clinically meaningful treatment-naive aRCC patients with intermediate or poor risk. improvement in OS, compared with placebo in patients Cabozantinib is the first and only monotherapy to demonstrate with advanced HCC who have been previously treated with superior clinical efficacy over sunitinib in treatment-naive sorafenib. aRCC patients with intermediate or poor risk. On 15 November 2018, Ipsen announced that the European Commission (EC) had approved Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) Note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation ■■2.1 2018 financial year Olisapharm S.A.S., not previously consolidated, was renamed During the 2018 financial year, the Group established Ipsen PharmSciences S.A.S. and was fully consolidated at subsidiaries in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, 31 December 2018. Kazakhstan, and Algeria. At 31 December 2018, the ownership During the 2018 financial year, the Group’s interest in percentage in the Algerian subsidiary came to 49%, and the Akkadeas Pharma S.R.L. was increased from 49% to 100%. interest was fully consolidated following an evaluation of the Group’s control over the subsidiary, in accordance with ■■2.2 2017 financial year IFRS 10. The Romanian and Kazakh subsidiaries are 100% As part of the Group’s effort to simplify and streamline its owned and were fully consolidated in the 2018 financial legal and administrative organization, on 2 January 2017, statements. The Hungarian and Czech subsidiaries are 100% Suraypharm S.A.S. was wound up after its assets were owned but were not consolidated owing to their insignificant transferred to its sole shareholder, Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. size at 31 December 2018. On 23 January 2017, Ipsen acquired control of Akkadeas Socapharma S.A.S., not previously consolidated, was Pharma S.r.l., which was included in the scope of consolidation renamed Ipsen Consumer Healthcare S.A.S. and was fully and fully consolidated. consolidated at 31 December 2018. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 67 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 3 Accounting principles and methods, and compliance statement Preliminary remarks: • IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transaction and Advance Consideration • all amounts are expressed in millions of euros, unless otherwise stated; • Annual Improvements – 2014-2016 Cycle Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 • the closing date of the consolidated financial statements is 31 December of each year. Individual statements • Amendments to IFRS 4 – Applying IFRS 9 Financial incorporated into consolidated statements are prepared Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts at the closing date of the consolidated statements, i.e. 31 December, and cover the same period; • Amendments to IAS 40 – Transfers of Investment Property • the Group’s consolidated financial statements were The impacts of applying IFRS 15, and the amendments approved by the Board of Directors on 13 February 2019 clarifying the application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 in the Group’s and will be submitted for approval at the Shareholders’ annual financial statements are described in notes 3.2.1 and Meeting scheduled for 28 May 2019. 3.2.2. A review of the other amendments and standards entering ■■3.1 G  eneral principles and compliance into force on 1 January 2018 showed that their application statement had a non-material impact on the Group’s annual financial statements, which accordingly were not restated. The The main accounting methods used to prepare the amendments to IFRS 4 and IAS 40 do not apply to the consolidated financial statements are described below. Unless Group’s activities. otherwise stated, these methods were used systematically for all financial years presented. 3.2.1 Application of IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers In compliance with European regulation n°1606 / 2002 adopted on 19 July 2002 by the European Parliament and The Group began applying IFRS 15 as of 1 January 2018 using the European Council, the Group’s consolidated financial the simplified retrospective application approach. None of the statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 were simplification measures provided for by the standard was prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting used. In practice, IFRS 15 introduces a method of revenue Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union on the recognition based on the transfer of control over the goods date of preparation. The IFRS as endorsed by the European or services, and no longer the transfer of risks and rewards. Union differ in certain aspects from the IFRS published by the The Group’s revenues are generated mainly by the sale of IASB. pharmaceutical products, with this revenue recognized at the date of transfer of control. The first-time application of IFRS 15 International accounting standards include International had a limited impact on the Group’s financial statements, Financial Repor ting Standards ( IFRS ), International primarily affecting the revenue recognition of licenses. Accounting Standards (IAS), as well as the interpretations Licensing agreements are recognized in “Other revenues” issued by the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC), (see note 4.4) and can be broken down into two distinct types, and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations as follows: Committee (IFRIC). • static licenses are contracts whose control has been A l l th e tex ts ad o pte d by th e Eu ro p e a n U n i o n a re transferred to the customer and to which the Group has a ava il a b l e o n th e Eu ro p e a n C o m m is s io n’s we bs i te : payment right. Revenue from these licenses is recognized ht tp s : //e c.e u ro p a .e u / i nfo / b u s i n e s se c o n o mye u ro / at the date when control of the licensed asset has been company-repor ting-and-auditing /company-repor ting / transferred; financial-reporting_en#ifrs-endorsement-process. • dynamic licenses are licenses in which the royalties ■■3.2 Standards and interpretations that became received correspond to the right held by the customer to applicable as of 1 January 2018 use an intangible asset without a transfer of control, or to a situation where licensing agreement cannot be separated The mandatory standards, amendments and interpretations from the sale of the goods or services. Such revenue is published by the IASB and applicable as of the 2018 financial spread over the life of the licensing agreement. Upfront year are listed below. payments and milestone payments are spread over the licensing contract period to which they relate. • IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers The change in the criteria for determining the transfer of • Amendments to IFRS 15 – Clarifications control led to a change in how revenue generated by static • IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments licenses is recognized. Previously, such revenue was spread over the life of the licensing agreement. From now on, they • Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement are recognized once in “Other revenue”, when control of the of Share-Based Payment Transactions licensed asset has been transferred. 68 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The notion of control introduced by IFRS 15 did not change • To a large extent, IFRS 9 maintains the recommendations the conclusions about agent-principal status in assessments of IAS 39 in the area of classifying financial liabilities and, previously undertaken by the Group. as a result, its application had no impact on the Group’s accounting methods for financial liabilities. The Group also ensured that the particulars and changes introduced by IFRS 15 did not change how the following items • Hedge accounting: the application of IFRS 9 provisions for were recognized: hedge accounting had no impact on Ipsen’s consolidated financial statements. • performance obligations included in contracts (timing and measurement conditions); The Group adopted the corresponding amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures to be made in • customer product returns, as well as rebates and discounts the notes to the 2018 financial statements, without generally granted; applying them to comparative data. • costs associated to the realization of contracts. ■■3.3 S  tandards, amendments and The transition to IFRS 15 resulted in a €14 million increase in equity on 1 January 2018, with a corresponding decrease in interpretations endorsed by the European deferred income in the balance sheet (see note 18.2.4) and Union and not adopted early by the Group impact on deferred taxes. The Group did not opt for early adoption of the standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed by the European 3.2.2 Application of IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments Union for which the application was not mandatory on IFRS 9 specifies how an entity should classify and measure 1 January 2018, namely: financial assets and liabilities as well as the conditions for applying hedge accounting. The standard replaced IAS 39 – • IFRS 16 – Leases Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. • Amendments to IFRS 9 – Prepayment Features with The Group applied IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 and opted to Negative Compensation recognize the impacts of first-time application in the opening • IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty of Income Tax Treatments balance sheet without restating previous financial years. The first-time application of the standard had no significant • Amendment to IAS 28 – Long Term Interests in Associates impact on Ipsen’s consolidated financial statements. The and Joint Ventures main impacts of applying IFRS 9 were as follows: The Group conducted a review of the main impacts of • For investments in non-consolidated companies held IFRS 16 – Leases. The main leases impacted by the standard for investment purposes and previously recognized in included property leases and vehicle leases. Ipsen will use the “Available-for-sale financial assets”, the Group opted to simplified retrospective approach for the first-time application recognize them at fair value through “Other comprehensive of IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019. In compliance with IFRS 16 income”, without reclassifying them later in profit or loss. provisions, the aggregate impact of applying IFRS 16 at In compliance with IFRS 9, the changes in the fair value of the date of transition will be recognized in equity, and the interests held by the Group in investment funds are now comparative data will not be restated. recognized in profit or loss (see note 15). In accordance with the options authorized by the standard, • At 1 January 2018, amounts recognized under the principles lease agreements with a term of less than 12 months or of IAS 39 as reserves for available-for-sale assets in “Other whose original asset value is under $5000 will not be restated. comprehensive income” were reclassified as “Other items The review of commercial leases relied on contractual of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to provisions to determine the assumptions used for estimating the income statement” for equity investments, and as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. The term of the lease consolidated reserves for investment funds, with no impact used corresponds to the non-cancellable period provided for on the total amount of consolidated shareholders’ equity. in the agreement unless the Group is reasonably certain that • Expected loss model: the Group applied the expected it will exercise an extension option. Lease agreement liabilities loss model introduced by IFRS 9 to its trade receivables. will be measured at the present value of remaining lease Accordingly, the impairment of trade receivables is based payments and discounted using an incremental borrowing on a loss rate observed over the three previous years. This rate ( IBR ) set at 31 December 2018. The incremental approach measures the impairment amount on a client-byborrowing rate of each lease agreement will take into account client basis. Some specific risk factors, such as economic, the remaining term of the lease commitment. A marginal country and client default risks, are individually assessed incremental interest rate will be applied. The Group will use a and taken into account during the evaluation. swap curve adjusted for Ipsen’s financing spread depending on the currency zone in which the lease operates. Applying the new estimated credit loss model to trade receivables recognized in Ipsen’s consolidated balance Pending the IFRS IC conclusions, Ipsen considered that the sheet at 1 January 2018 showed no significant difference exemption for the initial recognition of deferred taxes called for compared with the old model for losses incurred. As a in IAS 12 should apply to the recognition of the right of use and result, applying this aspect of IFRS 9 had no notable impact the lease liability during the transition to IFRS 16. As a result, no on the consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2018. deferred taxes will be recognized at the transition date. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 69 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The amount of the IFRS 16 liability represents Ipsen’s required to make estimates and uses certain assumptions lease payment commitments at 31 December 2018, i.e. likely to impact the carrying value of assets and liabilities, €204.8 million discounted over the remaining term of the shareholders’ equity, income and expense items, and leases and adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease payment information provided in the notes to the financial statements. (see note 27.5.2). Management has regularly made these estimates and The Group believes that the application of IFRS 16 will — at assumptions on the basis of its past experience and other 1 January 2019 — increase financial liabilities by €170 million factors deemed reasonable. Changing assumptions, in to €200 million and generate corresponding tangible particular as a result of the economic or financial environment, assets from the recognition of rights of use. Based on the which could weaken some of the Group’s partners and make assumptions used, the annual impact on Core Operating it difficult to estimate future outlook, could ultimately lead to Income is expected to be less than €5 million, while the amount variances. impact on Consolidated net profit is expected to be under €5 million in 2019. These estimates were based on facts and The estimates were made based on information available at circumstances at 31 December 2018. the closing date, after taking into account post closing events. A review of the amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 28 and IFRIC 23 The main material estimates made by management concern was under way by the Group at the close of the 2018 employee benefits (see note 5), any impairment of goodwill consolidated financial statements. (see note 12) or intangible assets (see note 13), deferred tax asset assessment (see note 10), and provisions (see ■■3.4 Standards, amendments and note 21). interpretations published but not yet ■■3.7 Consolidation methods endorsed by the European Union Subsidiaries controlled by the Group are fully consolidated. 3.4.1 IASB publications not yet endorsed by the European Union Companies controlled jointly with one or several outside Standards, amendments and interpretations published but partners are either consolidated as a joint venture using not yet endorsed by the European Union are listed below. the equity method, or as a joint operation, whereby Ipsen recognizes its assets and liabilities proportionally to its rights • Amendments to IFRS 3 – Business Combinations and obligations in the arrangement, in accordance with the • Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 – Definition of Material provisions under IFRS 11. • Annual Improvements – 2015 2017 Cycle An associated company is an entity in which the Group has significant influence over the entity’s financial and operating • Amendments to IAS 19 – Plan Amendment, Curtailment or policy decisions but without control or joint control. A joint Settlement venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control and rights over the arrangement’s net assets but no direct • Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework rights on its assets or obligations arising from its liabilities. in IFRS Companies over which the Group exercises significant • IFRS 17 – Insurance Contracts influence are accounted for using the equity method. A review of these standards, amendments and interpretations was under way by the Group at the close of the 2018 If the accounting methods used by subsidiaries, joint consolidated financial statements. operations, joint ventures, and companies accounted for using the equity method do not comply with those used by 3.4.2 IASB publications following the closing date the Group, all necessary changes are made to ensure that Standards and interpretations published by the IASB since the financial statements of those companies are compatible the closing date and before the approval of the consolidated with the Group’s accounting principles. Transactions between financial statements are listed below. consolidated companies and intra-group results are eliminated. At this writing, no standard or interpretation have been Investments in companies that are not consolidated are published since the closing date. recognized as equity investments. ■■3.5 Measurement bases used in preparing ■■3.8 Business combinations the consolidated financial statements Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase The consolidated financial statements were prepared using method. The cost of an acquisition is based on the fair value the historical cost principle, with the exception of certain asset of the assets acquired, instruments of equity issued, and and liability classes in accordance with IFRS. The related liabilities incurred or assumed from the previous owners at classes are described in the notes below. the date of the combination. The costs directly attributable to the combination are accounted for as “Other operating ■■3.6 Use of estimates expenses” in the period during which they are incurred. To prepare its financial statements in accordance with On first-time consolidation of an exclusively controlled international financial reporting standards, the Group is company, identifiable assets and liabilities are valued at 70 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS their fair value except exceptions specifically provided for by used for business performance analysis and for allocation of IFRS 3 – Business Combinations. resources by the “chief operating decision maker”, i.e. the Executive Leadership Team. Goodwill recorded in the consolidated balance sheet is the difference between: The Group’s two operating segments are Specialty Care • the total amount of the following elements: and Consumer Healthcare. Only general and administrative expenses and the impact of cash flow hedges are not –– the cost of acquisition at the acquisition date, allocated to the two operating segments. –– the total of non-controlling interests in the acquired company determined either at fair value at the acquisition The Group uses Core operating income to measure its date (full goodwill method), or on the basis of their share segment performance. Core operating income is the internally in the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and used indicator to measure operating performance and to liabilities assumed (partial goodwill method). This option allocate resources. is reviewed by the Group on a transaction-by-transaction Core operating income excludes amortization expense for basis, intangible assets (excluding software), restructuring costs, –– for business combinations achieved in stages, the fair impairment losses on intangible assets and property, value at the acquisition date of the share held by the plant and equipment, as well as other items arising from Group before the acquisition date, significant events that could distort the reading of the Group’s –– and the estimated impact of any adjustments in the performance from one year to another. The reconciliation of acquisition costs, such as earnout payments. These Core operating income and operating income is presented contingent considerations are measured by applying in note 4.1. the criteria set out in the purchase agreement, such as sales and earnings targets, to forecasts deemed These performance indicators are not substitute to IFRS to be highly probable. The contingent considerations indicators and should not be viewed as such. They are used are then re-measured at each closing date, with any in addition to IFRS indicators. Although used by the Executive changes recognized on the income statement after the Leadership Team as important factors for setting targets and acquisition date, including the one-year period following measuring the Group’s performance, these indicators are not the acquisition date, as long as they do not result from required nor defined by IFRS. existing facts and circumstances at the transaction date. As internal per formance measures, these operational They are discounted over their useful life if the impact is indicators have limitations, and management of the Group’s material. Any discounting adjustments to the carrying performance is not limited solely to these indicators. amount of the liability are recognized in “Other financial income and expense”, ■■3.10 C  onversion of financial statements • and the net amount of identifiable assets acquired and in foreign currencies identifiable liabilities assumed, measured at their fair value at the acquisition date. Ipsen’s consolidated financial statements are denominated in euros. In compliance with IAS 21, the assets and liabilities If the values of the assets and liabilities are recognized on of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro are a provisional basis, adjustments resulting from facts and converted at the exchange rates prevailing on the closing circumstances existing at the transaction date and made date. No Group entity operates in a hyper-inflationary within one year from the acquisition date, are adjusted economy. Their income statements and the items in their retrospectively, in accordance with IFRS 3 – Business statements of cash flows are converted at the average rate Combinations. for the year, which matches, in absence of any significant fluctuations, the prevailing exchange rate at the date of the After initial recognition, goodwill is tested for impairment at different transactions. least once a year and whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired (see note 3.15). Exchange differences are transferred to the cumulative In the case of companies accounted for using the equity conversion reser ve, which forms an integral par t of method, goodwill is included in the amount invested in shareholders’ equity, and to non-controlling interests for the companies accounted for using the equity method. The costs non-Group share. These differences arise from: directly attributable to the combination are included in the • any difference between the rates used for the opening and assessment of the investment acquisition price. closing balance sheets; When the acquisition price is below the fair value of the • any difference between the year’s average rate and closing Group’s share in the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities rate. assumed from the acquired subsidiary, the difference is recognized directly in revenue on the income statement. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising upon acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the ■■3.9 Operating segments foreign entity. Accordingly, they are expressed in the entity’s In accordance with IFRS 8 “Operating segments”, reported functional currency and converted at the rate prevailing on the segment information is built on the basis of management data closing date. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 71 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During consolidation, exchange differences due to the and the fees of external consultants. They are amortized on a conversion of net investments in businesses abroad and straight-line basis over the duration of their useful lives. of loans and other exchange instruments designated as hedging instruments for these investments are recognized in Identified rights regarding intellectual property are amortized equity. When a foreign entity is disposed of, these conversion on a straight-line basis over the estimated duration of their differences, initially treated as equity, are recognized in profits useful lives, which in practice is between 8 and 20 years. These or losses on disposals. useful life periods vary depending on cash flow forecasts, which are based on the underlying patent-protection period. ■■3.11 Conversion of receivables, payables, Software licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over transactions, and flows denominated in the duration of their useful lives (from 1 to 10 years). foreign currencies Impairment losses on intangible assets are reported together Receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies with losses on property, plant and equipment, and losses on are initially converted at the exchange rates prevailing on goodwill in a specific line item on the income statement. the transaction date and then revalued at the closing rates prevailing on the reporting date. The gains and losses on disposals of assets are determined by comparing disposal value with the carrying value of the Exchange differences on monetary assets denominated in disposed asset. foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement. Exchange differences arising from the elimination of foreign ■■3.13 Property, plant & equipment currency transactions between fully consolidated companies Property, plant and equipment items are accounted for at are transferred to the cumulative conversion reserve under acquisition price, at fair value for business combinations, shareholders’ equity and to non-controlling interests for the or at production cost less cumulative depreciation and any non-Group share, to eliminate their impact on consolidated impairment loss. results. Exchange differences arising from foreign currency cash flow movements between fully consolidated companies Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying value, are accounted for under a separate line item in the consolidated or, if applicable, they are recognized as a separate asset if the statement of cash flows. future economic benefits associated with the asset are likely to go to the Group, and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. ■■3.12 O  ther intangible assets (excluding goodwill) Depreciation is usually calculated on a straight-line basis over Other intangible assets are accounted for at acquisition the assets’ estimated useful lives. Some industrial assets are price or fair value for business combinations, less cumulative depreciated based on production volumes. amortization and any impairment losses. Estimated useful lives are as follows: An asset’s useful life is the period of time over which the • Buildings, fixtures and fittings: 5 to 30 years Group expects to use that asset. Intangible assets with a defined useful life are amortized over a period corresponding • Industrial plant & equipment: 5 to 10 years to useful lives estimated by the Group. Amortization periods • Other property, plant and equipment: 3 to 10 years are determined on a case-by-case basis depending on the type of asset concerned. Rights on products commercialized Land is not depreciated. by the Group are amortized on a straight-line basis for the duration of their useful lives. Useful life is determined based Residual values and the duration of the assets’ useful lives are on cash flow forecasts that take into account the underlying revised and, if applicable, adjusted at each closing. patent-protection period, among other factors. The carrying value of an asset is depreciated immediately Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized, to bring it back to its recoverable amount when the asset’s but are systematically tested annually for impairment (see carrying value is greater than its estimated recoverable note 3.15). amount (see note 3.15). The accounting treatment of research and development Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment are expenses for internally generated intangible assets and reported together with losses on intangible assets and losses for research and development work acquired separately is on goodwill in a specific line item on the income statement. described in note 3.29. The gains and losses on disposals of assets, included in Acquired patents are recognized as intangible assets at other operating income and expenses, are determined by acquisition price, or at fair value for business combinations, comparing disposal value with the carrying value of the and amortized over their period of economic use, which does disposed asset. not exceed the period of protection. ■■3.14 Leases The development costs of software developed internally are identified as intangible assets as soon as they comply with the 3.14.1 Finance leases criteria defined in IAS 38 – Intangible Assets. Such expenses Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalized when include mainly the salaries of personnel involved in the project the lease contract transfers to the Group substantially all risks 72 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and rewards incidental to ownership. Criteria used to assess 3.15.1.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life whether a contract should be classified as a finance lease Intangible assets with a finite useful life are tested annually for include: impairment and whenever events or changed circumstances • the term of the lease compared with the useful life of the indicate that an asset may be impaired. asset, 3.15.1.4 Tangible fixed assets and long-term financial • total discounted future lease payments compared with the assets fair value of the asset financed, Other non-current assets, including tangible fixed assets and • whether or not ownership of the asset is transferred at the long-term financial assets, are also tested for impairment end of the lease term, when events or changed circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. • the existence of a purchase option favorable to the lessee, 3.15.2 Impairment tests methods used by the Group • the specific nature of the asset leased. Impairment tests consist of comparing an asset’s carrying Leased assets capitalized as finance leases are depreciated value (asset groups or cash-generating units) with its over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair the lease contract. value less costs to sell and value in use. 3.14.2 Operating leases Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows Operating leases are lease contracts that are not classified as expected to be derived from continuing use of the asset, finance leases. Rental payments are recorded as expenses in group of assets or cash-generating unit and its ultimate the income statement on a straight-line basis. disposal. Fair value less selling costs is the amount obtainable from the ■■3.15 Impairment of assets sale of the asset, group of assets or cash-generating unit in 3.15.1 Type of asset tested an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life parties, less the costs of disposal. (such as intangible rights acquired from a third party for drugs not yet commercialized) are tested for impairment in Impairment tests are carried out annually or whenever an accordance with IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets, at least once event indicates that an asset may be impaired. a year and whenever there is an indication that the asset may 3.15.2.1 Goodwill be impaired. Regarding goodwill, the Group calculates recoverable Indicators of impairment loss can be related namely amounts of cash-generating units from their value in use. to the success of successive phases of clinical trials, to This is determined by discounting their estimated future pharmacovigilance, to patent protection, to the arrival of cash flows to present value. These cash flow estimates are competing products and/or generics and the comparison based on five-year or, if warranted, longer estimates and are between actual and forecast sales. made for each operating segment (i.e. Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare) by the Group’s operating entities. In 3.15.1.1 Goodwill addition, tests are performed to assess the sensitivity of the For impairment testing purposes, starting from the acquisition recoverable amount of cash-generating units or groups of date, goodwill acquired under a business combination is cash-generating units to changes in certain assumptions, allocated to one of two of the Group’s cash generating units. primarily to the discount rate (range +/1%), sales growth Goodwill arising from the acquisition of a company accounted (range -1% to -2%) and the long-term growth rate (range for using the equity method is included in the carrying +/1%). amount of the investment and is not separately recognized, in 3.15.2.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life accordance with IAS 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. As a consequence, it is not tested for impairment When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of separately, as described in IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets. a particular fixed asset, the Group determines the recoverable The full carrying amount of the investment, including goodwill, amount of the cash-generating unit that holds it. More is tested for impairment. In line with paragraph 23 of IAS 28 specifically, for an intangible right in the early development – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, appropriate phase, the asset is tested for impairment only if an indication adjustments to the Group’s share of the profits or losses after of loss of value arises between the date of its acquisition and acquisition of companies accounted for using the equity the annual closing date. method are made for impairment losses related to goodwill 3.15.2.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life and intangible assets. For other intangible assets, the period taken into account for 3.15.1.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life estimating anticipated cash flows is based on the economic Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life i.e. mainly life intrinsic to each intangible asset. When the economic intellectual property rights and licenses to use intellectual life exceeds Group forecasts, the terminal value may be property rights, are tested annually for impairment and used. Tests are also performed to assess the sensitivity of whenever there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. the recoverable amount to changes in certain assumptions, 2018 Ipsen Registration document 73 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS primarily to the discount rate (range +/1%) and to sales losses and subsequently measured each year. Gains and growth (range -1% to -2%). losses are recognized in the income statement whenever the asset is derecognized or modified. Cash flows are discounted to present value using the weighted average cost of capital of each cash-generating unit The Group uses the expected loss model, as introduced by (Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare), except in specific IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments, for its trade receivables. The cases when additional risk premiums are taken into account impairment allowance for trade receivables is based on a based on the asset tested. historical loss rate observed over the three previous years on a receivable-by-receivable basis and adjusted for prospective When the recoverable amount of an asset (or group of assets) events that take into account individualized credit risks and or a cash-generating unit is lower than its carrying value, the economic forward looking of the relevant market. an impairment loss is recorded on a separate line in the income statement. When an impairment loss is identified for a 3.17.2 Financial assets at fair value through other cash-generating unit, it is deducted in priority from goodwill. comprehensive income Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversible. Financial assets representative of debt instruments are Methods and key assumptions for impairment tests for measured at fair value through other comprehensive income the period ending on 31 December 2018 are presented when: for goodwill and intangible assets of unlimited useful life in notes 12 and 13 respectively. • they are held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash ■■3.16 Government grants flows and sell financial assets; Government grants received by the Group are treated as • the contractual conditions of the financial asset give rise to deferred income and recognized in the income statement cash flows on set dates that are solely payments of principal over the estimated useful lives of the assets financed by the and interest on the principal amount outstanding. grants. The Group does not hold any financial assets measured at fair ■■3.17 Financial assets value through other comprehensive income with the recycling A financial asset is an asset that meets the definition IAS 32 of cumulative gains and losses. – Financial Instruments and can be cash (see note 3.20), Fur ther, IFRS 9 provides an option to classif y equity an equity instrument of another entity, a contractual right to instruments irrevocably on an instrument-by-instrument receive and exchange cash, or another equity instrument, or basis as instruments measured at fair value through other a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity. comprehensive income, as long as these instruments meet Financial assets, excluding cash and derivative financial the IAS 32 definition of equity. assets used for hedging purposes, are classified in one of the three following categories: The Group opted to irrevocably classify its investments in non-consolidated companies in this category, as they are • Financial assets at amortized cost, representative of equity instruments. They are measured at fair value through equity without later recycling gains or losses • Financial assets at fair value through other items of to the income statement. These financial assets are presented comprehensive income, under “Equity investments”. The associated dividends are • Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. recognized in the income statement. Financial assets are classified upon initial recognition based 3.17.3 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss on the characteristics of their contractual cash flows and the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include Group’s management model. financial assets held for trading, assets designated upon 3.17.1 Financial assets at amortized cost initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and other assets belonging to this category Financial assets at amortized costs consist mainly of Groupin accordance with the provisions of IFRS 9 – Financial issued loans and receivables. The Group measures financial Instruments. assets at amortized cost: • if the asset is owned within a business model whose At the reporting date, financial assets recognized at fair value objective is to maintain assets for contractual cash flows; through profit or loss consisted primarily of: • if its contractual conditions give rise to cash flows on set • short-term investments. These investments do not meet the dates that are solely payments of principal and interest on definition of cash equivalents (as per IAS 7 – Statement of the principal amount outstanding. Cash Flows) but which nonetheless show limited volatility; Interest income from financial assets is calculated according • interests owned by the Group in investment funds. The to the effective interest rate method. Upon initial recognition, interests held in these funds do not meet the definition financial assets at amortized costs are subject to impairment of equity instruments but do meet the definition of debt recognized in the income state in the amount of the expected instruments instead; 74 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • contingent milestone payments already recognized in the and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value in financial statements of an acquired entity or resulting from a the event of interest rate variations. business combination. Cash equivalents are classified as financial assets at fair value Financial assets recognized at fair value through profit or loss held for transactions. They are measured at fair value and any are accounted for as an asset in the balance sheet for their changes are recognized in the income statement. Given the fair value amount. Changes in fair value are recognized in the nature of these assets, their fair value is generally close to their income statement. net carrying value. 3.17.4 Fair value of financial instruments ■■3.21 Stock option plans The financial instruments held by the Group are measured at fair value. These include such instruments as derivative Stock options and bonus share plans are awarded to executive instruments, listed and unlisted financial assets and variable officers and some employees of the Group. As required by payments recognized as part of business combinations. IFRS 2 – Share-based Payments, these options and shares are measured at their fair value on the date of grant. The fair For investments in listed equity instruments, fair value is value is calculated with the most relevant formula regarding the quoted market price. For investments in unlisted equity the settlement and the conditions of each stock options plan instruments, fair value is determined by reference to recent or share award (“Black and Scholes” or “Monte Carlo”). The market transactions or using a valuation technique that fair value is recorded in personnel expenses (allocated by provides reliable and objective price estimates in line with function in the income statement) on a straight-line basis over those used by other players active in the market. the vesting period (period from the date of grant to maturity of the plan) with a corresponding increase in equity. ■■3.18 Non-current assets held for sale and At each closing date, the Group re-examines the number discontinued operations of options likely to become exercisable and the number of A non-current asset, or group of assets and liabilities, is shares likely to be awarded. If applicable, the impact of the classified as held for sale if its carrying value will be recovered review of the estimates is recognized in the income statement principally through a sale transaction rather than through with a corresponding adjustment in equity. continuing use. The asset or disposal group must be available for immediate sale and the sale must be highly probable. ■■3.22 Retirement benefit obligations For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of 3.22.1 Post-employment benefits management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset (or Depending on the laws and practices of the countries disposal group), and an active program to locate a buyer and where the Group operates, employees may be entitled to complete the plan must be initiated. compensation when they retire or to a pension following their An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a business, retirement. which the Group has sold or is classified as held for sale, and: The liability corresponding to the employees’ vested rights is • which represents a principal and distinct business line or covered by: geographic region, • contributions to independent organizations (insurance • is part of a specific and coordinated plan for disposal of a companies) responsible for paying the pensions or other principal and distinct business line or geographic region, or benefits; or • is a subsidiary acquired exclusively for resale. • balance sheet provisions. For State-managed plans and other defined contribution ■■3.19 Inventories plans, the Group records them as expenses when they Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realizable become payable, the Group’s commitment being limited to value. The internal cost price is determined using the weighted its contributions. average cost method. For defined benefit plans, the Group’s liability is estimated Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the normal by external actuaries using the projected unit credit method. course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to Under this method, each period of service gives rise to an make the sale. additional unit of benefit entitlement and each unit is valued The cost of finished goods includes all purchasing costs, separately to obtain the final obligation. transformation costs and other costs incurred in bringing The final amount of the liability is then discounted. The main inventories to their present location and current condition. assumptions used to calculate the liability are: ■■3.20 Cash and cash equivalents • discount rate, Cash includes cash on hand and demand deposits with • inflation rate, banks. • future salary increases, Cash equivalents include term deposits, short-term, highly liquid investments (with a maturity of less than three months), • employee turnover. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 75 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.22.2 Other employee benefits Derivative instruments recognized as hedging instruments are recognized in accordance with IFRS 9 hedge accounting In some countries, employees are entitled to awards for long criteria. service. The Group records a provision in the balance sheet to cover its liability in this respect. A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to cash flow fluctuations, which stem from a particular risk associated with ■■3.23 Provisions a recognized asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast Provisions are recognized in accordance with IAS 37 – transaction, and which could affect profit or loss. Changes Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets in the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognized to cover all liabilities to third parties that are not financial in equity in the consolidated statement of comprehensive guarantees or commitments but are likely or certain to income for the effective portion of the hedging relationship. give rise to an outflow of resources embodying economic For the ineffective portion, changes in the fair value of hedging benefits, provided the amount of the provision can be reliably instruments are recognized in “Other financial income and estimated. These provisions are estimated on the basis of the expense” on the income statement. most likely assumptions at the closing date. Aggregate changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument In the case of restructurings, a liability is recorded as soon that were previously recognized in equity are recycled into as the restructuring has been announced and the Group has the income statement in the same period(s) in which the drawn up or started to implement a detailed restructuring hedged transaction affects profit or loss. For hedges related plan. to operating activities, the recycled gains and losses are recognized in “Other core operating income and expenses”. Provisions are discounted if the time value is material. The This line item also includes foreign exchange conversion discount rate reflects current market assessments of the differences generated by operating receivables and liabilities. time value of money and the risks inherent to the liability. The provision increase resulting from the restatement at historical When the hedging instrument expires, the aggregate gains or value is recorded as a financial expense. losses previously recognized in equity remain in equity and are recycled into the income statement only after the forecast transaction has been effectively completed. However, when ■■3.24 Financial liabilities the Group no longer expects the forecast transaction to be Financial liabilities consist of loans and are initially recognized completed, aggregate gains and losses previously recognized at their fair value. Subsequently they are measured at in equity are immediately recognized in the income statement. amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. The Group main uses forward currency contracts to hedge its transactional foreign exchange risk. The Group excludes ■■3.25 Derivative financial instruments and swap points and foreign currency basis spread components hedge accounting of foreign exchange contracts from its hedge designation and 3.25.1 Hedge accounting recognizes changes in the fair value of these components directly in net financial income (expense). As part of its overall strategy for managing foreign exchange risks, the Group completed a number of transactions involving 3.25.2 Other derivative instruments the use of derivative financial instruments. The Group uses derivatives instruments designated as cash flow hedging Derivative instruments that do not qualify as hedge accounting are initially and subsequently measured at fair value. Changes instruments. The Group has not designated any derivative in fair value are recognized in “Other financial income and instruments as fair value hedges. expense”. The Group buys and sells derivative financial instruments with a view to managing and reducing its exposure to the ■■3.26 Sales risk of exchange rate fluctuations. The Group deals only with The Group’s revenues are generated mainly by the sale first-class financial institutions. Hedge accounting is applied of pharmaceutical products. Sales are recognized when to instruments formally designated as such and subject to control of the goods or services has been transferred to the structured documentation from their inception. Under IFRS 9 customer. Sales are recognized in the amount of the sums – Financial Instruments, hedge accounting requires that the that the Group expects to collect. Revenue from the sale of following conditions be met: pharmaceutical products is recognized when control has • There is an economic relationship between the hedged item been transferred, generally upon delivery, in accordance with and the hedging instrument; the delivery and acceptance clauses provided in the contract with the customer (see note 3.2.1). • The effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship; Revenue from product sales consists of the sale of pharmaceutical products, net of returns, rebates and • The effectiveness of the hedging relationship does not discounts granted to customers, as well as certain payments reflect an imbalance that could result in an accounting payable to health authorities and determined on the basis of outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of sales. Rebates and discounts are recognized at the same hedge accounting. time as the accompanying sales to which they pertain. 76 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS According to IFRS 15, they are identified as being variable • the availability of technical, financial and other resources to price components. complete the project, and When another party is involved in completing the sales of • the reliable measurement of development costs. goods or services, the Group assesses the degree to which the third party acts as an agent or principal. If the products Due to the risks and uncertainties associated with regulatory are sold on consignment, or if the third party is acting as the approvals and the research and development process, the agent, the revenues are recognized upon the sale to the end six criteria for intangible assets are not deemed to be fulfilled customer. Paid commissions are recognized in the “Selling until marketing authorization for the drugs has been granted, expenses” line item. i.e. approval of the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA). ■■3.27 Other revenues As a result, internal development expenses, primarily Other revenues include royalties, revenues received from consisting of clinical study costs arising before approval licensing agreements concluded with partners and revenues of the MAA, are generally recognized in “Research and generated by various services provided. development expenses” as soon as they are incurred. Royalties received are recognized as “Other revenues” based Some industrial development costs are generated after on sales achieved by the partners and contractual royalty the MAA has been approved to improve the process for rates during the period. manufacturing an active ingredient. If the six IAS 38 criteria are deemed to have been met, these costs are included in the Revenues received from licenses are broken down according measurement of the project’s costs and recorded as “Other to IFRS 15 criteria, i.e. static or dynamic licenses (see intangible assets” on the asset side of the balance sheet, as note 3.2.1). soon as they are incurred. Likewise, some clinical study costs, such as those arising from efforts to extend the geographical Revenues generated by various services provided are access of a molecule that has already obtained MAA approval recognized based on the goods or services delivered to the in a major market, may in certain cases meet the six intangible other contracting party. asset recognition criteria under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets. In such cases, those costs are recorded as other intangible ■■3.28 Cost of sales assets on the asset side of the balance sheet, as soon as they Cost of sales primarily includes the industrial cost of goods are incurred. sold and royalties paid under licenses. The industrial cost 3.29.2 Research and Development acquired separately of goods sold encompasses the cost of the raw materials consumed, including freight-in costs, direct and indirect Payments made to separately acquire research and costs for production services personnel, manufacturingdevelopment work are recognized as other intangible assets related depreciation, all types of external costs related when they meet the definition of an intangible asset, i.e. a to manufacturing activities, such as electricity, water, controlled resource with probable future economic benefits maintenance, and equipment costs, and indirect costs, such to the Group that is identifiable, either being separable or as the share of purchasing, human resources and IT costs. arising from contractual or other legal rights. In application of Production costs also include quality control, production paragraph 25 of IAS 38, the first recognition criterion related quality assurance, engineering, and logistics services to the probability of the intangible asset generating future expenses. economic benefits is presumed to be met when research and development work is acquired separately. The second ■■3.29 Research and Development recognition criterion related to the reliable measurement of the asset is satisfied as well when payment amounts are 3.29.1 Internal Research and Development determined. Internal research costs are expensed. Internal pharmaceutical Accordingly, amounts paid to third parties in the form of an development costs are expensed in the period during which upfront payment or milestone payments for proprietary drugs they are incurred as long as capitalization criteria are not are recognized on the asset side of the balance sheet. These deemed to be met. rights are amortized on a straight-line basis over the duration In accordance with IAS 38, internal development costs are of their useful lives beginning on the date the products are recognized as intangible assets only if the following six criteria commercialized. have been met: 3.29.3 Research and Development acquired • the technical feasibility of completing the development in a business combination project, Other intangible assets related to research and development work in progress and acquired within the scope of a business • the Group’s intention to complete the project, combination, and which can be reliably measured, are • its ability to use the intangible asset, identified separately from goodwill and recognized as other intangible assets, in accordance with IFRS 3 – Business • the probable future economic benefit of the asset can be Combinations and IAS 38 – Intangible Assets. A related demonstrated, deferred tax liability is also recognized, if applicable. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 77 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.29.4 Research tax credits realized and the liability will be settled, on the basis of the tax Research tax credits are classified as operating grants, in rates enacted or virtually enacted at the balance sheet date. accordance with common practice within the pharmaceutical Deferred tax assets are subject to a recoverability analysis industry. In accordance with IAS 20 – Accounting for based on Group forecasts. Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted, in Assistance, operating grants are recognized in operating accordance with IAS 12 – Income Taxes. income, after the R&D expenses to which they are directly linked have been deducted. Amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements are calculated at the level of each tax entity included in the ■■3.30 Other operating income and expenses consolidation scope. Other operating income and expenses include primarily The Group elected to recognize the CVAE business tax amortization expense for intangible assets (excluding (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises) as income sof tware), the impact of cash flow hedges related to tax expense in the income statement. Accordingly, and in commercial operations, capital gains and losses on asset line with provisions of IAS 12, the total amount of current and disposals, and any item not directly linked to operations. deferred expenses related to the C.V.A.E. is presented on the “Income Tax” line. ■■3.31 Taxes Applying the variable carryover method, deferred taxes are ■■3.32 Earnings per share recorded on all temporary differences between the carrying A basic earnings per share is calculated on the weighted value and tax base of assets and liabilities, and on tax loss average number of shares outstanding during the period. carryforwards. The weighted average number of shares outstanding is The main temporary differences in the Group’s consolidated calculated according to movements in share capital, less any financial statements stem from tax loss carryforwards, treasury shares held by the Group. restatements to eliminate internal margins on inventory and provisions for retirement benefits. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing consolidated net profit for the year attributable to equity Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary holders of Ipsen S.A. by the weighted average number of differences only when it is probable that taxable profits will be ordinary shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilized. ordinary shares not yet issued. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are valued using the expected tax rate for the period in which the asset will be Note 4 Operating segments Segment information is presented according to the Group’s Core operating income excludes amortization expense for two operating segments, i.e. Specialty Care and Consumer intangible assets (excluding software), restructuring costs, Healthcare. impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, as well as other items arising from All costs allocated to these two segments are presented in the significant events that could distort the reading of the Group’s key performance indicators. Only general and administrative performance from one year to another. expenses and the impact of cash flow hedges are not allocated to the two operating segments. These performance indicators are not replacements for IFRS indicators and should not be viewed as such. They are used The Group uses Core operating income to measure its in addition to IFRS indicators. performance. Core operating income is the indicator used by the Group to measure operating performance and to allocate resources. 78 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■4.1 Core operating income by operating segment Consumer Other 31 December (in million euros) Specialty Care Healthcare (unallocated) 2018 Sales 1,924.5 300.3 – 2,224.8 Other revenues 62.6 61.0 – 123.6 Revenue 1,987.1 361.3 – 2,348.4 Core operating income 740.4 83.9 (164.5) 659.9 Consumer Other 31 December (in million euros) Specialty Care Healthcare (unallocated) 2017 Sales 1,591.9 316.8 – 1,908.7 Other revenues 51.2 51.9 – 103.0 Revenue 1,643.1 368.7 – 2,011.8 Core operating income 570.6 91.8 (158.8) 503.6 In the 2018 financial year, unallocated core operating unallocated general and administrative expenses and the income (expenses) came to (€164.5) million, compared with impact of cash flow hedges. (€158.8) million in 2017. The expenses stemmed mainly from The reconciliation of Core operating income and Operating Income is presented in the following table: (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Core operating income 659.9 503.6 Amortization of intangible assets, excluding software (73.1) (53.3) Other operating income and expenses (30.4) (48.9) Restructuring costs (21.9) (18.8) Impairment losses (15.0) 14.8 Operating Income 519.4 397.2 ■■4.2 Sales by geographical region 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Amounts % share Amounts % share Major Western European countries 753.8 34% 644.4 34% Rest of Europe 443.7 20% 395.3 21% North America 615.6 28% 467.0 24% Rest of the World 411.7 19% 401.9 21% Consolidated sales 2,224.8 100% 1,908.7 100% 2018 Ipsen Registration document 79 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■4.3 Sales by therapeutic area and product (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Oncology 1,503.0 1,185.6 Somatuline® 846.7 702.5 Decapeptyl ® 372.6 348.7 Cabometyx® 148.2 51.7 Onivyde ® 109.4 56.9 Other Oncology 26.0 25.8 Neuroscience 351.5 331.6 Dysport® 347.8 328.2 Rare Diseases 70.0 74.7 NutropinAq ® 45.9 51.8 Increlex® 24.1 22.9 Specialty Care 1,924.5 1,591.9 Smecta ®(1) 126.5 123.8 Forlax® 39.8 42.1 Tanakan ® 37.7 41.4 Fortrans/Eziclen® 31.4 32.1 Etiasa® 4.2 17.8 Other Consumer Healthcare 60.7 59.5 Consumer Healthcare 300.3 316.8 Consolidated sales 2,224.8 1,908.7 (1) Adjusted for Smectite sales (drug related sales) previously allocated to “Other Consumer Healthcare”. ■■4.4 Other revenues (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Royalties received 78.1 62.0 Milestone payments – Licenses 27.5 29.9 Other (co-promotion revenues, re-billings) 18.0 11.1 Other revenues 123.6 103.0 O ther revenue s for the 2018 f inancial ye ar totaled Menarini for Adenuric®, and Servier for Onivyde®. In the 2018 €123.6 million, up 19.9% over the €103.0 million reported in financial year, other revenues were also favorably impacted by 2017. The change was attributable to the increase in royalties the new Etiasa® contractual model in China established in the received from Group partners, mainly Galderma for Dysport®, third quarter of 2017. ■■4.5 Other information 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Consumer Other Total Specialty Care Healthcare (unallocated) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (83.5) (19.4) (4.5) (107.4) Acquisition of intangible assets (157.6) (2.1) (20.4) (180.1) Total investments (241.1) (21.5) (24.9) (287.5) Net depreciation, amortization and provisions (92.0) (15.3) (34.7) (142.0) (excluding financial assets) Share-based payment expenses with no impact on – – (12.8) (12.8) cash flow NB. Share-based payment expenses are not broken down by operating segment. 80 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Consumer Other Total Specialty Care Healthcare (unallocated) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (61.2) (19.2) (4.5) (84.9) Acquisition of intangible assets (52.6) (87.7) (15.7) (155.9) Total investments (113.8) (106.9) (20.1) (240.8) Net depreciation, amortization and provisions (70.3) (11.3) (23.3) (104.8) (excluding financial assets) Share-based payment expenses with no impact on – – (10.1) (10.1) cash flow NB. Share-based payment expenses are not broken down by operating segment. Note 5 Personnel ■■5.1 Headcount ■■5.2 Employee expenses At the end 2018, the Group totaled 5,723 employees, Employee expenses, which are included in the cost of goods compared with 5,401 at end 2017. sold, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses and restructuring costs The average headcount in 2018 was 5,518, compared with encompass the following items: 5,216 in 2017. (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Wages and salaries (459.0) (420.2) Employer’s Social security contributions and payroll taxes (133.8) (135.4) Sub-total (592.8) (555.6) Interest on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) (6.6) (5.4) Expenses associated with share-based payments (note 5.4) (*) (12.8) (10.1) Social security contributions on share-based payments (4.1) (1.7) Share-based payment expenses sub-total (16.9) (11.8) Employee profit-sharing (11.4) (11.2) Total (627.8) (584.0) (*) Including a €1.5 million expense associated with the 2018 employee shareholding plan. In 2018, the average rate of employer’s Social security and Ireland. In France, a limited number of employees also contributions and payroll taxes amounted to 29.2% of gross benefit from a supplementary pension plan. payroll. The Group provides these benefits either via defined The Group’s French companies have an employee profitcontribution or defined benefit plans. sharing agreement as required by law. Employees may invest Under defined contribution plans, the Group has no their entitlement in either an interest-bearing savings account obligation other than to pay the agreed contributions, with the within the company or in a company savings plan invested in corresponding expense charged to income for the year. collective investment funds managed by a financial institution. In 2016, a three-year incentive agreement was set up in 5.3.1.2 Other long-term benefits France to supplement the above-mentioned agreement. The Group also pays out bonuses intended to reward employees based on length of service. These long service ■■5.3 Long-term employee benefits awards relate mainly to the Group’s employees in France. 5.3.1 Benefit plans 5.3.2 Measurement and recognition of liabilities 5.3.1.1 Retirement benefit obligations The Group’s liabilities related to employee benefits are calculated by an external actuary using the assumptions that In some countries, the Group’s employees are eligible for are applicable in the relevant countries. supplementary pension payments paid annually to retirees, or to lump sum retirement allowances paid on retirement. The Discount rates are determined by reference to a market main countries concerned are France, the United Kingdom rate based on bonds issued by first class issuers. The main 2018 Ipsen Registration document 81 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS benchmark index used is the iBoxx Corporate AA for the The impact on the income statement of the return on plan Eurozone and the United Kingdom. assets for retirement schemes is measured by applying the discount rate used for the liabilities. Assumptions with regard to staff turnover and mortality rates are specific to each country. Unfunded liabilities and plan deficits are recognized in the balance sheet under “retirement benefit obligations”. Some liabilities are covered by financial assets held in funds invested with insurance companies (plan assets). 5.3.2.1 Assumptions used The main actuarial assumptions applied as at 31 December 2018 are as follows: Europe United Kingdom Asia-Oceania (excluding UK) Discount rate 1.5% 2.8% 2.0% Inflation rate 1.8% 2.2% N/A Rate of increase in salaries, net of inflation Varies by SSC Plan frozen 5.6% Rate of increase in pensions 1.7% 2.0% N/A A 1% increase in the discount rate would lead to decreases in employee benefit obligations of 9.5% in France, 20.7% in Ireland, 19.1% in the UK, and 15.6% in Asia-Oceania. 5.3.2.2 Reconciliation of balance sheet assets and liabilities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Breakdown of net balance sheet amount Present value of liabilities 100.8 5.5 106.4 118.5 Fair value of plan assets 42.6 – 42.6 51.0 Net liabilities (a) 58.2 5.5 63.8 67.6 Effect of asset ceiling (b) – – – – Net liability (a – b) 58.2 5.5 63.8 67.6 5.3.2.3 Reconciliation of income statement expenses 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Current service costs 6.3 0.5 6.9 6.9 Contributions by plan participants (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) Interest expense on obligations 1.7 0.1 1.8 1.7 Interest income on plan assets (0.8) – (0.8) (0.8) Past service costs (plan amendments and 0.0 – 0.0 (1.4) curtailments) Actuarial (gains) and loses recognized as expense – (0.2) (0.2) – Total 7.2 0.4 7.6 6.2 – of which – Operating expenses 6.3 0.3 6.6 5.4 – of which – Interest expense 0.9 0.1 1.0 0.9 82 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2.4 Movements in net liability recognized in the balance sheet 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Opening net liability 62.3 5.3 67.6 58.4 Charge for the year (note 5.3.2.3) 7.2 0.4 7.6 6.2 Actuarial gains and (losses) recognized in other (9.4) – (9.4) 4.2 comprehensive income Employer's contributions to plan assets (1.2) – (1.2) (0.6) Benefits paid from internal reserve (0.6) (0.2) (0.8) (0.5) Exchange differences (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) Closing net liability 58.2 5.5 63.8 67.6 5.3.2.5 Movements in defined benefit plan obligations 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Opening balance 113.2 5.3 118.5 110.3 Current service costs 6.3 0.5 6.9 6.9 Interest expense on obligations 1.7 0.1 1.8 1.7 Past service costs (plan amendments and 0.0 – 0.0 (1.4) curtailments) Benefits paid from plan assets (9.3) – (9.3) (4.0) Benefits paid from internal reserve (0.6) (0.2) (0.8) (0.5) Actuarial (Gains) and losses – experience (5.5) (0.2) (5.7) 6.6 adjustments Actuarial (Gains) and losses – changes to discount (4.2) (0.1) (4.3) 0.5 rate Actuarial (Gains) and losses – changes to other (0.6) 0.0 (0.6) (0.8) assumptions Exchange differences (0.3) – (0.3) (0.7) Closing balance 100.8 5.5 106.4 118.5 At 31 December 2018, defined benefit plan obligations broke down primarily among France 65.3%, the UK 15.4%, and Ireland 17.6%. 5.3.2.6 Movements in plan assets 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) PostOther employment long-term Total Total benefits benefits Opening balance 51.0 – 51.0 51.9 Interest income on plan assets 0.8 – 0.8 0.8 Benefits paid from plan assets (9.3) – (9.3) (4.0) Employee contributions to plan assets 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 Employer's contributions to plan assets 1.2 – 1.2 0.6 Actuarial gains and (losses) (0.9) – (0.9) 2.2 Exchange differences (0.3) – (0.3) (0.6) Closing balance 42.6 – 42.6 51.0 At 31 December 2018, plan assets broke down primarily among France 31.0%, the UK 35.2%, and Ireland 38.2%. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 83 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2.7 Allocation of plan assets 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Shares Bonds Other (1) Total Europe (excluding UK) 10.8 10.0 6.4 27.2 United Kingdom 9.2 5.6 0.2 15.0 Asia-Oceania 0.3 0.1 – 0.4 Total 20.3 15.7 6.6 42.6 Total (as a percentage) 48% 37% 15% 100% (1) Property, cash and other. 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Shares Bonds Other (1) Total Europe (excluding UK) 10.4 19.6 5.8 35.8 United Kingdom 9.0 5.6 0.2 14.8 Asia-Oceania 0.3 0.1 – 0.3 Total 19.8 25.2 6.0 51.0 Total (as a percentage) 39% 49% 12% 100% (1) Property, cash and other. 5.3.2.8 Future probable plan benefits Post-employment Other long-term (in million euros) Total benefits benefits 2019 8.7 0.6 9.3 2020 3.3 0.6 3.9 2021 1.1 0.6 1.7 2022 3.5 0.7 4.2 2023 5.0 0.7 5.8 2024-2028 15.9 2.8 18.8 ■■5.4 Share-based payments Ipsen granted various bonus share option and bonus share At 31 December 2018, the annual charge for bonus share plans within the scope of IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment, that payments came to €11.3 million, versus €10.1 million at were still vesting at 31 December 2018. 31 December 2017. 5.4.1 Share option plans granted by Ipsen 5.4.1.1 Details of share option plans Plan dated 31 March 2010 Plan dated 30 June 2011 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 Date granted by Board of Directors 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 Vesting date 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 30/06/2015 30/06/2013 Plan expiration date 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 30/06/2019 30/06/2019 Number of options granted 121 180 123 280 54 330 22 570 40 710 189 703 16 005 Share entitlement per option 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Exercise price €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €25.01 €25.01 “Black and Scholes” Grant method Monte Carlo “Black and Scholes” revised revised Value of shares at grant date €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €24.46 €24.46 Expected volatility 32% 32% 32% 32% 32% 31% 31% Average life of option 6 6 6 6 5 6 5 Discount rate 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.35% 2.90% 2.72% Dividends 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% Performance condition yes yes no no no yes no Fair value per option €10.69 €10.69 €10.71 €10.71 €9.74 €7.12 €6.48 84 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.4.1.2 Valuation of plans The plans still active at 31 December 2018 did not generate any expense in the 2017 or 2018 consolidated financial statements. 5.4.1.3 Change in number of options outstanding Changes in the number of outstanding options under all plans are as follows: (in number of options) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening balance 664,558 744,771 Options exercised (net of adjustments) (418,953) (80,213) Options expired (209,520) – Closing balance 36,085 664,558 5.4.2 Bonus share plans conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group On 30 March 2018, the Board of Directors granted: entity, • 9,230 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject • 28,275 bonus shares to members of the Executive to length of service conditions as well as performance Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or entity, specific to a Group entity, • 30,160 bonus shares to members of the Executive • 44,070 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its French Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 84,240 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, • 37,980 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American subject to length of ser vice conditions as well as subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 87,510 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, • 28,200 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group subject to length of service conditions but not performance subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or entity, specific to a Group entity. On 29 March 2017, the Board of Directors granted: • 13,365 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance 5.4.2.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated 1 April 2015 Plan dated 1 June 2016 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 53,021 47,572 21,484 39,970 64,019 72,208 41,336 64,727 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 Fair value of bonus shares €31.10 €31.10 €31.24 €31.24 €47.73 €47.73 €49.04 €47.73 Plan dated 29 March 2017 Plan dated 30 May 2018 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.5 1.6 Number of bonus shares 41,640 44,070 37,980 28,200 9,230 30,160 84,240 87,510 50% at 2 yrs Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 50% at 3 yrs Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 €134.40 €134.40 €134.40 €134.40 Fair value of bonus shares €101.47 €97.01 €99.27 €97.00 €134.90 €134.90 €134.90 €131.84 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, the Deputy CEO, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the Group’s French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the Group’s French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the Group’s American subsidiaries. 1.5 Beneficiaries from subsidiaries subject to performance conditions. 1.6 Beneficiaries from subsidiaries not subject to performance conditions. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 85 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.4.2.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated (in million euros) 28 March 27 March 29 March Total 1 April 2015 1 June 2016 30 May 2018 2013 2014 2017 Opening valuation 5.3 3.1 4.4 10.5 13.3 25.3 2018 expense – – 0.2 1.3 4.2 5.6 11.3 2017 expense 0.0 0.1 0.6 5.3 4.0 10.1 Note 6 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses ■■6.1 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses included in the cash flow statement The following table shows the amount of depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses added back to determine gross cash flow from operations: (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Operating excluding current assets (142.0) (104.8) Financial (1.1) (0.9) Tax 0.4 (0.1) Depreciation and amortization before impairment and excluding current (142.6) (105.8) assets Impairment losses included in operating income (note 6.2) (15.0) 14.8 Impairment losses (15.0) 14.8 ■■6.2 Impairment losses 6.2.2 2017 financial year 6.2.1 2018 financial year During the 2017 financial year, Ipsen recognized the following In the 2018 financial year, Ipsen recognized a €15 million impairment losses and reversals: impairment loss on the Xemelo® intangible asset (see note 13). • The intangible assets related to Prontalgine ®, the main product in the portfolio acquired from Sanofi, were written down in the amount of €33.9 million (see note 13); • The impairment loss related to the Increlex® IGF-1 active ingredient was reversed in the amount of €50.4 million (see note 13). Note 7 Other operating income and expenses In 2018, other operating expenses totaled €82.7 million, In 2017, those other operating expenses totaled €102.4 million, mainly owing to amortization expense on the Cabometyx® and mainly due to amortization expense on the Cabometyx® and Onivyde® intangible assets, the discontinuation of research Onivyde ® intangible assets and the assets acquired from and development work, the impact of Group transformation Sanofi, integration costs related to the Onivyde® acquisition, programs, and the payment of an indemnity to Galderma in adaptation of the R&D structure and programs, and a Brazil that was partially offset by an indemnity received from a settlement with a partner in Japan. U.S. partner and the impact of cash flow hedges. 86 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 8 Restructuring costs In 2018, pre-tax restructuring costs came to €21.9 million, At 31 December 2017, pre-tax restructuring costs totaled including expenses to move the U.S. sales subsidiary to €18.8 million and stemmed primarily from Onivyde®-related Cambridge, Massachusetts. integration costs, expenses arising from adapting the R&D structure and programs, and a restructuring plan in Europe. Note 9 Net financial income (expense) (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Income from loans and receivables 3.1 1.1 Investment income 3.1 1.1 Interest on debt (8.3) (9.2) Total expenses on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (8.4) (9.2) Financing costs (8.4) (9.2) NET FINANCING COSTS (5.3) (8.1) Other exchange differences (0.5) (0.1) Income and expenses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value (0.5) (0.1) Impairment of investments in non-consolidated companies (0.1) 0.0 Income and expenses on investments in non-consolidated companies (0.1) 0.0 Financial income on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) 0.8 1.1 Interest on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) (1.8) (2.0) Other financial elements (18.5) (17.4) OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE (20.1) (18.4) FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) (25.3) (26.6) Of which total financial income 71.1 57.0 Of which total financial expense (96.5) (83.6) In 2018, the Group had net financial expense of €25.3 million, • In 2018, other financial expenses totaled €20.1 million, versus net financial expense of €26.6 million in 2017. versus €18.4 million in other financial expenses a year earlier. The 2018 result stemmed mainly from the cost of • The “net financing costs” item showed expense hedges put into place to reduce the Group’s currency risk of €5.3 million, compared with €8.1 million in expense exposure and the revaluation of future payments related to reported a year earlier, in line with the decrease in net debt the acquisition of Onivyde®, in accordance with IFRS. for the period. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 87 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 10 Income taxes ■■10.1 Tax expense 10.1.1 Effective tax rate (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 387.0 270.7 Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method 1.1 1.4 Net profit from continuing operations before share of results from companies 386.0 269.2 accounted for using the equity method Current tax (88.9) (53.1) Deferred tax (19.2) (48.3) Income taxes (108.1) (101.4) Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before share of results from 494.1 370.7 companies accounted for using the equity method Effective tax rate 21.9% 27.4% In 2018, income tax expense of €108.1 million resulted in an 10.1.2 Reconciliation between the effective and nominal effective tax rate of 21.9% on pre-tax profit from continuing tax expense operations, excluding the share of profit (loss) from companies The following table shows the reconciliation between the accounted for using the equity method. That compares with effective and nominal tax expense based on pre-tax profit an effective rate of 27.4% in 2017. from continuing operations taxed at the standard French rate The lower effective tax rate was due notably to the nonof 34.43% for the two years presented: recurring, unfavorable impact of U.S. tax reform on recognized deferred tax assets in 2017. (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before share of results from companies 494.1 370.7 accounted for using the equity method Group tax rate 34.43% 34.43% Nominal tax expense (170.1) (127.6) (Increase)/decrease in tax expense arising from: – Tax credits 8.5 10.5 – Non-recognition of tax impact on certain losses during the year (1.5) (0.4) – Utilization of tax losses not recognized as deferred tax assets – 0.1 – Recognition of deferred tax assets (1) (3.3) (33.0) – Other permanent differences (2) 58.4 48.9 Effective tax expense (108.1) (101.4) Effective tax rate 21.9% 27.4% (1) The change in recognition of deferred tax assets stems mainly from the negative impact in 2017 of U.S. tax reform on the value of tax loss carryforwards, partially offset by carrying forward a total of €26.3 million in deferred taxes not recognized in the United States as of 2013. (2) O ther permanent differences in 2018 resulted from the difference between the Group tax rate of 34.43% and other tax rates where Group subsidiaries are based. 88 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■10.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 1st application Deferred 31 Income 31 of IFRS 15 1 January taxes Changes in Foreign (in million euros) December statement Other December (see note 2018 recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2017 income / movements 2018 3.2.1) directly to scope differences expense reserves Deferred tax assets 142.0 (2.6) 139.4 (20.5) 1.6 (1.6) – 2.1 10.9 131.9 Deferred tax liabilities (21.5) – (21.5) 1.3 11.8 (0.3) – (0.4) (10.6) (19.7) Net assets / (liabilities) 120.5 (2.6) 117.9 (19.2) 13.5 (1.9) – 1.6 0.3 112.2 A breakdown of deferred tax assets / (liabilities) by type is The €19.2 million decrease recognized in “Income statement presented in note 10.3. income / expense” includes the use of €18.4 million in taxloss carryforwards in the United States. Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 Deferred 31 Income (in million euros) December taxes Changes in Foreign December statement Other 2016 recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2017 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Deferred tax assets 213.2 (25.1) (1.6) 0.2 0.1 (17.9) (26.8) 142.0 Deferred tax liabilities (14.6) (23.3) (8.9) (0.8) (0.8) 1.1 25.8 (21.5) Net assets / 198.6 (48.3) (10.6) (0.6) (0.8) (16.8) (1.0) 120.5 (liabilities) The €48.3 million decrease recognized in “Income statement • The use of €23.6 million in tax-loss carryforwards in the income / expense” stems primarily from: United States; • A €46.0 million expense arising from the unfavorable • The recognition of an €11.1 million gain from the use of tax impact of tax reform in the United States on the value of loss carryforwards in Germany. tax-loss carryforwards. This expense was partially offset by recognizing €19.7 million in previously unrecognized deferred tax assets in the United States; ■■10.3 Type of deferred taxes recognized on the balance sheet and the income statement Movements during the year 1st application Deferred 31 Income 31 of IFRS 15 1 January taxes Changes in Foreign (in million euros) December statement Other December (see note 2018 recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2017 income / movements 2018 3.2.1) directly to scope differences expense reserves Consolidation restatements 51.0 – 51.0 3.3 – – – (0.2) – 54.0 of margins on inventories Tax loss carryforwards 84.1 – 84.1 (19.5) – – – 1.8 (18.4) 47.9 Provision for retirement and 13.4 – 13.4 1.5 – (1.6) – (0.0) – 13.3 other benefits Other (28.0) (2.6) (30.6) (4.4) 13.5 (0.3) – 0.1 18.7 (3.0) Net assets / (liabilities) 120.5 (2.6) 117.9 (19.2) 13.5 (1.9) – 1.6 0.3 112.2 2018 Ipsen Registration document 89 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2018, the Group recognized €47.9 million are in line with Ipsen’s long and medium-term plans and take in deferred tax assets on tax-loss carryforwards (including into account the time frames notably in relation to the duration €37.4 million in the U.S.), versus €84.1 million at 31 December of the tax loss carryforwards and the specific situation of each 2017. Deferred tax assets are recognized based on results tax consolidation group. forecasts for each tax consolidation group. These forecasts Movements during the year 31 Deferred 31 Income (in million euros) December taxes Changes in Foreign December statement Other 2016 recorded SoRie consolidation exchange 2017 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Consolidation restatements of margins 47.8 4.9 – – – (1.7) – 51.0 on inventories Tax loss carryforwards 141.5 (41.3) – – – (15.0) (1.1) 84.1 Provision for retirement 12.9 1.0 – (0.5) – (0.0) – 13.4 and other benefits Other (3.6) (13.0) (10.6) (0.1) (0.8) (0.1) 0.0 (28.0) Net assets / (liabilities) 198.6 (48.3) (10.6) (0.6) (0.8) (16.8) (1.0) 120.5 At 31 December 2017, the Group recognized €84.1 million in deferred tax assets on tax-loss carryforwards (including €72.9 million in the U.S.). Note 11 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations In 2018, net profit from discontinued operations totaled Inspiration assets in 2013, and corresponds to the rebilling €2 million, compared to €2.3 million in net profit from of production costs for OBI-1 clinical samples as well as discontinued operations in 2017. The net profit from royalties from the sales of that product received from Baxalta, discontinued operations arose from agreements to sell a company spun off from Baxter International. Note 12 Goodwill ■■12.1 Net goodwill carried in the balance sheet et Cie S.A.S., was allocated in full to the Consumer Healthcare The Group’s two operating segments are Specialty Care and business. Consumer Healthcare. Accordingly, goodwill is allocated to The goodwill related to the acquisition of Vernalis Inc. and these two Cash Generating Units (CGUs) in accordance with Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. in the second half of 2008, as the Group’s organization. well as the goodwill related to the acquisition of BioInnovation Goodwill totaling €135.3 million related to the Group’s 1998 Ltd in 2013, the goodwill arising from the acquisition of structuring operations was allocated to the Specialty Care OctreoPharm GmbH in 2015, and the goodwill generated and Consumer Healthcare segments in proportion to the by the acquisition of Onivyde® in the first half of 2017, were sales generated. allocated to the Specialty Care CGU. The €53.5 million in goodwill arising from the end of the Goodwill related to taking control of Akkadeas Pharma in the Group’s 2004 structuring operation, with the acquisition of BB first half of 2017 was allocated to the Consumer Healthcare CGU. 90 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in goodwill in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year (in million euros) 31 December 2017 Foreign 31 December 2018 Increase Decrease exchange differences Gross goodwill 397.3 – – 6.5 403.7 Impairment losses (8.2) – – 0.1 (8.1) Net goodwill 389.0 – – 6.6 395.6 ■■12.2 Impairment of goodwill related estimated future cash flows. These cash flow estimates For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to are based on five-year estimates and a terminal value for the cash-generating units defined by the Group. The casheach operating segment (i.e. Specialty Care and Consumer generating units identified for the allocation and performance Healthcare) and are made by the Group’s operating entities. of goodwill-related impairment tests correspond to the At 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, no impairment operating segments. The Group’s two operating segments losses related to goodwill were recorded. The previously are Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare. Accordingly, recorded impairment loss concerned solely the goodwill goodwill is allocated in line with the Group’s organization (see arising from the acquisition of Sterix Ltd. note 12.1). The carrying value of the respective cash-generating units The recoverable value of the respective cash-generating units and the key assumptions are shown below: corresponds to the value in use based on discounting the (in million euros) Specialty Care Consumer Healthcare Total Net carrying value at 31 December 2018 Goodwill 298.7 96.9 395.6 Net underlying assets 1,296.0 244.5 1,540.5 Total 1,594.7 341.4 1,936.1 Perpetuity growth rate 2.5% 2.5% – Discount rate 9% 8% – (in million euros) Specialty Care Consumer Healthcare Total Net carrying value at 31 December 2017 Goodwill 292.1 96.9 389.0 Net underlying assets 1,226.9 211.7 1,438.6 Total 1,519.0 308.6 1,827.6 Perpetuity growth rate 0% 0% – Discount rate 9% 8% – The assumed perpetuity growth rate was revised up from 0% assumptions, primarily to the discount rate (range +/1%), in 2017 to 2.5% in 2018, in view of the expected growth of the sales growth (range -1% to -2%) and the long-term growth Group’s business activities. rate (range +/-1%). The implementation of those sensitivity tests would not lead to the recognition of significant goodwill Tests were performed to assess the sensitivity of the impairments. recoverable amount to changes in cer tain actuarial 2018 Ipsen Registration document 91 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 13 Other intangible assets ■■13.1 Movements Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2017 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2018 movements scope differences Intellectual property 1,371.8 163.8 (12.0) – 6.9 12.1 1,542.6 Intangible assets in 13.9 16.3 – – (0.0) (10.5) 19.7 progress Gross assets 1,385.7 180.1 (12.0) – 6.9 1.5 1,562.3 Amortization (273.9) (86.6) 11.7 – (3.8) (5.4) (358.1) Impairment losses (181.5) (15.0) – – (1.5) 5.8 (192.3) Net assets 930.2 78.5 (0.3) – 1.6 1.9 1,011.9 At 31 December 2018, the change in net intangible assets • Ipsen recorded a pre-tax €15 million impairment loss on resulted notably from the following items: the Xermelo ® intangible asset, a Specialty Care product whose sales outlook was revised down after receiving a • Ipsen recognized €130 million in intangible assets arising more limited label from the European Medicines Agency from additional milestone payments to Exelixis as part of an (EMA) for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea exclusive licensing agreement signed in 2016; in combination with somatostatin analogue (SSA) therapy • Ipsen recognized €6 million in intangible assets arising from in adults inadequately controlled by SSA therapy. The additional milestone payments to 3B Pharmaceutical; carrying value of Xermelo ® still on the asset side of the balance sheet came to €15.6 million at 31 December • Ipsen recognized €13 million in intangible assets as part 2018. A 1 percentage-point change in the discount rate of partnership with the University of Texas’ MD Anderson would increase or decrease the asset’s carrying value by Cancer Center. This asset corresponds to various payments €1 million. under a global licensing and joint development agreement, signed 29 May 2018, for a pre-clinical oncology drug At 31 December 2018, the Group’s intangible assets with an candidate discovered by researchers in MD Anderson’s indefinite useful life and classified under “Licenses” had a total Institute for Applied Cancer Science (IACS). As part of carrying value of €44.1 million. this collaborative effort, MD Anderson will progress the The assets concerned intellectual property or rights acquired drug candidate through Phase I clinical development, for proprietary Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Disease with Ipsen responsible for further global development and drugs that were in an advanced phase of development but commercialization; had not yet been commercialized. As a result, the assets • Amortization expense on intangible assets came to have not yet been amortized, in accordance with the Group’s €86.6 million, mainly arising from the Onivyde ® and accounting principles (see note 3.12). For these intangible Cabometyx ® assets and €13.4 million in amortization assets, the recoverable amount corresponds to the value in expense for software; use based on estimated expected future cash flows. 92 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2016 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2017 movements scope differences Intellectual property 804.3 144.6 (3.5) 473.3 (54.2) 7.3 1,371.8 Intangible assets in 10.0 11.3 – – (0.1) (7.2) 13.9 progress Gross assets 814.3 155.9 (3.5) 473.3 (54.4) 0.0 1,385.7 Amortization (213.7) (64.7) 2.2 (2.8) 13.2 (8.1) (273.9) Impairment losses (220.5) (33.9) 51.0 – 13.7 8.1 (181.5) Net assets 380.1 57.3 49.7 470.5 (27.5) 0.0 930.2 At 31 December 2017, the change in net intangible assets • In 2017, Ipsen recognized €38 million in intangible assets resulted notably from the following items: arising from additional milestone payments to Exelixis as part of an exclusive licensing agreement signed in 2016. It • As part of acquiring the Onivyde® assets from Merrimack also recognized €10 million in intangible assets arising from Pharmaceuticals, €466.6 million in intangible assets additional milestone payments to Lexicon. corresponding to the value of the intellectual property acquired and the fair value of the royalty rights arising from At 31 December 2017, amortization expense for intangible the partnerships with Shire and Pharma Engine in territories assets came to €64.7 million, mainly as a result of the outside the United States were recognized on the balance Onivyde® assets, the operating license signed with Exelixis sheet of the consolidated financial statements. The assets for Cabometyx® in 2016, and €11.4 million in software-related were recorded under “Changes in consolidation scope”. amortization expense. • As part of acquiring a portfolio of select Consumer In 2017, the move by Increlex® manufacturer of its production Healthcare products from Sanofi, trademarks, market plant to Visp, Switzerland was completed, and the plant authorization rights and regulatory rights were recorded on received compliance approval from the FDA and the EMA. With the balance sheet in the gross amount of €86.5 million. The the future supply of Increlex® now secured, the €50.4 million main product is Prontalgine®. impairment provision related to the Increlex® / IGF-1 active ingredient was reversed at 31 December 2017. • At 31 December 2017, the Group recorded a partial impairment loss on these assets totaling €33.9 million. At 31 December 2017, the Group’s intangible assets with an The partial impairment loss took into account the planned indefinite useful life had a total carrying value of €24.7 million. development of a new product with significant Prontalgine® The assets concerned intellectual property or rights acquired synergy benefits. for proprietary oncology, endocrinology and neuroscience drugs that were in an advanced phase of development but • As part of acquiring Akkadeas Pharma, €3.9 million in had not yet been commercialized. As a result, the assets intangible assets arising from customer relations, distribution have not yet been amortized, in accordance with the Group’s licenses and trademark licenses were recorded on the accounting principles (see note 3.12). For these intangible balance sheet in the consolidated financial statements. The assets, the recoverable amount corresponds to the value in assets were recorded under “Changes in consolidation use based on estimated expected future cash flows. scope”. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 93 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■13.2 Breakdown of intangible assets by asset type 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Gross Amortization & Gross Amortization & Net value Net value value Impairment value Impairment Brands and trademarks 77.1 (49.1) 28.0 77.1 (47.4) 29.7 Licenses 1,281.9 (381.0) 900.9 1,123.9 (291.5) 832.4 Patents 9.4 (9.2) 0.1 9.4 (9.3) 0.2 Know-how 39.4 (20.5) 18.9 39.5 (19.1) 20.3 Software 130.7 (88.0) 42.7 117.8 (86.0) 31.8 Other intangible assets 4.2 (2.6) 1.6 4.1 (2.2) 1.9 Intangible assets in progress 19.7 – 19.7 13.9 – 13.9 Total 1,562.3 (550.4) 1,011.9 1,385.7 (455.5) 930.2 Of which impairment losses (192.3) (181.5) Note 14 Property, plant & equipment Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2017 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2018 movements scope differences Land 23.0 1.5 (0.8) – 0.0 0.1 23.9 Buildings 335.9 5.8 (13.9) – (0.5) 14.9 342.2 Plant & equipment 357.5 15.0 (18.7) – (1.8) 22.4 374.4 Other assets 81.4 9.8 (10.4) – (0.2) 7.9 88.5 Assets in progress 77.2 75.0 (0.0) – 0.0 (46.9) 105.3 Advance payments 0.3 0.2 (0.2) – 0.0 (0.0) 0.2 Gross assets 875.2 107.4 (44.1) – (2.5) (1.5) 934.5 Depreciation (451.8) (39.8) 36.4 – 0.8 (1.0) (455.3) Impairment losses (4.6) (1.2) 0.1 – (0.0) 1.0 (4.7) Depreciation & (456.3) (41.0) 36.5 – 0.8 0.0 (460.0) impairment losses Net assets 418.9 66.4 (7.6) – (1.7) (1.5) 474.5 In 2018, acquisitions of property, plant and equipment totaled in France and the United Kingdom, as well as investments €107.4 million, compared with €84.9 million in 2017. The made to move the U.S. sales subsidiary to Cambridge, increase resulted primarily from capital spending needed to Massachusetts. boost production capacity at the Group’s manufacturing sites 94 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2016 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2017 movements scope differences Land 20.2 0.4 – 0.3 (0.3) 2.3 23.0 Buildings 264.5 20.8 (6.8) 0.1 (4.7) 62.0 335.9 Plant & equipment 301.8 11.5 (13.4) 1.0 (5.5) 62.1 357.5 Other assets 68.4 6.7 (4.7) 0.3 (1.7) 12.4 81.4 Assets in progress 174.3 45.2 – 0.1 (3.6) (138.8) 77.2 Advance payments 0.0 0.2 – (0.0) (0.0) – 0.3 Gross assets 829.3 84.9 (24.8) 1.8 (15.8) (0.0) 875.2 Depreciation (444.2) (33.2) 20.4 (0.1) 6.6 (1.3) (451.8) Impairment losses (6.1) (1.7) 2.0 – – 1.3 (4.6) Depreciation & (450.3) (34.9) 22.4 (0.1) 6.6 (0.0) (456.3) impairment losses Net assets 379.0 50.0 (2.4) 1.6 (9.2) (0.0) 418.9 Note 15 Equity investments Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Disposals Foreign December Acquisitions Other 2017 and exchange 2018 and increases movements decreases differences Equity investments at fair value 29.8 17.0 – – (8.0) 38.8 through other comprehensive income Equity investments at fair value 13.5 13.2 (0.3) – (0.0) 26.4 through profit or loss Equity investments 43.3 30.2 (0.3) – (8.0) 65.2 At 31 December 2018, equity investments at fair value through At 31 December 2018, equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income notably included the following: profit or loss notably included the following: • a €12.3 million interest in Arix Bioscience plc, including an • a €11.2 million interest in the Innobio venture capital fund, initial investment of €17 million on 19 February 2018, and an including an additional investment of €5 million and a adjusted decrease in fair value of €4.7 million; €0.4 million decrease in fair value for the period; • a €19.6 million interest in Rhythm Pharmaceuticals, • a €14.1 million interest in the Agent Capital fund, including including a €0.7 million decrease in fair value for the period; an additional investment of €8.2 million and a €0.4 million increase in fair value for the period. • a €3.7 million interest in Radius Health Inc., including a €3.2 million decrease in fair value for the period; 2018 Ipsen Registration document 95 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The transition of equity investments at 31 December 2017 to 1 January 2018 is presented in the following table. Equity investments at fair value Equity investments at fair value (in million euros) through other comprehensive 31 December 2017 through profit or loss income Equity investments 42.0 14.1 56.1 Write-downs & impairment losses (12.2) (0.6) (12.8) Equity investments 29.8 13.5 43.3 at 1 January 2018 Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Disposals Foreign December Acquisitions Other 2016 and exchange 2017 and increases movements decreases differences Equity investments 34.1 7.1 – (0.4) 15.4 56.1 Write-downs & impairment losses (12.9) – – 0.4 (0.4) (12.8) Net book value (Available-for-sale 21.2 7.1 – – 15.0 43.3 financial assets) Note 16 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method At 31 December 2018, the Group owned a 50% interest in company paid out €0.9 million in dividends to the Group in Linnea S.A., consolidated using the equity method. 2018. At 31 December 2018, the value of Linnea shares on the The information presented below corresponds to the financial Group’s balance sheet totaled €15.5 million, with Linnea statements of Linnea S.A., prepared in accordance with contributing €1.1 million to the Group’s net profit. The Group accounting principles (for amounts taken at 100%). At 31 December 2018 (in million euros) Liabilities, excluding Net profit (loss) Assets Sales shareholder’s equity for the year Linnea S.A. 39.1 8.1 31.7 2.2 At 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Liabilities, excluding Net profit (loss) Assets Sales shareholder’s equity for the year Linnea S.A. 36.5 7.1 36.2 2.8 Note 17 Non-current financial assets and other non-current assets ■■17.1 Non-current financial assets In 2018, the €20.4 million decline in non-current financial At 31 December 2018, non-current financial assets totaled assets resulted from payment received for Onivyde ®. That €92.9 million and corresponded to probability-measured payment, made by Servier, was included in “Net cash provided and discounted future payments that the Group may receive (used) by financing activities” in the consolidated statement of following the 3 April 2017 acquisition of oncology assets from cash flow along with additional Onivyde® payments . Merrimack Pharmaceuticals. 96 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■17.2 Other non-current assets (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Liquidity agreement (1) 1.8 2.3 Deposits paid 2.6 2.5 Total other non-current assets (2) 4.4 4.8 (1) Changes are due to the liquidity agreement with Natixis Bleichroeder, a subsidiary of Natixis, signed in February 2007 and automatically renewed thereafter. The liquidity agreement consists of cash, not treasury shares. (2) The fair value of “Other non-current assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (on each reporting date, the value at the transaction date, less impairment in the amount of the expected losses initially recognized). Note 18 Detail of the change in working capital requirement ■■18.1 Movements Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the period 31 1st Change in w/ Change in w/ Change in w/ 31 1 January Foreign (in million euros) December application cap related cap related cap related Other December 2018 exchange 2017 of IFRS 15 (3) to operating to investing to financing movements 2018 differences activities activities activities Inventories 167.4 – 167.4 29.8 – – 1.3 – 198.5 Trade receivables 437.2 – 437.2 29.0 – – (4.0) 0.8 463.0 Current tax assets 58.0 – 58.0 (10.8) – – 0.6 (0.2) 47.7 Other current assets (see 96.3 – 96.3 27.7 (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) 2.9 126.4 note 18.2.3) WCR assets (1) 758.8 – 758.8 75.7 (0.1) (0.1) (2.3) 3.6 835.6 Trade payables (319.1) – (319.1) (62.4) – – (1.2) 2.9 (379.8) Current tax liabilities (2.4) – (2.4) (15.7) – – 0.2 6.5 (11.4) Other current liabilities (290.2) 3.1 (287.1) 21.6 (49.5) 0.8 1.6 (16.4) (329.0) (see note 18.2.4) Other non-current liabilities (71.7) 13.5 (58.2) (16.2) – (0.0) 0.4 13.1 (61.0) (see note 18.2.4) WCR liabilities (2) (683.3) 16.5 (666.8) (72.8) (49.5) 0.8 1.0 6.1 (781.2) Total 75.5 16.5 92.0 2.9 (49.6) 0.7 (1.3) 9.6 54.3 (1) The fair value of “WCR assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (on each reporting date, the value at the transaction date less impairment in the amount of the expected losses initially recognized). (2) The carrying amount of items comprising “WCR liabilities” was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. (3) Impacts of the first-time application of IFRS 15 (see note 3.2.1) At 31 December 2018, gross trade receivables past due totaled €67.2 million. Trade Trade Trade Trade receivables receivables (in million euros) Total receivables receivables from 3 to from 6 to < 3 months > 12 months 6 months 12 months Trade receivables – gross value 67.2 49.5 2.6 7.0 8.1 Trade receivables – net value 65.3 48.7 2.5 6.9 7.1 Changes in other non-current liabilities were due mainly to income was recorded as “other non-current liabilities”, if the recognition of “deferred income” on payments received due after 12 months, and as “other current liabilities” if due from Group partnerships. Within the framework of partnership within one year. Following the first-time application of IFRS 15 agreements, the milestone payments received by the Group in 2018, deferred income includes only amounts related to for these contracts were recognized on a straight-line basis dynamic licenses (see notes 3.2.1 and 3.27). over the life of the contracts. The portion unrecognized as 2018 Ipsen Registration document 97 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year Change Change 31 December in w/cap in w/cap Changes in Foreign 31 December (in million euros) Other 2016 related to related to consolidation exchange 2017 movements operating investing scope differences activities activities Inventories (see note 113.3 38.2 – 20.5 (4.7) – 167.4 18.2.1.) Trade receivables 363.5 84.6 – 8.4 (19.1) (0.2) 437.2 Current tax assets 66.3 (10.0) – 0.1 (1.2) 2.8 58.0 Other current assets (see 75.2 16.0 0.2 9.8 (2.1) (2.7) 96.3 note 18.2.3) WCR assets (1) 618.3 128.8 0.2 38.8 (27.1) (0.0) 758.8 Trade payables (241.5) (77.6) – (9.0) 9.0 0.1 (319.1) Current tax liabilities (4.1) 3.3 – (0.2) 0.3 (1.8) (2.4) Other current liabilities (226.4) (33.2) (20.7) (0.3) 5.7 (15.3) (290.2) (see note 18.2.4) Other non-current (90.6) (0.2) – – 3.4 15.8 (71.7) liabilities (see note 18.2.4) WCR liabilities (2) (562.6) (107.6) (20.7) (9.4) 18.3 (1.3) (683.3) Total 55.7 21.2 (20.5) 29.3 (8.8) (1.4) 75.5 (1) The fair value of “WCR assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). (2) The carrying amount of items comprising “WCR liabilities” was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. ■■18.2 Breakdown 18.2.1 Inventories 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Gross value Depreciation Net value Net value Raw materials and supplies 57.3 (2.5) 54.9 49.4 Work in progress 72.9 (13.7) 59.2 56.5 Finished goods 89.1 (4.6) 84.5 61.5 Total 219.3 (20.8) 198.5 167.4 18.2.2 Current financial assets At 31 December 2018, current financial assets notably included derivative instruments totaling €4.9 million, versus €29.6 million at 31 December 2017. 18.2.3 Other current assets (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Receivables related to the sale of non-current assets 0.0 0.2 Advance payments to suppliers 24.9 21.9 Prepayments 29.5 22.9 Recoverable VAT 49.4 43.6 Other assets 22.6 7.7 Total other current assets (1) 126.4 96.3 (1) The fair value of “Other current assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (on each reporting date, the value at the transaction date less impairment in the amount of the expected losses initially recognized). 98 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.2.4 Other current and non-current liabilities (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Non-current deferred income 61.0 71.7 Total other non-current liabilities (1) 61.0 71.7 Amounts due to non-current asset suppliers 106.2 56.3 Employment-related liabilities 150.9 142.8 VAT payable 24.2 21.1 Other current tax liabilities 10.3 8.3 Deferred income 24.9 38.8 Other liabilities 12.5 22.8 Total other current liabilities (1) 329.0 290.2 (1) The carrying amount of other current and non-current liabilities was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents ■■19.1 Net Cash and cash equivalents 19.1.1 Opening net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated balance Consolidated balance (in million euros) sheet at 1 January 2018 sheet at 1 January 2017 Net cash and cash equivalents – assets 228.0 425.5 Bank overdrafts – liabilities (18.7) (3.0) Opening cash and cash equivalents 209.3 422.5 19.1.2 Closing net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated balance Consolidated balance (in million euros) sheet at 31 December 2018 sheet at 31 December 2017 Net cash and cash equivalents – assets 344.5 228.0 Bank overdrafts – liabilities (33.6) (18.7) Closing cash and cash equivalents 310.9 209.3 The “Net cash and cash equivalents” line item consists of demand deposit and term deposit accounts with banks. Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. ■■19.2 Cash and cash equivalents (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Interest-bearing deposits 207.2 125.5 Cash and cash equivalents 137.4 102.5 Cash and cash equivalents – assets 344.5 228.0 Cash equivalents are presented at fair value (market value) There are no significant cash and cash equivalents unavailable and meet IAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows criteria. to the Group. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 99 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 20 Consolidated equity ■■20.1 Share capital ■■20.2 Basic earnings per share At 31 December 2018, Ipsen’s share capital was comprised Basic earnings per share were calculated on the weighted of 83,808,761 ordinary shares each with a nominal value of average number of shares outstanding during the year (see €1, including 48,047,154 shares with double voting rights, note 3.32). compared with 83,732,057 ordinary shares each with a Movements in the weighted average number of shares nominal value of €1, including 47,852,938 shares with double outstanding for the two periods reported are shown in voting rights at 31 December 2017. note 20.4. These changes arose from the issuance of 76,704 new shares following the exercise of warrants in the 2018 financial year. 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 82,897,511 82,549,563 Consolidated net profit – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (in millions of 389.5 272.3 euros) Basic earnings per share (in euros) 4.70 3.30 Net profit from discontinued operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 2.0 2.3 (in millions of euros) Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.02 0.03 Net profit from continuing operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 387.4 270.0 (in millions of euros) Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 4.67 3.27 ■■20.3 Diluted earnings per share • Bonus shares • Stock option plans At 31 December 2018, bonus shares for the plans of 1 April At 31 December 2018, all stock option plans were dilutive, 2015 (U.S. tax-resident beneficiaries), 31 May 2016 (U.S. and as at 31 December 2017, and were taken into account when foreign tax-resident beneficiaries), and 29 March 2017, as well calculating diluted earnings per share. as the portion of bonus shares free of performance conditions in the 30 May 2018 plan, were not included in the calculation Share transactions occurring after 31 December 2018 of the average weighted number of shares for basic earnings would not significantly modify the number of shares used in per share, but were included in diluted earnings. calculating earnings per share or diluted earnings per share. 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 83,248,336 83,030,871 Consolidated net profit – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (in millions of 389.5 272.3 euros) Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 4.68 3.28 Net profit from discontinued operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 2.0 2.3 (in millions of euros) Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.02 0.03 Net profit from continuing operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 387.4 270.0 (in millions of euros) Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 4.65 3.25 100 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■20.4 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 20.4.1 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate basic earnings per share 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Number of ordinary shares at start of year 83,732,057 83,557,864 Treasury shares (weighted average number) (895,416) (1,101,854) Impact of options exercised in the 2018 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December 2,823 34,770 2006 Impact of options exercised in the 2017 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 May 2007 – 20,265 Impact of options exercised in the 2017 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December – 2,411 2007 Impact of options exercised in the 2018 financial year – Stock option plan of 31 March 57,762 35,570 2010 Impact of options exercised in the 2018 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 June 2011 286 538 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 82,897,511 82,549,563 20.4.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate diluted earnings per share 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate basic earnings 82,897,511 82,549,563 per share Dilutive effect of stock options 28,741 431,945 Dilutive effect of bonus shares 322,084 49,363 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate diluted 83,248,336 83,030,871 earnings per share ■■20.5 Dividends paid Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. were as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Dividend payout (in euros) (a) 83,017,070 70,247,053 Number of shares on the payment date (b) 83,017,070 82,643,592 Dividend per share (in euros) (a) / (b) 1.00 0.85 Note 21 Provisions ■■21.1 Movements Movements in 2018 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Reversals Foreign December Other 2017 Charges exchange 2018 Applied Released movements (*) differences Business and operating risks 8.8 18.4 (3.2) (4.6) 0.0 – 19.4 Legal risks 22.3 7.6 (4.3) (9.1) 0.3 6.6 23.2 Restructuring costs 9.3 8.5 (2.6) (0.2) 0.3 – 15.3 Other 9.5 3.3 (5.3) (0.1) 0.2 (0.0) 7.6 Total provisions 49.9 37.7 (15.4) (14.0) 0.8 6.6 65.5 – of which current 16.6 12.9 (10.3) (1.2) 0.5 2.6 21.1 – of which non-current 33.3 24.8 (5.0) (12.9) 0.3 4.0 44.5 (*) The valuation by some Group subsidiaries of the recovery risk for research tax credits, previously recorded in the “Current tax assets” line item, was reclassified in the “Legal risks” line item. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 101 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2018, provisions broke down as follows: • €4.6 million for costs related to labor-related litigation that the Group may incur; • Business and operating risks • €0.2 million for various other legal risks. These provisions included certain risks of an economic nature reflecting costs that the Group could be brought to • Restructuring costs bear to terminate commercial contracts or resolve various These provisions correspond mainly to costs incurred by disagreements of commercial origin. Charges for the period the Group to adapt its structure. At 31 December 2018, the stemmed mainly from terminating research and development increase in this line item resulted notably from moving the U.S. studies. sales subsidiary to Cambridge, Massachusetts. • Legal risks • Other These provisions included: At 31 December 2018, a provision was recorded for Group • €18.4 million for the risk of tax reassessment by local per formance-related medium-term bonus plans. The authorities at certain Group’s subsidiaries and certain reversals for the period arose after remuneration was paid additional taxes that the Group may be required to pay; following the maturity of the plans. Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in million euros) December Reversals Foreign décembre Other 2016 Charges exchange 2017 Applied Released movements differences Business and operating risks 2.2 7.1 – (0.3) (0.1) – 8.8 Legal risks 15.4 11.6 (1.9) (2.7) (0.1) – 22.3 Restructuring costs 3.2 7.7 (0.7) (0.9) (0.0) – 9.3 Other 28.5 6.6 (24.0) (0.4) (1.3) – 9.5 Total provisions 49.4 32.9 (26.6) (4.2) (1.5) – 49.9 – of which current 27.8 12.5 (24.6) (0.7) (1.1) 2.8 16.6 – of which non-current 21.6 20.4 (2.0) (3.5) (0.4) (2.8) 33.3 ■■21.2 Impact on consolidated income In 2017, charges totaling €32.8 million were recognized in Charges totaling €37.7 million were recognized in Operating Operating income, while charges totaling €0.1 million were income in 2018. In 2018, released reversals totaling recognized in Income taxes. Released reversals totaling €13.6 million were recognized in Operating income, while €4.2 million were recognized in Operating income in 2017. €0.4 million in released reversals were recognized in Income taxes. 102 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 22 Bank loans and financial liabilities ■■22.1 Movements Movements in bank loans and other financial liabilities between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 were as follows: Foreign 31 December Net change Other 31 December (in million euros) Additions Repayments exchange 2017 in interest movements 2018 differences Bonds and bank loans 297.5 – – – 0.4 – 297.9 Other financial liabilities 102.8 3.2 (3.9) 0.0 (15.0) 0.9 88.1 Non-current financial liabilities (measured at 400.3 3.2 (3.9) 0.0 (14.6) 0.9 386.0 amortized cost) Credit lines and bank loans 46.0 0.1 (46.8) – 4.7 – 4.1 Other financial liabilities 228.0 – (81.7) (0.1) 14.8 2.6 163.7 Current financial liabilities (measured at 274.0 0.1 (128.4) (0.1) 19.6 2.6 167.8 amortized cost) (1) Derivative financial 20.7 – – – (4.3) – 16.5 instruments Current financial liabilities (financial 20.7 – – – (4.3) – 16.5 liabilities measured at fair value) (2) Current financial 294.7 0.1 (128.4) (0.1) 15.3 2.6 184.2 liabilities Total financial liabilities 695.0 3.3 (132.3) (0.1) 0.7 3.5 570.2 (1) The carrying book amount of current financial liabilities measured at amortized cost was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. Repayments included additional payments made for Onivyde® and are presented in “Net cash provided (used) by financing activities” in the consolidated statement of cash flow along with additional Onivyde® payments received from Servier (see note 17.1). (2) Fair value corresponds to the market value. The (€4.3) million in other movements corresponds to the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange risk. On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in Ipsen S.A. also has a €600 million syndicated loan that unsecured, seven-year bonds paying an annual interest rate matures on 17 October 2022. At 31 December 2018, this of 1.875%. In addition, €300 million in depreciable bank credit line remained untapped. loans were contracted with a maximum maturity of 6.5 years. Ipsen S.A. has a €600 million program for issuing commercial At 31 December 2018, none of these bank loans had been paper (NEU CP Negotiable European Commercial Paper), of tapped by the Group. which €141 million had been issued as of 31 December 2018. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 103 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in bank loans and other financial liabilities between 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017 were as follows: 31 Net Changes in Foreign 31 Other (in million euros) December Additions Repayments change in consolidation exchange December movements (2) 2016 interest scope differences 2017 Bonds and bank loans 297.1 – – – 0.4 – – 297.5 Other financial liabilities (1) 17.8 1.4 (3.3) 0.0 (10.0) 118.9 (22.1) 102.8 Non-current financial liabilities (measured 314.8 1.4 (3.3) 0.0 (9.6) 118.9 (22.1) 400.3 at amortized cost) Credit lines and bank 4.0 46.8 – – (4.7) – – 46.0 loans Other financial liabilities 36.3 171.5 – 0.4 24.4 – (4.6) 228.0 Current financial liabilities (measured 40.3 218.3 – 0.4 19.7 – (4.6) 274.0 at amortized cost) Derivative financial 18.2 – – – 2.5 – – 20.7 instruments Current financial liabilities (financial 18.2 – – – 2.5 – – 20.7 liabilities measured at fair value) Current financial 58.6 218.3 – 0.4 22.2 – (4.6) 294.7 liabilities Total financial liabilities 373.4 219.7 (3.3) 0.4 12.6 118.9 (26.7) 695.0 (1) Additions and repayments of other financial liabilities were related to employee profit sharing. Changes in consolidation scope correspond to financial liabilities recognized as part of acquiring oncology assets from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals. (2) The €10.1 million in other movements corresponds to financial liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, while the €2.5 million in other movements corresponds to the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange risk. ■■22.2 Breakdown by maturity and currency • an untapped, €600 million syndicated line of credit maturing At 31 December 2018, the Group had: on 17 October 2022. • €300 million in bonds maturing on 16 June 2023; Note 23 Derivative financial instruments ■■23.1 Interest rate risk hedging euro (the main currencies in which the Group operates) would The Group’s net debt consisted primarily of fixed-rate debt impact sales by plus 5% or minus 4%, and operating income following the €300 million bond issue in June 2016. by plus 5% or minus 4%. At 31 December 2018, there were no derivative financial Several types of risks can be identified: instruments for hedging interest rate risk. • transactional foreign exchange risk related to business activities: The Group hedges its main foreign currencies, ■■23.2 Exchange rate risk hedging including the USD, GBP, CNY, RUB, CHF, PLN, AUD, and 23.2.1 Application of IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments BRL, based on its budget forecasts; A share of the Group’s business is conducted in countries • financing foreign exchange risk related to financing where the euro, Ipsen’s reporting currency, is the functional contracted in a currency other than the functional currencies currency. Nevertheless, owing to its international business of Group entities. scope, the Group is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations that can affect its results. Ipsen implemented a foreign exchange rate hedging policy to reduce the exposure of its net profit to foreign currency A 10% increase or decrease in the US dollar, the pound fluctuations. sterling, the Chinese yuan, or the Russian ruble against the 104 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, derivative financial instruments held by the Group are broken down as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Fair value Nominal value by maturity Fair value (in million euros) Face Face value Less than 1 to Over value Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 1 year 5 years 5 years Exchange rate risk hedging – Sales transactions Put forward contracts 702.0 3.6 (13.2) 702.0 – – 545.7 29.1 (3.3) Put option contracts 21.2 0.0 – 21.2 – – 13.0 0.0 – Seller at maturity foreign exchange 88.6 0.2 (0.2) 88.6 – – 86.9 0.2 (0.2) swaps Cash Flow Call forward contracts Hedge 243.2 0.3 (2.5) 243.2 – – 349.1 3.4 (16.8) Call option contracts 11.1 0.1 – 11.1 – – 18.0 0.3 – Buyer at maturity foreign exchange 38.0 0.1 (0.0) 38.0 – – 20.7 0.0 (0.0) swaps Total business transactions 1,104.1 4.3 (15.8) 1,104.1 1,033.3 33.1 (20.4) Exchange rate risk hedging – Financial transactions Put forward contracts 15.3 0.2 (0.0) 15.3 – – 11.6 0.1 (0.0) Seller at maturity foreign exchange 321.7 0.3 (0.2) 321.7 – – 202.5 1.0 (0.3) swaps Derivatives not Call forward contracts qualified 43.3 0.1 (0.1) 43.3 – – 0.9 0.0 (0.0) Buyer at maturity foreign exchange 334.0 0.1 (0.3) 334.0 – – 128.2 0.3 (0.0) swaps Financial transactions 714.3 0.7 (0.6) 714.3 343.2 1.4 (0.3) Total hedging of business and financial transactions 1,818.5 4.9 (16.5) 1,818.5 1,376.5 34.5 (20.7) • Impact of financial instruments used for future cash The Group hedges its main foreign currencies, including the flow hedges on equity USD, GBP, CNY, RUB, CHF, PLN, AUD, and BRL, based on its budget forecasts and highly probable business transactions. At 31 December 2018, the future cash flow hedge reserve for business transactions came to a pre-tax (€5.1) million, To reduce its exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, compared to a pre-tax reserve of €22.3 million at 31 December Ipsen uses derivative instruments, primarily put or call forward 2017. contracts as well as currency swaps and non deliverable forward (NDF) contracts. • Impact of financial instruments used for future cash flow hedges on Operating income These derivatives hedge primarily significant future cash flows denominated in foreign currencies after the close of At 31 December 2018, financial instruments used for future the reporting period, i.e. the balance sheet date. The Group cash flow hedges on business transactions positively mainly uses future cash flow hedge accounting. impacted Operating income in the amount of €15.7 million, mainly as a result of gains from hedging USD-denominated The Group’s policy is not aimed at carrying out derivative transactions. financial instrument transactions for speculative gain. • Impact of financial instruments used for future cash 23.2.3 Financing foreign exchange risk flow hedges on Net financial income (expense) Pooling of the financing surpluses and needs of foreign At 31 December 2018, the ineffective impact of financial subsidiaries outside the euro zone exposes certain entities instruments used for future cash flow hedges recognized in to financing foreign exchange risk arising from fluctuations in Net financial income (expense) came to (€15.8) million. the value of financial liabilities and receivables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the lending or • Impact of financial instruments not qualified for future borrowing entity. To pool the risk, the intra-group financing is cash flow hedges on Net financial income (expense) generally denominated in the subsidiary’s functional currency. At 31 December 2018, the ineffective impact of financial The Group hedges financial current accounts denominated in instruments classified in “Financial assets and liabilities at fair the functional currencies of its subsidiaries through financial value through profit or loss” totaled (€3.6) million. instruments that match current account balances. These 23.2.2 Transactional foreign exchange risk include currency swaps and loans and borrowings contracted from counterparty banks. The Group’s hedging policy is aimed at protecting operating income from foreign exchange rate fluctuations vis-à-vis company forecasts. Accordingly, the effective portion of the hedge is recorded in operating income. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 105 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■23.3 Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2018 and 2017: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities Market value of currency instruments 4.9 16.5 34.5 20.7 Total 4.9 16.5 34.5 20.7 Note 24 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet In accordance with the amendments to IFRS 13 – Fair Value assets and liabilities or parameters quoted in an active Measurement, financial instruments are presented in three market; categories based on a hierarchical method used to determine • level 3: fair value calculated using valuation techniques their fair value: based wholly or partly on unobservable inputs such • level 1: fair value calculated using quoted prices in an active as prices in an inactive market or a valuation based on market for identical assets and liabilities; multiples for unlisted securities. • level 2: fair value calculated using valuation techniques based on observable market data such as prices of similar Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2018 are broken down as follows: 31 December 2018 Breakdown by financial instrument class balance sheet value Level of fair value Financial assets Financial Fair value Liabilities (in million euros) at fair value assets at fair Assets at Carrying Fair through at through other value through amortized Derivatives Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value income amortized comprehensive the profit or cost statement cost income loss Equity investments 65.2 65.2 – 38.8 26.4 – – – 38.4 11.2 15.6 Non-current financial assets 92.9 92.9 – – – 92.9 – – 92.9 Other non-current assets 4.4 4.4 – – – 4.4 – 4.4 – – Trade and account receivables 463.0 463.0 – – – 463.0 – Current financial assets 5.5 5.5 0.6 – – – – 4.9 – 4.9 0.6 Other current assets 126.4 126.4 – – – 126.4 – – Cash and cash equivalents 344.5 344.5 344.5 – – – – – 344.5 – – ASSETS 1,101.9 1,101.9 345.1 38.8 26.4 686.6 – 4.9 387.3 16.2 109.0 Non-current financial liabilities 386.0 393.5 – – – 386.0 – 305.5 3.4 84.6 Other non-current liabilities 61.0 61.0 – – – 61.0 – Current financial liabilities 184.2 184.2 – – – – 167.8 16.5 148.7 18.0 17.5 Trade payables 379.8 379.8 – – – – 379.8 – Other current liabilities 329.0 329.0 – – – – 329.0 – Bank overdraft 33.6 33.6 – – – – 33.6 – 33.6 – – LIABILITIES 1,373.7 1,381.2 – – – – 1,357.2 16.5 487.8 21.4 102.1 106 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 are broken down as follows: 31 December 2017 Breakdown by financial instrument class – balance sheet value Level of fair value Fair value AvailableLoans, Liabilities (in million euros) Carrying Fair through for-sale receivables at Derivatives Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value value income financial and other amortized statement assets liabilities cost Equity investments 43.3 43.3 – 43.3 – – – 29.3 6.6 7.3 Non-current financial assets 112.7 112.7 – – 107.8 – 4.9 – 4.9 107.8 Other non-current assets 4.8 4.8 – – 4.8 – – 4.8 – – Trade and account receivables 437.2 437.2 – – 437.2 Current financial assets 29.6 29.6 – – – – 29.6 – 29.6 – Other current assets 96.3 96.3 – – 96.3 – – Cash and cash equivalents 228.0 228.0 228.0 – – – – 228.0 – – ASSETS 951.8 951.8 228.0 43.3 646.0 – 34.5 262.0 41.1 115.2 Non-current financial liabilities 400.3 412.7 – – – 400.3 – 309.9 4.3 98.5 Other non-current liabilities 71.7 71.7 – – 71.7 – – Current financial liabilities 294.7 294.7 – – – 274.0 20.7 251.1 22.7 21.0 Trade payables 319.1 319.1 – – 319.1 – – Other current liabilities 290.2 290.2 – – 290.2 – – Bank overdrafts 18.7 18.7 – – – 18.7 – 18.7 – – LIABILITIES 1,394.7 1,407.1 – – 680.9 693.1 20.7 579.7 26.9 119.5 Note 25 Information on entities consolidated as joint operations ■■25.1 Balance sheet items 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current Current assets assets liabilities liabilities assets assets liabilities liabilities Companies Cara Partners 10.5 13.0 4.9 6.8 8.9 11.3 6.1 5.6 Garnay Inc. 2.5 0.5 – 0.1 2.4 0.2 – 0.0 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 2.2 0.4 0.1 0.1 2.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 Wallingstown Company 4.2 6.6 – 0.0 2.5 6.6 – 0.4 Total 19.4 20.4 4.9 6.9 16.0 18.4 6.1 6.1 Data pertaining to other companies consolidated as joint operations were not material. ■■25.2 Income statement items 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Operating Share of net Operating Share of net Sales Sales expenses profit (loss) expenses profit (loss) Companies Cara Partners 4.8 (3.3) 1.6 4.2 (2.1) 1.9 Garnay Inc. 0.2 0.0 0.3 0.3 (0.1) 0.1 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 0.4 0.3 0.6 0.2 (1.2) (0.6) Wallingstown Company 12.6 (10.9) 1.7 11.3 (9.7) 1.6 Total 18.1 (13.9) 4.2 16.0 (13.1) 2.9 Data pertaining to other companies consolidated as joint operations were not material. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 107 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 26 Information on related parties ■■26.1 Director and executive compensation corporate mandate, including a targeted bonus subject to In 2018, the total compensation paid to Board and Executive performance conditions. Leadership Team members amounted to €17.7 million, of On 28 March 2018, the Board of Directors reviewed the fixed which €2 million were paid to members of the Board of portion of the compensation scheme set for the Chairman of Directors and €15.7 million were paid to members of the the Board of Directors. Executive Leadership Team (see Chapter 5). The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer benefit from the Pension and similar benefits for Board members and members Company’s current complementary retirement benefits. of the Executive Leadership Team came to €5.2 million at 31 December 2018, with a total of €2.3 million paid to In addition, the Board is obligated – under certain conditions members of the Board of Directors and €2.9 million paid to – to pay a departure package equal to 24 months of the Executive Leadership Team members. Chairman’s and the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation under their corporate mandates. On 14 February 2018, the Board of Directors determined the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation scheme for his ■■26.2 Transactions with related parties 26.2.1 In the income statement 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Operating Operating Income Income expenses expenses Companies consolidated as joint operations (1) 7.3 (11.0) 6.7 (10.5) Associated companies (1) – 0.0 – – Companies over which the Group's executive officers exercise – (0.1) – (0.1) significant influence (2) Total 7.3 (11.0) 6.7 (10.6) (1) The Group’s relationship with Schwabe was formalized in a cooperation agreement signed on 27 July 2005 concerning: • the sourcing and supply of Ginkgo biloba leaves; • the production of Ginkgo biloba extract; • patents, know-how and the EGb 761® brand name; • research and development activities concerning the EGb 761® extract and drugs containing the EGb 761® extract. This contract recognizes that the Group and Schwabe have joint shareholdings in the following companies, which form the production chain for EGb 761® or other plant extracts: • 50% of the share capital in Saint Jean d’Illac S.C.A., Garnay Inc. and Linnea S.A.; • 50% of the partnership shares in Wallingstown Company Ltd; • 50% of the joint rights in Cara Partners. (2) Rent owed by a number of the Group’s companies to real estate holdings owned by certain Group Directors. 26.2.2 In the balance sheet 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Loans and Trade Bank Trade Loans and Trade Bank Trade receivables receivables loans/ Debt payables receivables receivables loans/ Debt payables Companies consolidated as joint 12.8 5.1 0.7 4.1 11.2 3.5 0.7 4.7 operations (1) Total gross 12.8 5.1 0.7 4.1 11.2 3.5 0.7 4.7 Provisions for doubtful accounts – – – – – – – – receivables Total (net of write-offs) 12.8 5.1 0.7 4.1 11.2 3.5 0.7 4.7 (1) See note 26.2.1. 26.2.3 Off-balance sheet commitments influence. The total amount of future rent payments due in This item includes rent commitments to companies over respect of these rented premises amounted to €0.1 million at which executive officers of the Group exercise significant 31 December 2018. 108 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 27 Commitments and contingent liabilities 27.1 Operating commitments (commitments given) or received (commitments received), if Within the scope of its business activity, in particular with all the conditions have been met. strategic development operations that lead to the formation of 27.1.1 Operating commitments given partnerships, the Group regularly enters into agreements that As part of its key agreements listed in the following table, the may result in potential financial commitments, subject to the Group could make milestone payments related to the success completion of certain events. The amounts presented below of development and marketing phases: correspond to the maximum amounts that may be owed (in million euros) 31 December 2018 Key agreements in Oncology 1,119.6 Key agreements in Neuroscience 108.6 Key agreements in Consumer Healthcare 19.0 Total 1,247.3 At 31 December 2018, commitments given by the Group and payments that may be paid Exelixis, as well as €473 million related to key agreements in oncology totaled €1,120 million, in milestone payments that may be paid to the MD Anderson versus commitments of €671 million at 31 December 2017. Cancer Center at the University of Texas, following the These commitments included €529 million in milestone agreement signed 29 May 2018. 27.1.2 Operating commitments received As part of its key agreements listed in the following table, the Group could receive milestone payments related to the success of development and marketing phases: (in million euros) 31 December 2018 Key agreements in Oncology 18.4 Key agreements in Neuroscience 34.4 Key agreements in Rare Diseases 324.7 Key agreements in Consumer Healthcare 67.6 Key agreements in Haematology 162.2 Total 607.3 At 31 December 2018, commitments received by the and which has subscribed to three credit lines totaling Group and related to key agreements in rare diseases CHF11 million. These credit lines were not drawn on during totaled €325 million, versus commitments of €96 million the year. at 31 December 2017. These commitments included €226 million in milestone payments that may be received from ■■27.3 General risks Tiburio Therapeutics Inc., following a partnership agreement The Group may be involved in litigation, arbitration and other signed 20 December 2018 concerning a license for the legal proceedings. Such proceedings are generally related to treatment of non-functioning pituitary adenoma (NFPA) and civil litigation concerning product liability, intellectual property rare endocrine diseases. rights, competition law, trading practices, trade rules, labor rights, tax issues, waste treatment and environmental issues, ■■27.2 Financial commitments and requests for guaranteeing the liabilities of assets sold. The Ipsen Group has subscribed to a worldwide liability Provisions related to litigation and arbitration are recognized in insurance policy from a third-party insurer. The insurance compliance with the principles presented in note 3.23. company itself is underwritten by the captive reinsurance Most of the questions raised by these claims are complex company Ipsen Ré, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, and subject to significant uncertainties. As a consequence, up to the first €10 million for any potential claim made. it is sometimes difficult to measure the probability that the To cover that financial commitment and address any potential Group will have to recognize an expense and to measure the default by Ipsen Ré, the Ipsen S.A. parent company on amount. Contingent liabilities relate to those cases where it is 15 March 2018 issued a letter of guarantee payable upon first not reasonably possible to provide a reliable estimate of the demand in favor of the third-party insurer for a total amount of financial impact that could arise from the settlement of the €9 million. The first-demand guarantee is renewable annually. cases, or where the probability is low that the cases will result in payment by the Group. Further, the Group owns a 50% interest in the Swiss-based entity Linnea S.A., consolidated using the equity method, 2018 Ipsen Registration document 109 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In general, risks are measured according to a series of complex ■■27.4 Liquidity risk and counterparty risk assumptions about future events. These measurements are The Group’s policy is to diversify its business counterparties based on estimates and assumptions deemed reasonable so as to avoid the risks associated with excessive by management. The Group believes that the total amount of concentration and to make qualitative decisions in choosing provisions recognized for the aforementioned general risks is these counterparties. Further, the Group monitors the credit adequate based on currently available information. However, risks associated with the financial instruments in which it given the uncertainties inherent to such litigation and to invests and limits its investments according to the credit rating contingent liability estimates, the Group cannot rule out the of its business counterparties. These funds are managed possibility of future decisions that could have an unfavorable by the Group and are mainly invested in term deposits and material impact on its results. term accounts. The Group invests its surpluses in shortThe Group set up a tax pool in France for all of Group term money-market financial instruments negotiated with companies operating in France that meet legal requirements. counterparties whose credit ratings are at least A-1 (Standard The system provides for various penalty provisions when & Poor’s) or P-1 (Moody’s). entities leave the tax group, mentioned here for informational purposes. ■■27.5 Other commitments 27.5.1 Capital expenditure commitments Future Group expenditures resulting from investment commitments amounted to €52.5 million at 31 December 2018, and were broken down as follows: Maturity (in million euros) From one Total Less than one year Over five years to five years Industrial assets 40.4 8.0 – 48.4 Research and development assets 1.4 – – 1.4 Other 2.8 – – 2.8 Total 44.6 8.0 – 52.5 27.5.2 Commitments related to rental agreements The total amount of future rent payments due in respect of agreements for rented premises amounted to €204.8 million at 31 December 2018, compared with €167.4 million at 31 December 2017. Due dates are as follows: (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Less than one year 30.9 25.1 From one to five years 111.4 78.0 Over five years 62.4 64.3 Total 204.8 167.4 At 31 December 2018, rental lease-related commitments The application of IFRS 16 is expected to trigger a liability stemmed primarily from the Group’s Boulogne headquarters, commensurate with Ipsen’s off-balance sheet commitments the buildings rented by the UK subsidiary Ipsen Biopharm Ltd at 31 December 2018, discounted over the remaining term of and the buildings rented by Ipsen’s U.S. subsidiaries. the leases and adjusted for any payment shifts. 110 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.5.3 Risk of acceleration of borrowings given to government authorities to participate in calls for The Group’s exposure to this risk is described in note 22.2. tender. At 31 December 2018, no commitment or contingent liability 27.5.5 Commitments arising from Research and had been contracted that could significantly affect the Development agreements assessment of the consolidated financial statements. Within the scope of its business activity, the Group regularly enters into research and development agreements with 27.5.4 Endorsements, pledges and guarantees given partners that may result in potential financial commitments. At Total guarantees given came to €38.3 million at 31 December 31 December 2018, those commitment totaled €74.8 million. 2018. These commitments correspond primarily to guarantees Note 28 Post closing events with no impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018 No event occurring between the closing date of the consideration, was likely to call into question Ipsen S.A.’s consolidated financial statements and the date of their consolidated financial statements themselves or make it approval by the Board of Directors, and not taken into necessary to mention such an event in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Note 29 Consolidation scope The table below shows the following information for all companies included in the consolidation scope: • Country of incorporation; • Place of registered office (State of incorporation for U.S. companies); • The percentage interest held in each company. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 111 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS List of companies included in the consolidation scope at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. ■■29.1 Fully consolidated companies Registered 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Ipsen S.A. (Parent company) France Boulogne (92) 100 100 BB et Cie S.A.S. France Boulogne (92) 100 100 Beaufour Ipsen Industrie S.A.S. France Dreux (28) 100 100 Ipsen Consumer Healthcare S.A.S. France Boulogne (92) 100 – Ipsen Innovation S.A.S. France Les Ulis (91) 100 100 Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. France Boulogne (92) 100 100 Ipsen PharmSciences S.A.S. France Dreux (28) 100 – Sutrepa S.A.S France Boulogne (92) 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Biotech S.A.S. France Signes (83) 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Algérie S.P.A. Algeria Algiers 49 – Ipsen Pharma GmbH Germany Ettlingen 100 100 OctreoPharm Sciences GmbH Germany Berlin 100 100 Ipsen Pty Limited Australia Glen Waverley 100 100 Ipsen N.V. Belgium Merelbeke 100 100 Beaufour Ipsen Farmaceutica LTDA Brazil São Paulo 100 100 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Canada, Inc. Canada Mississauga 100 100 Beaufour Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd China Tianjin 96 96 Ipsen (Beijing) Pharmaceutical Science and Technology China Beijing 100 100 Development Co. Ltd Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Trade Co. Ltd China Tianjin 96 96 Ipsen Korea Korea Seoul 100 100 Ipsen Pharma S.A. Spain Barcelona 100 100 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. United States New Jersey 100 100 Ipsen Bioscience Inc. United States Massachusetts 100 100 Ipsen Epe Greece Athens 80 80 Elsegundo Limited Ireland Cork 100 100 Ipsen Manufacturing Ireland Limited Ireland Dublin 100 100 Ipsen Pharmaceuticals Limited Ireland Dublin 100 100 Ipsen S.p.A. Italy Milan 100 100 Akkadeas Pharma S.r.l Italy Milan 100 49 Ipsen Pharma Kazakhstan Kazakhstan Almaty 100 – Ipsen Ré S.A. Luxembourg Luxembourg 100 100 Ipsen Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico Mexico City 100 100 Ipsen Farmaceutica B.V. Netherlands Hoofddorp 100 100 Ipsen Poland LLC Poland Warsaw 100 100 Ipsen Portugal Produtos Farmaceuticos S.A. Portugal Algés 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Romania S.R.L. Romania Bucharest 100 – Ipsen Limited United Kingdom Berkshire 100 100 Ipsen BioInnovation Limited United Kingdom Oxford 100 100 Ipsen Biopharm Limited United Kingdom Wrexham 100 100 Ipsen Developments Limited United Kingdom Berkshire 100 100 Sterix Limited United Kingdom Slough 100 100 Ipsen OOO Russia Moscow 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Singapore PTE Ltd Singapore Singapore 100 100 Institut Produits Synthèse (Ipsen) AB Sweden Kista 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Tunisie S.A.R.L. Tunisia Tunis 100 100 Ipsen Ukraine Services LLC Ukraine Kiev 100 100 112 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■29.2 Companies consolidated as joint operations for the Group’s share of net profit or loss Registered 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Garnay Inc. United States South Carolina 50 50 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. France Boulogne (92) 50 50 Cara Partners Ireland Cork 50 50 Perechin Unlimited Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Portpirie Unlimited Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Wallingstown Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Wallingstown Company Ltd Ireland Cork 50 50 ■■29.3 C  ompanies consolidated using the equity method Registered 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Linnea S.A. Switzerland Riazzino 50 50 Note 30 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors The fees paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors and members of their networks are presented in the following table: Deloitte & Associés KPMG Audit Amounts, Amounts, (in thousand euros) % % net of VAT net of VAT 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Certification and limited interim review of separate and consolidated financial statements Issuer 210 244 27% 34% 179 213 26% 27% Fully consolidated subsidiaries 545 479 69% 66% 474 517 70% 65% Sub-total 755 723 96% 100% 653 730 96% 92% Services other than the certification of the financial statements (1) Issuer 22 0 3% 0% 0 33 0% 4% Fully consolidated subsidiaries 9 0 1% – 29 29 4% 4% Sub-total 31 0 4% 0% 29 62 4% 8% Total 786 723 100% 100% 682 792 100% 100% (1) The nature of “services other than the certification of financial statements” provided by the Statutory Auditors to the consolidating entity and its controlled subsidiaries includes the certification of financial, environmental and corporate social responsibility data, and independent third-party missions. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 113 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered headquarters: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Financial Year ended 31 December 2018 For the attention of the Annual General Meeting of Ipsen S.A., Opinion In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have conducted an audit of the consolidated financial statements of Ipsen S.A. pertaining to the year which ended 31 December 2018, as attached to the present report. We certify that, with regards to the IFRS accounting standards adopted in the European Union, the consolidated financial statements present a true and fair view of the results of the operations for the most recent fiscal year, of the financial position and of the assets and liabilities of the Group at the end of the year. The above-mentioned opinion is consistent with the content of our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for the opinion Audit standards We have performed our audit according to the professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the evidence we have collected is sufficient and appropriate to form a basis for our audit opinion. The responsibilities we bear by virtue of these standards are indicated in the section “Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the consolidated financial statements” of the present report. Independence We conducted our audit in accordance with the independence rules applicable to us, during the period from 1 January 2018 to the issuance date of our report, and, in particular, we have not provided any services prohibited by Article 5, Paragraph 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or by the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. Observation Without questionning the conclusion expressed above, we bring your attention to note 3.2.1 of the annex “Application of the norm IFRS 15 – Product of regular activities from contracts concluded with clients” and to 3.2.2 of the annex “Application of the norm IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments” which expose the impact of changes in accounting methods, since 1 January 2018 of IFRS 15 and 9 respectively. Justification of the assessment – Key points of the audit In application of the provisions of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the key points of the audit pertaining to the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were the most important for the audit of the consolidated financial statements for this year, as well as to the responses we have provided with regard to these risks. The assessments thus made are part of the context of the audit of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and of the forming of our opinion expressed hereinabove. We do not express opinions on the components of these consolidated financial statements taken individually. Assessment of the recoverable amount of licences Notes 3.12, 3.15, 3.29, 6.2 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements Identified risk On 31 December 2018, the net value of the Group licences, presented in other intangible assets, stands at 900.9 million euros versus a total balance sheet of 3,377.4 million euros. These licences concern acquired rights for pharmaceutical specialities that may be: • retailed and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful life. Useful life is determined based on the cash flow forecasts that take into consideration, among other factors, the protection period of the underlying patents; 114 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • in an advanced phase of development and are therefore not yet being retailed, and thus not yet depreciated. As indicated in note 3.15 of the annexes to the consolidated financial statements, licences with definite and indefinite useful life, primarily accounting for intellectual property rights and licences to use intellectual property rights, undergo impairment testing annually or when there is an indicator of impairment. Impairment tests involve comparing the net carrying amount of the asset, of the group of assets or the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which the licence belongs, to its recoverable amount, which is the highest value between its fair value minus disposal costs and its value in use. Value in use is determined based on the estimated future cash flows expected from the use of the asset (CGU to which the asset belongs). The conditions for implementing impairment tests are described in note 3.15 to the consolidated financial statements. We considered that the assessment of the recoverable amount of these licences is a key point of the audit due to the significance of these licences in the Group’s financial statements and that the method of determining their recoverable amount is based to a very large extent to Management’s judgement and the use of estimates in relation to the forecasts of discounted future cash flows in order to carry out the tests. Audit procedures implemented with regard to the identified risk We analysed the conditions for the implementation of the impairment tests on the acquired licenses. In particular, the licences acquired during the development phase have received special attention on our part due to the difficulty in estimating the evolution of research and the expected outlook for growth. With our evaluation specialists we assessed the reasonableness of the main estimates, in particular the cash flow forecasts, longterm growth rates and the discount rates retained. We also analysed the consistency of the evolution of the research programmes, of the cash flow forecasts with the forecast data presented to the Group’s Board of Directors and we have reviewed the sensitivity analyses of the impairment tests. Finally, we also assessed the appropriateness of the information disclosed in the following notes to the consolidated financial statements: 3.12, 3.15, 3.29, 6.2 and 13. Specific verifications In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, we also carried out the specific verification provided for by the law on information pertaining to the Group, disclosed in the Board of Directors’ Management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. We attest that the consolidated declaration of extra-financial performance described in article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), was included in the Management Report, while noting that, in accordance with the Article L.823-10 of the Code, we did not assess the information it contains for either its veracity or its coherence with the consolidated financial statements and that this information must be assessed by an independent third party organization. Information resulting from other legal and regulatory obligations Appointment of the statutory auditors We were appointed statutory auditors for Ipsen S.A. by the Annual General Meeting held on 18 June 2005 for KPMG S.A. and on 17 December 1998 for Cogerco Flipo which was acquired by Deloitte & Associés in 2001. As of 31 December 2018, KPMG S.A. was in the 14th consecutive year of its assignment and Deloitte & Associés was in its 21st year, including 14 years for both firms the company’s shares have been admitted for trade on a regulated market. Responsibilities of Management and of the persons constituting the corporate governance related to the consolidated financial statements Management is required to produce consolidated financial statements providing a true and fair view, in accordance with the IFRS accounting standards as adopted in the European Union, in addition to setting up the internal controls it deems necessary in order to produce consolidated financial statements free of material misstatements, whether these are due to fraud or result from errors. When producing the consolidated financial statements, Management is required to assess the Company’s ability to continue its operations, to present in its financial statements, when necessary, the required disclosures pertaining to business continuity and to apply the going concern accounting principle, unless there are plans to liquidate the Company or put an end to its activity. The Audit Committee is required to monitor the process of compiling financial information and to monitor the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, in addition to internal audits when applicable, for the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the consolidated financial statements Objective and audit approach We are required to produce a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance corresponds to a 2018 Ipsen Registration document 115 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS high level of assurance, without however guaranteeing that an audit performed in accordance with professional standards enables systematic detection of any material misstatements. Misstatements may be due to fraud or result from errors and are considered to be material when it can reasonably be expected that they may, taken individually or in combination, influence the economic decisions that the financial statement users make based on them. As outlined in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our assignment to certify the financial statements does not entail guaranteeing the viability or the quality of the management of your Company. In the framework of an audit performed in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises his professional judgement throughout this audit. Furthermore: • he identifies and assesses the risks that the consolidated financial statements are materially misstated, whether these misstatements are due to fraud or result from errors, defines and implements audit procedures with regard to these risks, and gathers the elements that he deems to be a sufficient and appropriate basis for forming his opinion. The risk of non-detection of a material misstatement arising from fraud is higher than that of a material misstatement resulting from an error, because fraud may imply collusion, falsification, voluntary omissions, false statements or bypassing of internal control; • he familiarises himself with the relevant internal control for the audit in order to define the audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, and not with the aim of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control; • he assesses the appropriateness of the accounting methods retained and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by Management, in addition to the disclosures provided in the consolidated financial statements; • he assesses the appropriateness of Management’s application of the continuity assumption accounting principle and, depending on the elements collected, the probable existence of material uncertainty related to events or circumstances likely to cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the elements collected up until the date of his report, with a reminder however that subsequent circumstances or events could cast significant doubt about the continuity of operations. If he concludes that there is material uncertainty, he draws the report readers’ attention to the information disclosed in the consolidated financial statements regarding this uncertainty or, if this information is not disclosed or is not relevant, he issues his certification with reservations or refuses to certify; • he assesses the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether the consolidated financial statements reflect the underlying transactions and events so as to provide a true and fair view; • concerning the financial information of the persons or entities included within the consolidation scope, he collects elements he deems to be sufficient and appropriate to express an opinion regarding the consolidated financial statements. He is responsible for the direction, supervision and completion of the audit of the consolidated financial statements in addition to the opinion expressed regarding these financial statements. Audit Committee Report We are submitting a report to the Audit Committee presenting in particular the extent of the audit and the work programme implemented, as well as the resulting conclusions of our work. We also draw their attention, when applicable, to the material weaknesses of internal control that we have identified as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The disclosures in the report to the Audit Committee include the risks of material misstatement that we deem to be the most important for the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the year ended and that thus constitute one of the key points of the audit that we are required to describe in the present report. We are also providing to the Audit Committee the statement pursuant to Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537-2014 confirming our independence, within the meaning of the rules applicable in France as outlined in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. When applicable, we discuss with the audit committee the risks to our independence and the safeguard measures applied. The Statutory Auditors Paris La Défense, 15 February 2019 Paris La Défense, 15 February 2019 KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés Department of KPMG S.A Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner Partner 116 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.1 Summary document Balance sheet at 31 December 2018 Assets 31 December 2018 Depreciation, 31 December 2017 Gross amortization & Net (in million euros) write-downs Intangible assets – Concessions, patents and similar rights 0.2 0.2 0.2 – Other intangible assets Financial investments – Equity investments 1,167.4 1,167.4 1,167.5 – Loans 437.3 437.3 483.7 – Other financial assets 14.7 0.0 14.7 9.4 Non–current assets 1,619.7 0.0 1,619.6 1,660.9 Receivables – Advances and down–payments to suppliers 0.0 0.0 0.0 – Trade and accounts receivables 13.3 13.3 15.0 – Other receivables 27.7 27.7 45.0 Other – Short–term investments 60.8 2.5 58.3 63.6 – Cash and cash equivalents 65.7 65.7 65.4 – Prepayments 0.1 0.1 0.0 Current assets 167.5 2.5 165.0 189.1 Debt issuance costs to be amortized 2.4 2.4 3.0 Bond redemption premium 1.2 1.2 1.5 Unrealized losses on foreign exchange 5.5 5.5 14.3 Total assets 1,796.4 2.5 1,793.8 1,868.8 Liabilities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 (in million euros) Share capital 83.8 83.7 Paid-in capital 741.7 739.1 Legal reserve 44.7 44.7 Other reserves 94.4 94.4 Retained earnings 58.5 158.9 Net profit (loss) for the period (15.4) (17.4) Regulated provisions 0.0 Equity 1,007.7 1,103.5 Provisions for contingencies 15.6 20.5 Provisions for losses 0.4 0.7 Provisions for contingencies and losses 15.9 21.3 Other bonds 303.1 303.1 Bank borrowings 0.4 42.5 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 141.3 201.6 Trade and accounts payable 4.9 5.1 Taxes payable and payroll and payroll on-cost amounts payable 6.5 12.1 Amounts due to non-current asset suppliers 5.3 0.7 Other liabilities 307.9 173.9 Cash instruments 0.8 0.4 Deferred income 0.0 0.0 Debts 770.2 739.4 Unrealized gains on foreign exchange 0.0 4.7 Total equity & liabilities 1,793.8 1,868.8 2018 Ipsen Registration document 117 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement at 31 December 2018 (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Sales of merchandise – – Production sold services 15.4 20.1 Net sales 15.4 20.1 Reversal of depreciation, amortization & provisions, expense transfers 16.1 17.6 Other revenues – – Operating income 31.5 37.6 Other purchases and external charges (6.7) (9.7) Taxes and duties (1.0) (1.1) Wages and salaries (10.9) (20.7) Payroll on-costs (2.0) (7.6) Depreciation expense on fixed assets (0.6) (0.6) Provision expense on fixed assets – – Provision expense for contingencies and losses (8.0) (13.4) Miscellaneous operating expenses (1.0) (1.0) Operating expenses (30.1) (54.1) Operating profit (loss) 1.4 (16.5) Financial income from participating interests 0.0 0.5 Income from other non-current receivables 8.9 7.0 Other interest and similar income 4.2 1.7 Reversal of provisions and transfer of extraordinary expense 0.0 0.0 Foreign exchange gains 35.5 18.0 Financial income 48.6 27.1 Depreciation, amortization and provision charges (1.4) (1.7) Interest and other financial expenses (14.0) (10.7) Foreign exchange losses (35.9) (21.7) Financial expense (51.3) (34.1) Net financial income (expense) (2.7) (6.9) Pre-tax profit (loss) on ordinary activities (1.3) (23.4) Extraordinary income from operations – – Extraordinary income from capital transactions 1.3 0.5 Reversal of provisions and transfer of extraordinary expense – – Extraordinary income 1.3 0.5 Extraordinary expense from operations – – Extraordinary expense from capital transactions (14.9) (7.1) Depreciation, amortization and provision charges – – Extraordinary expenses (14.9) (7.1) Net extraordinary income (expense) (13.5) (6.6) Employee profit-sharing – – Income tax income (expense) (0.6) 12.6 Net profit (loss) for the year (15.4) (17.4) 118 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.2 Notes on the annual financial statements Notes The reporting period covers the 12-month period from These are the notes to the balance sheet and the income 1 January to 31 December 2018. statement for the year ended 31 December 2018. The total The notes and tables presented below form an integral part of balance sheet amount comes to €1,793.8 million, while the the annual financial statements. income statement shows a net loss of €15.4 million for the period. Had the Company been taxed separately, its net loss for tax purposes would have totaled €17.9 million. Note 1 Significant events during the year ■■1.1 Share repurchasing program The buyback program was in line with the authorizations On 4 June 2018, Ipsen announced that it had granted granted by the Combined Shareholder’s Meeting of 30 May Natixis a mandate to purchase 250,000 Ipsen S.A. shares, 2018. representing approximately 0.3% of the Company’s share The program ended on 12 October 2018. capital at that date. The purchase was to take place over a period of three months. The purchased shares were allocated Under the program, the Company repurchased 250,000 primarily to cover share awards as part of the Company’s shares for a total €34.5 million in the year ended 31 December bonus share plans and new employee shareholding plans. 2018. Note 2 Accounting principles and valuation methods ■■2.1 S  tandards, principles and valuation As a general rule, brands and trademarks are not amortized. methods 2.1.2.2 Financial investments 2.1.1 Accounting principles • Equity investments The annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with legal and regulatory provisions applicable Equity investments whose long-term ownership is deemed in France, as set out in the French Chart of Accounts (ANC useful to Ipsen’s activity, notably because it allows for the Regulation n°2018-07 of 10 December 2018, which modified exercise of influence or control over the issuing company, are ANC Regulation n°2014-03 approved by the Order of 5 June recognized at acquisition cost. When the value at the closing 2014), in observance of the prudence principle and the date is below the carrying value, a provision for impairment is independence of financial years and the presumption of a recorded for the difference. The value at the closing date is going concern. measured according to such criteria as the value of the share held in the net assets or the earnings prospects of the relevant The Company did not carry out a revaluation of its balance company. These criteria are weighted by the effects of owning sheet. these shares in terms of strategy or synergies, in respect of 2.1.2 Valuation methods other investments held. 2.1.2.1 Intangible assets Acquisition-related expenses are included in the acquisition Intangible assets are accounted for at acquisition cost or cost of the shares. These expenses are spread over five years contribution value, less cumulative amortization and any for tax purposes via a regulated provision in the accounts. impairment losses. • Other financial assets The cost of intangible assets with a defined useful life, less –– Liquidity agreement. Under the program to buy back the any residual value, is amortized over a period corresponding Company’s own shares, Ipsen funds a liquidity account to the useful life estimated by the Company. Amortization as part of a liquidity agreement. The contributions made periods are determined on a case-by-case basis depending are not available and, as a result, are posted to “Other on the type of asset concerned. financial assets.” Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but are systematically tested annually for impairment. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 119 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The capital gains and losses from each transaction are 2.1.2.7 Forward financial instruments and hedging recognized on the income statement, without offset. transactions At the closing date, short-term investment amounts are As part of its overall strategy for managing foreign exchange measured at their net asset liquidation value. Capital gains risks, the Company uses forward financial instruments, realized between the closing date value and the starting such as for ward contracts and swaps as par t of its value are not recognized. Unrealized capital losses are hedging transactions. These forward financial instruments written down. are contracted only with first-class financial institutions. They are documented as hedging instruments to hedge –– Share repurchase program aimed at cancelling the exposure to fluctuations in cash flows denominated in shares. Shares repurchased for purposes of cancellation foreign currencies and associated with a recognized asset or are recorded at acquisition cost in “Other financial assets”. liability, or a sufficiently probable future transaction. Forward These shares are not subject to an assessment of their financial instruments documented as hedges are accounted net asset liquidation value at the close of the period. for in accordance with regulation n° 2015-05 of 2 July 2.1.2.3 Receivables 2015 established the ANC, France’s accounting standards authority, and relative to forward financial instruments and Receivables are measured at nominal value. hedging transactions. Receivables are assessed on a case-by-case basis and may Unrealized or realized gains and losses on a foreign exchange be written down depending on the risks identified. hedging instrument are symmetrically recognized in the 2.1.2.4 Short-term investments income statement with the hedged item. If the hedge’s gains or losses are realized before the hedged item is recognized in In accordance with opinion 2008-17 of France’s National the income statement, then the gains and losses are recorded Accounting Board (Conseil National de Comptabilité – in suspense accounts on the balance sheet. Changes in CNC), Company shares allotted to bonus share plans and the value of hedging instruments are not recognized in the stock option plans and purchased outside the framework balance sheet, unless the recognition in full or in part of the of a liquidity agreement are recorded at acquisition cost, changes can be symmetrically recognized with the hedged i.e. the purchase price plus transaction fees, in “Short-term instrument. However, in the event the Company does not investments”. Other Company shares held as part of a liquidity expect to complete the planned transaction, the hedge agreement are fixed assets classified as other investment will be reclassified as an isolated open position (IOP) and securities. recognized as such. Derivative instruments classified as IOPs At the closing date, provisions were recorded as follows: are recognized at fair value on the balance sheet against corresponding amounts in revaluation reserves. Unrealized • For Company shares purchased with a view to allocating losses on IOP transactions were provisioned as contingencies. them to bonus share plans, a provision was recorded on the liability side of the balance sheet to account for employee Foreign exchange gains and losses are posted in the share allocation obligations based on services rendered. “Other operating income” or “Other operating expenses” Because the allotment of Ipsen’s bonus share plans are line item under operating income (expenses), or in the subject to length of service conditions at the Company, “Foreign exchange gains” or “Foreign exchange losses” line the provision is spread over the vesting period, as required item under financial income (expense), depending on the under the CNC opinion; nature of the transaction. In line with the hedge accounting symmetry principle, foreign exchange hedging transactions • Otherwise, for Company shares, when the value at the are recognized in the same income statement line item as the closing date, i.e. the average monthly share price during the hedged item. last month of the financial year, is below carrying value, an impairment provision is recorded for the difference. The Company opted to stagger premiums and discounts on foreign exchange hedges over the hedging period in the The income and expenses generated from buying and selling “Other financial income” / “Other financial expenses” line on the Company’s own shares are recognized as extraordinary the income statement. income or expenses. To determine the net income or expense when selling repurchased shares, the oldest shares are 2.1.2.8 Foreign exchange differences considered to have been sold first in accordance with the Foreign-currency denominated income and expense items FIFO, first-in, first-out method. were recorded in euros based on the exchange rate in 2.1.2.5 Provisions for contingencies and losses effect at the transaction date. Debts, receivables, and cash denominated in foreign currencies were translated into euros Provisions for contingencies and losses are recognized at the at the closing exchange rate at year-end. period close to cover all Company liabilities to third parties likely or certain to give rise to an outflow of resources to said The resulting translation differences for debts and receivables third-parties without any counterpart. These provisions are denominated in foreign currencies were posted to “Foreign estimated on the basis of the most likely assumptions at the exchange differences” on the balance sheet. The Company closing date. follows “overall foreign exchange position” principles. For transactions whose due dates are sufficiently close, any 2.1.2.6 Debts foreign exchange gains or losses are considered as part of Debts are measured at nominal value. an overall foreign exchange position and the amount of the 120 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS provision for foreign exchange losses is limited to the excess 2.1.2.10 Tax consolidation regime of losses over gains. Hedging transactions and the items To reflect the tax consolidation that unites the Company with hedged are excluded from the position. its subsidiaries, Ipsen, in accordance with the other member 2.1.2.9 Retirement benefit obligations companies of its tax consolidation group, has adopted the following rules, in keeping with the advice of French tax Company employees may be entitled to compensation when authorities. they retire or to a pension following their retirement. The Company’s liabilities arising from such post-employment Each subsidiary within the consolidation scope recognizes its benefits are calculated by using an actuary model and income tax as if it were taxed separately, i.e. particularly after assumptions applicable in France. carrying forward tax loses incurred earlier by the subsidiary and transferred to the Parent Company. The corresponding liabilities, based on the rights vested to the beneficiaries, are covered by contributions to independent Ipsen calculates the income tax due by the consolidated organizations (insurance companies), which are responsible group and expenses the charge. Further, the Company for paying the pensions and other benefits. In accordance recognizes the tax savings arising from the tax consolidation with provision of the French Commercial Code, net assets and as income. liabilities arising from these obligations were not recognized, Ipsen does not return the tax savings contributed by lossas the Company does not apply the preferential method. generating subsidiaries after they return to profitability. Further, amounts intended to reward employees for their length of service are paid out as bonuses by the Company. Note 3 Notes on the balance sheet ■■3.1 Non-current assets 3.1.1 Intangible assets • Change in gross amounts (in million euros) 31 December 2017 Increases Decreases 31 December 2018 Brands and trademarks 0.2 – – 0.2 Total 0.2 – – 0.2 No amortization or provisions were recognized for these intangible assets, which had a net carrying value of €0.2 million at 31 December 2018. 3.1.2 Financial investments • Change in gross amounts (in million euros) 31 December 2017 Increases Decreases 31 December 2018 Equity investments – shares Note 3.1.3 1,167.5 0.0 (0.1) 1,167.4 Company shares / liquidity agreement 2.0 0.5 0.0 2.5 Company shares to be cancelled 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 Liquidity agreement 2.5 0 0.0 2.5 Loans 483.7 8.8 (55.3) 437.3 FPCI Private equity professional fund 5.0 5.0 – 10.0 Total other financial assets Note 3.1.4 493.2 14.3 (55.3) 452.3 Total financial assets 1,660.7 14.3 (55.3) 1,619.7 • Change in write-downs (in million euros) 31 December 2017 Increases Decreases 31 December 2018 Equity investments – shares – – – – Company shares – – – – Liquidity agreement 0.1 0.0 (0.0) 0.0 Other financial assets – – – – Total 0.1 0.0 (0.0) 0.0 2018 Ipsen Registration document 121 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1.3 Equity investments • Shares in the InnoBio 2 FPCI private equity professional Information about subsidiaries and affiliates is disclosed in the fund: In 2018, the Company signed a subscription form for subsidiaries and affiliates table. five thousand shares at an initial investment value of €1,000 each, with the InnoBio 2 FPCI for a total of €5 million. 3.1.4 Other financial assets The commitment includes the amount called in the initial At 31 December 2018, this item broke down as follows: tranche totalling 1% of the shares, or €0.05 million paid in 2018, and deferred tranches totaling €4.95 million that will • €437.3 million in loans, including accrued interest, granted be gradually called by the fund management company. At by the Company to various subsidiaries as part of the 31 December 2018, the percentage of the fund held by the acquisition of Merrimack Pharmaceuticals’ global oncology Company was non-material. assets. • Company shares held as part of a liquidity agreement • Shares in the InnoBio FPCI private equity professional fund: entrusted to Oddo BHF as of 1 July 2018 for a period of In 2009, the Company signed a subscription form for five one year and renewable by tacit agreement. The liquidity thousand shares at an initial investment value of €1,000 agreement complies with the AMAFI Ethics Charter, each, with the InnoBio FPCI for a total of €5 million. The approved by the French financial markets authority. commitment includes 13 tranches amounting to 93% of the shares, or €4.7 million paid from 2009 to 2018, and At 31 December 2018, the Company held 21,648 shares with deferred tranches totaling €0.3 million that will be gradually a gross value of €2.5 million and provided €2.2 million in cash called by the fund management company. At 31 December under the liquidity agreement. 2018, the Company held 2.89% of the fund. ■■3.2 Receivables by maturity Gross Gross of which (in million euros) amount amount Less than More than 2017 2018 one year one year Other financial assets 4.5 4.7 4.7 – Other trade receivables 15.0 13.3 13.3 – Personnel and related accounts payable – – – – Social security and other welfare agency payables – – – – State and other public authorities – – Income tax 42.2 26.3 (a) 26.3 – – Value added tax 1.0 0.5 0.5 – – Other 0.1 0.0 0.0 – Group and associated companies 1.4 – – – Miscellaneous receivables 0.2 0.9 0.9 – Prepayments 0.0 0.1 0.1 – TOTAL RECEIVABLES 64.6 45.7 45.7 – (a) The decline in the amount of income tax receivables versus 31 December 2017 stemmed mainly from the repayment of research tax credits received in 2018. ■■3.3 Short-term investments The Company holds short-term investments comprised of 722,095 of its own shares valued at €60 million. • Change in short-term investments (in million euros) 31 December 2017 Increases Decreases 31 December 2018 Gross value 65.0 34.6 (a) (38.7) (b) 60.8 Write-downs (1.4) (1.1) – (2.5) Net value 63.6 33.4 (38.7) 58.3 (a) Increase in short-term investments from the repurchase of 250,000 shares authorized by the Combined Shareholder’s Meeting of 20 May 2018. (b) Decrease in short-term investments following the allotment of 667,857 bonus shares to beneficiaries of the 12 December 2006, 29 September 2008 and 30 March 2009 stock option plans, the 27 March 2014, 31 May 2016 and 29 July 2016 bonus share plans, and the employee shareholding program launched in 2018. 122 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.4 Cash and cash equivalents At 31 December 2017, the balance of the redemption premium At 31 December 2018, the “Cash and cash equivalents” item remaining on the asset side of the balance sheet came to consisted primarily of term deposits. €1.5 million. The Company expensed €0.3 million for the 2018 financial year, with a redemption-premium balance of ■■3.5 Debt issuance costs to be amortized €1.2 million remaining on the asset side of the balance sheet at 31 December 2018. Debt issuance costs are amortized over the duration of the respective bonds and loans from which they arose. At ■■3.7 Unrealized losses on foreign exchange 31 December 2018, debt issuance costs came to €2.4 million and broke down as follows: At 31 December 2018, unrealized losses on foreign exchange totaled €5.5 million and corresponded to marking • €0.8 million arising from the bonds issued by the Company intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies to the on 16 June 2016. The €1.3 million in related issuance costs exchange rate at the closing date. were spread over the duration of the loan, i.e. seven years. An amount totaling €0.2 million was expensed for the 2018 ■■3.8 Equity financial year. • Share capital • €0.3 million arising from the bilateral loan. The €0.5 million in related issuance costs were spread over the duration –– At 31 December 2018, Ipsen’s share capital was comprised of the bilateral loan, i.e. 6.5 years. An amount totaling of 83,808,761 ordinary shares each with a nominal value €0.1 million was expensed for the 2018 financial year. of €1, including 48,047,154 shares with double voting rights, compared with 83,732,057 ordinary shares each • €1.3 million arising from the syndicated loan. Issuance with a nominal value of €1, including 47,852,938 shares costs totaling €2.7 million were spread over the duration with double voting rights at 31 December 2017. of the loan, for which the initial maturity date of 17 October 2019 was extended to 17 October 2022. An amount totaling –– The changes during the 2018 financial year resulted €0.3 million was expensed for the 2018 financial year. from 76,704 new shares issued as share warrants were exercised. ■■3.6 Bond redemption premium In line with the bonds issued by the Company on 16 June 2016, the Company recognized a redemption premium spread over the duration of the bonds, i.e. seven years. • Change in share capital Net profit Share Share Issue Legal Other Retained Regulated Total (in million euros) (loss) for capital premium premium reserve reserves earnings provisions equity the period Balance at 31 December 2017, before 83.7 29.8 709.3 44.7 94.4 158.9 (17.4) – 1,103.5 allocation of net profit Dividends – – – – – (100.4) (a) 17.4 – (83.0) Net profit (loss) – – – – – – (15.4) – (15.4) for the period Capital increase – – – – – – – – 0.0 Capital decrease – – – – – – – – 0.0 by Ipsen Capital increase from exercised 0.1 – 2.6 – – – – – 2.7 warrants Other movements – – – – – – – – 0.0 Balance at 31 December 2018, before 83.8 29.8 711.9 44.7 94.4 58.5 (15.4) 0.0 1,007.7 allocation of net profit (a) Dividends on treasury shares are posted to retained earnings. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 123 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.9 Provisions for contingencies and losses The change in provisions for contingencies and losses from the opening to the closing of the financial year breaks down as follows: Movements during the period (in million euros) 2017 Reversals Other 2018 Charges Applied Released movements Provisions for litigation 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – 0.0 Other provisions for contingencies 20.5 8.0 (10.0) (2.9) – 15.6 – Provisions for contingencies 20.5 8.0 (10.0) (2.9) – 15.6 – Provisions for losses 0.7 0.0 (0.4) 0.0 – 0.4 Total 21.3 8.0 (10.4) (2.9) 0.0 15.9 At 31 December 2018, provisions for contingencies and • Provisions recorded to account for employee bonus-share losses included the following items: and stock-option allocation obligations based on services • Provisions for Group performance-related medium-term rendered; bonus plans approved by the Board of Directors; • Provisions to cover expenses related to long service awards. ■■3.10 Borrowings and debt 3.10.1 Liabilities by maturity Gross Gross of which (in million euros) amount amount 2017 2018 Within 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Other bonds 303.1 303.1 3.1 300.0 0.0 Bank borrowings – Initially up to one year 0.0 0.4 0.4 0.0 0.0 – Initially over one year 42.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 202.0 141.3 (a) 141.3 0.0 0.0 Trade payables 5.1 4.9 4.9 0.0 0.0 Taxes payable and payroll and payroll on-cost amounts payable Personnel and related accounts payable 6.7 3.3 3.3 0.0 – Social security and other welfare agency 4.1 3.0 3.0 0.0 0.0 payables State and other public authority payables: – Income tax – – – 0.0 0.0 – Value added tax 1.2 (0.0) (0.0) 0.0 0.0 – Other taxes and duties 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 Total taxes payable and payroll and payroll 12.1 6.5 6.5 – – on-cost amounts payable Other liabilities Amounts payable to fixed asset suppliers 0.7 5.3 5.3 0.0 0.0 and related accounts Group and associated companies 161.0 301.6 (b) 301.6 0.0 0.0 Other liabilities 13.3 7.2 7.2 0.0 0.0 Total other liabilities 175.0 314.1 314.1 – – Deferred income 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL LIABILITIES 739.3 770.2 470.2 300.0 0.0 (a) Commercial paper issue. (b) The increase stemmed primarily from the current account with Ipsen Pharma SAS, the Group’s centralizing cash pooling company, as part of the €60 million commercial paper issue, the €35 million share buyback plan and the €83 million dividend payout. 124 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.10.2 Sundry borrowings, financial liabilities and bonds • On 6 June 2017, Ipsen S.A. amended its syndicated loan to • On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in increase the facility amount to €600 million and to extend unsecured, seven-year bonds paying an annual interest its maturity to 17 October 2022. At 31 December 2017, rate of 1.875%. At 31 December 2018, the bonds including $50 million, or €42 million of this facility had been drawn accrued interest were recognized as debt in the Company down. The drawdown was repaid in January 2018. financial statements in the amount of €303.1 million in the • Ipsen S.A. also has access to a €600 million program to “Other bond borrowings” line item. issue commercial paper, €141.3 million of which had been • In addition, €300 million in depreciable bank loans were drawn at 31 December 2018 and recorded in the “Sundry contracted with a maximum maturity of 6.5 years beginning borrowings and financial liabilities” line item on the balance June 2016. At 31 December 2018, none of these bank loans sheet. had been tapped by the Group. ■■3.11 Accrued liabilities (in million euros) 2018 2017 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 3.4 3.5 Suppliers – invoices not yet received 0.9 1.0 Fixed asset suppliers – invoices not yet received 5.3 0.7 Personnel – Accrued liabilities for paid vacation 0.3 0.5 – Accrued liabilities for bonuses 2.0 3.1 – Accrued liabilities for employee profit-sharing 0.0 0.0 – Accrued liabilities for profit-sharing 0.1 0.1 – Accrued liabilities for retirement indemnities 0.9 3.0 – Accrued social welfare expenses 1.0 1.2 State – Accrued expenses 0.2 0.4 Other accrued expenses and interest on current accounts 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 14.1 13.5 ■■3.12 Unrealized gains on foreign exchange At 31 December 2018, unrealized gains on foreign exchange corresponding to marking bank borrowings denominated in foreign currencies to the exchange rate at the closing date were non-material. Note 4 Notes to the income statement ■■4.1 Operating income ■■4.2. Operating expenses Operating income totaled €31.5 million in the 2018 financial The €24 million decrease in operating expenses versus the year and broke down as follows: previous financial year stemmed mainly from: • €6.7 million in personnel expense re-invoiced to • The €15.4 million decline in the “Wages and salaries” and subsidiaries, “Payroll on-costs” line items; • €8.7 million in miscellaneous costs re-invoiced to • The €5.4 million decrease in provision charges for subsidiaries, contingencies and losses; • €13.3 million in reversals of provisions for contingencies • The €3 million decline in the “Other purchases and external and losses, charges” line item. • €2.8 million in expense transfers. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 125 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■4.3 Financial income (in million euros) 2018 2017 Income from equity investments 0.0 0.5 Income from other non-current receivables (a) 8.9 7.0 Reversal of provisions and expenses transferred 0.0 0.0 Other financial income (b) 4.2 1.7 Foreign exchange gains (c) 35.5 18.0 Total financial income 48.6 27.1 (a) At 31 December 2018, this line item consisted mainly of interest on loans granted to subsidiaries. (b) At 31 December 2018, this line item mainly included other financial income from forward financial instruments, as well as proceeds from commercial paper issues. (c) At 31 December 2018, this line item primarily consisted of foreign exchange gains related to financial transactions. ■■4.4 Financial expense (in million euros) 2018 2017 Foreign exchange differences (a) (35.9) (21.7) Interest and other financial expenses (b) (14.0) (10.7) Depreciation, amortization and provision charges (1.4) (1.7) Total financial expense (51.3) (34.1) (a) At 31 December 2018, this line item primarily consisted of foreign exchange losses arising from financial transactions. (b) At 31 December 2018, this line item included €6.5 million in other financial expense from forward financial instruments and €7.3 million in interest on borrowings and bonds. ■■4.5 Net extraordinary income (expense) (in million euros) 2018 2017 Gains from share buybacks 1.3 0.5 Reversal of provision for investment – – Extraordinary income from capital transactions – – Extraordinary income 1.3 0.5 (Losses) from share buybacks (14.8) (7.1) Extraordinary expense from capital transactions (0.0) – Miscellaneous extraordinary expenses – – Extraordinary expenses (14.9) (7.1) Net extraordinary income (expense) (13.5) (6.6) The net extraordinary expense for the 2018 financial year transfer of treasury shares to certain beneficiaries in respect stemmed primarily from the €14 million capital loss realized of bonus share plans. during the transfer of treasury shares to certain beneficiaries in respect of bonus share plans, stock option plans and the ■■4.6 Income tax breakdown Group’s employee savings program. The income tax line for the 2018 financial year shows a net At 31 December 2017, net extraordinary expense resulted expense of €0.6 million. mainly from the €6.5 million capital loss realized during the (in million euros) Pre-tax Net tax amount After tax Profit on ordinary activities (1.3) – (1.3) Net extraordinary income (expense) and employee (13.5) – (13.5) profit-sharing Income tax income from tax consolidation – 0.6 (0.6) Book profit (loss) (14.9) 0.6 (15.4) 126 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■4.7 Tax consolidation the Company recorded the income tax recognized by its Ipsen S.A. leads a tax consolidation group. To reflect the tax integrated subsidiaries as income. consolidation that unites the Company with its subsidiaries, • If a subsidiary exits the scope of consolidation after a the following methods were applied in the annual financial period of five years, it recovers no income tax or tax-loss statements: carryforwards. • Each subsidiary within the tax group recognizes its income • There were no ta x-loss carr y for wards for the ta x tax as if it were taxed separately, i.e. particularly after consolidation group at 31 December 2018. recognizing its tax-loss carryforwards. • Payments were made by bank transfer to the Company’s ■■4.8 Increases or decreases in future tax account at dates scheduled for payment transfer to the liability Treasury. Ipsen calculated the income tax owed by the tax Excluding tax consolidation impact, the amount of increases consolidated group and expensed the amount. In addition, or decreases in future tax liability was not material for the 2018 financial year. Note 5 Other information ■■5.1 Directors, executives and officers 5.1.2 Loans and advances to top management 5.1.1 Remuneration paid to corporate officers No advances or loans were made to the Company’s top Remuneration paid by the Company to directors, executives management. and officers for the 2018 financial year totaled €3.9 million. Retirement pensions and similar benefit obligations for executives and officers came to €3.5 million at 31 December 2018. ■■5.2 Average headcount at period closing 2018 2017 Top and upper management 6 11 TOTAL 6 11 ■■5.3 Financial commitments came to €1.2 million for the retirement bonuses and the 5.3.1 Commitments to personnel €1.3 million for the supplementary pension plan, assuming a long-term rate of return of 1.54%. Apart from retirement bonuses mandated under a collective bargaining agreement with the French pharmaceutical In accordance with provision of the French Commercial industry and obligations related to a supplementary pension Code, net assets and liabilities arising from these obligations plan, the Company has no other obligations arising from were not recognized, as the Company does not apply the employee pensions, complementary retirement benefits, preferential method. retirement bonuses or contributions, or similar postThe obligation arising from long-ser vice awards was employment benefits. determined via actuarial valuation using the “projected unit At 31 December 2018, obligations arising from retirement credit” method and fully provisioned at 31 December 2018. bonuses and the supplementary pension plan amounted to A discount rate of 1.54% was assumed to calculate the €1.1 million and €20.1 million respectively. The amounts were €0.4 million long-service award obligation. determined via actuarial valuation using the “projected unit 5.3.2 Commitments given credit” method. The Ipsen Group has subscribed to a worldwide liability The main assumptions used in the calculations were as insurance policy from a third-party insurer. The insurance follows: company itself is underwritten by the captive reinsurance • Discount rate of 1.54%, company Ipsen Ré, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, up • Inflation rate of 1.8%, to the first €10.0 million for any potential claim made. To cover that financial commitment and address any potential default by • Voluntary retirement for managers at age 67 for those born Ipsen Ré, the Ipsen S.A. parent company on 15 March 2018 after 1963 and 64 for those born before 1963; voluntary issued a letter of guarantee payable upon first demand in favor retirement for non-managers at age 65 for those born after of the third-party insurer for a total amount of €9.0 million. The 1963 and age 63 for those born before 1963, first-demand guarantee is renewable annually. • TH 13-15 mortality table for men and TF 13-15 mortality table for women. 5.3.3 Commitments on financial instruments Off-balance sheet commitments corresponding to forward These obligations were outsourced to an insurance company. purchases and sales of foreign currencies are presented in At 31 December 2018, the fair value of these financial assets note 5.6. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 127 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■5.4 Share option plans granted by the Company 5.4.1 Details of share option plans Plan dated 31 March 2010 Plan dated 30 June 2011 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 Date granted by Board of Directors 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 Vesting date 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 30/06/2015 30/06/2013 Plan expiration date 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 30/06/2019 30/06/2019 Number of options granted 121,180 123,280 54,330 22,570 40,710 189,703 16,005 Share entitlement per option 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Exercise price €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €25.01 €25.01 “Black and Scholes” Grant method Monte Carlo “Black and Scholes” revised revised Value of shares at grant date €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €24.46 €24.46 Expected volatility 32% 32% 32% 32% 32% 31% 31% Average life of option 6 6 6 6 5 6 5 Discount rate 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.35% 2.90% 2.72% Dividends 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% Performance condition yes yes no no no yes no Fair value per option €10.69 €10.69 €10.71 €10.71 €9.74 €7.12 €6.48 5.4.2 Valuation of plans Plan dated Plan dated (in million euros) TOTAL 31 March 2010 30 June 2011 Opening valuation of active plans at 31 December 2018 3.8 1.5 5.3 5.4.3 Change in number of options outstanding Changes in the number of outstanding options under all plans are as follows: (in number of options) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening balance 664,558 744,771 Options exercised (net of adjustments) (418,953) (80,213) Options expired (209,520) – Closing balance 36,085 664,558 ■■5.5 Bonus share plans On 29 March 2017, the Board of Directors granted: On 30 March 2018, the Board of Directors granted: • 13,365 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject • 9,230 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, entity, • 28,275 bonus shares to members of the Executive • 30,160 bonus shares to members of the Executive Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 44,070 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its French • 84,240 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as subject to length of ser vice conditions as well as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific specific to a Group entity, to a Group entity, • 37,980 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American • 87,510 bonus shares to beneficiaries of Group subsidiaries, subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as subject to length of service conditions but not performance well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group specific to a Group entity, entity. • 28,200 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity. 128 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.5.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated 1 April 2015 Plan dated 1 June 2016 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 53,021 47,572 21,484 39,970 64,019 72,208 41,336 64,727 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 Fair value of bonus shares €31.10 €31.10 €31.24 €31.24 €47.73 €47.73 €49.04 €47.73 Plan dated 29 March 2017 Plan dated 30 May 2018 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.5 1.6 Number of bonus shares 41,640 44,070 37,980 28,200 9,230 30,160 84,240 87,510 50% at 2 years Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 50% at 3 years Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 €134.40 €134.40 €134.40 €134.40 Fair value of bonus shares €101.47 €97.01 €99.27 €97.00 €134.90 €134.90 €134.90 €131.84 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, the Deputy CEO, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the Group’s French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the Group’s French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the Group’s American subsidiaries. 1.5 Beneficiaries from subsidiaries subject to performance conditions. 1.6 Beneficiaries from subsidiaries not subject to performance conditions. 5.5.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated (in million euros) TOTAL 1 April 2015 1 June 2016 29 March 2017 30 May 2018 Opening valuation 4.4 10.5 13.3 25.3 53.5 ■■5.6 Derivative financial instruments contracts and currency swaps that match the net amount of 5.6.1 Interest rate risk hedging the borrowings and loans in USD. Ipsen S.A.’s net debt consisted primarily of fixed-rate At 31 December 2018, derivative financial instruments held by debt following the €300 million bond issue in June 2016. the Ipsen S.A. broke down as follows: At 31 December 2018, there were no derivative financial • USD 59 million in buyer forward contracts, instruments for hedging interest rate risk. • USD 59 million in seller forward contracts, 5.6.2 Exchange rate risk hedging • USD 93.8 million in seller foreign-exchange swaps. USD-denominated borrowings and loans granted expose At 31 December 2018, the fair value of those financial Ipsen S.A. to financing foreign exchange risk arising from instruments amounted to €0.1 million. fluctuations in the value of financial liabilities and receivables denominated in currencies other than the Company’s At 31 December 2018, realized gains deferred in the balance functional currency. sheet totaled €5.9 million. Ipsen S.A. hedges its foreign-currency denominated debts and receivables using such financial instruments as forward 2018 Ipsen Registration document 129 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 6 Subsidiaries and affiliates (Amounts in thousands of currency units) Carrying amount of shares Amount of Equity PercenNumber held Outstanding endorsments, Dividends Detailed information for each other than tage of Sales, net of loans and guarantees, Net profit (loss) collected by the interest, in which gross value Share share share VAT, for the last Interest Shares Gross amounts Provisions advances and letters for the last year Company in the exceeds 1% of the company’s capital capital and capital year (avg. exch. granted by the of intent (avg. exch. rate) last year, net of share capital excl. net held rate) Company provided by the ESOP profit % Company 1. SUBSIDIARIES Sutrepa €130 K €215,802 K 64 166,580 €88,816 K – – – – €37,671 K – Ipsen Pharma €5,856 K €832,439 K 100 188,905 €1,078,615 K – – – €1,340,915 K €127,735 K – General information for other interests, in which gross value exceeds 1% of the company’s share capital 1. Equity interests in foreign companies Ipsen Poland LLC 1,210 KPLN 4,194 KPLN 1 1 €15 K – – – – (429) KPLN – Note 7 Cash flow statement (in million euros) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Opening cash and cash equivalents 65.0 110.1 Net profit (loss) (15.4) (17.4) Elimination of income and expense with no impact on cash flow or not used – in operating activities – Net depreciation, amortization and provision charges (3.3) 2.4 Cash flow (18.7) (15.0) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities 1.3 24.5 Net cash flow from operating activities (17.5) 9.5 Acquisition of equity investments – Disposal of equity investments – Other cash flows related to financing activities 41.2 (483.7) Change in working capital related to investment activities 4.6 (0.9) Net cash provided (used) by investment activities 45.8 (484.6) Repayment of borrowings (247.1) (3.3) Debt issues 144.7 217.1 Change in share capital 2.7 6.3 Share repurchasing agreement 4.1 (10.7) Dividends paid (83.0) (70.2) Change in working capital related to financing activities 150.9 290.8 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities (27.7) 430.0 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 0.6 (45.0) Closing cash and cash equivalents 65.7 65.0 Note 8 Subsequent events No event occurring between the closing date of the was likely to call into question the annual financial statements consolidated financial statements and the date of their approval themselves or make it necessary to mention such an event in by the Board of Directors, and not taken into consideration, the notes to the annual financial statements. 130 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered headquarters: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Statutory Auditors’ Report on the Annual Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2018 For the attention of the Annual General Meeting of Ipsen S.A., Opinion In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have conducted an audit of the consolidated financial statements of Ipsen S.A. pertaining to the year which ended 31 December 2018, as attached to the present report. We certify that the annual financial statements, in accordance with French accounting principles, give a true and fair view of the result of its operations as well as of the financial situation and of the assets and liabilities of the company for the year ended. The above-mentioned opinion is consistent with the content of our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for the opinion Audit standards We performed our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the evidence we have collected is sufficient and appropriate to form a basis for our audit opinion. The responsibilities we bear by virtue of these standards are indicated in the section “Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the annual financial statements” of the present report. Independence We conducted our audit in accordance with the independence rules applicable to us, during the period from 1 January 2018 to the issuance date of our report, and, in particular, we have not provided any services prohibited by Article 5, Paragraph 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or by the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. Justification of the assessments – Key point of the audit In application of the provisions of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding the justification of our assessments, we draw your attention to the key point of the audit pertaining to the risk of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, was the most important risk for the audit of the annual financial statements of the most recent fiscal year, as well as to the responses we have provided with regard to this risk. The assessments thus made are part of the context of the audit of the annual financial statements taken as a whole and of the forming of our opinion expressed hereinabove. We do not express opinions on the components of these annual financial statements taken individually. Assessment of equity investments Identified risk Equity investments are listed in the balance sheet as of 31 December 2018 in the net amount of 1,167.4 million euros, accounting for one of the largest items in the balance sheet. They are recognised at the time of their entry at their acquisition cost and depreciated based on their inventory value representing what the Company would accept to outlay to obtain them if it had to acquire them. As indicated in note 2.1.2.2. in the Annex to the annual financial statements, the Company estimates at each year-end closing the inventory value of each one of the investments in order to determine whether this value is lower than the net carrying amount. The analysis conducted was performed by taking into account the cashflow forecasts produced by the operational divisions of the Company. In this context and due to the uncertainty inherent to certain elements and in particular the likelihood of meeting forecasts, we considered that the correct assessment of the equity investments, related receivables constituted a key point of the audit. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 131 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit procedures implemented with regard to the identified risk To assess the reasonableness of the estimated inventory values of the equity investments, based on the information disclosed to us, our work primarily entailed verifying that the estimated values used by management were based on an appropriate justification for the evaluation method and the quantitative data used and, depending on the equity investments concerned: • verify that the value of the share of net profits in the assets is coherent with its value derived from a multiples analysis. • verify that the equity retained matches the financial statements of the entities that have been audited or undergone cost accounting procedures and that, when applicable, the adjustments carried out with regard to this equity are based on documented evidence; • obtain the cashflow forecasts and operations forecasts for the activities of the entities concerned produced by their operational divisions and assess their consistency with the forecast data taken from the latest strategic plans, produced under the supervision of their general management for each one of these activities and approved, when applicable, by the Board of Directors; • verify the consistency of the assumptions retained with the economic environment on the dates of the closing and preparing of the financial statements; • verify that the value resulting from the cashflow forecasts has been adjusted to reflect the amount of debt held by the entity considered. Specific verifications We have also performed, in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by law. Information disclosed in the management report and in the other documents sent to the shareholders regarding the financial situation and the annual financial statements We have no observations to make regarding the fair presentation and the consistency with the annual financial statements of the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ Management Report and in the other documents sent to the Ipsen S.A. shareholders regarding the financial situation and the annual financial statements. We attest to the sincerity and the coherence of the information related to the terms of payment, mention in the Article D. 441-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), with the annual financial statements. Report on corporate governance We certify the disclosure, in the Board of Director’s report, of the information required by Articles L.225-37-3 and L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Concerning the information disclosed in application of the provisions of Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding compensation and benefits paid to the Directors as well as regarding the commitments made in their favour, we have verified their consistency with the financial statements or with the data that have been used to produce these financial statements and, when applicable, with the information collected by your Company from the companies controlling your Company or that are controlled by it. Based upon these procedures, we certify the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. Other information In application of the law, we verified that the information pertaining to equity and controlling stakes and to the identity of the share capital owners or of the voting rights was disclosed to you in the Management Report. Information resulting from other legal and regulatory obligations Appointment of the statutory auditors We were appointed statutory auditors of Ipsen S.A. by the Annual General Meeting of the 18 June 2005 for KPMG Audit, and on 17 December 1998 for Cogerco Flipo, which was acquired by Deloitte & Associés in 2001. As of 31 December 2018, KPMG Audit was in the 14th consecutive year of its assignment and Deloitte & Associés in its 21st year, including 14 years for both firms since the company’s shares have been admitted for trade on a regulated market. Responsibilities of Management and of the persons constituting the corporate governance related to the annual financial statements Management is required to produce annual financial statements presenting a true and fair view in accordance with French accounting rules and principles, in addition to setting up the internal controls it deems necessary in order to produce consolidated financial statements free of material misstatements, whether these are due to fraud or result from errors. When producing the annual financial statements, Management is required to assess the Company’s ability to continue its operations, to present in its financial statements, when necessary, the required disclosures pertaining to business continuity and to apply the going concern accounting principle, unless there are plans to liquidate the Company or put an end to its activity. The Audit Committee is required to monitor the process of compiling financial information and to monitor the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, in addition to internal audits when applicable, as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The annual financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. 132 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the annual financial statements Objective and audit approach We are required to produce a report on the annual financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual financial statements taken as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance corresponds to a high level of assurance, without however guaranteeing that an audit performed in accordance with professional standards enables systematic detection of any material misstatements. Misstatements may be due to fraud or result from errors and are considered to be material when it can be reasonably expected that they may, taken individually or in combination, influence the economic decisions that the financial statement users make based on them. As outlined in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our assignment of certifying the financial statements does not entail guaranteeing the viability or the quality of the management of your Company. In the framework of an audit performed in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises his professional judgement throughout this audit. Furthermore: • he identifies and assesses the risks that the annual financial statements are materially misstated, whether these misstatements are due to fraud or result from errors, defines and implements audit procedures with regard to these risks, and gathers the elements that he deems to be a sufficient and appropriate basis for forming his opinion. The risk of non-detection of a material misstatement arising from fraud is higher than that of a material misstatement resulting from an error, because fraud may imply collusion, falsification, voluntary omissions, false statements or bypassing of internal control; • he familiarises himself with the relevant internal control for the audit in order to define the audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, and not with the aim of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control; • he assesses the appropriateness of the accounting methods retained and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by Management, in addition to the disclosures provided in the annual financial statements; • he assesses the appropriateness of Management’s application of the continuity assumption accounting principle and, depending on the elements collected, the probable existence of material uncertainty related to events or circumstances likely to cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the elements collected up until the date of his report, with a reminder however that subsequent circumstances or events could cast significant doubt about the continuity of operations. If he concludes that there is material uncertainty, he draws the report readers’ attention to the information disclosed in the annual financial statements regarding this uncertainty or, if this information is not disclosed or is not relevant, he issues his certification with reservations or refuses to certify; • he assesses the overall presentation of the annual financial statements and assesses whether the annual financial statements reflect the underlying transactions and events so as to provide a true and fair view. Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee presenting in particular the extent of the audit and the work programme implemented, as well as the resulting conclusions of our work. We also draw their attention, when applicable, to the material weaknesses of internal control that we have identified as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The disclosures in the report to the Audit Committee include the risks of material misstatement that we deem to be the most important for the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the year ended and that thus constitute the key point of the audit, that we are required to describe in the present report. We also are providing to the Audit Committee the statement pursuant to Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537-2014 confirming our independence, within the meaning of the rules applicable in France as outlined in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. When applicable, we discuss with the audit committee the risks to our independence and the safeguard measures applied. The Statutory Auditors Paris La Défense, 15 February 2019 Paris La Défense, 15 February 2019 KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés Department of KPMG S.A. Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner Partner 2018 Ipsen Registration document 133 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity ■■3.3.4.1 Significant events during the year Significant events of the year are disclosed in the first part of the notes to the annual financial statements. ■■3.3.4.2 Business activity Breakdown of sales and other income: (in million euros) 2018 2017 Services 15.4 20.1 Operating income 15.4 20.1 Services correspond primarily to personnel-related expenses billed back to the subsidiaries. ■■3.3.4.3 Net profit (loss) The following table provides a summary of the main aggregate items on the income statement: (in million euros) 2018 2017 Net sales 15.4 20.1 Operating profit (losses) 1.4 (16.5) Net financial income (expense) (2.7) (6.9) Profit on ordinary activities (1.3) (23.4) Net extraordinary income (expense) (13.5) (6.6) Pre-tax profit (14.9) (30.0) Income tax – Gain (0.6) 12.6 Net profit (loss) (15.4) (17.4) Operating losses declined by €17.9 million over the ■■3.3.4.5 Funding performance in the 2017 financial year. The main observations The cash flow statement disclosed in the notes shows that are as follows: cash and cash equivalents at the close of 2018 were stable • Provisions for contingencies and losses decreased by versus a year earlier. €5.4 million, due chiefly to the decline in provision charges for medium-term bonuses and bonus shares; ■■3.3.4.6 Net cash flow from operating activities • The “Wages and salaries” and “Payroll on-costs” line items The decrease observed in net cash flow from operating decreased by €15.4 million. activities in 2018 stemmed notably from the change in operating receivables and liabilities. Net financial expense declined by €4.1 million over the performance in the 2017 financial year, primarily due to the ■■3.3.4.7  et cash provided (used) by investment N positive foreign exchange impact on financial transactions. activities Net extraordinary expense increased by €6.9 million over This line item consists primarily of partial repayments of loans the performance in the 2017 financial year, mainly as a result granted to group subsidiaries. of the €7.7 million capital loss realized during the transfer of treasury shares to certain beneficiaries in respect of bonus ■■3.3.4.8 N  et cash provided (used) by financing share plans. activities ■■3.3.4.4 Income tax At 31 December 2018, financing activities generated a net use of funds totaling €27.7 million, versus a net source of funds At 31 December 2018, the Company reported an income tax amounting to €430 million at 31 December 2017. charge of €0.6 million. 134 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The €102.40 million net decrease in debt issues stemmed In 2018, the Company paid out €83 million in dividends, from the following items: compared with €70.2 million in 2017. • €42 million from the bilateral loan issued in May 2017 and At 31 December 2018, the Company’s current account balance repaid in 2018, and with Group companies showed a credit of €278.9 million, • €60.2 million from the net change in commercial paper up €150.8 million over a credit current account balance of drawn at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018. €128 million at 31 December 2017. The €2.7 million increase in equity resulted from a €0.1 million ■■3.3.4.9 Subsequent events capital increase and a €2.6 million increase in share premiums arising from the issuance of new shares after stock options Subsequent events are disclosed in note 8 to the Company’s were exercised. annual financial statements. The €4.3 million variation in share buyback agreements arose ■■3.3.4.10 Business trends and outlook from the following transactions: In 2019, Ipsen S.A.’s net profit will be derived essentially from • The repurchase by the Company in the 2018 financial year the dividends it receives from its subsidiaries, its financial of 250,000 of its own shares totaling €34.5 million, as part expense and the tax consolidation gain. of the share buyback program announced by the Company on 4 June 2018; ■■3.3.4.11 Subsidiaries and affiliates • The allotment of 667,857 bonus shares totaling €38.7 million The lion’s share of sales from Ipsen S.A. subsidiaries are to beneficiaries of the 12 December 2006, 29 September generated by the marketing and sale of proprietary drugs 2008 and 30 March 2009 stock option plans, the 27 March prescribed by the medical profession. Purchases of most of 2014, 1 April 2015 and 31 May 2016 bonus share plans, and the drugs are reimbursed by national health programs. the employee shareholding program of 9 July 2018. 2018 2017 (in million euros) Sales Net profit (loss) Sales Net profit (loss) Ipsen Pharma 1,340.9 127.3 1,207.7 233.5 Sutrepa – 37.3 – 2.6 Socapharma – (0.0) – (0.0) The list of subsidiaries and affiliates is provided in the notes to ■■3.3.4.13 Payment due dates the Company’s annual financial statements. The following information on due dates for Company payables and receivables is provided in accordance with Articles L.441■■3.3.4.12 Accounting principles and methods 6-1 and D. 441-4 of France’s Commercial Code. This No changes were made in the accounting principles and information included intra-group payables and receivables methods versus the prior year. information. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 135 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Invoices received or issued at the closing date of the financial year: Invoices received but not paid at the closing date of the period Invoices issued but not paid at the closing date of the period in thousand euros Overdue Overdue Not Not 1 to 30 31 to 60 61 to 90 Over 91 1 day and 1 to 30 31 to 60 61 to 90 Over 91 past past 1 day and due days days days days due days days days days Late payment tranches over total over total Number of invoices 21 9 12 25 23 4 Total amount of invoices, 4,007 3,992 5 10 15 10,108 9,967 141 141 incl. VAT Percentage of invoices, 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 99% 0% 0% 0% 1% 1% incl. VAT Percentage of total amount of purchases for the period, 8,445 47% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.2% incl. VAT Percentage of total amount 23,904 41.7% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.6% 0.6% of sales, incl. VAT Contractual Contractual Due dates used to X X due dates due dates determine late payment Legal due dates Legal due dates ■■3.3.4.14 Sumptuary spending No non-tax-deductible expenses targeted under Article 39-4 of the French Tax Code were added back during the financial year just ended. ■■3.3.4.15 Net profit (loss) for the period The net loss for the 2018 financial year came to €15.4 million. ■■3.3.4.16 Dividend payout In accordance with Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, the dividends paid out for the last three financial years were as follows: Annual dividend payout (in € per share) Dividend per share Total (*) 2016 70,759,527 0.85 2017 70,247,053 0.85 2018 83,017,070 1.00 (*) After cancelling dividends on treasury shares in retained earnings. 136 2018 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.3.4.17 Company earnings and other financial highlights over the past five years 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Share capital at year-end (in million euros) – Share capital 82.9 83.2 83.6 83.7 83.8 – Number of shares outstanding (in thousands) 82,869.1 83,245.6 83,557.9 83,732.1 83,809 – Number of outstanding preferred shares without – – – – – voting rights – Maximum number of shares to be created – – – – – Transactions and results for the year (in million euros) – Net sales 16.1 21.1 18.2 20.1 15.4 – Profits before income tax, employee profit-sharing, 113.3 164.0 (76.5) (27.6) (12.5) amortization, depreciation and provisions – Income tax Gain (losses) 8.6 5.5 1.0 12.6 (0.6) – Employee profit-sharing for the year (0.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – Earnings after income tax, employee profit-sharing, 114.2 191.4 (24.3) (17.4) (15.4) amortization, depreciation and provisions – Dividends paid out (**) 65.5 70.0 70.0 70.2 83.0 Earnings per share (in € per share) – Earnings after income tax and employee profitsharing, but before amortization, depreciation and 1.0 2.0 (1.0) 0.0 0.0 provisions – Earnings after income tax, employee profit-sharing, 1.0 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 amortization, depreciation and provisions – Dividend per share 0.80 0.85 0.85 0.85 1.00 Personnel (in million euros) – Average number of employees during the year(*) 16 17 15 11 6 – Total payroll for the year 16.6 25.1 22.9 20.7 10.9 – Total payroll on-costs for the year (social security, 6.2 8.2 8.4 7.6 2.0 welfare, etc.) (*) Including Management bodies. (**) Dividends on treasury shares are posted to retained earnings. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 137 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.4 SIGNIFICANT ENGAGEMENT FOLLOWING THE ACCOUNTS SETTLEMENT DATE OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 On 25 February 2019, Ipsen announced the acquisition of The transaction will be fully financed by Ipsen’s cash and Clementia Pharmaceuticals, to significantly boost its Rare existing lines of credit and will significantly increase its level Diseases portfolio. Ipsen will acquire Clementia’s late-stage of net debt. It is expected to have a limited dilutive impact drug candidate: palovarotene, with pediatric disease and on Ipsen’s core operating margin for 2019 and 2020 given breakthrough therapy designations for the treatment of an the costs of the ongoing clinical trials and preparation for the ultra-rare bone disorder and a path to approval in 2020. commercial launch of palovarotene. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen will pay US$25.00 Consequently, Ipsen is updating its 2019 financial objectives per share in cash upfront on the completion of the transaction, and now expects: for an initial aggregate consideration of US$1.04 billion, plus • Sales growth of greater than 13.0% at current exchange deferred payments on the achievement of future regulatory rates (unchanged); milestones in the form of contingent value right (CVRs) of • Core operating margin of around 30.0% of net sales (previous US$6.00 per share, which will be paid upon FDA acceptance guidance of around 31.0% of Net Sales), excluding other of the regulatory filing for palovarotene for the treatment potential investments and pipeline expansion initiatives. of MO, representing an additional potential payment of US$263 million. The initial cash consideration represents a The transaction will also be dilutive at the Consolidated Net premium of 77% to Clementia’s 30-day volume-weighted Income level. average stock price prior to the announcement. The completion of the transaction is anticipated to occur in the second quarter of 2019. 138 2018 Ipsen Registration document 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4.1 MAIN COMPANY SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY RISKS 140 4.2 HUMAN RESOURCES 143 4.2.1 Group workforce 143 4.2.2 Human Resources Framework 145 4.3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 148 4.3.1 Regulatory Issues 148 4.3.2 EHS Policy 150 4.3.3 EHS 2018 Performance 154 4.3.4 Internal resources 162 4.3.5 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication 163 4.4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 167 4.4.1 Social relations 167 4.4.2 Societal information 168 4.5 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE ON THE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 173 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAIN COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RISKS Introduction • The results of such policies through key performance T h e p re s e nt C h a pte r ref l e c ts s o c i a l, s o c i et a l a n d indicators. environmental informations required by Articles L.225-102-1 Ipsen’s Business Model is described in Chapter 1. and R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code, amended by the ordonnance n°2017-1180 and the décret d’application The subsequent paragraphs of the present Chapter describe n°2017-1265, transposing the Directive 2014/95/UE of the the Group’s commitments in terms of Human Resources and European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 Environment, Health and Safety. regarding the disclosure of non-financial information. As per the requirements of the Non-Financial Performance Reporting, for social, societal and environmental risks, the Chapter 4 includes: • A description of the policies and diligences implemented to identify, prevent and limit the occurrence of the risk, 4.1 MAIN COMPANY SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY RISKS In this section, Ipsen describes the main Company Social When the risk is not described in Chapter 2, it is described in Responsibility risks factors it has identified and the policies the correspondence table below. and diligences implemented as well as indicators and results Risk Management governance, including risk identification achieved. and validation are described in Chapter 2.2 When such risks are already detailed in Chapter 2 (which details Ipsen major risks factors), a cross reference to Chapter 2 is made for the description of the risk. Risk description Policies and diligences Indicators and results Risk class: EMPLOYEES HR risks: employee motivation / quality of social relations The Group’s success depends in large part on certain Attract & Retain Talents: • Absenteeism rate (Please refer essential managing executives and scientists. The • Roll-out of a new and clear Employer to 4.2.1) departure of these senior employees could damage Value Proposition • Engagement index: This the Group’s competitiveness and compromise its • Reinforcement of our Recruitment indicator is measured ever y ability to achieve its objectives. In addition, the Group resources and expansion of our talent 2 years and showed a 4 points is convinced that its continued expansion in sectors sourcing thanks to our 3-hub approach improvement in 2017 at 79%. and activities that require additional expertise and • Intensification of our efforts to identify resources (such as marketing, clinical trials, and and actively promote talents regulatory licenses) will require it to recruit new • Promotion of “Great Place to Work” and executive management and scientists. The Group wellbeing-at-work initiatives could find itself unable to attract or retain the required • Creation of high-quality development executive management and scientists. and leadership programs The Group’s success also depends on the motivation of • Initiative to improve on-boarding of its employees. Maintaining positive social relationships newcomers within its varied entities is an important factor in • Active communication within the Group implementing the Group’s policy. However, changes Leadership Team and between the in economic conditions in the pharmaceutical industry Executive Leadership Team and the could lead some Group sites to envisage or embark on Group Talents and Leaders reorganization or restructuring operations that could Social relationships: have an adverse impact on employee motivation and • Maintenance of regular and constructive on the quality of social relations in the Group. Any relationships with local employe e negative impact on employee motivation or the quality representatives. of social relations could jeopardize the achievement of • In June 2016, creation of a European some Group targets related to research, production, Work Council to tackle “transnational or marketing activities and lead to a corresponding issues” impact on the Group’s results or financial position. 140 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 MAIN COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RISKS Risk description Policies and diligences Indicators and results Risk class: ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Safety risks Improper handling, storage, transpor tation or • Group’s Environment, Health, and • Accidents neutralization of dangerous substances Safety (EHS) policy and programs Please refer to Table 2 “Ipsen General health and Safety risks • Controlled storage, handling, use, and Sustainability Performance” in processing of dangerous substances section 4.3.3 Please refer to section 2.1.2.2 “Environment and safety • Internal EHS audits • Occupational Illness risks” Please refer to Table 2 “Ipsen Sustainability Performance” in section 4.3.3 Environment risks: impact on environment Water use, air and river pollutionrivers, destruction of • Group’s Environment, Health, and • Environmental contamination biodiversity Safety (EHS) policy and programs ( air emissions, waste water Please refer to 2.1.2.2 “Environment and safety risks” • Controlled storage, handling, use, and treatment monitoring) processing of dangerous substances Please refert to Table 2 “Ipsen • Internal EHS audits Sustainability Performance” in section 4.3.3 Climate change: Risks related to climate change such as natural • Group’s Environment, Health, and • G H G e m i s s i o n s ( s c o p e 1, disasters, stricter regulation or carbon taxation, Safety (EHS) policy and programs 2 and 3) impacting Ipsen’s use of energy, natural resources and • CSR programs and policies Please refer to Table 2 “Ipsen generation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Sustainability Performance” in section 4.3.3) Risk class: PATIENTS AND SOCIETY Cyber-attacks risk: Incidents such as cyber-attacks that could lead to • Governance organized to report cyber • Number of cyberattacks cases theft, loss or alteration of critical data, including private risk at an executive level reported to the CNIL: 2 in 2018 data • Cyber-risk-based approach supporting Please refer to 2.1.1.3 “Cyber-attack risk” IT infrastructure and ser vices management • Security incident management framework • T h e G r o u p s u b s c r i b e d a c y b e rassurance contract • Vu l n e r a b i l i t y, th re at a n d i n c i d e nt monitoring by security experts • User awareness and trainings Supply shortages risks Please refer to section 2.1.2.1 “Supply shortages and • Deployment of Strategic inventories and • On Time in Full ( number of other disruptions risks” Safety Stocks, designed to, respectively, order lines expedited on time cover the risk of manufacturing line to ex ternal customers as a failure and variability on sales demand percentage of total number of • Business continuity plans ensure a clear order lines) improvedin 2018 roadmap to protect patient supply in v. 2017: 99.7% v. 99.5% case of a major disruption • Number of stockouts (number • By 2019, Ipsen will have deployed world of times in which product was class information systems giving same not available to ship, due to over day visibility and planning on demand, demand, production, quality or supply and inventories. any other reason) improved in 2018 v. 2017 at 3 occurences v.4 2018 Ipsen Registration document 141 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAIN COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RISKS Risk description Policies and diligences Indicators and results Risk class: PATIENTS AND SOCIETY Counterfeiting risks Please refer to section 2.1.4.3 “Counterfeiting risks” • Ipsen anti-counterfeiting committee • N u m b e r o f c o u n t e r f e i t i n g devoted to mitigating the risk and cases identified and reported investigating team to coordinate and to ANSM : 5 cases in 2018 follow up suspicious counter feiting (compared to 12 in 2017) cases • Customs registration • Online monitoring • Ipsen a member of the Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI) • In Europe, serialization will help fighting counterfeiting • EFPIA/LEEM action plans Product liability risks Patient safety • Employees annual training on safety • Pharmacovigilance report Please refer to section 2.1.4.4 “Product liability risks” reporting • Quality assessment • Medical Safety Governance (including Please refert to section 4.4.2.5 Global Patient Safety program) • Processes in place to ensure collection of all safety information on products • Ongoing Business Improvement Program for the Pharmacovigilance syste m a n d Q u a l i t y M a n ag e m e nt System Ethics and compliance risks Please refer to section 2.1.1.8 “Ethics & Compliance For all risks: • Outcome of E&C Monitoring risks” Code of Conduct and Policies & • Outcome of Internal Audits Procedures: • Evolution of ethics and • Ipsen Code of Conduct compliance culture within the • Global Anti-Corruption Policy organization • Global Conflict of Interest Policy and Please refer to section 4.3.5 SOP • Global Policy and Directive on Interactions with External Stakeholders • Global Policy and SOP on Promotional Materials • G l o b a l SO P o n N o n Pro m oti o n a l Materials Trainings and Internal Communication Ad hoc Ethics & Compliance advice and support Ethics & Compliance Monitoring Third Parties: Business Partners’ Code of Conduct Third Parties Compliance Program: Due Diligence SOP In addition to the risks identified above and considered ethics is evaluated during quality assessments of all CROs, as major for Company Social Responsibility, the Group is which are required to have at least the same level of exigence involved in Research and Development activities requiring Finally, as per the requirements of the Non-Financial animal experimentation either internally or externally, to be Performance Reporting on Tax evasion risk, the Group able to identify and deliver the best medicines for patients. declares to pay taxes in each jurisdiction where it operates This topic has faced increasing sensitivity from the community and has a tax policy in place ensuring the respect and and the Group could be challenged on the use of animals for implementation of tax regulations in such jurisdictions. Research and Development as well as how animal welfare is I p s e n c o m p l i e s w i t h t h e Tr a n s f e r p r i c i n g O E C D guaranteed in all its activities. recommandations (most notably the Country-by-Country This risk is monitored through the Animal Ethics Committee file) and is regularly audited by the relevant tax authorities. in place to evaluate all internal protocols using animals as well It maintains a cooperative and open relationship with such as promoting 3Rs rule (Replace, Refine, Reduce), the Animal authorities. welfare body implemented on research sites and the Animal Every year, the tax risks are presented to the Audit Committee. 142 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 HUMAN RESOURCES 4.2 HUMAN RESOURCES 4.2.1 Group workforce The following table shows Ipsen’s employees with a divisional and geographical breakdown. As of 31 December 2018, around 47% of the Group’s workforce was employed outside the major Western European countries Split by geographies and divisions Sales and Manufacturing Research and Administration Total marketing and supply Development and other At 31 December 2018 Major Western European countries (1) 965 982 576 521 3,044 Other European countries 345 164 25 51 585 North America 331 96 67 88 582 Rest of the world (2) 1,308 65 16 123 1,512 Consolidated Total 2,949 1,307 684 783 5,723 of which Joint Ventures consolidated – 49 – 4 53 at 50% (3) Total Ipsen employees 2,949 1,258 684 779 5,670 At 31 December 2017 Major Western European countries (1) 920 957 536 491 2,904 Other European countries 314 133 22 51 520 North America 302 95 37 65 499 Rest of the world (2) 1,282 66 8 122 1,478 Consolidated Total 2,818 1,251 603 729 5,401 of which Joint Ventures consolidated – 52 – 4 56 at 50% (3) Total Ipsen employees 2,818 1,199 603 725 5,345 (1) i.e. Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. (3) Headcount of the Joint Ventures consolidated in the financial section. Refer to the methodological note on the social and environmental reporting at the end of this chapter for more details on the processing of Joint Ventures HR indicators. Analysis of the workforce by type of employment contract As illustrated by these tables, the Group maintains a high level of permanent jobs. (Expressed as a percentage) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Permanent 85% 85% Non-permanent 15% 15% Part-time (Expressed as a percentage) 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Full-time 96% 96% Part-time 4% 4% 2018 Ipsen Registration document 143 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN RESOURCES Analysis of the workforce by employment category Non-Sales force Sales force (1) Exempt staff Non-exempt staff Exempt staff Non-exempt staff At 31 December 2018 2,084 1,827 1,410 349 At 31 December 2017 1,852 1,764 1,345 384 (1) “Field” sales force. Recruitment 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Of which Of which Total Total Perm Fixed term Perm Fixed term Major Western European countries (1) 594 436 158 601 404 197 Other European countries 166 119 47 111 62 49 North America 217 207 10 272 271 1 Rest of the world (2) 411 151 260 488 189 299 Total 1,388 913 475 1,472 926 546 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Termination of employees Redundancies, Mutual Resignations, end Retirements, Total dismissals agreement of fixed-term contracts, deaths seasonal contracts 2018 financial year Major Western European countries (1) 87 66 284 21 458 Other European countries 13 14 90 2 119 North America 21 8 92 3 124 Rest of the world (2) 30 27 302 3 362 Total 151 115 768 29 1,063 2017 financial year Major Western European countries (1) 66 23 267 24 380 Other European countries 24 1 49 2 76 North America 64 3 59 5 131 Rest of the world (2) 59 45 288 5 397 Total 213 72 663 36 984 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Absenteeism Reasons for absenteeism include: illness, work/journey accident, unjustified absence unpaid. The following table shows the absenteeism rates by function during the 2018 and 2017 financial years: 2018 financial year 2017 financial year Manufacturing and supply chain 3.9% 4.4% Sales and marketing 1.3% 1.7% Administration and other 3.0% 3.0% Research and Development 1.4% 1.4% Total 2.3% 2.5% 144 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 HUMAN RESOURCES 4.2.2 Human Resources Framework Ipsen’s vision is to foster an agile and collaborative organization, chain, 13% in Research and Development, 52% in Sales and empower its employees to sharpen their skills and make every Marketing and 16% in support functions. day a learning experience, whilenurturing an engaged and inclusive culture and caring about every individual. The split by gender inrecruitment (61% women and 39% of men) shows the Group’s strong commitment as an equal In 2018, Ipsen implemented an innovative and state-of-the art opportunity employer. Human Resources Information System based on Workday In 2018, Ipsen launched a company-wide initiative to develop and called iPeople which covers most HR processes: a consistent and state-of-the art on-boarding experience employee lifecycle, performance and talent management as to its newcomers, based on its new HR backbone system, well as talent acquisition. iPeople. Recruitment Employer branding In 2018, Ipsen continued to focus its recruitment strategy In 2018, Ipsen detailed its new Employment Value Proposition on supporting the business transformation especially in that relies on its 4 hallmarks: its ideal size, its constant Specialty Care International, Global Franchises and Research transformation and growth, its unique mission in Specialty & Development. Care, and its people-centered organization, including: • An employer advertising campaigns in the subway in the US Recruitment and on-boarding to support the North America HQ’s recruitment campaign, Ipsen’s commitment to ensure diversity within its workforce • A stronger digital presence with a revamped global career began with a call to recruit a broad range of profiles and website, competencies (cf. “Equal opportunities and diversity within the Group”). In 2018, the Group recruited a total of 1,388 new • And a Great Place to Work recognition in Brazil, Mexico employees, split as follows: 19% in Manufacturing and supply and Ireland. The Group also reinforced our infrastructure by rolling-out a new global Applicant Tracking System. Talent management approach mixing webinars, face-to-face sessions and Learning and Development applied learnings, Ipsen continuously provides its employees with effective and • continued to support our cultural transformation by efficient development resources adapted to the needs of each offering our senior learders transformational workshops in employee and the requirements of our business. partnership with external facilitators, • and piloted some new global coaching programs for future In 2018, the Group: leaders in the Specialty Care area. • regrouped all existing development elements under one umbrella, iDevelop, supported by a new philosophy During the year, each employee received an average of where every single employee is a talent and deserves a 26 hours in training. The number of hours of training has development plan, constantly increased since 2015. • designed and piloted two major global leadership Number development programs: “Being a Bold and Disruptive of hours 2018 2017 2016 2015 Leader in a New Era” for executives in collaboration with of training the London Business School and “One Ipsen Leadership Total 149,541 128,944 127,069 112,071 Program” for middle management based on a blended 2018 Ipsen Registration document 145 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN RESOURCES The increase in training hours is linked to a bet ter Each employee participated to a One Ipsen Way of Being identification and registration of training activity, thanks to launch workshop during the second half of the year. the use of a single training management system common to In June 2018, Ipsen launched a peer-to-peer recognition the entire Ipsen group. platform, called BeOne based on its One Ipsen Way of Being. Talent Review and Planning Equal opportunities and diversity within the Group In 2018, the Group fostered its Talent Review & Planning The Group is committed to ensuring that all employees process by leveraging its new iPeople tool (that allows benefit from non-discrimination rules which apply in the employees and managers to get better visibility over their country they are employed in. At Group level, employment career and development opportunities) and by having a more and compensation policies are based on objective criteria frequent and structured review of its talents by the Executive and individual performance. Employees are thus given equal Leadership Team. opportunities without any discrimination based on race, color, Individual performance assessment religion, gender, disability, family situation, sexuality, age, nationality or ethnic background. The Performance Management process is an essential one in the management of people. Gender equal opportunities In 2018, Ipsen trained all of its managers on its new iPerform In 2018, Ipsen employed 58% women. philosophy, aiming to accelerate the development of all Ipsen employees with the support of its new iPeople system. 31 December 31 December (Expresed as 2018 2017 This new philosophy is based on the following pillars: a percentage) Male Female Male Female • alignment with the Group’s strategic objectives and clarity Total 42.0% 58.0% 41.9% 58.1% on expected contribution, Ipsen actively promotes gender equality with specific initiatives • continuous and transparent feedback throughout the year, in its 3 hubs: France, the US and the UK. • agility to adapt to business priorities throughout the year, In France, Ipsen signed its fourth agreement on equal • integration with the personal development objectives by opportunities for men and women in 2017. In this agreement, having one development objective for each employee. Ipsen included the wellbeing-at-work policy based on four pillars: More than 99% of the Group’s employees receive business objectives and an annual performance review. • work-life balance, • support of accountability and empowerment, Internal mobility Ipsen actively promotes internal as well as geographical • behavior promoting health and well-being at work, mobility. Mobility is key to employees’ professional development • monitoring of risky situations and psychological support. and to the company’s dynamism and multicultural awareness. It allows for offer new career opportunities, increases in In North America, several initiatives have been launched to employee engagement and contributes to the company’s promote diversity and gender balance: overall performance improvement. • Elevate: an internal employee resource group which focuses on the advocacy of women. The strategic pillars of Elevate Thanks to the new HR system, employees are now made focus on mentorship, professional development and events. aware of internal opportunities and can actively advertise their competencies and desires in terms of mobility. In 2018, Ipsen • Women in the Enterprise of Science & Technology (WEST) enhanced our International Mobility policies and practices External Partnership: WEST is a learning community that to deliver the best services to our internationally mobile provides women in the enterprise of science and technology employees. with the inspiration, knowledge, and connections to reach their full potential. WEST programs are designed to enhance One Ipsen Way of Being and BeOne recognition skills, develop professional networks, provide inspiration, program and empower women to achieve their full potential. In 2018, the Group replaced its multiple pre-existing value • Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (HBA) External frameworks by a unique One Ipsen Way of Being, to support Partnership: HBA’s purpose is to further the advancement Ipsen bold strategy, articulated around 5 elements: and impact of women in the business of healthcare. NA • “We trust each other” Ipsen employees are eligible for a free membership which allows them to attend networking events, professional • “We share and learn every day” & personal development seminars, workshops and • “We own our outcome” conferences. • “We honor our word” • 30% Club Canada External Partnership: 30% Club is committed to building a strong foundation of business • “We drive to win together” leaders to champion meaningful, sustainable change in 146 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 HUMAN RESOURCES the gender balance of board and executive committees, • the Employment and Cancer Charter signed in November encouraging better leadership, governance, and all-round 2018 by Ipsen France in association with the National performance. As a member of the 30% Club, Ipsen is Cancer Institute (INC). This Charter that includes 11 publicly indicating its support for the notion that it is good concrete engagements as an employer to improve the business practice to have women holding 30% of C Suite level of support offered to employees with cancer or other and board seats in Canada and that we, as a key member chronic illnesses. of Canada’s business community, share the aspiration to collectively reach this goal by the end of 2022. Employing young and senior workers and transferring knowledge In the UK, Ipsen published in April 2018 its first gender pay gap report in line with the UK government’s Equity Act, The average employee age in the Group is 42, with 23% of the showing a median gap of 2.9%. Ipsen is proud that the workforce over 50 years old. number sits well below the average for UK businesses, which Split by age group is currently 18%. Ipsen initiated a partnership with Simmons University, a well2018 2017 known Boston institution, sponsoring their third international Under 30 years old 11% 11% women in leadership conference in November 2018 in Dublin. This collaboration will be extended in 2019 through a silver 30-50 years old 66% 69% sponsorship of the Simmons Leadership Conference in Over 50 years old 23% 20% the US. Ipsen’s Executive Leadership Team will continue to support In 2017, Ipsen signed in France a new 3-year agreement, initiatives to align our strategy to hire, develop, engage and to pledge to its commitment of employing young and retain women, especially in leadership roles, and work to senior workers as well as transferring knowledge between close the wage gap and ensure fundamental fairness for all. generations. Integration of disabled workers For young workers, it aims at giving them access to long-term Since 2009, Ipsen has been committed to helping disabled employment, improving their integration in the company and workers find their place within the company. developing their competencies thanks to the experience of more senior colleagues. In France, Ipsen has signed a partnership with an association created by the LEEM (French Association of Pharmaceutical For senior workers, it aims at maintaining their employment, Companies) in January 2014 to implement an industry-wide enabling them to transfer their knowledge, helping them agreement regarding disability. This association enables prepare and make plans for retirement. companies to pool and coordinate their efforts and costs in line with four priorities: Group’s compensation and benefits policy • Recruiting disabled workers; Compensation and benefits • Maintaining disabled workers in their position by ensuring Ipsen’s compensation and benefits philosophy provides a HR managers and the occupational health service work flexible and innovative framework which truly takes care of together to anticipate critical situations; its people and support its business through three guiding principles: • Developing a formal purchasing policy to outsource contracts with centers employing disabled workers; • Rewarding what matters; • Communicating, raising awareness and training via on-site • Ensuring external focus and internal consistency; initiatives that engage employees on the issues of disability and more broadly of diversity. • Fostering high performance results. Ipsen is also a founding member of the first French Club The Group is also reinforcing this compensation framework House, a non-profit organization specialized in helping people by increasing the share ownership opportunities for its with mental health problems. employees: Employee health and wellness awareness • In 2018, it successfully implemented an Employee Stock Ipsen reinforced its health and wellness program by supporting Purchase Plan in 21 countries with a high participation rate new initiatives such as: (52%) and an enhanced employer contribution (combination • The Ipsen in Motion initiative that enrolled 1,350 employees of discount on share price and employer contribution to thoughout the Group who walked, biked or run to support a ranges of employee investment); local Spanish patients association, 2018 Ipsen Registration document 147 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 4.3 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY The Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) activities within development of new entities and indications (R&D centers) Ipsen originates from the implementation of Ipsen’s EHS and production of active substances and final finished policy agreed and signed by the Executive Leadership Team. products including distribution (Manufacturing and R&D). For The EHS performance data presented in this document the most representative indicators of EHS, the perimeter has is the consolidation of EHS data from Manufacturing and been extended to integrate the data from commercial offices Research & Development (R&D) Centers. The business at (Global) which are detailed in the methodology notes. these sites includes activities concerned with research and 4.3.1 Regulatory Issues Ipsen’s activities are regulated by the applicable national The directive, now enacted in EU member states and in and local environment, health and safety legislation and France since August 2008, established “the polluter pays associated regulations as well as internal requirements based principle” in the case of environmental damages caused by on best practices and external international standards such the user’s activities. as ISO 14001. In France, the requirements in terms of sustainable In Western Europe, Ipsen’s sites are located inside the development have par tly been enforced through the European Union. Within the European Union, environmental publication of decrees related to the laws of the Grenelle and labor legislation has significantly changed since the early Environment on the themes of energy efficiency, reduction 1980s. of energy consumption, risk management and preservation of health. As part of its commitment to compliance, Ipsen Concerning workplace health and safety and environmental ensures compliance to these requirements throughout its protection, Ipsen sites in all countries are subject to regulatory growth and development. requirements designed to protect the health and safety of employees and the environment, particularly through the The REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization assessment of occupational risk. Legislation and regulation in and Restriction of Chemicals) was formally adopted on 1 June this area are regularly strengthened. 2007. Its aim is to improve the protection of human health Recently, the emergence of new requirements concerning and the environment and has been the subject of a detailed environment, health and safety in Europe related to the analysis by Ipsen. This analysis has enabled Ipsen to manage management of chemicals, chemical hazards, waste, the impact of this regulation on its activities. In addition to psychosocial risks, energy conservation and carbon emission mitigating the potential risks, the REACH committee have and risks have increased significantly. continue to increase awareness of the regulation within Ipsen and its supply chain. Ipsen continues to observe and manage Regarding environmental legislation, the sites are covered amendments to the regulation. in 2018 by EU Directive No. 2008/1/CE of 15 January 2008 (Text abrogated by Article 81 of Directive No. 2010/75/EU of In 20 0 8, the re gulation imple me nting inte r nationa l the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November recommendations from the Global Harmonization System 2010 as of 7 January 2014, Official Bulletin of European (GHS) on the labelling of chemical substances was disclosed. Union L 334 of 17 December 2010) and n° 2010/75/UE of This regulation (CE) n° 1272/2008 of 16 December 2008, called 24 November 2010 related to integrated pollution prevention Characterization, Labelling and Packaging (CLP) defines the and control, and industrial emissions. rules for classification, packaging and labelling of chemical products in Europe. This replaced the previous European CLP These directives define a system introducing specific system. It has been applicable since 1 December 2010. The operating procedures (declaration or filing for authorization measures of this regulation concern both chemicals affecting to operate) and cover all environmental issues potentially the environment and the health and safety of workers. Since facing an industrial site (for example, waste management, 2010, Ipsen ensures that the required chemical product environmental discharges, use, handling and storage of notifications are in place. toxic and/or hazardous substances). These directives have been and will be enacted progressively in national legislation A developing area being monitored and evaluated internally in every EU member state and the provisions must be is the issue concerning Pharmaceuticals in the Environment observed at each Ipsen facility located in these countries. (PIE). Specific legislation has not yet been developed but Furthermore, the European Parliament adopted directive Ipsen understands that this is an area that must be managed 2004/35 on 24 April 2004 on environmental liability related properly to prevent a potential negative impact of active to the prevention and remediation of environmental damage. ingredients on the environment. 148 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Actions were completed to evaluate actual emissions from Given its increasing integration with global trade, China has for manufacturing sites for specific peptides to determine if these several years been developing and implementing a specific materials are being released in waste water discharges after framework of EHS regulations. The manufacturing facility waste treatment. operated by Ipsen in China is subject to these regulations. The Chinese authority for environmental issues is the Ministry Preliminary monitoring has not detected these materials to of Environmental Protection (EPM) which is leading its local date. Studies and existing literature have shown that peptides Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) in each province. are broken down into their chemical consituents during Each EPB reports directly to the Ministry as well as to local waste water treatment involving pH adjustment. The chemical authorities. The EPB supervises each company according to constituent components are elemental and do not cause any its relative size. The site in Tianjin is controlled by the Tianjin adverse environmental effects. Huayuan industrial zone EPB. In parallel, the highest authority In order to determine and address any adverse impacts of new for safety is the State Administration of Work Safety of the products and existing products on the environment through People’s Republic of China which has a similar organizational patient excretion, the European Medicines Agency (EMA), system for local branches. Thus, the Huayuan Industrial Zone among others in various countries, requires Environmental branch supervises the Tianjin site regarding worker safety. Risk Assessments (ERA) to be included in submissions For work-related health, it is the State Administration of Work for Marketing Approval of all new medicinal products for Safety of the People’s Republic of China which takes into use in humans, including new indications for drugs already account these activities. previously approved for other indications. Ipsen has included The Ipsen Cambridge Research and Development and these ERA studies in submissions, and, where appropriate, manufacturing center in the United States is subject to conducted relevant fate and effect studies as required to environment, health, and safety legislation and regulations inform the ERA.For existing products already on the market, specific to the United States. The regulatory system in the USA Ipsen has commenced a program to evaluate the fate and is based on both the federal and state legislation administered effects of these medicinal products on the environment using at both levels as well as additional local regional, county and the EMA approach to ERA. This will continue through 2020. city requirements. Federal authorities are represented by The regulatory changes concerning chemical management the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) which develops exist in the United States as the OSHA 1910.1200 “Hazard environmental regulations applicable to industry and by OSHA Communication Standard” and in China with the Decree (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) in charge of n° 7 Chinese Ministry of Environment Protection. These developing health and safety regulations to ensure a safe and Standards and Decrees are intended to harmonize chemical healthy working environment. The State of Massachusetts, management based on similar principles to those of REACH in turn, is responsible for enforcing federal laws, which are and GHS. interpreted as the minimum requirements, and can make them more stringent. The EPA, OSHA and the states conduct In the light of these important global regulatory requirements, inspections to ensure regulatory compliance. Ipsen proactively and globally monitors new information concerning directives and regulations. Ipsen is currently Finally, at the international level, Ipsen carefully monitors analyzing the impact of regulations with special attention events that could have a direct or indirect impact on its to those regarding energy efficiency, greenhouse gases, various business activities regarding EHS. substances that deplete the ozone layer, and more generally, on any changes in EHS legislation applicable to its business activities. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 149 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 4.3.2 EHS Policy ■■4.3.2.1 Ipsen’s EHS policy EHS governance system within the organization, the individual Ipsen’s updated Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) policy involvement and commitment of each employee, the gradual is shown below. The EHS policy was signed by the Executive deployment of EHS objectives to office activities and support Committee including the CEO and those who report directly functions, risk reduction through targeted programs and to him. The EHS policy focuses on commitment and better visibility through internal and external communication. accountability across Ipsen regarding core EHS principles. An Ipsen Group EHS Council was created and consists of the Executive Committee. This Council meets twice a year in June and December to discuss EHS performance and set the EHS strategic direction for the next period. In 2018, council meetings delivered the revised EHS Policy signed by the council members and performance against the three 2020 targets designed to demonstrate Ipsen’s desire to be best-in-class versus its pharma peers in the EHS area. These targets are to: • Reduce the medicalized accident frequency rate to less than 2.00 by 2020; • Reduce the normalized energy consumption and carbon greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 5% by 2020, using 2016 as the baseline; • Reduce the normalized water consumption by 30% by 2020, using 2016 as the baseline. Ipsen set the medicalized accident frequency rate, energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption goals normalized to occupied area captured in square meters. The following discussion uses these normalized values to establish performance to date against the goals set above. Ipsen is well on its way to meet its 2020 EHS goals (see Table 1 below). Ipsen’s medicalized accident frequency rate was below 2.00 in both 2017 and 2018, hence below its 2020 target. This strong performance has occurred ahead of schedule. In 2018, the medicalized accident frequency rate was 1.10. Ipsen believes further reductions are possible and will aim to drive this rate to zero. This goal is considered to be achieved and new targets will be established in 2019. 2019 will serve as the new baseline for future targets and goals. ■■4.3.2.2 Ipsen EHS Manual, 2021 Goals and The normalized energy consumption to occupied space 2025 Bold Promise decreased by 13% in 2018 versus the 2016 baseline. This goal The Ipsen Environment, Health and Safety Management is considered achieved and new targets will be established in Manual describes the management and operational 2019. 2019 will serve as the new baseline for future targets standards necessary to protect the environment, and to and goals. respect and manage the health and safety of employees. The goal of this manual is to drive continuous improvement The normalized greenhouse gas emissions to occupied in EHS performance at Ipsen and throughout its supply and space decreased by 19% in 2018 versus the 2016 baseline. customer networks. The greenhouse gas emissions in absolute terms decreased by 35% in 2018 using a market-based approach. From an operational perspective, Ipsen’s EHS policy is implemented through a rolling EHS strategic plan. This plan The normalized water consumption to occupied space drives the development of annual targets which are applicable increased by 2% in 2018 versus 2016 baseline. Ipsen will to all Ipsen sites. The EHS strategic plan (2018-2021) was re-evaluate the goal in 2019 and establish additional targets updated and approved by the Ipsen Executive Committee related to water reduction and reuse within its sites to achieve in December 2017 and includes the establishment of a new the 2020 goal by 2022. 150 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Table 1. Ipsen EHS 2020 Performance Targets Vairation 2018 Ipsen EHS Goal 2016 Baseline 2017 2018 v. 2016 (%) Reduce medicalized accident rate FR2 to < 2.00 by 2020 Ipsen Perimeter 2 FR2 Medicalized Accidents with 2.69 1.91 1.45 -46 and without Lost Days (Frequency Rate 2 FR2) Reduce the energy consumption by 5% by 2020 Ipsen Total Energy Normalized to Occupied Area 1.33 1.11 1.16 -13 (kWh/m2) Reduce GHG Scope 1 & 2 Emissions by 5% by 2020 Ipsen GHG Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Normalized 0.270 0.225 0.219 -19 to Occupied Area (tCO2E/m2) Reduce Water Consumption by 30% by 2020 Ipsen Total Water Consumption Normalized 4.56 4.30 4.85 +6 to Occupied Area (m3/m2) Ipsen implemented an EHS management system in order to positions Ipsen to be a partner of choice for future joint ensure site compliance, the operational control of its activities ventures and partnerships. and continuous improvements of its system and performance. The People Based Safety (PBS) program, Ipsen’s flagship In 2018, Ipsen maintained and added to Group certification in project, is designed to focus on individual responsibility to conformance with ISO 14001– 2015 and OHSAS 18001– 2007 raise awareness to the fact that all accidents are preventable, Standards for Ipsen Corporate EHS five manufacturing sites and that each and every employee has an important role located in Dreux, Signes, L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, Dublin and to play in preventing them. The Group encourages open Wrexham. This Group Certification includes all manufacturing dialog and individual empowerment and challenges all of its sites with the exception of its joint venture in Cork, Ireland, employees to consider how they can perform their work in a its Consumer HealthCare facility located in Tianjin, China, safer way. This cultural change which began in 2014/2015 is its Technical Operations manufacturing site located in now well embedded in Ipsen and will continue to drive better Cambridge, MA, USA and an acquisition, Octreopharm EHS performance in future years. based in Germany. Both the Tianjin and Cork sites are also ISO 14001-2015 and OHSAS 18001-2007 certified. The By making a continual commitment to the health and safety manufacturing site in Cambridge is aiming to achieve the of employees and to the protection of the environment, and Group certification in 2021, and Octreopharm should follow by focusing on the dissemination of best practices and the suit. Ipsen’s remaining R&D sites will be certified by 2020. implementation of preventive actions, EHS is an integral In addition, integrating these various EHS elements into the component of supporting the sustainable delivery of business business allows Ipsen to ensure better product management goals and demonstrates Ipsen’s commitment to sustainable as well as better control of its production equipment. It also development and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). 2018 Ipsen Registration document 151 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY ■■4.3.2.3 United Nations Sustainability Development Goals Many of the EHS activities within Ipsen Group contribute in varying ways to the United Nations (UN) Sustainability Development Goals (SDG). The relevant logo Is shown next to the activites described in the table below. UN SDG Ipsen Environment, Health and Safety Activities in support of SDG Environment, Health and Safety and Wellbeing programs running at all sites, including manufacturing and R&D where specific Industrial Hygiene progams are implemented Reduction of medicalised accidents (including road traffic accidents) to a frequency rate below 2.00 Group OHSAS 18001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Occupation Health and Safety Management to drive down the number of accidents Training provided at all sites Staff development program On the job training EHS interns/students at the Dreux site Group OHSAS 18001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Occupation Health and Safety Management Company Social Responsibilty (CSR) policy on employment rights and discrimination Protecting rivers from pollution at all sites Waste water treatment plants at manufacturing sites Monitoring of water sensitive sites Biodiversity protection at sites with ponds, rivers Water use reduction target (30%) through water reuse project at l’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue Group ISO 14001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Environmental Management and water resource conservation 152 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY UN SDG Ipsen Environment, Health and Safety Activities in support of SDG 100% renewable energy used at six sites (Dublin, Cork, Wrexham, ISS, Milton Park, Slough) Solar panels included in design at Signes and Wrexham Energy reduction (resource reduction) project Group ISO 140001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Environmental Management and resource conservation The Signes site has achieve ISO 50001 certification. Three more sites (Dreux, Wrexham and Cork) have targeted 2020 to achieve ISO 50001 certification. Staff representation at site EHS councils Company Social Responsibility Committee with three pillars (Employees, Patients & Society, Environment) to continually improve working environment for all workers at Ipsen Group OHSAS 18001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Occupation Health and Safety Management requiring consultation with all interested parties including workers Dublin received a Great Place to Work award Shingo Bronze level prize at Wrexham Design of new facilties including offices, R&D and manufacturing with the latest innovative approaches and materials, including energy efficiency, water efficiency, organisation of people and traffic and ergonomic solutions Environment, Health and Safety programs running at all sites, including manufacturing and R&D sites, where specific waste handling, recycling and waste reduction progams are implemented Car sharing schemes in place at certain sites Bike to work scheme Group ISO 14001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Environmental Management and protection of the environment Company Social Responsibility Committee with three pillars (Employees, Patients & Society, Environment) to continually improve company sustainability in all areas Chemical safety management plans in place at all manufacturing and R&D sites Shingo Prize Bronze level awarded to Wrexham site Group ISO 14001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Environmental Management and waste reduction programs at sites Sustainable metrics for Ipsen Group reported annually to various indices (DJSI, FTSE4Good, GAIA, CDP, etc) Group ISO 14001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Environmental Management and consideration of Climate Change impacts and prevention Reduction in normalized greenhouse gas emissions target achieved and further targets to be established in 2019. Group ISO 14001 certification in place, requiring continual improvement in Environmental Management and waste reduction programs at sites Water treatment plants at manufacturing sites Supplier management program including sustainability assessments of selected critical suppliers Carbon offsetting through tree planting programs Biodiversity projects run at sites, including beekeeping, wetland and river protection projects 2018 Ipsen Registration document 153 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY UN SDG Ipsen Environment, Health and Safety Activities in support of SDG Company Social Responsibility Committee with three pillars (Employees, Patients & Society, Environment) to continually improve company sustainability in all areas Ethics and Compliance Policy and Standards in place Ipsen works with several external partners, including EFPIA, regulatory and industry bodies and local stakeholders to share best practices, and influence. 4.3.3 EHS 2018 Performance ■■4.3.3.1 Compliance and External Recognition In 2018 Ipsen did not receive any notices of violation regarding In this highly regulated environment, one of Ipsen’s primary EHS compliance with its R&D or manufacturing operations. concerns is regulatory compliance. Corporate EHS has Legal and regulatory intelligence established global Ipsen EHS Standards regarding Environment, Health and Safety (EHS). These standards Legal and regulatory intelligence in the areas of environment are reviewed on a three-year basis in order to ensure that and health and safety has been put into place at each Ipsen they are up to date with current practices as well as still site (R&D and manufacturing). This allows each site to keep relevant to our operations. Each site ensures compliance to track and update its EHS systems as applicable regulatory applicable legal requirements and internal EHS Standards. developments occur. This is also being established for the Compliance is checked on a three-year basis for Ipsen’s R&D commercial office affiliates as part of the implementation of and manufacturing facilities and on a five-year basis for its their EHS Office Manual programs. commercial office locations. Regulatory compliance assessment and other The Ipsen EHS Standards defining the management systems requirements for Ipsen are aligned with the occupational health-safety All sites operated by Ipsen have all the environment, health and standard OHSAS 18001-2007 and the environmental safety permits and licenses required for their operations and standard ISO 14001-2015. comply with these licenses and applicable EHS regulations. These EHS Standards apply to all R&D and manufacturing As par t of Ipsen’s EHS policy, each site per forms a operations within Ipsen. A separate commercial office EHS compliance evaluation periodically with regards to regulatory manual, released in 2016, details the EHS requirements to be requirements and other requirements such as applicable followed by commercial office locations. This new manual, global EHS standards. already being implemented by Ipsen’s eight largest affiliate offices (France, UK, Russia, China, Germany, Italy, Spain, To assess compliance with applicable requirements and and the USA) will be implemented at the other affiliate offices global EHS standards, internal audits are performed on all in 2019. A third set of EHS Standards was developed for the the Ipsen sites. EHS is involved and conducts audits related joint venture plantations which deals with EHS issues related to business acquisitions, divestitures, partnerships, joint to industrial agricultural operations (Ginkgo biloba plantations ventures, supply chain partners, and contracted services located in France and the USA). This manual is finalized and including third-party research and manufacturing operations. being implemented by these agricultural operations. Certifications The sites of Ipsen have moved forward with the implementation Ipsen achieved Group certification regarding the ISO 14001of these global standards through action plans and have 2015 and OHSAS 18001-2007 standards for Corporate EHS. reached a high level of compliance. This process continues to In 2018, the three French R&D and manufacturing siteswith improve and was tested during 2018 through an internal audit an Ipsen Group certification were joined by the additional process administered by Ipsen’s Global Internal Audit function manufacturing operations located in Dublin, Ireland and which is independent of the EHS function. Wrexham, UK. Ipsen’s three R&D sites will join the Ipsen Several sites such as l’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, France have received certification in 2020/21 and are working toward having their positive compliance points for their excellent EHS programs. sites prepared to comply with the two standards over the 154 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY period. Ipsen plans to transition from OHSAS 18001-2007 to one of which was EHS data related to medicalized accident ISO 45001 2018 during 2019. frequency. In addition to the Group certification, two other manufacturing Road Safety sites are ISO 14001-2015 and OHSAS 18001-2007 certified A road safety policy was implemented by Ipsen in 2015, in individually: Cork, Ireland and Tianjin, China. These order to improve driving safety and to hold drivers accountable certifications are subject to annual surveillance audits and are for safe driving to reduce the risk of accidents. A review of the renewed every 3 years. These individual certifications will be Insurance data before and after Implementation of the policy maintained by Cork (joint venture) and Tianjin (unique Chinese led to a decision to amend the policy further. The impacts of requirements), therefore these two sites will stay outside the the new policy will be assessed with the subsequent yearly Ipsen Group certification for the time being. insurance data. Several sites are pursuing ISO 50001 (Energy Standard) over In 2018, the deployment of an action plan aimed at reducing the next three years with the site in Signes France obtaining the frequency and the severity of accidents continued on this certification in 2018. the global perimeter with an emphasis on the major office External Recognition locations. Road safety communication is regularly done through employee representatives. The number of driving The Wrexham, Milton Park and Slough sites in the UK have accidents has been reduced over the past three years. all received recognition from local authorities regarding In 2019 the program will be extended to additional office occupational health and safety. The Royal Society for the locations across Ipsen. Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) has presented Milton Park and Slough sites with awards for the prevention of accidents. Industrial Hygiene The Wrexham site has been awarded by RoSPA multiple times over the past ten years. Milton Park has received The risks related to the use of hazardous materials have led this award three times and Slough has received this award Ipsen to create a policy and associated standards to prevent twice. Notably, the Wrexham site has achieved a Bronze accidents and protect employee health and safety. Certification for Shingo during 2018. The Signes, France site Ipsen continued its industrial hygiene program which focuses received two awards in recognition for its CSR work at the on hazardous chemical exposure risk control management highest level. and improvement. ■■4.3.3.2 A  ssuring the health and safety Ipsen’s industrial hygiene strategy results in the provision of employees of updated safety data sheets for proprietary products in accordance with the requirements of the Characterization, Reduce accidents Labelling and Packaging (CLP) regulation and the Globally The number of medicalized accidents and the associated Harmonized System (GHS), incorporating any new information frequency rates (FR1 and FR2) have decreased in 2018 that has an impact on the classification. In addition, Ipsen has versus 2017. The implementation of a “People Based continued its work on the risk profiling of Ipsen’s products Safety” approach resulting in S3 Code of Conduct visits and regarding environment, health and safety, in order to managerial safety visits on all R&D and manufacturing sites implement recommendations for product handling and for the has caused this reduction alongside a specific focus to reduce selection of associated protective equipment. The industrial accidents on all sites. Senior management has particularly hygiene issues concerning the Ipsen compounds and emphasized the improvement of these indicators and on commercial products are integrated in the site master plans. the implementation of actions such as on-site safety visits/ Significant investment has been undertaken to decrease the inspections, encouraging reporting of unsafe conditions and level of exposure control through engineering controls and to behaviors, and the reporting and sharing of good practices, reduce the dependence on personal protective equipment incidents and near misses. at the sites which use substances identified as hazardous to health and safety. This has been accomplished by addressing Medicalized accidents related to slips, trips and falls in 2018 the risks at their source and ensuring the most effective and represent the most frequent medicalized accidents category reliable engineering controls for these types of processes are within the Group as in previous years. A campaign to reduce installed and correctly operated. The multi-year investment this type of medicalized accident was deployed by the program with regard to the implementation of the industrial organization. This has resulted in a significant decrease in the hygiene program continued at affected sites in 2018. All frequency of this category of medicalized accident in 2018. new processes are risk-assessed and the same balanced approach to health and safety protection are included in Beyond the risk assessments performed regarding all design and operational methods for these new processes. work stations at the sites, potential accident scenarios and identified hazardous situations and conditions are captured Well Being and Work Life Balance with associated corrective and preventive actions developed and assigned. Prevention of the psychosocial risks (RPS) is integrated in a global approach to preserving occupational health and quality In addition, in 2018, Ipsen continued its project of profitof life. The RPS covers occupational hazards that can impact sharing for its French employees based on various criteria, employee health. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 155 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY The French framework agreement regarding the prevention concerning the transportation of hazardous materials (ADR, of the RPS released in December 2010 constituted a first IATA, RID...). step for the implementation of a health plan. This agreement defines a general framework and relies on three significant All environmental incidents are recorded in the EHS themes: identification of the psychosocial risks, prevention management system tools. The most significant incidents of the risk factors in the workplace, and accompaniment of are systematically reported to the appropriate regulatory employees. With this agreement, Ipsen wishes to continue authorities, if applicable, and to Corporate EHS. In 2018, the actions already engaged by the French sites and set up a breaches of waste water discharge licenses or permits were common approach to RPS prevention globally. For example, reported by the sites located at Dublin, Ireland, Signes, in China, a major initiative was implemented to reduce France and Cork, Ireland. These breaches were dealt with absenteeism through well being actions such as encouraging quickly by determining the root causes and implementing proper diet, exercise and work life balance. The impact was corrective actions in a thorough and rapid manner. a significant improvement. This approach has been modeled Besides, in accordance with the “Real Estate Compliance” for implementation at other Ipsen locations. Various programs global standard, environment, health and safety audits of implemented at Ipsen sites have included awareness days compliance are conducted. A subsurface investigation began covering a variety of topics such as stress, diet and exercise. in 2012 in Barcelona, Spain, after the closure of the Ipsen site in 2011, showed soil and subsoil pollution. In accordance In 2014, Ipsen initiated an evaluation process of the Quality with Ipsen’s internal obligations and the local Authority’s of Life at Work on the entire French perimeter and more requirements, a remediation plan was developed, submitted than 62% of subjects responded to the survey. This study and approved by local authorities. The plan has been executed allowed development and implementation of preventive and with continuing monitoring in progress. The authorities have corrective action plans. These were defined for each division been satisfied with the remedial investigations and activities and site in order to be most suited to the results and the local aimed at removing the contamination from this site. Rounds context. Thus, results and action plans in 2015 were reported of soil and ground water oxidation treatment were conducted for each entity and their implementation was monitored and and have met Ipsen’s and the Authority’s expectations. confirmed. All manufacturing sites implemented various Monitoring post treatment to ensure the effectiveness of the programs to improve the quality of life and to ensure that treatment over the long term will continue for the next few Ipsen sites are great places to work. Several locations have years. achieved Great Place to Work status. A follow up S3 Culture Survey is planned for the first quarter of 2019. In terms of land use, Ipsen sites have not shown any demonstrated adverse impacts. Ipsen is involved in In 2017, the results of a global staff engagement survey were agricultural activities with plantations growing Ginkgo biloba released internaly and action plans drawn up for each site in trees. The plantations are located in France and the US. There 2018 for implementation. have been no adverse impacts with these plantation sites. The plantation site in South Carolina continues to experiment Strenuous labor conditions with organic ways to control weed growth between the rows In France, under Law No. 2010-1330 of 9 November 2010 of gingko trees, improve the local biodiversity, and reduce regarding pension reform and associated regulation, a water use with new, remote-controlled irrigation systems. The prevention approach on strenuous work was initiated in plantation sites in France and US communicate to share their 2011 and led to the realization of a preliminary diagnosis best practice and learn from each other. of strenuous labor conditions. There were prescribed risk factors to consider under these regulatory requirements. Noise pollution These risk factors have been addressed in the French sites No significant noise issues were reported regarding Ipsen with resulting good practices spread to our global sites. facilities that caused nuisance to neighbors with the exception of the Ipsen site located at L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue where some ■■4.3.3.3 Reduce the environmental footprint areas were identified as minor nuisances based on the low noise levels in the surrounding neighborhood. An awareness Soil, Subsoil & Pollution Prevention campaign in the neighborhood, including an invitation to As stated in Ipsen’s EHS policy, Ipsen is committed to limiting meet with the site’s management, have been conducted in its EHS impact on people and on the environment. Therefore, 2014 and 2016. Future plans are shared with the neighbors in order to prevent any accidental pollution and to protect and their issues are also captured and addressed. This has the environment Ipsen requires that each site prevent spills been and will continue to be a very effective program. Noise and releases of hazardous materials that could contaminate reduction opportunities emanating from the plant have been soil and/or ground water. Specific procedures are in place to addressed and the noise levels meet the regulatory levels prevent and treat incidents of accidental pollution on Ipsen’s required. industrial sites. Impact of Ipsen activities on climate change Products and materials that could cause accidental pollution Ipsen recognizes the impact of climate change on the planet are stored in appropriately controlled areas. Their handling and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Ipsen will and disposal follow specific procedures and guidelines. The investigate the possibility of setting Science Based Targets in sites also follow the rules set by the different regulations 2019 to do its part in the fight against climate change. Ipsen’s 156 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY approach to carbon reduction includes identifying sources risks. All these risks can impact operations, costs and ability of carbon emissions throughout the organization, quantify to compete in the biotech business sector. or estimate the amount of these emissions, and finally to target opportunities to reduce these emissions. Ipsen has Ipsen has started to define internal targets that will be conducted this approach for several years and continues to submitted for evaluation in 2019 as Science-Based Targets implement methods to identify, quantify and reduce carbon (SBT) and these will be its set targets and goals through 2030. emissions. Ipsen has defined a path given that all projects are successful, and that green power and gas can be obtained through A focus for Ipsen has been the scope 1 and 2 carbon utility providers. Other factors include onsite solar and wind emissions as these are directly controlled by Ipsen. Ipsen’s energy projects (two solar projects are underway in design activities are guided by the 10 voluntary commitments of and implementation at our Signes, France and Wrexham, LEEM (agreement with the MTES – Ministry of the Ecological UK sites, electric vehicle charging stations are in place at our and Solidary Transition). Ipsen has implemented energy Dublin, Ireland site and planned for our Signes, France site) conservation programs at its manufacturing and R&D facilities as well as third-party offset projects whereby Ipsen invests in to reduce these emissions even with significant growth at the green energy and reforstation projects through carbon offsets company. The work done so far has been effective and Ipsen which are being used for offsetting travel carbon emissions continues to pursue these opportunities. for the Milton Park, UK R&D site. We calculate that the SBT could allow Ipsen to become carbon neutral before 2030. Ipsen has also broadened its collection of internal data Ipsen will propose these SBT through the UNGC process to including from affiliate global commercial offices as well as determine their acceptability in 2019. These Ipsen targets will determining scope 3 emissions. Ipsen is studying ways to be implemented regardless of this outcome. reduce emissions associated with sources of carbon such as vehicle fleets, supply chain opportunities, distribution Ipsen has also set a price on carbon emissions based on the opportunities, and employee travel opportunities. cost of the carbon related travel carbon emissions described above. The current price is €45 per tonne of carbon dioxideScope 3 emissions account for almost three-quarters of equivalent emissions. This price falls within the price range total annual emissions. The main challenges lie mainly in the proposed by most experts in this area of €35 per tonne of carbon associated with components, including packaging, carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions to €80 per tonne of business travel (notably by plane) and freight transport. To carbon-equivalent emissions. Ipsen will study this estimate date, Ipsen has identified these scope 3 emission sources and refine this number over the next couple of years as more as the most critical to measure and manage. The Group companies develop a price for carbon emissions. has also looked at additional scope 3 emission sources and confirmed that it has targeted the most appropriate sources Other air emissions to measure and manage. Scope 3 emission categories Ipsen monitors other substances which could be discharged that are either not applicable or not significant to Ipsen are into the atmosphere through its activities. Volatile organic investments, franchises, upstream leased assets, processing compounds (VOCs) and controlled substances identified of sold products, use of sold products, and down stream as sources causing depletion of the ozone layer under the leased assets. These categories of scope 3 emissions are Montreal Protocol are monitored. Emissions of VOC to the not considered in Ipsen’s overall scope 3 emissions. In 2018, atmosphere for 2018 were mainly related to the sites of Upstream transportation and distribution was to be included Signes, France and Cork, Ireland (approximately 84% of in 2018 however Ipsen is still collecting site specific data and the Ipsen global emissions). The VOC emission increase is is unable to include this scope 3 emission source nor is it able due primarily to the Cork site which converted a lead-based to determine if this is significant or not. This category will be precipitation process to a solvent extraction process. This included in the 2019 document. has caused an increase in the VOC emissions generated. Emissions from the Dublin, Ireland site are routed through a To a lesser extent, Ipsen also plans to work on lower-carbon newly installed cryogenic air emission control system. These work such as working from home or waste management. The emissions are converted back into fluid waste and sent offsite complexity of the estimates requires rigorous methodological for incineration and waste heat recovery. Emissions from analysis which began in 2016 and has continued through the research and development centers do not contribute 2018. This is necessary to be able to implement control significantly to these emissions. actions based on reliable data. Ipsen collects air emission data related to boiler emissions In 2018, Ipsen identified Its climate change risks such as from fuel combustion. These fuels consist of natural gas and changes in regulatory requirements affecting Ipsen operations diesel oil. The emissions measured include sulfur oxides and and those of our supply chain, uncertainty of physical risks nitrogen oxides. such as flooding and other natural disasters which impact our operations and our supply chain, carbon taxation, Energy consumption mandatory trading programs, mandatory energy efficiency Energy consumption at Ipsen increased by more than 5% standards, mandatory emission limits, and product and between 2018 and 2017 in absolute terms. Significant energy process standards. Other risks include energy shortages, conservation projects at the majority of Ipsen’s sites occurred resource scarcity, price changes prompted by scarcity, in 2018 with more projects planned for future years. These consumer changes in attitude and demand, and reputation projects are varied including awareness campaigns across 2018 Ipsen Registration document 157 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY sites to equipment upgrades and efficiency improvements CAPEX expansion program at the site. Ipsen is looking at at existing facilities. Submonitoring and metering are greatly more opportunities to improve the use of renewable energy. improving the ability to manage energy consumption. New The sites of Dreux, France, Dublin, Ireland, and Cambridge, design projects have energy efficiency included as part of the USA have installed ten charging stations for electric cars. design criteria and these new facilities are starting up much This number will increase to 24 charging stations in 2019 at more energy efficient than existing facilities. Ipsen also had an additional sites located at Signes, France, Milton Park, UK, increase of approximately 20% in area at its facilities during and Slough, UK. The Signes site plans to power the eight this same period and that continues to grow as the business charging stations with solar energy from parking structure continues to expand. solar energy system. The sites of Cork, Dreux, Signes and Wrexham represent Waste Management 59% of Ipsen’s energy consumption. Growth in production across Ipsen has not resulted in The split between energy sources (electricity, gas and fuel) increased waste generation. With more than 20% growth has been maintained at the same level as previous years in the production of major products as well as expansion of and remains close to 46% electricity and 54% gas and fuel. manufacturing site footprints with new buildings, additional The fuel oil consumption remained relatively small when production shifts and additional production capacity again has compared to natural gas consumption. In 2018, purchased not resulted in a concomitant increase in waste generation. steam source was used by the Cambridge, US R&D site. The ratio of hazardous waste to total waste generated has Purchased steam, hot water, chilled water, and cold water increased in recent years. The increasing trend is driven have been consumed by the Ipsen Cambridge Manufacturing by product demand, increased production capacity, and US site and the Boulogne Headquarters as well. increases in building projects. At L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, the effort to reclassify waste to non-hazardous by product has led The number of energy conservation projects implemented in to the recycling of tonnes of material. 2018 exceeded 42, whereas the target for 2018 was a total of 18 energy conservation projects. These projects included Ipsen’s waste treatment mix has remained relatively constant upgrades of equipment such as boilers, chillers, HVAC over the period. The proportion of recycled waste remains systems, compressed air systems and lighting. Building and dominant, at 61% compared to incineration and landfilling. It system control systems were installed and upgraded. Existing should be noted that the largest producers of waste, the sites systems and facility areas were evaluated for opportunities of Cork, Signes, Wrexham and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, recycle for improving efficiency of the systems and facility areas. their waste at rates of 78%, 41%, 41% and 96%, respectively. A great example was the analysis of a warehouse storage Finally, sites continue to implement waste optimization area that was also temperature controlled. It was determined programs by searching for new technologies and methods to that the majority of the materials did not require temperature decrease the amount of waste generated and to increase the control, such that a separate smaller facility was built to house amount of waste that is recycled. the items requiring temperature control. The temperature control systems for the main warehouse storage not requiring Food Waste temperature control were deactivated. New buildings and area Ipsen does not create a large amount of food waste at upgrades are evaluated for energy efficiency opportunities its facilities. Food waste is managed through local waste while in design. These are evaluated post installation to management ser vices. This area is not considered a ensure that energy efficiencies planned are achieved. Building significant waste stream for Ipsen. management systems are also installed to control various energy-consuming systems. Use of remote sensing devices Water Consumption and real time monitoring of systems and subsystems were Ipsen’s water consumption totaled 602,620 m 3 in 2018 also installed with more opportunities planned. Solar power compared to 529,281 m 3 in 2017, an increase of 13.9%. systems are planned for two sites over the next two years as The water consumption increased by 28.3% in 2018 versus part of the larger building projects. 2016, implying a failure to meet the water reduction goal in absolute terms. In normalized terms, the water consumption Electrical energy providers were contracted to provide per area increased by 6.4% in 2018 versus 2016. Most of renewable energy to several Ipsen sites in 2018. The sites this increase came from L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, France and of Wrexham, UK, Dublin, Ireland, Cork, Ireland, L’Isle-sur-laWrexham, UK. Ipsen has not yet achieved the water reduction Sorgue, France, Milton Park, UK, and Slough, UK used 100% goal on a normalized basis but it expects to reach the water renewable electricity in 2018. Other sites are increasing their consumption normalized to area and revenue and absolute electricity supplied by renewable power such as Signes, reduction goal by 2022. France, Dreux, France, Les Ulis, France which are currently using 6% renewable energy at their sites with plans to The Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, France site consumed 68% of the increase this to 100% over the next two years. In addition, Ipsen total 2018 water consumption. Of this, 99.74% was the Cambridge, USA site is sourcing steam supply from a sourced from well water. This site’s water consumption has district heating loop available to the site thus eliminating increased by 18.15% in 2018 compared to 2017. This was onsite steam producing systems. In Signes plans for Solar primaily due to a change in Chinese regulation that led to an electricity generation were approved as part of a larger increase in water use during the production process at L’Isle158 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY sur-la-Sorgue, France. Water conservation and recycling product manufacturing. The Group has become part of the projects have been implemented. The L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue American Chemical Society Green Chemistry Initiative and is site will conduct further studies and pilot projects in 2019 with participating in efforts to find alternatives to various chemicals successful projects to be implemented from 2020 through used in its processes. 2022. The well water consumption is expected to reduce Stakeholders Relations by 30% in absolute terms in 2022 once these projects are implemented. Ipsen is concerned about the potential impact of its activities on the areas surrounding its sites. Also, as part of its Group The Wrexham, UK site’s water use increased by 25%, most certification, overall EHS policy and in the context of its of which was from a leak in a water pipe. In 2019 Ipsen will implementation at the sites Interested Parties and their needs assess how to prevent such water leaks on all sites, for have been identified. Based on these inputs, meetings were implementation in 2020. held and partnership activities were organized. A new measure for 2018 is the quantity of water used by As in previous years, Ipsen conducted communication the joint-venture plantations that produce gingko leaves campaigns at the sites of Cork and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue. In for extraction. There are three sites: two in France and one Cork, the site participated in communication activities and in USA and the total water used for gingko production is support for resident associations as well as other companies 1,457,539 which is more than double the quantity of water in the local area. In L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, a meeting on site used at all manufacturing and R&D sites. with members of the neighborhood allowed the sharing of site activities and identification of EHS prevention measures Water treatment associated with the operations of the site. Ipsen has five sites with on-site wastewater treatment plants that treat all or part of liquid waste. Those are the sites of Cork, Biodiversity: biological equilibrium, natural habitats and Ireland, L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, France, Signes, France, Dublin, protected species Ireland, and Tianjin, China. The volume of wastewater treated Ipsen’s policy is to provide a safe workplace that protects the represents a 3.16% increase in wastewater being treated in environment and does not harm the health of its employees 2018 versus 2017. The Ipsen Cambridge Manufacturing US or that of neighboring communities. The preservation of the site will have a waste water treatement site operating in 2019. ecological equilibrium, the conservation of natural habitats and the protection of protected species are monitored closely. Green Chemistry or Solvent Usage Optimization The measures taken to curb negative externalities on biological Ipsen continued initiatives to develop and implement ideas equilibrium, natural habitats and protected plant and animal that could lead to the use of more environmentally friendly species are integrated into Ipsen’s general environmental products. Examples of solvent usage reduction or reuse protection program. Initiatives implemented at Ipsen site projects include: located at Signes, France and started in 2013 followed its • At the Cork, Ireland site, manufacturing processed 95% of collaboration with the GEPS (Groupement d’Entreprises du the solvent used through regeneration; Plateau de Signes) regarding the draft “APIVIGILANCE”. It is a system of environmental biomonitoring using bees as markers • At the Signes, France site, 62% of the solvents used are of environmental quality: the health of the bee population recycled. 100% of 91 tonnes of heptane are regenerated extends to the health of the immediate environment. The and reused as raw material on the Signes, France site. observations of the activity in and around the bee hives, Ipsen has committed to implementing EHS considerations behavior of the bees and analysis of samples obtained from into the overall new product development process. These the local environment allow the monitoring of the health requirements include considering alternative materials for of the hives and bee populations. These analyses provide formulations, process aids including solvents, and packaging. a trend of the air quality in the vicinity of the site and links These EHS considerations were implemented in 2018 with the solvents used predominantly by companies in the becoming part of the ongoing product development process. business park. The results of sampling demonstrate the best biodiversity and preservation of the biodiversity of the natural The effort to find substitutes for the use of solvents in environment of twenty French areas under APIVIGILANCE. peptide manufacturing continued in 2018. Several promising Bee populations are also used to monitor the environmental candidate solvent alternatives were tested with disappointing conditions at the Ipsen sites located in Les Ulis and Dreux. results. These efforts continue, new alternatives are being At the Cork facility, awareness campaigns to promote land tested in various processes. Our peptide alternative solvent conservation were conducted. Additionally, a maintenance development organization, based in Dublin, is responsible program of green areas has been implemented for the for the development of these alternatives. The Group is preservation of flower bedsand the regular planting of trees. also improving its processes by reducing the quantity of At Dreux, the site collaborated on a fish counting operation in solvent required to produce the active ingredients required for the river called “Les Châtelets”. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 159 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Table 2. Ipsen Sustainability Performance Sustainability Area 2015 2016 2017 2018 Safety and Health Management Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Severity Rate 0.022 0.034 0.025 0.000 Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Medicalized Accidents 2.12 2.03 0.97 0.00 with Lost Days (Frequency Rate 1 FR1) Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D Medicalized Accidents 4.59 2.03 0.97 0.88 with and without Lost Days (Frequency Rate 2 FR2) Ipsen Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days 1.71 2.56 1.43 0.83 (Frequency Rate 1 FR1) Ipsen Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost Days 2.90 2.69 1.91 1.45 (Frequency Rate 2 FR2) Ipsen First Aids 83 68 88 74 Ipsen Near Misses 240 189 125 200 Ipsen Occupational Illness 1 2 1 0 Contractor Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Contractor Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days 5 4 4 0 Contractor Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost 5 (*) 5 (*) 29 1 Days Contractor First Aids 6 10 12 7 Waste Management Total Waste (tons) 9,756 13,161 11,133 11,798 Hazardous Waste (tons) 2,643 3,324 3,859 3,989 Non-Hazardous Waste (tons) 7,113 9,837 7,274 7,809 Recycled Materials (tons) 6,566 9,668 6,794 7,102 Recycling Rate (%) 67.3 73.47 61 60 Energy Management Electrical Energy (kWh) 62,681,362 62,850,159 64,506,903 65,728,880 Renewable including Green Power (% of total energy) 3.47 2.78 13.99 36 Other Energy (kWh) 2,025,267 2,047,287 1,139, 474 1,044,365 Fuel Derived Energy (kWh HCV) 70,095,054 71,551,005 70,971,741 76,800,692 Total Energy (kWh) Ipsen 134,801,683 136,448,451 136,618,119 143,573,937 Manufacturing and R&D Energy (kWh) 126,222,078 129,806,050 133,279,393 135,108,978 Affiliate Commercial Office Energy (kWh) 8,579,605 5,290,950 3,338,726 8,464,959 Vehicle Fleet Efficiency (km/l) Not Collected 12 15 12 Vehicle Fleet Energy (kWh) Not Collected 15,154,999 16,115,684 25,858,230 Carbon Management Carbon Scope 1 Total Emissions (tCO2E) 13,024 13,239 14,180 14,750 Carbon Scope 2 Total Emissions (tCO2E) Location-based 15,399 14,589 13,530 12,450 methodology Carbon Scope 2 Total Emissions (tCO2E) Market-based Not Collected Not Collected 4,750 3,470 methodology Carbon Scope 3 Total Emissions (tCO2E) Not Collected 67,795 75,612 94,200 160 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainability Area 2015 2016 2017 2018 Carbon Scope 3 Fuel and Energy-related Activities (tCO2E) Not Collected 4,230 3,853 5,288 Carbon Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services (tCO2E) Not Collected 42,295 30,660 32,360 Carbon Scope 3 Capital Goods (tCO2E) Not Collected 539 2,193 3,001 Carbon Scope 3 Upstream Transportation and Distribution Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected (tCO2E) Carbon Scope 3 Waste Generated in Operations (tCO2E) Not Collected 2,351 3,058 4,795 Carbon Scope 3 Upstream Leased Assets (tCO2E) Not Collected 10,646 3,478 7,180 Carbon Scope 3 Business Travel (tCO2E) Not Collected 3,371 12,000 17,914 Carbon Scope 3 Downstream Transportation and Not Collected Not Collected 6,956 10,515 Distribution (tCO2E) Carbon Scope 3 Processing of sold products (tCO2E) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Carbon Scope 3 End of life Treatment of sold products Not Collected 605 10,311 10,088 (tCO2E) Carbon Scope 3 Employee Commuting (tCO2E) Not Collected 3,755 3,103 3,023 Water Management Total Water Consumption (m3 ) 485,554 469,579 (**) 529,281 602,620 Supply from Well Water and Surface Water Origin (%) 66 66 66 69 Total Water Recycled (m ) 3 Not Collected Not Collected 14,600 22,400 Hazardous Materials Management Solvent Consumption (tons) 19,182 21,494 23,317 21,941 Reclaimed Solvents (tons) 17,852 20,042 21,819 20,425 Refrigerant Gas Losses (tons) 1.07 0.49 0.41 0.45 Compliance Management Notices of Violation Received 0 2 0 0 Fines and Penalties Paid (e) 0 0 0 0 Air Emissions Management VOC Emissions (tons) 10.2 9.55 4.18 11.65 NOx Emissions (tNO2) Not Collected Not Collected 1.88 2.22 SOx Emissions (tSO2) Not Collected Not Collected 0.68 0.19 Waste Water Management Waste Water Treated (m3 ) 363,362 359,493 416,916 430,109 COD Loading (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 196 619 BOD Loading (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 80 151 Total Suspended Solids (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 160 295 Sales (eM) 1,444 1,585 1,909 2,224 Total Facility Area (m2 ) 101,649 102,966 123,220 124,236 Headcount (number) with joint venture 4,635 4,907 5,401 5,774 Headcount (number) without joint venture 5,345 5,670 EHS Investments (eK) 4,926 7,521 11,631 7,740 2018 Ipsen Registration document 161 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY ■■4.3.3.4 EHS Culture In addition to the solvent reduction and recycling projects Integrating EHS into Business at Cork, there is an ongoing project to reduce the use of a chemical consisting of lead which is used to precipitate the EHS has been integrated into several aspects of the business active ingredient from the Ginkgo biloba leaves. If successful, including product development management, manufacturing this material will be removed from the process and result in a management, purchasing and supply partner management, significant reduction in hazardous waste as well as hazardous internal audit management, risk management, corporate material use. social responsibility, customer management, business development, human resources management, investor Finally, as explained in the Green Chemistry section above, management and regulatory management. An area that we Ipsen launched an innovative syringe technology Somatuline® are exploring is integration in the marketing and sales part Depot Injection for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors to of the business with opportunities to promote superior EHS reduce medical waste and prevent needle stick injuries. Ipsen performance and EHS-positively impacted product attributes. won the California Product Stewardship Council’s 2015 Green Arrow Award for System & Design Innovation for this industryEco-design changing product. The impact of this new delivery system The development of approaches to eco-design is part of the avoided 67 tons (US) of CO2 emissions, reduced 53 tons (US) Ipsen’s EHS strategic plan. Ipsen sites carried out major ecoof solvents and saved more than 3 tons (US) of packaging design projects. in both 2016 and 2017. Design opportunities continue to be investigated for future product and packaging configurations. At Tianjin, the redesign of the outer packaging for Smecta was completed. This involved two projects: 1) to shorten Training satchel length by 10 mm and 2) to reduce the thickness of As a major part of the Ipsen EHS program, awareness the packaging from 9 µm to 7 µm. These two projects have campaigns and training regarding environment, health and resulted in the reduction of consumption of natural resources safety topics continued in 2018. Each site defined its training which is expected by the Chinese authorities. This has also program as a function of its own risks and impacts. All reduced the amount of waste generated. employees are trained for the inherent risks and associated At Tianjin, a redesign of the warehousing arrangements led to environmental impact of their workstation. Employees develop a reduction of the area required to be temperature controlled, a professional and responsible attitude in going about their for the storage of temperature sensitive materials, which daily work. resulted in energy savings. In 2017, corporate EHS developed an induction course which At Dreux, an eco-design project around packaging was describes the basic EHS philosophy, policy, approaches, implemented in 2010 through a training of all the concerned expectations, governance, EHS team member contacts and parties of the site and a 2-day diagnosis performed by an performance. This course was made part of the Ipsen Learning external consultant. The training and the diagnosis report Platform required courses for new employees worldwide. Sites had raised awareness on different sectors. The action plan are also using this course to improve EHS communications resulting from this audit has been implemented in 2011 with with existing employees. In 2018, a People Based Safety the purchase of software for the modeling of packaging. In course was added to the EHS learning platform. This interactive 2012, a complementary diagnostic for packaging optimization training module takes individuals through examples where risks of raw materials has been achieved. At Dreux, actions are can be identified, and the correct choices made. conducted to reduce the impact of the product on the General training on EHS awareness for newcomers, as well environment like decreasing from 9 µm to 7 µm the thickness as training on fire prevention, evacuation tests, protective of sachet used in Smecta® and Forlax® both in Dreux. Today, equipment, and first aid, was performed by all Ipsen sites. 85% of Smecta® and Forlax® production at Dreux is 7 µm. Another project for the reduction in the size of the sachets of More specific training related to Ipsen required approaches Smecta® and Forlax® is ongoing at Dreux. Forlax®, made at and applicable workplace practices, such as training courses Dreux and dedicated to the French market, now has smaller confined space management, explosive atmospheres sachets. management, and manager safety visit training, were deployed. In parallel, actions for reducing or recycling solvents (detailed in the Green Chemistry paragraph) are developed on the Well-being at work was emphasized especially regarding Cork, Signes and Dublin sites. absenteeism, stress management and work life balance. 4.3.4 Internal resources ■■4.3.4.1 Internal management resources management of EHS and the application of Corporate EHS for EHS issues standards and guidelines. As such, through actions and behavior everyone contributes to the success of the EHS Ipsen’s EHS policy and strategy are applied at each site/ policy. division by the site managing directors. Senior management as well as site employees are heavily involved in the daily 162 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY In addition, to reinforce its policy of prevention, the Ipsen EHS ■■4.3.4.2 Spending on the prevention of EHS Team which comprises one or more representatives from impacts and on regulatory compliance each manufacturing site, R&D center, commercial affiliate Since environment, health and safety protection are constant and Corporate, meets regularly to share experiences, to set priorities. Ipsen makes regular capital expense and operating strategy and to reflect on best practices for managing EHS. In expense investments in these areas. In 2018, with the 2016, the Ipsen EHS Team created an EHS strategy for 2017 implementation of master plans on the sites, which includes through 2020. This strategy led to the creation of specific the setting of new improvements for EHS protection, the projects and charters to manage the areas of global EHS amount of investment in EHS projects and operations totaled data management system, Group certification to ISO 14001– just over €7.7 million. 2015 and OHSAS 18001–2007 Standards, EHS in product development process including Green Chemistry, REACH Ipsen’s key EHS investments are summarized below: management, Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PIE) management, People-Based Safety (PBS) S3 improvement • Air emission and wastewater discharge control systems; management, and resource conservation (focused on energy • Energy and water efficiency improvement projects; and water conservation and reduction of carbon emissions). These projects have integrated teams with EHS and other • Proje cts to improve the se gre gation bet we e n groups across Ipsen participating and leading various tasks. manufacturing / laboratory/ offices areas; Every year since, these projects and their charters were • Projects to improve equipment in order to reduce the risk of updated and new tasks added to the multiyear projects. falling form height and to enhance machine guarding; In 2018 a fresh strategy was developed by the Global EHS team, leading up to 2021, and including broad topics of • Improvements in ergonomics and manual handling PBS, Environment, Systems, Performance and People & workstations; Competencies. The activities within each topic will deliver end • Improvement of fire protection systems. statements that support the ambition to be ‘Best in Class’. Funding and human resources are made available to ensure There have also been major expansions and additions of new the successful outcomes on each of these projects. buildings at Ipsen R&D and Manufacturing sites in 2018, all of which involve EHS investments in various systems. EHS management at each site is coordinated by an EHS manager under the authority of the site director. A total of 33 ■■4.3.4.3 P  rovisions and guarantees for EHS, people make up Ipsen’s EHS organization. They report to the Corporate Environment, Health and Safety function (2 people) compensation and remediation and to their site managing directors. Corporate EHS reports Regular surveys on environmental risks, work-related health to Technical Operations but has global authority across the and safety risks and the implementation of proactive policies Ipsen organization for EHS matters. for mitigation of these risks, enable Ipsen to limit its exposure and liability or, more generally, to remediate in a rapid and The Committees of Health, Safety and Work Conditions in managed manner to the environmental damage caused by France, or in other countries with production sites, meet its operations. Due to this approach, Ipsen does not carry regularly and are involved in monitoring activities and projects environmental provisions for remedial activities. concerning the health and safety of employees. In addition, since 2004, no ruling or compensation payments related to environmental damages caused by any of Ipsen’s R&D or manufacturing facilities were brought to Ipsen’s attention. 4.3.5 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication Since 2012, Ipsen has committed to and adheres to the follow our research and development into new specialty areas Global Compact program of the United Nations. where unmet needs are significant. Ipsen is a leading global biotech company focusing on specialty care and innovation. Ipsen also has a significant In partnership with the medical community, we bring scientific presence in consumer healthcare. Ipsen’s R&D is focused excellence and rigor to deliver leading products that improve on its innovative and differentiated technological platforms, patient outcomes. And, we go above and beyond this to peptides and toxins, located in the heart of the leading provide education and information, with the highest level biotechnological and life sciences hubs (Les Ulis, France; of integrity, which helps patients to fully understand the Oxford/Milton Park, UK; Cambridge, USA). choices available to them and make well-informed treatment decisions with their doctors. We know we are successful Our focus fosters deep engagement with medical specialists when doctors and patients place their trust in our products and we make it our business to listen closely to their needs so and our company, when our employees excel and when that together we can advance patient care. We combine this our efforts make a meaningful difference in the lives of the strategic focus with a diversified approach that enables us to patients and communities we serve. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 163 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY For almost 90 years, Ipsen has been committed to the health, Somatuline ® Depot by the California Product Stewardship safety, and well-being of the people who put their trust in our Council. products. Every day, we strive to better people’s lives in a In this introduction, I am highlighting some of our key wide range of ways — from developing new treatments for achievements and challenges relating to our corporate social complex and disabling medical conditions to offering scienceresponsibility. More information about these and other areas based medical over the counter solutions. Our determination of our commitment is provided throughout our website. You to make a positive contribution extends to not only the people can also read more about our business environment, strategy, who benefit from our products, but also to our employees goals and performance in our Annual Report. Moreover, the and to the global community in which we live and work. It philanthropic mission of the Fondation Ipsen is to contribute remains our goal to ensure that our contribution to science to the development and dissemination of scientific knowledge reflects our commitment to a safe, healthy workplace, strong and to foster interactions between researchers and clinical communities and responsible, ethical business practices practitioners. Its ambition is to initiate a reflection about the in everything we do, from research and development to major scientific issues of the forthcoming years. sales and marketing. Ipsen remains focused on sustainable business practices including: Sustainability is the balance between the competing priorities of economic, social and environmental responsibilities. Ipsen • Offering needed products that have environmental, health has and will continue to commit resources and measure and safety design considerations, performance to ensuring that the highest ethical standards are • Managing climate change through energy efficiency and applied within the whole organization. Thus, Ipsen confirms its carbon footprint reduction, will to include UN Global Compact fundamental principles in its sphere of influence. • Continuing to improve operational efficiency, reducing waste and increasing recycling, In conclusion, Ipsen has had a long commitment to sustainable business values. We work to keep these core values in mind • Providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, in all aspects of our business so that we can maintain the • Working with our supply chains to improve corporate excellent reputation and respect that we enjoy with our responsibility performance, and stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. • Enhancing positive community interaction. David Meek As an example, Ipsen has received the Green Arrow Award Chief Executive Officer for system design and innovation regarding the product Ipsen UN Global Compact Commitments and Performance The following narrative will demonstrate how Ipsen is In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code addressing each of these Principles and plans for improving of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives performance in each of these areas. of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on Principle 1: Protection of Human Rights the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees Ipsen approaches the Protection of Human Rights as it does complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was any other personal freedom and has articulated this support initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the through its Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen started to all Ipsen employees and in all of Ipsen’s business dealings. working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the The Code of Conduct requires, among other things, that ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and employees respect Human Rights and do not discriminate services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conducted supply against anyone based on characteristics protected by law. chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core Harassment is not tolerated in any form. Violence or threats suppliers that include aspects such as Human Rights. Ipsen of violence in the workplace are not tolerated. The Code continues to work with EcoVadis to engage our supply chain of Conduct applies to persons or entities representing or in the CSR process. In 2018, we have now reached out to working on behalf of Ipsen as well. 64 companies. Ipsen has also participated with EcoVadis In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of process as a supply chain partner at the request of Galderma Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and one of our partners. We expect to establish targets for poor found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its performing based on the EcoVadis evaluation model supply resolve in the area of Human Rights. chain partners. 164 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Principle 2: Complicity in Human Rights Abuses performing based on the EcoVadis evaluation model supply chain partners. Ipsen will not be complicit in Human Rights abuses as stated in its Code of Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to Principle 4: Forced and Compulsory Labor the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in Ipsen will not be complicit in forced or compulsory labor alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to per Ipsen’s Code of Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in Human Rights. alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code Human Rights. of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code extensive training regarding the expectations based on of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees of the company continue to follow the Code by providing complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work extensive training regarding the expectations based on was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is working services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conducted supply with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. suppliers that include aspects such as Human Rights. Ipsen EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conducted supply chain partner continues to work with EcoVadis to engage its supply chain assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core suppliers that in the CSR process. In 2018, Ipsen has now reached out to include aspects such as forced and compulsory labor. Ipsen 64 companies. Ipsen has also participated with EcoVadis continues to work with EcoVadis to engage our supply chain process as a supply chain partner at the request of Galderma in the CSR process. In 2018, we have now reached out to one of our partners. Ipsen expects to establish targets for 64 companies. Ipsen has also participated with EcoVadis poor performing based on the EcoVadis evaluation model process as a supply chain partner at the request of Galderma supply chain partners. one of our partners. We expect to establish targets for poor performing based on the EcoVadis evaluation model supply Principle 3: Freedom of Association and Collective chain partners. Bargaining Principle 5: Child Labor Ipsen approaches the right to freedom of association and Ipsen will not be complicit in the use of child labor per collective bargaining as it does any other personal freedom Ipsen’s Code of Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to and has articulated this support through its Code of Conduct. the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its Human Rights. resolve in the area of Human Rights. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing of the company continue to follow the Code by providing extensive training regarding the expectations based on extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process in 2015 and 2016, work was complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is working procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conducted supply chain partner EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conducted supply chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core suppliers assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core suppliers that that include aspects such as child labor. Ipsen continues to include aspects such as freedom of association and collective work with EcoVadis to engage our supply chain in the CSR bargaining. Ipsen continues to work with EcoVadis to engage process. In 2018, we have now reached out to 64 companies. our supply chain in the CSR process. In 2018, we have now Ipsen has also participated with EcoVadis process as a supply reached out to 64 . Ipsen has also participated with EcoVadis chain partner at the request of Galderma one of our partners. process as a supply chain partner at the request of Galderma We expect to establish targets for poor performing based on one of our partners. We expect to establish targets for poor the EcoVadis evaluation model supply chain partners. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 165 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Principle 6: Discrimination performance reports. Ultimately, Ipsen has been reducing Ipsen approaches discrimination as it does any other energy and water consumption at its facilities and has goals personal freedom and has articulated this support through to continue improving this performance. In 2018, Ipsen is its Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all considering participating in the CEO Water Mandate and the Ipsen employees and in all of Ipsen’s business dealings. The Caring for Climate C4C Ipsen. Code of Conduct requires that employees respect Human In 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Rights and do not discriminate against anyone based on Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated of the company continue to follow the Code by providing in any form. Violence or threats of violence in the workplace extensive training regarding the expectations based on are not tolerated. The Code of Conduct applies to persons or the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees entities representing or working on behalf of Ipsen, as well. complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is working Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. resolve in the area of Human Rights. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conducted supply chain partner In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core suppliers that of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives include aspects such as Human Rights. Ipsen continues to of the company continue to follow the Code by providing work with EcoVadis to engage our supply chain in the CSR extensive training regarding the expectations based on process. In 2018, Ipsen reached out to 64 companies. Ipsen the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees has also participated with EcoVadis process as a supply chain complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work partner at the request of Galderma one of our partners. Ipsen was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles expects to establish targets for poor performing based on the in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is EcoVadis evaluation model supply chain partners. working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the Principle 9: Environmentally Friendly Technologies ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conducted supply Ipsen has made its approaches and technologies used chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core to achieve the results captured in Principle 8 available to suppliers that include aspects such as discrimination. Ipsen the public through the Ipsen website, and various trade continues to work with EcoVadis to engage our supply chain associations and partnerships. in the CSR process. In 2018, we have now reached out to In 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of 64 companies. Ipsen has also participated with EcoVadis Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives process as a supply chain partner at the request of Galderma of the company continue to follow the Code by providing one of our partners. We expect to establish targets for poor extensive training regarding the expectations based on the performing based on the EcoVadis evaluation model supply Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete chain partners. this training process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is working Principle 7: Precautionary Approach with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and Ipsen has adopted the Precautionary Approach in all its services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conducted supply business dealings. Ipsen has always practiced the chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core precautionary principle with regard to its products and suppliers that include aspects such as environment, health operations. The inherent nature of researching and developing and safety management systems and resource conservation. drug products for human use demonstrates the precautionary Ipsen continues to work with EcoVadis to engage our supply principle in action. Ipsen considers the impacts of actions chain in the CSR process. In 2018, Ipsen reached out to undertaken through a rigorous risk assessment process with 64 companies. Ipsen has also participated with EcoVadis multiple gates through which the company proceeds when process as a supply chain partner at the request of Galderma the multitude of risks are determined to be acceptable to one of our partners. We expect to establish targets for poor Ipsen and the various stakeholders in the process including performing based on the EcoVadis evaluation model supply patients, physicians, employees, government officials, chain partners. investors, and others. Principle 10: Corruption Principle 8: Environmental Responsibility Ipsen has established positions against corruption including Ipsen has a very strong stand on environmental responsibility bribery in its Code of Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to as indicated by its EHS policy, programs and various the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in 166 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment EcoVadis process as a supply chain partner at the request of to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area Galderma one of our partners. We expect to establish targets of Human Rights. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is working with for poor performing based on the EcoVadis evaluation model EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical sourcing supply chain partners. and responsible procurement of goods and ser vices. Conclusion EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, conduct supply chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core suppliers that Ipsen will continue to enhance support of the UN Global include aspects Ipsen continues to work with EcoVadis to Compact Principles. Ipsen will collaborate with the UN Global engage our supply chain in the CSR process. In 2018, we Compact on methods and means to improve its performance reached out to 64 companies. Ipsen has also participated with and the performance of all entities regarding these Principles. 4.4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.4.1 Social relations ■■4.4.1.1 Collective agreement contribution to legal and regulatory practices as well as the cultural and social performance and employee well-being characteristics of the various countries. Ordinary meetings are held annually in order to present the progress in Ipsen Group’s Ipsen has put in place a strong social dialogue with its business and its strategic directions. employee representatives: A European employee representation body for information • Employees are represented in each Group company in and consultation on so-called “transnational” issues which accordance with the applicable local legislation, i.e. by the is responsible for sharing information and exchanging Joint Consultation Group in the United Kingdom, by the viewpoints, fostering experience-sharing and building Rappresentanza Sindacale Unitaria in Italy, by the Comité coordination between European countries. de Empresa in Spain. In France, employee representation is ensured at the local level (6 companies) and at the In 2017, Ipsen signed a 4-year agreement aimed at fostering central level within the framework of an Economic and well being at work as well as gender equality. This agreement Social entity (Unité Économique et Sociale), with a single is structured around four pillars: Central Works Council (Comité Central d’Entreprise) for all employees in France and a Central Negotiation Body • Work-life balance, (Instance Centrale de Négociation) which brings together trade unions representatives of the Economic and Social • Support of accountability and empowerment, entity. • Promotion of health and well-being at work, • The frequency of meetings between management and employee representatives depends on the applicable local • Monitoring of risky situations and psychological support. legislation. As this agreement was being rolled-out in 2018, all Ipsen • The Group ensures that the rights and freedoms of French sites have reinforced their specific actions for well employee representatives are strictly observed and that being at work, such as sports activities, concierge service, they enjoy the same promotion and training opportunities corporate co-financed day-nurser y and prevention of as other employees. psychosocial risks. Lastly, a European Works Council, composed of 10 members In 2018, Ipsen signed the charter of the Institut National contre representing European countries, was launched in 2014. The le Cancer and thus committed itself to a set of 11 measures members of the European Works Council work together, meant to improve the “patient/employee” life during and after taking a concerted approach, and in compliance with the medical leave. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 167 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION ■■4.4.1.2 Social initiatives • Initiatives for active employees, According to country specific environments, the Group’s • All other initiatives, such as relationships with not-for-profit policy on social initiatives is based on four main priorities: organizations, sponsorship, etc. • Initiatives benefiting employees’ children, Aside from the normal benefits related to family events, the • Initiatives for retired employees, calendar and various subsidized leisure activities, the Group aims to provide genuine support to its employees. 4.4.2 Societal information ■■4.4.2.1 Impact of its activity on nearby or local of the IFPMA (International Federation of Pharmaceutical populations Manufacturers & Associations), and BIO (Biotechnology Innovation Organization). Within the context of Ipsen’s newly-launched Company Social Responsibility strategy (CSR), the Group’s vision is to • Trade bodies with a national footprint such as FarmaIndustria harness the power of employees to have a responsible and in Spain, Les Entreprises du Médicame nt ( Leem ) sustainable impact on patients, society and the environment. in France, APIPHARMA in Portugal, Association of the Ipsen is committed to the importance of health, safety and British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI) in United Kingdom, respect to the environment. Approaches to environmental Research and Development Pharmaceutical Association design, energy consumption, waste reduction, and its overall of China (RDPAC), and other national trade organisations. environmental footprint are integrated from the very outset when considering all activities, including new manufacturing The Group also has interactions with science and innovation facilities or industrial projects. Studies are also carried out ecosystems in order to foster stronger partnerships and into the design and optimization of the packaging of Ipsen external innovation (with universities, research centers, and medicines as well as into the movement and distribution of biotechs); groups such as ARIIS in France; MassBio in the US, products, while also taking into account potential recycling Polepharma in France, or the Oxford Biotechnology Network solutions. (OBN) in the UK. Ipsen’s impact on the environment is one of the three key In France, the Ipsen Group is a member of “G5 Health”, a pillars of the company’s new CSR strategy thinktank that brings together the CEOs of the main Frenchbased healthcare companies (bioMérieux, Guerbet, Ipsen, ■■4.4.2.2 Relationships with stakeholders LFB, Pierre Fabre, Sanofi, Servier and Théa). Dialogue with stakeholders A company’s ability to respond to stakeholders’ expectations Investors, Financial community and Media is a measure of its credibility and sustainability. Ipsen, as a The Group maintains a regular and transparent dialogue global specialty-driven pharmaceutical group, with drugs with its investors and the financial community through the marketed in more than 100 countries, acts to provide concrete publication of its financial statements and during meetings responses to the needs and expectations of a wide variety of specifically organized for the investor community. Meetings stakeholders, particularly those in the healthcare field. with the media are also organized in the same context. Ipsen has a transparent and regular dialogue with its main stakeholders (employees, healthcare professionals and Supervisory authorities patients, investors and the financial community, suppliers The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated by government and partners, regulatory authorities and agencies, local bodies. Regulations cover nearly all aspects of the Group’s communities, and the media) to provide reliable and factual activities, from Research and Development and marketing to information, to pursue a constructive dialogue, develop its manufacturing facilities and processes. partnerships, support patient associations, with the ultimate goal of providing differentiated and innovative solutions for In each country where it markets its products or conducts patients. research, Ipsen has to comply with the standards laid out by Trade associations the local regulatory authorities and by any other competent supranational regulatory authority. These authorities include Ipsen is a member of national and international associations the European Medicines Agency (EMA), the French Agency and/or inter-professional trade groups in which it plays a for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products (ANSM) in proactive role in sector-wide initiatives, notably the following: France, the Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory • Regional trade associations such as EFPIA (European Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom and the Food and Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Association) and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States, as well PhRMA (Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of as various other regulatory bodies, in markets where the America). In 2018 Ipsen additionally became a member company operates. 168 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Patients / civil society Many countries have adopted laws or codes to implement Communication to patients, Patients Organizations (PO), Transparency, such as the United States (US Sunshine Act), caregivers and civil society must comply with the standard France (Bertrand law) or European countries that fall under the policy of Ethic & Compliance and the local regulatory EFPIA Disclosure Code – The public disclosure of transfers of authorities where the Group operates. value has marked a significant development in the relationship between the pharmaceutical industry and HCPs and HCOs. Working with the patient for the patient is the main objective. In accordance with the applicable rules, Ipsen is committed to working with all stakeholders in healthcare to ensure the value The aim is to first listen to the needs of the patient and to deliver of these relationships and the benefits of greater transparency information which better meets the patient’s expectations. are understood. This should be done through prevention and educational campaigns,public health initiatives, and inclusion into the During the first semester of 2018, and in accordance with preliminary state of the drug development. the Transparency laws and Codes, Ipsen has made publicly available, on its website, all the transfers of value made to The patient organizations are key voices for patients who can HCPs and HCOs in 2017, in the United States and in the provide efficiently advise and dialogue from patient, focusing European countries. the patients’ needs. The Fondation Ipsen In France, Ipsen continues its efforts to support international The Fondation Ipsen was established in 1983 under the and local patients associations and organizations aligned with aegis of the Fondation de France. The mission of the our key therapeutic areas, including: Fondation Ipsen is to reflect upon major scientific issues • Dystonia Europe that affect society. Over more than 30 years, the Fondation • Europa Uomo (European Prostate Cancer Coalition) Ipsen has organized more than 250 meetings and produced several hundred publications; more than 250 scientists and • Europa Donna (The European Breast Cancer Coalition) biomedical researchers have been awarded prizes and • ELPA (European Liver Patient’s Association) research grants. Reimagined for public service in 2018, the Fondation Ipsen expanded its mandate and internationally • IKCC (International Kidney Cancer Coalition) recognized speakers, to present their work on promising • WAPO (World Alliance for Pituitary Organisation) biomedical innovations to a worldwide audience; the efforts of the Foundation Ipsen reached more than 50,000 people. • ECPC (European Cancer Patient Coalition) • Convives con Espasticidad The foundations programs are divided into three themes: Liberté of Discovery, Egalité in Society and Fraternité in • Eurodis (Rare Diseases) Society. • Uronauten THEME 1: Liberté of Discovery • Das Lebenshaus Nierenkrebs • Collaboration with the Collège International de Philosophie • ICOSEP/ Magic Foundation ( International Coalition The Fondation Ipsen is supporting a series of actions aimed Organization supporting Endocrine Patients) to facilitate the access to scientific knowledge (History of • EAU (European Association of Urology) Science) across France. Moreover, some charity organizations have also received • Webinar “Put talents first: Practical steps to eliminate gender grants: bias in science” – Collaboration with the journal “Science” • VHL Greece Family Alliance This live roundtable discussion addressed the continuing problem of gender-based discrimination in the sciences. Healthcare professionals and scientists The live roundtable discussion held at The National Press As part of Ipsen’s commitment to improve the health and Club, Washington DC on 11 July 2018 includeda panel of quality of life of patients, Healthcare Professionals (HCP) and experts. The panel addressed practical issues of genderOrganizations (HCO) work with us on a variety of activities based discrimination in the sciences. ranging from clinical research to sharing best clinical practices and information on how new medicines can be adapted to • SciBooks for young children – Collaboration with the Curie patient pathways. Institute (Paris) Interactions with HCPs and HCOs are conducted in In collaboration with the Curie Institute, the Fondation accordance with the laws, regulations, and industry codes in Ipsen supported the development and publication of force in the countries in which Ipsen operates, enabling these three illustrated science-based books that accurately interactions to be conducted with integrity and trust. relay biological and medical science for children. The project useds art and science to increase public interest in At Ipsen, all interactions with HCPs and HCOs are based fundamental science and recent discoveries. The projected on legitimate and genuine need and business purpose, and aimed to create a series of illustrated science-based books engagements with HCPs are remunerated and transparently that accurately relay biological and medical science for established. children. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 169 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION • Women in Science – Manga books – Collaboration with Ipsen subcontracts significant services to CROs (Contract several scientists and students from a manga school (AAA, Research Organizations), for Research and Development Paris) including toxicology studies, Phases I to IV clinical study monitoring and management, as well as part of drug The Fondation Ipsen supported the development and development and manufacturing to CDMOs (Contract publication of 3 manga books (to be released in January Development and Manufacturing Organizations). 2019). Three stories were written about women working in different scientific domains and the difficulties they In France, Ipsen signed the Charte des Relations Interencountered (discrimination, harrassement...). The project Entreprises in 2013. The objective of this Charter is to build aimed to promote the place of women in the scientific a balanced and sustainable relationship between large community, and more generally, in the world. companies and their suppliers in knowledge and respect of • Health initiatives for war veterans; a collaboration with the rights and duties of each party. Wounded Warriors Overview of major initiatives THEME 2: Égalité in Society EHS or more widely CSR are part of our specifications in • The Fondation Ipsen supported an information campaign various categories. Namely: promoting gender equality in Science. This project was • For equipment purchases and capital expenses, EHS organized in collaboration with La Fabrique des Egalités, reviews the specifications in Les Ulis, Dreux, Dublin and a non-profit organization expert in gender equality issues. Wrexham, and Signes. This project was conceived by the Fondation Ipsen to allow teenagers to better understand how to prevent gender • For contract manufacturing, a certain standard is required discrimination. for Ipsen’s subcontractors manipulating its drugs, for whom the Group not only collects detailed EHS information before • Engagement in the La Crosse Child Maltreatment annual selection, but may also perform EHS sites audit to assess conference – Collaboration with the Mayo Clinic for a the Health and Safety protection level of their staff before conference which provides education and training to selection and once they have become a supplier. professionals and community members who respond to • In Dreux, Ipsen’s biggest volume manufacturing site, the child abuse/neglect. Group has added a CSR section in its evaluation tool • Children in Science: Lectures in public Libraries; in applied to the most strategic material suppliers in 2013. collaboration with Arizona State University. In 2014, Ipsen has systematized this evaluation to all of its suppliers of material and packaging; furthermore, it has THEME 3: Fraternité in Society also enlarged this assessment to its main providers of The Fondation Ipsen supported the following scientific facility management (maintenance, security...). meetings: • The Group has included a clause covering sustainability and labor in most of our Facility management contracts for • Biological Complexity: Biology of Time (January 2018),was Dreux, Signes and Les Ulis (maintenance, security…). held in collaboration with the Salk Institute of Biological Studies (La Jolla, USA) and the “Science” magazine. Purchasing is a major participant in the “Phare” program • Bridging Biomedical World: Genome Editing: the next managed by Human Resources, aiming at promoting Insertion frontier (February 2018),held in collaboration with Science and Consideration of Disability in employment. In continuity of Translational Medicine magazine and A*STAR institute the audit performed in 2011 to assess the level of outsourcing (Singapore). with protected and engaged companies in France, some actions have been implemented on our sites since 2012 and • Days of Molecular Medicine: Emerging Asian Epidemic are subject to annual monitoring: of Cancer and Hear t Disease ( March 2018 ),held in • Gardening in the three French manufacturing sites Dreux, collaboration with the Karolinska institutet (Sweden) and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue and Signes as well as at Les Ulis our DMMGF. R&D site, purchasing of pallets at L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, • Exciting Biologies: Biology of Time (October 2018),was held painting work at Dreux. in collaboration with the journal “Cell”. • In the sites of Dreux and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, Ipsen buys some • Fondation Ipsen Science Prizes. of our cleaning products and office supplies from protected and adapted companies in France; Ipsen also outsources 2018 Endocrinology Prize In collaboration with the to them the enveloping and the mail postage. Annually, International Conference in endocrinology – The Fondation Dreux buys visit cards from French protected and engaged Ipsen award for the best young investigtor in Endocrinology. companies. Signes works with ESAT to make communication media type billboard / regulatory display / EHS leaflet. ■■4.4.2.3 Subcontracts and suppliers • At Signes, Ipsen purchased work equipment that have Ipsen works in close collaboration with a large range of suppliers been analyzed by ergonomists in 2014 in order to optimize whose services and goods are critical to the performance of and maintain the posture of disabled workers and improve the company and quality of its products. Purchasing activities the working conditions of the working unit. This analysis involve suppliers in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) was extended over 2015 and also on a perimeter including program to deliver a sustainable business. L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue. 170 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Actions are conducted to reduce the impact of the product Company’s Code of Conduct and its Ethics & Compliance on the environment, such as decreasing from 9 µm to 7 µm program. Ipsen’s Code of Conduct has been updated in the thickness of packaging used in Smecta® both in Dreux order to comply with laws, regulations, industry’s codes, and in Tianjin, as well as Forlax® in Dreux. Since 2014, 95% of Ipsen’s policies and procedures, to develop and strengthen Smecta® and Forlax® production at Dreux is 7 µm. a collaborative and open culture, to engage and inspire people on the Ipsen strategy, to promote the achievement Another advanced project on Ipsen’s production sites is to of objectives in a fully compliant and ethical manner and to reduce the weight of cartons used in the manufacture of reinforce Ipsen commitment to groundbreaking principles: cases. At Dreux, this project has already been completed. responsibility, accountability, trust and integrity. Furthermore, in the packaging area, another project on the It applies to all Ipsen employees and its Ethics & Compliance reduction of the packaging size for Forlax ® in Dreux was program which has been developed to meet international finalized in 2014. Forlax® produced at Dreux for the French standards, driven by ethical principles, applies to all countries market has today smaller packaging. The Tianjin plant in 2015 and functions in the company. began the reduction of packaging for Smecta® and finalized this project in 2017. Actions taken to prevent all forms of corruption Finally, Ipsen launched an innovative syringe technology: Ipsen has adopted a continuous improvement approach Somatuline® Depot Injection for the treatment of neuroendocrine for its anti-corruption program. Ipsen also joined the United tumors to reduce medical waste and protect against needle stick Nations “Global Compact” program in 2012, confirming the injuries. Ipsen won the California Product Stewardship Council’s Group’s commitment to fighting corruption in all its forms. 2015 Green Arrow Award for System & Design Innovation for Both the Ipsen Internal Ethics & Compliance program and this industry-changing product. The impact of this new delivery the Third-Party Compliance program are designed and system avoided to 67 tons (US) of CO2 emissions, reduced its continuously improved to mitigate the risk related to corruption use of solvents by 53 tons (US) and saved more than 3 tons (US) among other compliance related risks and comply with all of packaging in both 2016 and 2017. applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws including the Ipsen implemented a Supplier Diversit y Program in new French Anti-Corruption Law “Sapin II”. the United States for the first time in 2018. The Supplier In 2017, the Global Policy about Interactions with External Diversity Program is expected to direct a percentage of Ipsen Stakeholders and the Global Directive on Interactions with spending in the US toward diversified suppliers such as small HCPs and HCOs have been published to introduce the businesses, small disadvantaged businesses, femaleowned principles that these interactions should adhere to and the businesses. During this first year, several processes have requirements that should be satisfied. been developed and implemented to support the success of the Supplier Diversity Program, including the training of The Global Directive has been accompanied by the identification purchasing personnel, the attendance of the Purchasing of country specific requirements for interactions with HCPs or team to several conferences and the development of an HCOs. In addition, Global Guidance on Interactions with patient infrastructure to support ongoing program monitoring and organizations and patients has also become effective to set reporting requirements. the principles and requirements to enhance the anti-corruption infrastructure. The entire compliance infrastructure undergoes Although Ipsen expects the full benefit of these processes to a continuous assessment with the objective to strengthen the materialize only in the coming years, Ipsen’s results actually anti-corruption measures across all components of the Ethics exceeded its objective for the year. & Compliance program and beyond. Implementation of a thorough methodology to assess Since the implementation of the Third-Party Compliance suppliers program, Ipsen assessed, around 1,200 partners and Since 2017, Ipsen’s EHS and Purchasing departments have suppliers’ engagements. The due diligence performed, been working with a Company Rating Agency to conduct completed by trainings and monitoring activities, are assessments based upon four pillars (Ethics, Environment, consistent with main anti-corruption legislations requirements Social, Supply Chain) and optimize the CSR and sustainability (e.g.: FCPA, UK Anti-Bribery Act and French Law Sapin II) and positioning of its main suppliers. The 2018 evaluation other anti-corruption legislations. campaign involves more than 40 suppliers. Ipsen is also In 2018, with the implementation of a new whistleblowing policy working with EcoVadis to include this approach in Purchasing and a dedicated platform, Ipsen advocates an open culture which processes and more generally at a Group-level CSR strategy. encourages employees to report any incidents or breaches related to, among other risks, potential acts of corruption. ■■4.4.2.4 Loyalty of practices The new mechanisms to limit bribery and corruption do Measures taken in favor of the safety and health not dramatically impact the obligations applicable to the of customers companies operating already in an international environment, Ipsen’s vision as a leading pharmaceutical company is to such as Ipsen, but the Law “Sapin II” has equipped France with strive to deliver significant improvements in patients’ health a new legal tool enabling our country to ensure a sustainable and quality of life by providing effective therapeutic solutions competitiveness for its companies. to fulfill unmet medical needs. Ipsen’s continued commitment to the highest ethical standards As a pharmaceutical company, pharmacovigilance is a key has been communicated through the recently revised activity within Ipsen with both ethical and legal aspects. As 2018 Ipsen Registration document 171 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION part of the Research and Development Division, the Global • Across the wider pharmacovigilance community, including Patient Safety (GPS) department, includes pharmacovigilance all Ipsen-staff with pharmacovigilance responsibilities in among its various accountabilities to ensure the safety of local affiliates and subsidiaries who interface with local patients receiving Ipsen products. The Vice President, Head customers and local health authorities to ensure patient of Global Patient Safety also fulfils the role of European safety and compliance with the regulatory legislation; Union Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance (EU QPPV), • Other functions within Ipsen, and Ipsen’s partner-companies and reports to the Senior Vice President, Head of Global and third-party vendors. Regulatory Affairs, Safety and Quality. The objectives of Global Patient Safety are: The medical safety governance at Ipsen culminates with • to ensure the proactive evaluation and communication of the Ipsen Benefit-Risk Decision Board, chaired by the Chief evolving safety knowledge about all Ipsen drug products, Medical Officer, which includes senior experts from the so that benefit-risk is optimized for patients, both in clinical relevant functions required for effective benefit-risk decision development and after market launches; making, including changes to the Company Core Data Sheets and subsequent Summaries of Product Characteristics, • to maintain a sustainable cross-functional Ipsen PV Prescribing Information and Investigator’s Brochures for System, fully compliant with pharmacovigilance legislation all Ipsen development and post-marketing authorization worldwide, and sourced cost-effectively with reliable products. access to the right capacity of skills and capabilities to secure efficient delivery of fluctuating workload demands. The Ipsen pharmacovigilance system is continuously being developed to increase performance and measurability of all The achievement of these objectives requires the collection compliance critical pharmacovigilance activities. Furthermore, and evaluation of adverse event data from all sources the Ipsen pharmacovigilance system is regularly Inspected by worldwide and the insurance that the data is accurately regulatory agencies In the markets where Ipsen is present. entered onto our Global Patient Safety database and expedited In 2018 inspections were conducted by ANSM, MHRA, the as required to health authorities according to the relevant Chinese regulatory agency and Health Canada. All Corrective pharmacovigilance legislation. This database provides and Preventative Actions in relation to these inspections are information for the ongoing assessment of the benefit-risk either completed or on track for completion. profiles of all Ipsen products authorized for marketing, and those molecules which are in clinical development. The data In 2018 six safety signals were detected for Ipsen products, is examined using state of the art software and statistical three signals were validated and resulted in updates to the analyses to look for safety signals, which are then evaluated product information. No changes to product benefit/risk to ascertain whether these constitute new risks or changes for Ipsen products were identified which was confirmed by to existing risks. Regular aggregate reports of safety data are relevant competent authorities on submission of periodic prepared for submission to health authorities according to safety update reports. No urgent safety measures were their timelines and requirements. imposed, and no product recalls for safety reasons were Ipsen’s safety culture is based on strong collaboration conducted. between Non-Clinical Drug Safety, and Global Patient Safety, Respect of Human Rights and Promotion and Respect providing an integrated scientific approach to safety decisionof the fundamental principles of the International Labor making. The sources of safety data include spontaneous case Organization (ILO) reports from healthcare professionals and consumers, clinical trials, pre-clinical and toxicology information, solicited case Through our Code of Conduct and our human resources reports from organized patient data collection systems (e.g. policy, we commit to respect Human Rights and to promote patient support programs, registries, etc.), published articles and respect the fundamental principles of the ILO (International in the scientific and medical literature and communications Labor Organization), in particular: from health authorities. • To support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights; Thus GPS staff work closely with their colleagues within other functions to develop clinical trial programs, clinical study • To make sure that we are not complicit in Human Rights reports, Marketing Authorization Applications, responses to abuses; questions from Health Authorities, and to ensure effective • To encourage the freedom of association and the effective communication of up-to-date benefit-risk information via the recognition of the right to collective bargaining; product information (Summary of Product Characteristics, Prescribing Information, Patient Leaflets) to assist the • To eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; physicians and patients in making the best patient-centric • To abolish child labor; decisions on treatment. Such collaborative working may also • To ban discrimination in respect of employment and involve Ipsen partners when the product is the subject to a occupation. licensing venture. A collaborative teamwork Moreover, since 2012, Ipsen adheres to the Global Compact program of the United Nations and confirms the Group’s GPS benefits from effective teamwork at all levels to achieve will to include its fundamental principles in particular in the its objectives, namely: domain of Human Rights and standards of work in its sphere • Within GPS; of influence. 172 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.5 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE ON THE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Human Resources the United States (Basking Ridge and Cambridge), France • Headcount (Boulogne-Billancourt), Brazil, China, Korea, Spain, Italy, Russia, Sweden, Ukraine, Lithuania, Netherlands, Belgium, Headcount indicators reported in the registration document and Canada, the United Kingdom (Slough) and Vietnam. are based on Ipsen’s global Human Resources Information Global Ipsen covers 95% of the headcount at the end of 2018. Systems deployed in all countries. It is being kept up-to-date It must be noted that, for offices, health and safety indicators by the local HR and globally reported. (number of medicalized accidents, number of occupational diseases, number of days lost), energy, occupied area, and The headcount includes any employee with a current work fleet vehicle information are now regularly collected during contract with Ipsen. Notably, external resources (temporary the year. workers, trainees…) are excluded from headcount. Data consolidation is performed using an internal reporting Regarding Joint Ventures, it must be noted that the Group file, which also defines EHS monitoring indicators. The data HR policy does not apply to these entities and that no HR is controlled and compiled using this central file, which reporting is being requested from them. Therefore, apart from possesses means of control and alert (absurd data, problems the global headcount, all other HR indicators mentioned in the of units…). This central reporting file has been introduced registration document are shown without the Joint Ventures. to persons in charge of EHS on site in order to minimize the • Absenteeism sources of errors. Absenteeism data are collected separately: It is nevertheless advisable to note that the extra-financial reporting does not benefit from the same maturity as the • For France, they are retrieved from the French payroll financial reporting. The practical modalities of data collection system, are still to be perfected, considering the diversity of Ipsen. • For other countries, they are collected from the HR manager. Further explanations are to be taken into account for the At the end of 2018, this scope accounts for 92% of Ipsen’s following indicators: headcount since data are requested only from the countries • Emission factors used to calculate Greenhouse Gas with a HR manager, namely: Algeria, Australia, Brazil, Canada, emissions are those of the Base Carbone ADEME and China, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Korea, Mexico, Russia, those provided by the IEA emission factors related to Spain, the United Kingdom, the United States and Vietnam. international electricity consumption. • Training Health and safety indicators in particular for determining the Training activity is recorded in Ipsen Learning Platform by the accident frequency and severity rates include the following owner of the training (Training Manager, HR…). calculations: The evidence of the training duration is provided on this • The frequency rate 1 is the number of disabling injuries platform and/or by paper attendance signed sheets. due to the work needing an external medicalized treatment beyond first aid, with work lost time exceeding one day The training report is extracted at corporate level and all the which have occurred over a period of 12 months per million collected data is consolidated into a common Excel file. hours worked (frequency rate 1 = number of disabling • Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) injuries due to the work with lost time x 1,000,000 / number of hours worked). Manufacturing and R&D sites include 8 manufacturing or production sites: Dreux (France), Dublin (Ireland), L’Isle sur-la• The frequency rate 2 is the number of disabling injuries due Sorgue (France), Signes (France), Tianjin (China), Cambridge to the work needing an external medicalized assistance, (USA) and Wrexham (United Kingdom) and the joint venture with work lost time exceeding one day and without work in Cork (Ireland), as well as 3 research and development lost time which have occurred over a period of 12 months (R&D) sites: Les Ulis (France), Cambridge (United States) and per million hours worked (frequency rate 2 = number of Oxford-Milton Park (United Kingdom). The joint venture of disabling injuries due to the work with and without lost time Cork is included in the perimeter of this reporting as this site x 1,000,000 / number of hours worked). follows the Ipsen EHS policy. • The severity rate is the number of worker-days lost as Global Ipsen encompasses tertiary sites with a Human a result of disability injuries per thousand hours worked Resource representative, namely: Algeria, Germany, Australia, (severity rate = number of worker-days lost x 1,000 / number Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Mexico, of hours worked). 2018 Ipsen Registration document 173 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION The following table represents the approaches used to derive carbon emissions for scope 1, 2 and 3 included in the fight to prevent climate change section of the document. Emissions Factor Scope Categories Description Data sources sources 1 Direct emissions from Natural gas and fuel R&D manufacturing and Base Carbone stationary combustion combustion (kWh) affiliates reporting sources 1 Direct fugitive emissions Refrigerant gas losses (tons) R&D manufacturing Base Carbone reporting 2 Indirect emission from Electricity consumption (kWh) R&D manufacturing and IAE Highlights CO2 fossil electricity consumption affiliates reporting fuels and Base Carbone for French sites 2 Indirect emission from Steam and cooling R&D manufacturing and Base Carbone steam, heat and cooling consumption (kWh). affiliates reporting consumption Only one site is concerned 3 Emissions due to fuels and Upstream emissions from R&D manufacturing and Base Carbone energy (not covered by energy extraction and affiliates reporting scope 1 and 2) transportation (kWh) 3 Purchased goods or Extraction and Manufacturing R&D manufacturing: Base Carbone and services of raw materials such Weight of every component CarbonEM methodology as paper, aluminum and of primary, secondary and excluding transportation tertiary packaging (tons) 3 Capital goods GHG Emissions due to the R&D manufacturing and Base Carbone construction of buildings affiliates reporting (industrial and offices) Buildings (sqm) depreciation based on 50 years 3 Upstream and downstream Road, Air, sea transportation Upstream: Tons km Base Carbone transportation and of raw materials and final from each site reporting distribution products from production site Downstream: Tons km from to first delivery local sites deliveries extraction 3 End of life treatment GHG Emissions due to the R&D manufacturing Base Carbone of waste generated treatment of production waste Reporting (tons) from site operations (incineration, landfill, recycling) 3 Business travels GHG Emissions due to the car Travel agency (km) and Base Carbone fleet consumption and plane reporting on gasoline travel; Train travel and travel consumption (liters) by taxi is not included but a first estimation concluded an insignificant contribution to scope 3 emissions compared to other business travel modes covered in this report. Fugitive emissions (condensation trails) are not taken into account in the emissions factors of plane travel 174 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Emissions Factor Scope Categories Description Data sources sources 3 Employee commuting GHG Emissions due to travels Distances (km) Base Carbone between working sites and estimated from average employee’s home excluding (French national survey employee commuting using (ENTD INSEE)) car fleet 3 End-of-life treatment of sold GHG Emissions due to the Deliveries database Base Carbone products treatment of packaging waste (tons) and average waste (including paper, aluminum, treatment and plastic) after use of sold products (incineration, landfill, recycling) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. Ipsen Société anonyme: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the non-financial performance reporting included in the management report For the year ended 31 December 2018 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Ipsen SA, (the “Company”), appointed as independent third party and certified by COFRAC under number(s) 3-1048(1), we hereby report to you on the consolidated non financial performance reporting information for the year ended 31 December 2018 included in the management report (hereinafter named “the Reporting”), pursuant to article L.225102-1, R.225-105 and R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). We also report our reasonable insurance report on a selection of information included in the Reporting (Frequency Rate 1 (FR1) – Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D, Energy consumption, GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) and Water consumption) for which we have performed specific review according to your request and out of the scope of our certification. Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the Reporting legally required, including a presentation of the Company’s business model, a description of the main non-financial risks, a presentation of policies implemented with respect to such risks and the results of these policies, including key performance indicators. The Reporting has been prepared while applying the Company’s procedures (hereafter the “Référentiel”) which main items are presented in the Reporting and available on the Company’s website and on request at the company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Statutory Auditor’s responsibility as an independent third party On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to express a limited insurance conclusion upon: • the compliance of the Reporting with article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code; • the fairness of informations communicated according to article article R.225 105 of the French Commercial Code, that is to say, the results of the policies including key performance indicators and the actions related to the main risks (hereafter the “Informations”). It is also our responsibility to express, upon the request of the Company and out of the scope of our certification, a reasonable insurance report on the fact that the selected information included in the Reporting (Frequency Rate 1 (FR1) – Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D, Energy consumption, GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) and Water consumption) were determined based on the Référentiel. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 175 4 COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION It is not our responsibility to provide any conclusion on: • the compliance with other applicable legal requirements, in particular those concerning fight against corruption and tax; • on the compliance of goods and services to applicable regulations. 1. Report according to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code Nature and scope of our work We have performed our work to ensure the Reporting is compliant with legal and regulatory requirements: • We have looked at the activity of the consolidated entities, the description of main social and environmental risks and their effects upon the respect of human rights and fight against corruption and tax evasion, as well as policies implemented and their results; • We have analyzed the Référentiel according to its consistency, completeness, reliability and neutrality taking into consideration good practices in the industry, when available; • We have checked that the Reporting covers each category of information required by article L.225-102-1 III on social and environmental and Human rights and fight against corruption and tax evasion; • We have checked that the Reporting includes the business model and the main risks for all consolidated entities, including when relevant and proportionate, risks related to its business, products and services as well as policies, actions and results including key performance indicators; • We have checked, when relevant, that informations required by article R.225-105 II are included in the Reporting; • We have checked the selection and validation process for the main risks; • We have verified the existence of internal control and risks mitigations processes implemented by the company; • We have verified the consistency of the results and the key performance indicators selected for the main risks and policies; • We have verified that the Reporting encompasses the consolidation perimeter, that is to say all companies included in the consolidation perimeter according to article L.233-16 with the limits specified in the Reporting; • We have checked the information collection process setup by the Company to ensure its completeness and sincerity; • We have implemented for the key performance indicators and other quantitative results (1) considered as the most important: –– Analytical processes to check the correct consolidation of collected data and the consistency of their progress; –– Detail tests on the basis of samplings to check the correct application of definitions and processes and compare the information with supporting documentation. Such tests were performed on a selection of entities (2) and cover between 22% and 100% of the consolidated data for the key performance indicators and results. • We have looked at the supporting documentation and handled interview to confirm qualitative informations (actions and results) considered the most relevant (3); • We have checked the consistency of the Reporting with our knowledge of the Company. We consider that the work we performed based on our professional judgement, is sufficient to provide a basis for our limited insurance conclusion; a higher level of insurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Means and resources Our work involved 5 individuals and was conducted between December 2018 and February 2019. We were assisted in our work by our sustainability experts and performed about 10 interviews of people in charge of drafting the Reporting. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Reporting is not compliant with legal and regulatory requirements. (1) Headcount, Absenteeism rate, Employee turnover, Accidents FR1, Energy consumption, GHG (scope 1-2), GHG scope 3, Waste generated, Solvants usage, Solvants regenerated, COV emissions, Water consumption, Number of cyberattack cases reported, Number of supply shortages, Number of counterfeiting cases (2) Dreux, Wrexham, Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, Tianjin, Dublin. (3) Product liability: Pharmacovigilance report and Quality assessment, Ethics & Compliance: evolution of Ethics & Compliance culture within the Company. 176 2018 Ipsen Registration document COMPANY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 2.Reasonable insurance report on a selection of information included in the Reporting Nature and scope of our work With respect to the Frequency Rate 1 (FR1) – Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D, Energy consumption, GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) and Water consumption, we have performed the same type of work than described above in 1, but more in-depth, notably regarding: • Analytical processes aiming to ensure the right consolidation of collected information and their consistency; • Sampling tests performed to ensure the right application of definitions and procedures and control with supporting documents. Samples represent between 47% and 85% of the information. Further to the work performed we are able to express a reasonable insurance. Conclusion The information selected by the Company, Frequency Rate 1 (FR1) – Ipsen Manufacturing and R&D, Energy consumption, GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) and Water consumption, are presented in conformity with the Référentiel. Paris-La Défense, 15 February 2019 One of the Statutory Auditors, Deloitte & Associés 2018 Ipsen Registration document 177 178 2018 Ipsen Registration document 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5.1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 180 5.1.1 Board of Directors 181 5.1.2 Executive Management 204 5.1.3 Compensation of Corporate Officers 211 5.1.4 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 225 5.2 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 228 5.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association 228 5.2.2 Share Capital 230 5.2.3 Shareholding 236 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT This section presents Ipsen SA’s Corporate governance The Company is governed by a Board of Directors. It and legal information and includes in particular the Board determines strategy and oversees its implementation. Subject of Directors’ Report on corporate governance. It will be to the powers expressly granted to Shareholders’ Meetings presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to and within the limits of the Company’s corporate purpose, the be convened in 2019 to review and approve the financial Board of Directors considers all issues related to the efficient statements for the financial year ended on 31 December operation of the Company and, through its deliberations, 2018, in accordance with the provisions of Article L.225-37 of settles all matters that may arise. the French Commercial Code. It has been prepared with the The Executive Management of the Company is provided by a assistance of Executive Management, the Human Resources Chief Executive Officer. department and the Company Secretary. 5.1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Governance structure transformation, while the Chairman of the Board of Directors Ipsen is a French société anonyme with a Board of Directors, can give his full attention to leading and managing the Board where the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Directors. have been separated since 18 July 2016. The Executive management has thus been entrusted to During its meeting of 8 July 2016, the Board appointed a Chief Executive Officer with an international profile and Mr. David Meek to the position of Chief Executive Officer for experience, Mr. David Meek. In accordance with the provisions an indefinite period, this appointment has been effective since of the Articles of association, if he wishes to do so, the Chief 18 July 2016. During the same meeting, the Board confirmed Executive Officer may propose to the Board of Directors to Mr. Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Board of Directors. appoint one or several Deputy Chief Executive Officers in order to assist him. This change in governance reflects the determination of the Group to accelerate its international development and to be Corporate Governance Code prepared for the challenges that the pharmaceutical industry The Company refers to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate is currently facing. The separation of said duties is also good Governance Code, revised on June 2018, available on the governance practice such as is more and more frequently website www.afep.com. In accordance with the provisions applied in the pharmaceutical industry. of Article L.225-37-4 8° of the French Commercial Code, the Company specifies the recommendations of the Code which The separation of functions allows the Chief Executive Officer have not been applied and the reasons why. to focus on the Group’s operations and the continuation of its AFEP-MEDEF Ipsen’s practices and reasons why recommendations not applied Article 16.1 This provision is not applied as the Company is controlled by a majority shareholder. The Nomination Committee should Moreover, there are structural elements related to the Company’s governance (number of have a majority of independent independent directors (4), all of foreign nationalities and living abroad, several recent recruitments, directors the number of specialized Committees (6), separation of the Compensation and Nomination Committees) to be taken into account. There is nevertheless ongoing high quality of work within each Committee (including the Nomination Committee) whilst maintaining a balanced composition of the Committees without having a majority of independent directors. Furthermore, the Board believes that both the quality and experience of independent members ensure open debate and that the current composition does not undermine the proper functioning of the Committee. Article 17.1 This provision is not applied as the Company is controlled by a majority shareholder. Moreover, The Compensation Committee should two out of four members (50%) of the Compensation Committee are independent, which is be chaired by an independent director sufficient to ensure the proper functioning of the Committee. Furthermore, it is specified that no executive officer is a member of this Committee. The Compensation Committee is chaired by Mr. Antoine Flochel, given his deep knowledge of the Group’s operation, the pharmaceutical industry and his experience in matters of compensation. Article 17.1 This provision is not applied for the moment. The Director representing the employees, One of the members of Jean-Marc Parant, was designated by the Works Council on 27 November 2018. The Board the Compensation Committee should agreed that Jean-Marc Parant would familiarize himself with the functioning and governance be an employee director of the Board and its Committees during an integration period of a few months. Following this, a decision regarding his participation on a Committee will be taken after the forthcoming Shareholders’ Meeting. 180 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Introduction to the Internal Rules Internal Rules are reviewed by the Board of Directors on a The purpose of the Internal Rules is to define the role and regular basis. The main provisions of these Internal Rules are methods of operation of the Board of Directors, in accordance set out below. It is available on the Company’s website (www. with the law, the Articles of Association, and the rules of ipsen.com). corporate governance applicable to listed companies. The 5.1.1 Board of Directors Composition of the Board of Directors Evolution of the Board of Directors during the 2018 financial year During 2018, the changes in the Board of Directors are as follows: Nature of the change Comments Shareholders’ Meeting held Renewal of the term of office of Anne Beaufour – on 30 May 2018 as Director Appointment of Philippe Bonhomme at Philippe Bonhomme has been appointed for the Board of Directors in replacement of the remaining term of office of Mayroy SA, Mayroy SA of w h i c h h e h ad b e e n th e p e r m a n e nt representative since 1 June 2012. Appointment of Paul Sekhri at the Board of Paul Sekhri, of US citizenship, is a seasoned Directors in replacement of Hervé Couffin Life Sciences executive with more than 30 years of international experience in general management, drug development, technology identification and commercial strategy, in large pharma companies, biotech and private equity firms. Appoinment of Piet Wigerinck at the Board Piet Wigerinck, of Belgian citizenship, is a of Directors in replacement of Hélène senior and renowned scientist with a strong Auriol-Potier experience and understanding of the drug discovery pipeline, from target identification and validation through to clinical Proof Of Concept, in large international pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Non-renewal and non-replacement of – Pierre Martinet Resignation of Christophe Vérot, who has not – been replaced Decision of the Works Council’s Designation of Jean-Marc Parant as Director D e s i g n a t i o n by t h e Wo r k s C o u n c i l i n Meeting held on 27 November 2018 representing the employees noted by accordance with the provisions of Article the Board of Directors’ Meeting held on L.225-27-1 of the French Commmercial 13 December 2018. Code and of the article 12 of the Articles of Association. There are currently thirteen Board members, four of whom are independent, and one is a Director representing the employees. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 181 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Summary table of the members of the Board of Directors as at 31 December 2018 Name Function Nationality Gender Age Date of first Date of last End of Committee membership appointment renewal term of office Marc de Garidel Chairman of French M 61 11/10/2010 27/05/2015 ASM 2019 • Innovation and Development Committee – the Board of with effect as Specialty Care (Chairman) Directors at 22/11/2010 • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare (Chairman) Antoine Flochel Vice-Chairman French M 54 30/08/2005 07/06/2017 ASM 2021 • Compensation Committee (Chairman) and Director • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Anne Beaufour Director French F 55 30/08/2005 30/05/2018 ASM 2022 • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care (Guest) • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare (Guest) Henri Beaufour Director French M 54 30/08/2005 27/05/2015 ASM 2019 • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care (Guest) • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare (Guest) Philippe Bonhomme Director French M 49 30/05/2018 N/A ASM 2020 • Audit Committee • Nomination Committee • Ethics and Governance Committee • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare Margaret Liu Independent American F 62 07/06/2017 N/A ASM 2021 • Ethics and Governance Committee Director (Chairperson) • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care David Meek Chief Executive American M 55 07/06/2017 N/A ASM 2021 • Innovation and Development Committee – Officer and Specialty Care (Guest) Director • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare (Guest) Michèle Ollier Director French-Swiss F 60 27/05/2015 N/A ASM 2019 • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care Jean-Marc Parant Director French M 59 27/11/2018 N/A ASM 2022 (*) representing the employees Paul Sekhri Independent American M 60 30/05/2018 N/A ASM 2022 • Innovation and Development Committee – Director Specialty Care • Audit Committee • Nomination Committee Carol Stuckley Independent American F 63 07/06/2017 N/A ASM 2021 • Audit Committee (Chairperson) Director • Compensation Committee Piet Wigerinck Independent Belgian M 54 30/05/2018 N/A ASM 2022 • Innovation and Development Committee – Director Specialty Care • Compensation Committee Carol Xueref Director British F 63 01/06/2012 31/05/2016 ASM 2020 • Nomination Committee (Chairperson) • Compensation Committee • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare • Ethics and Governance Committee (*) For further details, see table above, on the Afep-Medef Code recommendations which have not been applied, concerning article 17.1 Ms Anne Beaufour was renewed as Director by the Meeting to be held in 2020 to approve the financial statements Shareholders’ Meeting of 30 May 2018 for a duration of four for the past financial year. years, i.e., until the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2022 Mr. Paul Sekhri and Mr. Piet Wigerinck were appointed, to approve the financial statements for the past financial year. in replacement respectively of Mr. Hervé Couffin and Ms Mr. Philippe Bonhomme was appointed as Director by the Hélène Auriol-Potier, as they do not wish to renew their term Shareholders’ Meeting of 30 May 2018, in replacement of of office, as Independent Directors by the Shareholders’ Mayroy SA and for the remaining term of office of Mayroy Meeting of 30 May 2018 for a term of four years expiring at SA, i.e for a term of two years expiring at the Shareholders’ the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2022 to approve the financial statements for the past financial year. 182 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The term of office of Mr. Pierre Martinet expired at the end of Mr. Jean-Marc Parant was designated by the Works Council on the Shareholders’ Meeting of 30 May 2018, he chose not to 27 November 2018, as Director representing the employees, renew his mandate as Independent Director and has not been for a term of four years expiring at the Shareholders’ Meeting replaced. to be held in 2022 to approve the financial statements for the past financial year. Mr. Christophe Vérot resigned from his duties as Director as of 30 May 2018, he has not been replaced. Presentation of the Board members as at 31 December 2018 Marc de Garidel Nationality: Shares owned: 141,549 Chairman of the Board of Directors French Voting rights: 262,829 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 11 meetings Marc de Garidel is a graduate from the French Engineering School ESTP, and has an Executive Committees: MBA from Harvard Business School. • Innovation and Development Marc de Garidel started his career with Eli Lilly with various responsibilities in countries like US, Committee – Specialty Care Germany, France. Between 1995 and 2010, he held Executive position in finance & general (Chairman) management including the biggest region of Amgen International operations & the corporate (Attendance rate: controller of Amgen Inc. 100% on 10 meetings) Marc de Garidel joined Ipsen as Chairman and CEO in November 2010. • Innovation and Development He is now Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ipsen since the third quarter of 2016 and is Committee – Consumer advisor of the Ipsen holding company Mayroy SA. HealthCare (Chairman) (Attendance rate: Marc de Garidel has been CEO of Corvidia Therapeutics, Inc. since March 29, 2018. 100% on 4 meetings) Marc de Garidel has been Vice-President of EFPIA between 2014 until June 2017, the European Pharmaceutical Trade Association, and chairs the Association of French Health Care companies Date of birth: (G5) between 2011 and 2018. His mandate as Chairman of IMI governing board also expired in 16 March 1958 May 2017. Marc de Garidel was Vice-president of the Board of Vifor Pharma (Switzerland) between Date of 1st appointment: May 2017 and 2018 (formerly Galenica) of which he was a board member since 2015. 22 November 2010 Positions and functions currently held Last renewal date: 27 May 2015 Main functions: Other positions: • Ipsen SA**, Chairman of the Board of • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), advisor Term of office: Directors 2019 Shareholders’ Meeting • Corvidia Therapeutics Inc. (United States of America), Chief Executive Officer* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years Past positions previously held: • Vifor Pharma GmbH** (formerly Galenica) (Switzerland), Director and Vice-president of the Board of Directors* • G5 Santé (France), Chairman and spokesperson* • Filière des Industries et Technologies de Santé (France), Vice-President of the Strategic Committee* • Vectorlab GmbH (Switzerland), Chairman* • Ipsen SA** (France), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman • Suraypharm SAS (France), Chairman • Pharnext (France), Director* • Promethera (Belgium), Non-Executive Chairman* • Inserm Transfert (France), Vice-President of the Advisory Board* • EFPIA, Director and Vice-President* • IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative), Chairman of the Board of Directors* • Galenica** (France), Director* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 183 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Antoine Flochel Nationality: Shares owned: 5,000** Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors French Voting rights: 10,000 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 11 meetings Antoine Flochel is currently the legal manager of Financière de Catalogne (Luxembourg) and Committees: Vice-Chairman of Ipsen SA’s Board of Directors. He is a Managing Director and Chairman of the • Compensation Committee Board of Mayroy SA and Director of Beech Tree SA. (Chairman) Antoine Flochel worked for Coopers & Lybrand Corporate Finance (now PricewaterhouseCoopers (Attendance rate: Corporate Finance) from 1995 to 2005 and became a partner in 1998. 100% on 5 meetings) Antoine Flochel is a graduate of the Paris Sciences Po (institute of political studies), holds a law • Innovation and Development degree and a postgraduate degree in economics of the Paris Dauphine University, as well as an Committee – Specialty Care MSc in finance from the London School of Economics. (Attendance rate: 100% on 10 meetings) Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: Date of birth: • Financière de Catalogne SPRL (Luxembourg), • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Managing 23 January 1965 Legal Manager* Director and Chairman of the Board • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director Date of 1st appointment: • Blue Hill Participations S.à.r.l (Luxembourg), 30 August 2005 Legal Manager* • KF Finanz AG (Switzerland), Director* Last renewal date: • Financière CLED SPRL (Belgium), Legal 7 June 2017 Manager* • VicJen Finance SA (France), Chairman* Term of office: • Meet Me Out (France), Director* 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • ADH (France), Director* • Alma Capital Europe SA (Luxembourg), Director* • Alma Capital Investment Funds SICAV (Luxembourg), Director* • Alma Capital Investment Managers (Luxembourg), Director* • Lepe Capital (United Kingdom), Member of the Investment Advisory Committee* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Antoine Flochel is Chairman of VicJen Finance SA which held 2,000 shares of the Company and 4,000 voting rights as of 31 December 2018. He is also Legal Manager of Financière de Catalogne, which held 3,000 shares of the Company and 6,000 voting rights at the same date. Anne Beaufour Nationality: Shares owned: 1 ** Director French Voting rights: 2 ** BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 55% on 11 meetings Anne Beaufour holds a Bachelor’s degree in geology (University of Paris Orsay). Committees: Anne Beaufour is the shareholder of several companies, which directly and/or indirectly hold • Innovation and Development shares of the Company (see the section 5.2.3.1). Committee – Specialty Care (Guest) Positions and functions currently held • Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare Main functions: Other positions: (Guest) • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Vice Chairperson • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director and of the Board of Directors and Managing Chairperson of the Board of Directors Date of birth: Director • Highrock S.à.r.l. ( Luxembourg ), Legal 8 August 1963 Manager* • Bluehill Participations S.à.r.l. (Luxembourg), Date of 1st appointment: Legal Manager* 30 August 2005 • South End Consulting Limited (SEC Ltd) (United Kingdom), Director* Last renewal date: 30 May 2018 Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • FinHestia S.à.r.l. (Luxembourg), Legal Manager Term of office: 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting * Outside Ipsen Group. ** The indirect shareholding is described in section 5.2.3.1. 184 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Henri Beaufour Nationality: Shares owned: 1 ** Director French Voting rights: 2 ** BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 45% on 11 meetings Henri Beaufour holds a Bachelor of Arts degree (Georgetown University, Washington DC, United Committees: States). • Innovation and Development Henri Beaufour is the shareholder of several companies which directly and/or indirectly hold Committee – Specialty Care (Guest) shares of the Company (see the section 5.2.3.1). • Innovation and Development Henri Beaufour is also involved in philanthropic activities, in particular children’s support Committee – Consumer HealthCare associations helping young persons to have access to appropriate education, such as the Alasol (Guest) foundation. Date of birth: Positions and functions currently held 6 January 1965 Main functions: Other positions: • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Director • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director Date of 1st appointment: • Massa Management SARL (Luxembourg), 30 August 2005 Partner and Legal Manager* Last renewal date: Positions previously held that expired during the last five years 27 May 2015 None Term of office: 2019 Shareholders’ Meeting * Outside Ipsen Group. ** The indirect shareholding is described in section 5.2.3.1. Philippe Bonhomme Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Director French Voting rights: 1,000 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 6 meetings Since 2005, Phillippe Bonhomme has been Partner, Director and a member of the management Committees: committee of Hottinguer Corporate Finance, which is the investment banking arm of Hottinguer • Audit Committee bank. He has been advising in France and abroad on numerous transactions in the pharma and (Attendance rate: healthcare sectors as well as on private equity-backed transactions. 100% on 5 meetings) From 1993 to 2005, Philippe Bonhomme was first an auditor and then, a Corporate Finance • Nomination Committee consultant within Coopers & Lybrand (renamed into PricewaterhouseCoopers). (Attendance rate: From 2012 to 2018, Philippe Bonhomme was the permanent representative of the Company 100% on 2 meetings) Mayroy SA, a Director of Ipsen SA. • Ethics and Governance Committee Philippe Bonhomme is a graduate of École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC, Paris) and (Attendance rate: a French Certified Public Accountant (CPA). 100% on 4 meetings) • Innovation and Development Positions and functions currently held Committee – Consumer HealthCare (Attendance rate: Main functions: Other positions: 100% on 3 meetings) • Hottinguer Corporate Finance SA (France), • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Director Pa r tne r, D ire ctor a nd M e mbe r of the Date of birth: Management Committee* 5 November 1969 Positions previously held that expired during the last five years Date of 1st appointment: • Permanent representative of Mayroy at Ipsen’s Board of Directors 30 May 2018 Term of office: 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting * Outside Ipsen Group. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 185 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Margaret Liu Nationality: Shares owned: 689 Independent Director American Voting rights: 689 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 11 meetings Margaret Liu is currently a Global Health, Vaccines and Immunotherapy Consultant for pharma/ biotech and investment companies, universities, and governmental scientific research councils. Committees: She also serves as a Professor at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden since 2003, first • Ethics and Governance Committee as Visiting Professor and then as Foreign Adjunct Professor. She is also Adjunct Full Professor at (Chairperson) the University of California in San Francisco, CA since 2013. (Attendance rate: 100% on 11 meetings) Before that, she occupied various functions in the private and public sector parallel to her • Innovation and Development academic career. From 1984 to 1988 she was Visiting Scientist at the Massachusetts Institute Committee – Specialty Care of Technology. From 1987 to 1989 she was Instructor of Medicine at Harvard University. From (Attendance rate: 1989 to 1995, she was Adjunct Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania 100% on 10 meetings) in Philadelphia, PA. From 1990 to 1997, she served as Director, then Senior Director for Virus and Cell Biology at Merck Research Laboratories. From 1997 to 2000, she served Date of birth: as a Vice-President of Vaccines Research and then Vice-President of Vaccines and Gene 11 June 1956 Therapy at Chiron Corporation in Emeryville, CA. From 2000 to 2002, she was Senior Advisor in Vaccinology for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. From 2000 to 2006, she was ViceDate of 1st appointment: Chairman of Transgène in Strasbourg, France. From 2005 to 2009, she served as a Director 7 June 2017 of Sangamo Biosciences Inc. She was President of the International Society for Vaccines from 2016 until the end of 2017. Term of office: She is an accomplished leader in the research and development of vaccine and immunization 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting programs for infectious diseases, particularly HIV and in the field of gene-based therapies. She earned her B.A. in Chemistry, summa cum laude, from Colorado College and an M.D. from Harvard Medical School. She was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Science (D.Sc.) from Colorado College and received the Karolinska Institute’s highest distinction in May 2017, Medicine Doctor honoris causa-MDhc. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • ProTherImmune (United States of America), • I n t e r n a t i o n a l S o c i e t y f o r Va c c i n e s , Global Health, Vaccines and Immunotherapy Past-President* Consultant* • Jenner Institute, University of Oxford (United Kingdom), Scientific Advisory Board* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • International Society for Vaccines, President* * Outside Ipsen Group. 186 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT David Meek Nationality: Shares owned: 7,906 Director and Chief Executive Officer American Voting rights: 7,906 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 11 meetings David Meek was appointed CEO of Ipsen in July 2016. He is also on the Board of Directors of Committees: Ipsen. David Meek has over 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry where he has • Innovation and Development held various global executive positions in major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Committee – Specialty Care (Guest) Prior to joining Ipsen David Meek was Executive Vice-President and President of the oncology • Innovation and Development division of Baxalta. Committee – Consumer HealthCare David Meek started his biopharma career at Johnson & Johnson and Janssen Pharmaceutica (Guest) (1989-2004) where he held a variety of senior US sales and marketing positions across therapeutic areas in primary care, specialty care, and oncology. Date of birth: 12 September 1963 He then joined Novartis (2005-2012), where he successively served as the global business franchise head for the company’s respiratory and dermatology franchise in Basel, Switzerland; Date of 1st appointment: President and Chief Executive Officer of the pharmaceutical division in Canada; and the head Chief Executive Officer: 18 July 2016 of oncology for Northern, Central and Eastern Europe. From 2012 to 2014, he served as Chief (unlimited term) Commercial Officer of Endocyte, an oncology biotechnology company. Director: 7 June 2017 Prior to his biopharma career David Meek was an officer in the United States Army. He is a graduate of the University of Cincinnati. Term of office as Director: 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting David Meek serves on the Boards of uniQure, PhRMA, EFPIA and Camping and Education Foundation. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Ipsen SA** (France), Chief Executive Officer • Ipsen SA** (France), Director • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman • uniQure** (The Netherlands), Non-executive Board member* • PhRMA, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (United States of America), Board member* • EFPIA, European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, Board member* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years None * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 187 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Michèle Ollier Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Director French-Swiss Voting rights: 500 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 91% on 11 meetings Since 1 February 2016, Michèle Ollier is one of the partner and founder of Medicxi, a capital venture company located in Geneva and London. Medicxi is the spin-off of the life science Committees: section of Index Ventures. • Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care From February 2006 to February 2016, Michèle Ollier was Partner in the life science investment (Attendance rate: team of Index Ventures. 90% on 10 meetings) From 2003 to 2006, she was the investment’s manager at Edmond de Rothschild Investment Partner in Paris. From 2000 to 2002, she was the corporate’s vice-manager at Serono Date of birth: International. From 1994 to 2000, she occupied various posts at Rhône-Poulenc Rorer 2 June 1958 in particular in oncology and in the division “gene therapy”, RPR Gencell. Before, Michèle Ollier occupied various functions in strategy, development, and commercialization in the Date of 1st appointment: pharmaceutical companies Sanofi International and Bristol-Myers Squibb France. 27 May 2015 Michèle Ollier is a graduate of the medicine faculty of Paris-Ouest. Term of office: Positions and functions currently held 2019 Shareholders’ Meeting Main functions: Other positions: • Medicxi (Switzerland and United Kingdom), • Epsilon 3 Bio Limited (United Kingdom)* Partner* • LinguaFlex Inc. (United States of America)* • Human Antibody Factory (United Kingdom)* • Palladio Biosciences Inc. (United States of America)* • Ky m o T h e r a p e u t i c s L i m i te d ( U n i te d Kingdom)* • Kaerus France SAS (France)* • Kaerus Bioscience Limited ( United Kingdom)* • Mavalon Therapeutics Limited ( United Kingdom)* • Diasome Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( United States of America)* • Gadeta BV (The Netherlands)* • Vitavest NL Coop (The Netherlands)* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • STX pharma Limited (United Kingdom)* • Minerva Neuroscience, Inc.** (United States of America)* • Purple Therapeutics Limited (United Kingdom)* • Encare Biotech BV (The Netherlands)* • AbTco BV (The Netherlands)* • Cyrenaic Pharma Inc (United States of America)* • Profibrix (The Netherlands)* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. Jean-Marc Parant Nationality: Shares owned: 30* Director representing the employees French Voting rights: 60* BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 2 meetings Jean-Marc Parant has been designated Director representing the employees by the Works Council on 27 November 2018. Date of birth: 28 September 1959 Employee of the Ipsen Group since January 1989, he is currently Head of Digital Learning Solutions and was previously Training Director. He thus contributed to the implementation of Date of 1st appointment: the training management system within the Ipsen Group, notably through dedicated digital 27 November 2018 platforms. Jean-Marc Parant is graduated from the Bordeaux School of Medicine, specialized in the field of Term of office: medical informatics (artificial intelligence and data bases) and graduated in statistics. He is also 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting an expert in Training and Digital learning. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Head of Digital Learning None Solutions Positions previously held that expired during the last five years None * Shares held under the free shares plan to all the employees of the Group, dated January 22, 2009, approved by the Board of Directors during its meeting held on the same day. In capacity as Director representing the employees, and according to the articles of association of the company, the Director representing the employees is not required to hold a minimum number of Ipsen shares. 188 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Paul Sekhri Nationality: Shares owned: 100 Independent Director American Voting rights: 100 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 83% on 6 meetings Paul Sekhri has been, President and Chief Executive Officer of e-Genesis, a company specialized in gene editing technology to deliver safe and effective human transplantable cells, Committees: tissues and organs, since 17 January 2019. • Innovation and Development Prior to this, Paul Sekhri was President and Chief Executive Officer of Lycera Corp., a US Committee – Specialty Care biopharma company focused on treatments for cancer and autoimmune diseases from (Attendance rate: February 2015 until January 2019. He served as Senior Vice President, Integrated Care for 100% on 5 meetings) Sanofi from April 2014 through January 2015. Previously, he served as Group Executive Vice • Audit Committee President, Global Business Development and Chief Strategy Officer for Teva Pharmaceutical (Attendance rate: Industries, Ltd. Before joining Teva he spent five years as Operating Partner and Head of the 80% on 5 meetings) Biotechnology Operating Group at TPG Biotech, the life sciences venture capital arm of TPG • Nomination Committee Capital. From 2004 to 2009, Paul Sekhri was Founder, President, and Chief Executive Officer of (Attendance rate: Cerimon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Prior to founding Cerimon, he was President and Chief Business 100% on 2 meetings) Officer of ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Between 1999 and 2003, Paul Sekhri spent four years as Senior Vice President, and Head Date of birth: of Global Search and Evaluation, Business Development and Licensing for Novartis Pharma 26 April 1958 AG and also developed the Disease Area Strategy. His first role was as Global Head, Early Commercial Development – a department he established to ensure the differential competitive Date of 1st appointment: advantage of Novartis’ pipeline. 30 May 2018 Paul Sekhri is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Compugen Ltd., Petra Pharma Corp., Topas Therapeutics GmbH, Alpine Immune Sciences, Inc., Pharming Group NV and Term of office: Veeva Systems, Inc. 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting Additionally, he serves on non-profit boards such as the English Concert in America, the Knights and The Orchestra of St. Luke’s. Paul Sekhri received his BS in Zoology from the University of Maryland, College Park and completed graduate work in Neuroscience at the University of Maryland School of Medicine. Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: • e-Genesis (United States of America), • Compugen, Ltd.** (Israel), Chairman of the President and Chief Executive Officer* Board*; • Petra Pharma Corp. ( United States of America), Chairman of the Board*; • Topas Therapeutics GmbH ( Germany), Chairman of the Board of Super visor y Directors*; • Alpine Immune Sciences, Inc.** ( United States of America), Independent Director*; • Pharming Group NV** (The Netherlands), Chairman of the Board of Super visor y Directors*; • Veeva Systems, Inc.** ( United States of America), Independent Director* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Enumeral Biomedical, Inc. (United States of America), Director* • Nivalis Therapeutics, Inc. (United States of America) Director* • Lycera Corp. (United States of America), President and Chief Executive Officer*(1) (1) Until 17 January 2019, Paul Sekhri was President and Chief Executive Officer of Lycera Corp. * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 189 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Carol Stuckley Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Independent Director American Voting rights: 500 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 11 meetings Carol Stuckley is currently the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice-President of Healthcare Committees: Payment Specialists, LLC in Fort Worth, TX. Healthcare Payment Specialists provides • Audit Committee (Chairperson) technology enabled solutions for health care eligibility, government reimbursement and (Attendance rate: compliance to hospitals and healthcare systems across the US. 100% on 6 meetings) From 2010 to 2013, she was Vice President, Finance (Chief Financial Officer), North America at • Compensation Committee Galderma Laboratories, L.P., in Fort Worth, TX. Prior to Galderma, Carol Stuckley had a 23-year (Attendance rate: career at Pfizer, Inc., New York, NY, where she held several multinational and global, senior 100% on 2 meetings) financial leadership roles including Assistant Treasurer, Corporate Officer and Vice-President of Finance. Date of birth: She holds an MBA in International Business & Finance and an MA in Economics from Temple 20 September 1955 University (Fox Business School) in Philadelphia, PA as well as a BA in Economics and French from the University of Delaware in Newark, DE. Date of 1st appointment: 7 June 2017 Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: Term of office: • Healthcare Payment Specialists, LLC • Financial Executives International (United 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting (United States), Chief Financial Officer and States), Fort Worth Chapter, Board Senior Vice President* Member* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Harris & Dickey, LLC (United States) and Carol Stuckley, LLC, Consultant* • Galderma Laboratories, L.P. (United States), Vice-President, Finance (Chief Financial Officer), North America* • Financial Executives International (United States), Fort Worth Chapter, President* * Outside Ipsen Group. Piet Wigerinck Nationality: Shares owned: 680 Independent Director Belgian Voting rights: 680 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 6 meetings Piet Wigerinck, Ph.D., joined Galapagos NV in April 2008 as SVP Development and was Committees: appointed Chief Scientific Officer in 2010. Under his leadership, Galapagos has developed • Innovation and Development a large pipeline of novel mechanism of action drugs. He has supervised multiple successful Committee – Specialty Care proofs-of-concept patient studies, including filgotinib, GLPG1690, and MOR106. (Attendance rate: Prior to his tenure at Galapagos, Piet Wigerinck was Vice President, Drug Discovery, Early 100% on 7 meetings) Development and CM&C at Tibotec-Virco Comm. VA (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson • Compensation Committee Services, Inc.). Under his leadership at Tibotec, TMC114 (Prezista™) and TMC435 (Olysio™) (Attendance rate: were selected and moved forward into clinical trials. Piet Wigerinck played a key role in Tibotec’s 100% on 2 meetings) expansion into novel diseases such as Hepatitis C and advanced several compounds into Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. Date of birth: Piet Wigerinck has over 30 years of R&D experience in the pharmaceutical industry and 22 December 1964 biotechnology. He holds a Ph.D. from the K.U. Leuven and is inventor on more than 25 patent applications. Date of 1st appointment: 30 May 2018 Positions and functions currently held Main functions: Other positions: Term of office: • Galapagos NV (Belgium)**, Chief Scientific None 2022 Shareholders’ Meeting Officer* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years None * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. 190 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Carol Xueref Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Director British Voting rights: 1,000 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 82% on 11 meetings Carol Xueref is Chairperson of Floem SAS, a consultancy firm. She was Secretary General and a Committees: member of Essilor International’s Executive Leadership Team until 30 June 2016. • Nomination Committee From 1982 to 1986, Carol Xueref was Deputy to the Attachée for Commercial Affairs at the British (Chairperson) Embassy in Paris. From 1986 to 1990, she was Head of Division at the International Chamber of (Attendance rate: Commerce (Paris). In 1990, she became Director for Legal and Tax Affairs at the Banque Populaire 100% on 2 meetings) de la Région Ouest de Paris. From 1993 to 1996, she was Head of a legal department within Crédit • Ethics and Governance Committee Lyonnais and subsequently Director for Legal Affairs of OIG (Crédit Lyonnais’ defeasance entity). (Attendance rate: From 1996 to 2014, Carol Xueref was Director for Legal Affairs and Group Development and from 100% on 11 meetings) 2014 to 2016 Secretary General; she was a member of Essilor International’s Executive Leadership • Compensation Committee Team. She has been a member of the Autorité de la Concurrence (French Competition Authority) (Attendance rate: since 2006, and chaired its “Compliance” working group. 100% on 2 meetings) Carol Xueref is a founder member and a past-President of the Cercle Montesquieu (Association of • Innovation and Development French Legal Directors (1998-2002)) and chaired its “Ethics of in-house lawyers” working group. Committee – Consumer HealthCare She is member of the “Association Française des Femmes Juristes” and Director of the Franco(Attendance rate: British Lawyers Society. 100% on 4 meetings) Carol Xueref holds a Master’s Degree in Law and a Post Graduate Degree in International Commercial Law (DESS) from the University of Paris II (Assas). Date of birth: 9 December 1955 Positions and functions currently held Date of 1st appointment: Main functions: Other positions: 1 June 2012 • Floem SAS (France), Chairperson* • Eiffage** (France), Director and member of the Compensation and Appointments Date of last renewal: Committee (chairperson as of 27/02/2019) 31 May 2016 and member of the Strategic Committee* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years Term of office: 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting • Essilor International** (France), Director of several subsidiaries of the Group (France and abroad), Secretary General and Member of the Executive Leadership Team* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. For the purposes of their office, Directors are domiciled at the Meeting. If the temporary appointments are not approved Company’s registered office. by the Shareholders’ Meeting, the resolutions adopted and actions taken by or with the support of such Directors will Members of the Board of Directors nevertheless still be valid. The Director elected to replace Statutory provisions another will remain in office only for the remainder of his predecessor’s term. Subject to the exceptions provided for by law, the Board of Directors is comprised of a minimum of three and a maximum Directors are appointed for a four-year term. Exceptionally of eighteen members who are appointed by Ordinar y and exclusively in order to enable the staggering of Directors’ Shareholders’ Meetings. terms of office to be implemented and maintained, the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may appoint one or several Directors must own at least one share in the Company. If, on directors for one year, two years or three years. the day of appointment, a Director does not own the number of shares required, or if, during the term of office, he or she The number of Directors being more than 70 years old cannot ceases to own the required number, the Director shall be be higher than one-third of the Directors in office. When this deemed to have resigned from his or her position unless the age limit is exceeded, the oldest Director is automatically situation is remedied within the statutory period. deemed to have resigned at the end of the following Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. Should one or more seats on the Board of Directors become vacant between two Shareholders’ Meetings, either through Duties of Directors come to an end upon the conclusion of death or resignation, the Board of Directors may appoint the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the temporary replacements under the conditions set out by law. financial statements for the previous financial year which is However, if the number of Directors in office falls below the held in the year in which the term of office of the said Director minimum legal requirement, the Directors still in office or, expires. Incumbent Directors may always be re-elected. failing that, the Statutory Auditors, must immediately call an Provisions of the Internal rules of the Board of Directors Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting in order to bring the Board back up to strength. Every Director shall dedicate the time and attention required to discharge the duties of his/her mandate and attend the Temporary appointments made by the Board of Directors meetings of the Board and the Committee(s) of which they will be subject to ratification by the following Shareholders’ are a member. The report on corporate governance lists the 2018 Ipsen Registration document 191 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT mandates held by members of the Board of Directors and Without prejudice to the applicable provisions of the Articles of records their individual attendance at Board and Committee Association, every Director, except the Director representing meetings. the employees, must be a Company shareholder in a personal capacity and own, directly or indirectly, a relatively significant An Executive officer of the Company should not hold more number of shares. Any Director, whether an individual or a than two other directorships in listed companies, including permanent representative of a legal entity to whom directors’ foreign companies, not affiliated with his or her group. The fees have been paid, must hold, before the expiry of a twoprior opinion of the Board must be sought prior to accepting year period following his first appointment, 500 Company a new directorship. shares. A Director should not hold more than four other directorships Company officers must retain registered shares at least a in non-Group listed companies, including foreign companies. number of shares equivalent to 20% of the net proceeds The Director must keep the Board informed of the offices resulting from the selling of stock options or performance and positions held in other companies. The non-executive shares granted until the end of their term of office. Chairman must also obtain the opinion of the Board before accepting a new corporate office. These shares must be held in registered form. The Board shall be made up of Directors chosen because of The Company regularly informs Directors of the timetable their competence and their experience with respect to the of blackout periods as well as new obligations applicable to Company and the Group’s operations. them. Employee representation on the Board of Directors Board members may attend training sessions on specific areas of the Company, its business line(s) and industrial The Board of Directors includes one or two Directors sector, and the consequence of its social and environmental representing the employees. risks are to be arranged on the Company’s own initiative or at Pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles of association of the the request of the Board. Company, as amended by the Shareholders’ Meeting of Before accepting office, each Director should ensure he is 30 May 2018: familiar with any general or specific obligations relating to • If the Ipsen SA Board of Directors is comprised of twelve his position. In particular, they ought to acquaint themselves (12) members or fewer, the designation of a single employee thoroughly with the legal provisions governing the Company, representative is required. The Director representing the its Articles of Association, and provisions of the Board’s employees will be appointed by the Works Council of the Internal rules which apply to them. existing economic and social unit within the Ipsen Group. Directors are elected by all the Company’s shareholders and • If the Board of Directors is comprised of more than twelve must act in all circumstances in the Company’s interest. (12) members, the designation of a second employee representative is required. The second Director representing Directors must inform the Board of any conflict of interest the employees will be appointed by the European Works situation, including a potential conflict of interest, between Council. themselves and the Company or the Group and shall abstain The office of Director representing the employees shall be from attending the debate and taking part in any discussions incompatible with any office of trade union representative and vote by the Board on the corresponding deliberations. or with any office in one of the employee representative Directors are required to contribute to the determination of the institutions listed in Article L.225-30 of the French Commercial orientations of the business of the Company and the Group Code. and to supervise their implementation. They must exercise an Subject to the specific legal provisions applicable to them, the effective and vigilant oversight of the Company’s and Group’s Directors representing the employees have the same rights, management. shall be bound by the same rules, especially with respect to Directors have a general duty of discretion and confidentiality confidentiality, and shall incur the same liability as other Board as regards the deliberations of the Board and its Committees. members. The same applies to all non-public information and documents They are bound by all the provisions of the Internal Rules of provided to them at meetings or otherwise in connection with the Board of Directors, with the exception of those relating to their functions as Board or Committee members or their the obligation to own any share in the Company. The Directors participation in their deliberations. This duty of discretion and representing the employees will not be paid as part of their confidentiality shall continue to apply even after the end of the mandate. term of office. The Director representing the employees has a preparation Directors undertake to comply with all stock market regulations time of fifteen (15) hours per Board meeting which is designed to prevent any market abuse detrimental to the considered as effective working time and remunerated for interests or image of the Company or the Group. accordingly to his salaried position. Directors shall not carry out transactions in any shares of The Director representing the employees receives, at companies in respect of which they hold insider information, his request, training suited to the exercise of his office of owing to their position, which would be likely to have a 35 hours of training for first year, and then 20 hours per each significant effect on the price of the securities concerned. subsequent year. 192 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Independence of the members of the Board of Directors A non-executive Officer cannot be considered independent if A Director is independent when he/she has no relationship he/she receives variable compensation in cash or in the form of any kind whatsoever with the Company, its Group or of shares or any compensation linked to the performance of the management that may interfere with his/her freedom the Company or Group. of judgement. Accordingly, an Independent Director is Directors representing major shareholders of the Company or understood to be any non-executive Director of the Company its parent company may be considered as being independent, or the Group who has no particular bonds of interest provided that these shareholders do not take part in control of (significant shareholder, employee, other) with them. the Company. Nevertheless, beyond a 10% holding of stock Independent Directors should account for at least a third or 10% of the voting rights, the Board, upon a report from the of Board members. Directors representing the employee Ethics and Governance Committee, should systematically shareholders and Directors representing employees are review the qualification of a Director as independent in the light not taken into account when determining the percentage of of the make-up of the Company’s capital and the existence of independent Directors within the Board and the Committees. a potential conflict of interest. Qualification as an independent Director should be discussed The Board shall examine, upon recommendation of the in the light of the AFEP-MEDEF Code criteria as follows: Ethics and Governance Committee, at least once a year which Directors meet these independence criteria and shall • not to be and not to have been during the course of the report the conclusions of this review to shareholders (i) every previous five years: year during the Shareholders’ Meeting convened to approve –– an employee or executive Officer of the Company; the financial statements for the previous financial year and –– an employee, executive Officer of a company or a director (ii) during Shareholders’ Meetings convened to elect new of a company consolidated within the Company; Directors or ratify Directors co-opted by the Board. –– an employee, executive Officer or a director of the Furthermore, once a year, the Ethics and Governance Company’s parent company or a company consolidated Committee assesses whether or not the directors’ business within this parent; relationship with the Company or the Group is material. This assessment forms part of the annual review of directors’ • not to be an executive Officer of a company in which the independence based on a multi-criteria approach using both Company holds a directorship, directly or indirectly, or in quantitative and qualitative criteria (including the duration which an employee appointed as such or an executive and continuity of the relationship, the organization of the Officer of the Company (currently in office or having held relationship and the amounts concerned). The Committee such office during the last five years) is a director; verifies, where appropriate, that the amounts of transactions • not to be a customer, supplier, commercial banker or between the Company and the relevant director or the investment banker or consultant (or be linked directly or company with which he or she is associated (as a customer, indirectly to these persons): supplier, commercial banker, investment banker or consultant) do not exceed certain thresholds of the stakeholders’ revenue, –– that is material to the Company or its Group; equity, assets or debt. –– or for a significant part of whose business the Company or its Group accounts. At its meeting of 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors, upon an Ethics and Governance Committee proposal, The evaluation of the significant or non-significant deemed that: relationship with the Company or its Group must be debated by the Board and the quantitative criteria that lead to the • Ms. Margaret Liu, Ms. Carol Stuckley, Mr. Paul Sekhri and evaluation (continuity, economic dependence, exclusivity, Mr. Piet Wigerinck are Independent Directors as defined etc.) must be explicitly stated in the corporate governance by the Afep-Medef Code and the Board’s Internal Rules report; outlined above. The other Board members are related to an entity which controls the Company or are Corporate • not to be related by close family ties to a company Officer; Officers or employees of said company. Ms. Anne Beaufour • not to have been an auditor of the Company within the and Mr. Henri Beaufour are brother and sister. There are previous five years; no other family relationships among the other members of the Company’s Board of Directors and/or Executive • not to have been a director of the Company for more than Management of the Company; twelve years. Loss of the status of independent director occurs on the date at which this period of twelve years is • there is no business relationship between the members of reached. the Board of Directors and the Company. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 193 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The detail of the current independence criteria evaluation is as follows: Independence Not to be and not to have Not to be an Not to be a Not to be related by Not to have been Not to have criteria (*) been during the course executive Officer of customer, close family ties to a an auditor of the been a director of the previous five years a company in which supplier, company Officer Company within of the Company an employee or executive the Company holds a commercial the previous five for more than Officer of the Company; an directorship, directly banker or years twelve years employee, executive Officer or indirectly, or in investment of a company or a director which an employee banker or of a company consolidated appointed as such or consultant (or be within the Company; an an executive Officer linked directly or employee, executive Officer of the Company indirectly to these or a director of the Company’s (currently in office persons) parent company or a company or having held such consolidated within this parent office during the last five years) is a director Directors Marc de Garidel Marc de Garidel has been – – – – – Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors since this date. Antoine Flochel Antoine Flochel is Vice– – – – – Chairman of the Ipsen SA Board and Managing Director of Mayroy SA, the company controlling Ipsen SA. Anne Beaufour Anne Beaufour is the Board – – Anne Beaufour and – – Vice-Chairperson and Henri Beaufour are Managing Director of Mayroy brother and sister. SA, the company controlling Ipsen SA. Henri Beaufour Henri Beaufour is a Director – – Anne Beaufour and – of Mayroy SA, the company Henri Beaufour are controlling Ipsen SA. brother and sister. Philippe Bonhomme Philippe Bonhomme is a – – – – – Director of Mayroy SA, the company controlling Ipsen SA. Margaret Liu – – – – – – David Meek David Meek is Chief Executive – – – – – Officer of Ipsen SA. Michèle Ollier Michèle Ollier is closely linked – – – – – to Mayroy SA, the company controlling Ipsen SA. Jean-Marc Parant Jean-Marc Parant is an Ipsen – – – – – Pharma SAS’ employee as Head of Digital Learning Solutions. Paul Sekhri – – – – – – Carol Stuckley – – – – – – Piet Wigerinck – – – – – – Carol Xueref Carol Xueref is closely linked – – – – – to Mayroy SA, the company controlling Ipsen SA. (*) The criterion of non-executive Officer cannot receive a variable compensation and/or a compensation linked to the performance of the Company or Group is not presented in the table as only the executive Officers receive such compensation. The significant shareholder criterion is also not presented in the table as the links with the major shareholder are mentioned aboved and as there is no representative of any other significant shareholder at the Board of Directors. 194 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Diversity policy of the Board of Directors for its Internal rules of the Board of Directors’ provisions composition In addition to the missions stated in the Articles of Association, the Chairman reports each year the work of the Board of The Nomination Committee and the Ethics and Governance Directors to the Shareholders’ Meeting. Committee ensure the monitoring of a balanced composition of the Board of Directors and report on it. The objective of the In addition, the Chairman also fulfills the following specific Board of Directors is to ensure the presence of independent missions: members, in accordance with the Afep-Medef Code • he may represent the Company, in cooperation with the recommendations. The contribution of international skills and Chief Executive Officer and at the request of the latter, in experience (particularly in science, finance and legal affairs), its high-level relations, on a national and international level, a balanced representation of women and men in compliance especially with the public authorities, the Group’s main with law n°2011-103 of 27 January 2011, and a diversity of partners and other strategic stakeholders of the Company; nationalities figure amongst the criteria. • he may, without prejudice to the prerogatives of the Board The Committees consider each of these criteria when of Directors and its Committees, be consulted by the Chief searching for future candidates and for every mandate Executive Officer regarding any significant events related to renewal. The Directors appointed at the Shareholders’ the Company’s strategy and major growth projects. Meeting of 30 May 2018 have been chosen pursuant to this The Chairman may attend all of the meetings of the Committees policy. of which he is not a member in an advisory capacity and may consult them on any issue within their area of competence. The Board of Directors is currently comprised of thirteen members, including five women (Ms. Anne Beaufour, Ms. In all of these specific missions, the Chairman acts in close Margaret Liu, Ms. Michèle Ollier, Ms. Carol Stuckley and Ms. coordination with the Chief Executive Officer and at the request Carol Xueref)*, and seven non-French nationals (Ms. Carol of the latter who will solely be in charge of the leadership and Xueref, a UK national, Ms. Margaret Liu, Ms. Carol Stuckley operational management of the Group (subject to limitations and Mr. David Meek and Paul Sekhri, US nationals, Mr Piet of powers expressly decided by the Board of Directors, see Wigerinck a Belgian national and Ms. Michèle Ollier, of French section 5.1.2 relating to the Executive Management of the and Swiss nationality). Registration Document). The Vice-Chairman of the Board, when one has been Chairman of the Board of Directors appointed, assists the Chairman in his mission to organize and supervise the Board’s works. He takes part in the preparation Statutory provisions of Board meetings in coordination with the Chairman and, in that capacity, is consulted by the Chairman to set an agenda. The Board of Directors shall elect its Chairman among its Before the notice of a meeting is sent out, together with the members, for a term that may not exceed his/her term of Chairman, the Vice-Chairman reviews the documents and office as a Director. The Chairman must be a person and not a information made available to Directors. legal entity, failing which the appointment will be null and void. Operating rules of the Board of Directors The Chairman may stand for re-election. He may be removed by the Board of Directors at any time. Internal Rules of the Board of Directors The Board adopted Internal Rules, the main points of which In the event of the Chairman’s temporary unavailability or are: death, the Board of Directors may appoint another Director to • role, operation and resources of the Board of Directors; take his place for a limited but renewable period in the event of temporary unavailability; and until a new Chairman is elected, • independence criteria for Directors; in the event of death. • directors’ obligations, particularly relating to conflicts of interests, if applicable, with a requirement to abstain from The Chairman chairs the Board’s meetings and organizes and discussions and voting as well as relating to confidentiality, manages its work. He reports to the Shareholders’ Meeting on by introducing a general discretion obligation covering all the work of the Board of Directors and enforces its decisions. information and documents obtained in the discharge of The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Company’s their duties; governing bodies operate correctly (in compliance with good governance principles) and that the Directors are able to • permanent Board Committees and ad hoc Committees. perform their duties. Role of the Board of Directors In charge of managing the Company, in accordance with its The Board of Directors may also appoint a Vice-Chairman legal obligations and the Articles of Association, the Board: from among its individual members, who chairs meetings of the Board in the event of an exceptional absence of the • endeavours to promote long-term value creation by the Chairman. Otherwise, in the absence of the Chairman, company by considering the social and environmental meetings of the Board of Directors are chaired by the oldest aspects of its activities. If applicable, it proposes any Director present. statutory change that it considers appropriate; * Representing more than 40% (the Director representing the employees is not taken into account in this calculation), pursuant to article L.225-18-1 of French Commercial Code. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 195 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT • in collaboration with the Chief Executive Officer, defines the More generally, the Board exercises the functions assigned strategic orientation, examines and decides on important to it by the law to act at all times in the Company’s corporate operations, reviews the strategic orientations of the Company interest and takes particular care to prevent any conflicts of and the Group, which is made up of the Company and the interest and to take all interests into account. business units it consolidates in its financial statements (hereafter “the Group”), its investment, disinvestment, or Functioning and meetings of the Board of Directors internal restructuring projects, the Group’s overall policy The Board of Directors meets as often as required by the with regard to human resources, in particular its policy interest of the Company, when convened by its Chairman on compensation, profit-sharing, and performance-based at the Company’s registered office or in any other place incentives. It appraises the performance of the Company’s indicated in the notice. The Board meets at least once per management on an annual basis and is consulted on new quarter. Directors may take part in meetings by any means executive managers’ recruitments; allowed by law, the Articles of Association, and the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors. • approves the annual budget presented by the Chief Executive Officer, and all its amendments when exceeding Moreover, if the Board has not met for a period of over two an amount of €10 million; months, at least one-third of its members, and the Chief • approves, on a proposal of the relevant Innovation and Executive Officer if he is not also the Chairman, may ask the Development Committee and before any decision is made, Chairman to call a meeting to discuss an agenda attached to acquisitions or divestments of equity interests or assets, the request. The Chairman may not refuse to call a meeting partnerships, alliances, or cooperation agreements relating under these circumstances. to research, development, industry, and business as well as, Should he fail to do so, and only in such a case, the Chief generally speaking, any transaction or any commitment that Executive Officer, or one of the Deputy Chief Executive might significantly affect the Group’s financial or operating Officers, or at least two Directors, may call a Board meeting situation or its strategic guidelines; and set the agenda. • is regularly informed via the Audit Committee about the Notices of meetings are made by any means in writing (e.g. by financial situation, the Company’s cash position, and all the letter, fax, telex or electronic mail), not less than fifteen days significant events affecting the Company; it is kept informed before the date of the meeting, except in emergencies when by its Chairman and by its Committees of all significant the notice may be issued by any means but must be sent no events related to the conduct of business for the Company later than the day before the meeting. Notices of meetings and the Group; may, however, be made verbally and without a period of • ensures that shareholders and the public are well informed notice if all members of the Board so agree. of the strategy, development model, major non-financial An attendance register is kept and signed by those Directors matters of the Company, issues as well as its long-term attending the Board meeting. outlook, in particular via the control it exercises on the information given by the Company; and in this respect, it Resources and conditions of preparation of the works of defines the Company’s communication policy, in particular the Board – Confidentiality regarding the frequency with which financial information relating to the Group is released; Members of the Board of Directors must receive all necessary information and may obtain any documents they consider • checks that the Company has reliable procedures in place useful from the Company’s General Management. Prior to to identify, assess, and monitor its commitments and risks, any meeting, they may request any reports, documents, and including off-balance sheet risks, as well as an appropriate research prepared by the Group and may commission any internal control system; external technical reports at the Company’s expense. • is informed about market developments, the competitive In this respect, and without prejudice to individual directors’ right environment and the most important aspects facing the to information by law and the Articles of Association, the Vicecompany, including in the area of social and environmental Chairman of the Board, acting on behalf of all directors, may responsibility; request the Chairman of the Board to provide any information • regularly reviews, in relation to the strategy it has defined, the document required by the directors to discharge their duties in opportunities and risks, such as financial, legal, operational, accordance with the laws and the Articles of Association. social and environmental risks, as well as the measures The Board is regularly informed and, especially during its taken accordingly. To this end, the Board of Directors meetings, of the Company’s financial situation, cash position receives all of the information needed to carry out its task, and significant commitments. notably from the executive officers; The Board of Directors may have call on the Group’s main • if applicable, ensures the implementation of a mechanism senior executives, whether or not they are Company officers. to prevent and detect corruption and influence peddling; The Directors may, collectively or individually, consult the • also ensures that the executive officers implement a policy Group’s senior executives for advice on any matter, while of non-discrimination and diversity, notably with regard to informing the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive the balanced representation of women and men on the Officer and may meet these senior executives without the governing bodies. Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer being present. 196 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Directors may likewise, collectively or individually, during The Vice-Chairman assists the Chairman of the Board in or outside meetings, ask the Chairman and/or the Chief the organization and management of the Board’s works and Executive Officer for information they deem useful, should contributes to preparing the Board’s meetings. disclosure of said information not be prohibited by rules of prudence on confidentiality. The Board of Directors shall carry out such controls and verifications as it deems appropriate. Directors receive any relevant information, specifically, monthly reports, press reviews, and financial analysts’ reports. Work of the Board of Directors in 2018 Directors are also regularly informed of market developments, The Board of Directors met 11 times during the 2018 financial the competitive environment and the main issues, including in year. The average attendance rate at meetings (excluding the fields of corporate social and environmental responsibility. Committee meetings) was 85% in 2018 (percentage including the committee’s outgoing members’ attendance). Directors also regularly receive information on any change in corporate governance regulations. The Company’s Statutory Auditors were called to Board meetings held to approve the annual and half-year financial The Board of Directors is a collegial body whose deliberations statements. are binding on its members. The Board’s members, and any other person participating in meetings, are bound by a strict The following matters were reviewed and discussed by the duty of confidentiality and discretion with respect to any Board of Directors in 2018: information disclosed to them by the Company in connection • Financial statements and financial position: review and with the Board and Committee deliberations that are of a approval of the 2017 annual and consolidated financial confidential nature or that are presented as such by the statements, the 2018 half-year financial statements, Chairman of the Board of Directors. examination of the management forecast documents, and the 2019 budget; Members of the Board of Directors are appointed by all the shareholders and must act in all circumstances in the • Strategy and development: review and follow-up of Company’s corporate interest. Directors are bound to acquisition projects, partnership and development projects, report to the Board any conflict of interest, whether actual and Group strategic review; or potential, between him/her and the Company or Group. • Compensation policy: review and determination of the Consequently, they must abstain from taking part in the voting respective compensation of the Chairman of the Board and on the related resolution. of the Chief Executive Officer, preparation of the report on corporate governance including the Corporate Officers’ Quorum and majority compensation policy and grant of performance shares; The Board of Directors shall only validly deliberate if at least • Organization and functioning of the Board of Directors: half of its members are present. Decisions are adopted by a proposals to renew the appointments of Directors, report majority vote of the Directors present or represented. In the on the independence of the Directors, assessments of event of a tie, the Chairman has no casting vote. executive officers’ performance without their presence, Directors attending meetings by videoconferencing or other review of the Committees’ missions, implementation of the telecommunications means are deemed to be present for ad hoc Committee known as the Scientific Advisory Board the purposes of calculating the quorum and majority, within (appointing its members, defining its functioning, missions the limits and under the conditions provided for by law. and areas of reflexion), an update of the Internal Rules of This option cannot be used in the case of the decisions the Board of Directors subsequent to the revision of the provided for by Articles L.232-1 and L.233-16 of the French Afep-Medef Code, review of the missions of the Chairman Commercial Code. of the Board, digital switch to a document sharing platform, as well as formalizing a procedure for welcoming new Powers of the Board of Directors Directors (welcome booklet, site visits, trainings, etc…); The Board is responsible for defining and implementing the • Corporate Officers: approval of a formalized succession Company’s strategic guidelines. plan framework for the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer functions; Subject to the powers expressly granted to Shareholders’ • Shareholders’ Meeting: review and approval of the Meetings and within the limits of the Company’s corporate report on corporate governance, convening notice of the purpose, the Board of Directors considers all issues related Shareholders’ Meeting of 30 May 2018, approval of the to the efficient operation of the Company and, through its resolutions; deliberations, settles all matters that may arise. • Share capital: capital increase linked to the exercise of In relations with third parties, the Company is bound even by subscription options; acts of the Board of Directors that are not consistent with the corporate purpose, unless it proves that the third party was • Human Resources: talent identification policy, nonaware that the act exceeded such purpose, or could not be discrimination and diversity policy implemented within the unaware thereof given the circumstances, it being specified Group; that the mere publication of the Articles of Association is not • Ethics and Compliance: review and approval of CSR sufficient to constitute such proof. strategy and policy, deployed within all Group entities. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 197 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Work of the Chairman of the Board of Directors in 2018 The Committees of the Board of Directors During the 2018 financial year, the Chairman of the Board of Common rules to all Committees – Organization and Directors organized and directed the work of the Board. He operation of the Committees of the Board of Directors coordinated the work of the Board with that of the Committees. In accordance with its Internal Rules, the Board of Directors may The Chairman presented in particular the Board of Directors’ establish temporary or permanent specialized Committees organization and operations during the Shareholders’ Meeting with at least three and no more than six members, of its of 30 May 2018, including the work of the Board and its choosing, and appoint the Chairperson of said Committees. Committees, as well as the appointment and renewal of the These Committees submit their opinions and proposals to the term of office of directors proposed to the Shareholders’ Board and report to the Board on their work. Meeting. Committee members chosen from among the Directors are appointed in a personal capacity for the duration of their The Chairman of the Board of Directors is also Chairman term of office as a Director. They cannot delegate anyone to of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty represent them. They can be replaced or dismissed at any Care and of the Innovation and Development Committee – time by the Board. Their terms of office are renewable. A Consumer HealthCare. He has also been a member of the single Director can be a member of several Committees. The Nomination and Governance Committee until 30 May 2018 Board of Directors appoints the Chairperson from among the and has actively contributed to the recruitment of the new members of a Committee. Directors appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 30 May 2018, as well as on the implementation of the Scientific Subject to the specific rules applicable to them, each Advisory Board. Committee determines the frequency of its meetings. Said meetings are held at the head office or any other location On 29 March 2018, Mr. Marc de Garidel was appointed decided by its Chairperson when he convenes it and sets the as Chief Executive Officer of Corvidia Therapeutics Inc., meeting’s agenda. an American company specialized in the pharmaceutical industry. This nomination led particularly to the redefining A Committee can meet only if at least half of its members are of his missions as Chairman of the Ipsen Board of Directors present, in one of the ways allowed by the law or the Articles and to amend the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors of Association with respect to Directors attending Board accordingly by the Board meeting of 28 March 2018. meetings. Evaluation of the Board of Directors The Chairperson of a Committee may invite all Board members The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors provide for to several of its meetings, as well as any other person. Only an annual discussion on its operation, composition and members of the Committee shall take part in its deliberations. organization in an executive session without the Chairman The minutes of each Committee meeting are drawn up by the of the Board, if appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer Secretary of the Board under the authority of the Chairperson and management team members. This executive session of the Committee. The minutes are then sent to all members is prepared by the Ethics and Governance Committee, in of the Committee. The Chairpersons of Committees report to conjunction with the Vice-Chairman of the Board or a Director the Board on the work carried out by their committees under specially appointed for this purpose. The Board may call in an the conditions set by the Board. external consultant to conduct an evaluation. The Board also performs a formal evaluation at least once every three years. Within its own area of competence, each Committee issues proposals, recommendations, or opinions. To this end, Moreover, the Directors conduct an evaluation on the each Committee may carry out or have carried out, at the performance of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer Company’s expense, all external studies likely to enlighten the and, if any, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s), without their Board’s deliberations. Each Committee reports to the Board presence. The results of this evaluation are communicated by on its work at each one of the Board’s meetings. A summary the Chairman of the Board of Directors to the Chief Executive of the activity of each Committee is included in the Annual Officer. Report. An evaluation of the Board of Directors’ functioning and Each Committee may decide, if need be, on its other operating organization was included in the agenda of the Board meeting procedures. It ensures periodically that its rules and operating of 13 December 2018 upon the recommendation of the Ethics procedures enable it to assist the Board in deliberating validly and Governance Committee. The activity of the Board (the on the issues within its remit and can propose to the Board a broad outline is presented in section “Meetings and Work of change in its Internal Rules. the Board in 2018” hereinabove) was found to be full and active in terms of governance. It was noted the positive engagement The Board of Directors has set up six permanent committees: of the new members of the Board and the quality of the • a Nomination Committee, scientific discussions which have made significant progress. It • an Ethics and Governance Committee, was also stressed that the digital shift to a document sharing • a Compensation Committee, platform was an important first step in securing the Board’s communications. Finally, a self-evaluation of the Board’s • an Audit Committee, functioning will be formalized by an independent director or an • an Innovation and Development Committee Specialty external consultant during the 2019 financial year. Care, and 198 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT • an Innovation and Development Committee Consumer • support of new directors, including in particular the HealthCare. strengthening of the welcome policy (welcome booklet, meetings, site visits, trainings, etc…); An ad hoc Committee, the Scientific Advisory Board, has also been created which is not a permanent Committee of • discussion and reflection on the involvment of the Director the Board. representing the employees in the work of the Board (training, presence at Committees, etc.); The Nomination Committee • review of the PACTE Law linked to the representation of Role employes on the Board; and The role of the Nomination Committee is to: • setting up a succession plan framework for Corporate • in conjunction with the Ethics and Governance Committee Officers (Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the (for aspects relating to conflicts of interest) and the Chairman Board). This plan considers several scenarii, including most of the Board, make proposals to the Board of Directors notably emergency succession (in case of legal incapacity, concerning the re-election, replacement or appointment of sudden resignation, illness or death) as well as the planned new Directors; succession and accelerated succession. Each scenario provides a decision-making process adapted to each • ensure the balance and complementarity of the skills of the situation. The Chief Executive Officer participated actively directors and the diversity of their profiles; in the establishment of the succession plan. In particular, • organize a procedure to select future independent directors; he met the Committee to share his recommendations on potential succession assumptions within the Executive • give its opinion, in conjunction with the Chairman of the Leadership Team taking into account the nature of the Board, on the recruitment or the replacement of the Chief operations and the strategy of the Group. The Nomination Executive Officer or Deputy Chief Executive Officers, Committee reviews this plan at regular intervals and keeps if applicable, as well as on members of the Executive the Board of Directors informed. Leadership Team; • design, if applicable, in conjunction with the Chairman of This work has been reported and, when appropriate, a the Board, a plan for replacement of Company Officers, so recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee as to be able to propose replacement solutions to the Board meeting. in the event of an unforeseen vacancy; The Ethics and Governance Committee • regularly review directors training plans and the process for Role welcoming and integrating new directors. The role of the Ethics and Governance Committee is to: Composition • review the definition of the Group’s fundamental values and The Nomination Committee comprises at least three and no its ethics and compliance policy; more than six directors, one-third of whom are independent, • submit recommendations on ethics and compliance to the according to the criteria set out above. The Board appoints Board of Directors; discuss all issues relating to ethics and the Chairperson of the Committee from among its members. compliance referred to it by the Board; The Nomination Committee is currently comprised of three • ensure the dissemination throughout the Group of the Code members, one of whom is independent. of Ethics and general ethics policies defined by the Group and their updates; Its members are: • ensure the implementation, monitoring and efficiency of • Carol Xueref (Chairperson), procedures for the communication and comprehension • Philippe Bonhomme, and of the Code of Ethics and compliance with it and overall • Paul Sekhri (Independent member). policies by employees of the Group; • examine the Group’s risks mapping from an ethics and The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings of the compliance standpoint; Nomination Committee and give his opinion when the agenda is about the appointment of Executive Leadership Team • review the Group’s ethics and compliance activity report; members or managers of the Group. • examine the organisation of the ethics and compliance function and make recommendations, when relevant; Meetings and work of the Nomination Committee • receive any information concerning possible breaches of The Nomination Committee meets at least twice a year the ethics and compliance policy and review action plans when convened by its Chairperson or at the request of the implemented to address these; Chairman of the Board. • examine the evolution of corporate governance rules, The Nomination Committee met 4 times in 2018 with an particularly those of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, and report its attendance rate of 78% (percentage including the committee’s conclusions and recommendations to the Board; monitor outgoing member’s attendance). the application of the rules of corporate governance defined by the Board of Directors and ensure that the information The Committee’s work focused mainly on the: is given to shareholders on this subject; specify, where • selection of new directors; appropriate, the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF 2018 Ipsen Registration document 199 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Code that are not applied and explain the reasons in an The Ethics and Governance Committee is currently comprised understandable, relevant and detailed manner; of three members, one of whom is independent. • propose the referral of the High Committee monitoring the Its members are: application of the AFEP-MEDEF Code on any question relating to a provision or the interpretation of said code; • Margaret Liu (Chairperson and independent member), • examine situations of potential conflicts of interest • Carol Xueref, and of members of the Company’s Board of Directors and • Philippe Bonhomme. communicate the results of its findings in accordance with an internal procedure which protects confidentiality; Meetings and work of the Ethics and Governance • give a technical opinion – with regard to the rules of ethics Committee and governance applied by the Group – on the mandates The Ethics and Governance Committee meets at least twice a and functions performed outside the Group by the members year when convened by its Chairperson. of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and, as the case may be, the Deputy Chief Executive Officers, at the The Committee met 11 times (physically or by call) in 2018 time of their appointment and annually as part of the review with an attendance rate of 95% (percentage including the of the information mentioned in the Registration Document; committee’s outgoing member’s attendance). • prepare, under the direction of the Chairperson of the The Committee’s work focused mainly on: Committee, in liaison with the Vice-Chairman of the Board • the work of Ethics & Compliance Department, in particular: or a specially appointed director, the annual “restricted session” of the Board of Directors on its operation, without –– review of the objectives of the Ethics & Compliance the presence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Department, Executive Officer and the executive members; –– review of the Education and Monitoring Plan, • give an opinion, in liaison with the Chairman of the Board, –– review of programme, follow-up and risks controls, on the list of independent directors of the Board of Directors –– anti-corruption risk approach globally and at country level when appointing a director and annually for all directors; (Sapin II Law), • make proposals to the Board for the establishment and –– review CSR policy within the Group, structuring of Board committees; –– revision of Code of conduct of the Group; • carry out, under the direction of the Chairperson of the Additional information on this work is referred to under Committee, a formal evaluation of the structure, size and Chapter 4 of this document. composition of the Board, periodically and at least every three years, and make recommendations to the Board • the assessment of the new mandate as Chief Executive regarding any changes; Officer of Corvidia Therapeutics Inc. held by the Chairman • propose to the Board the appointment of a Director in of the Board; charge of the relations of the Board with the shareholders, • the review of the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors in coordination with the Investor Relations Department of (missions of the Chairman, alignment with the revisions of the Company and the Chief Executive Officer; Afep-Medef Code on June 2018, setting of the decisions • if applicable, ensure the implementation of a mechanism submitted to the prior authorization of the Board); to prevent and detect corruption and influence peddling. It • the digital switch to a Board’s document sharing platform; receives all of the information needed for this purpose; • the review of the conflicts of interests and mandates of • also ensure that the executive officers implement a policy current and new Directors. of non-discrimination and diversity, notably with regard to the balanced representation of women and men on the These works have been reported and, when appropriate, a governing bodies. recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee meeting. The Ethics and Governance Committee may hear, when it deems necessary, the Executive Management or its members, The Compensation Committee Internal Audit, the Ethics & Compliance Department or any Role other member of the Management team. These hearings can be held, if applicable, without Executive Management being The role of the Compensation Committee is to: present. • make proposals to the Board of Directors on all components Composition of the compensation paid to the Group’s Company officers, senior management and senior executives; The Ethics and Governance Committee comprises at least three and no more than six directors, including at least one • be informed on all the matters pertaining to the recruitment independent director as defined by the criteria set out above, of the Group’s main senior managers, other than the Chief selected among members of the Board of Directors, who Executive Officer, as well as on any decisions related to all are not executive Company officers. The Board appoints the components of their compensation; Chairperson of the Committee from among its independent • issue recommendations on the amount and allocation of members. directors’ fees among Board members; 200 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT • make recommendations to the Board of Directors on The Audit Committee Group compensation policies and employee savings plans, Role employee share ownership schemes, stock options and bonus shares or any other similar forms of compensation. The role of the Audit Committee is to: • ensure the relevance and permanence of the accounting If it deems this is useful, the Compensation Committee may policies used to prepare both the Company’s and the ask the Chairman of the Board to help in its deliberations consolidated financial statements, review and assess the and work, except when it is discussing the Chairman’s consolidation scope as well as evaluate and verify the compensation. relevance of the accounting methods applied to the Group; Composition • examine, before they are presented to the Board, draft The Compensation Committee comprises at least three and annual and interim financial statements, draft annual and no more than six directors, including a half of independent half-yearly reports, draft forecasts and annual budgets directors as defined by the criteria set out above, selected as well as any financial and extra-financial accounting among members of the Board of Directors who are not information relating to any significant project; to that executive officers. The Board appoints the Chairman of the end, the Audit Committee should be able to cooperate Committee from among its members. (by exchanging information and working jointly) with the Innovation and Development Committee and the Executive The Compensation Committee is currently comprised of four Management before a summary of their work is presented members, two of whom are independent. to the Board; Its members are: • examine, before they are presented to the Board, press releases on financial results and guidance, as well as the • Antoine Flochel (Chairman), related presentations; • Carol Stuckley (Independent member), • examine draft resolutions relating to the financial statements • Piet Wigerinck (Independent member), and in order to make comments or suggestions, before they are • Carol Xueref. presented to the Board; The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings of the • control the quality of procedures relating to the preparation Compensation Committee and give his opinion mainly on and processing of financial and extra-financial accounting the compensation of the senior managers of the Group, the information compliance with them, and assess the incentives and the performance share plans. information received from management, internal committees and internal and external audits; Meetings and work of the Compensation Committee • monitor the effectiveness of internal control and risk The Compensation Committee meets at least twice a year management systems; when convened by its Chairman, or at the request of the • examine the risk exposure including those of a social and Chairman of the Board. environmental nature and significant off-balance sheet The Compensation Committee met 5 times in 2018 with commitments as well as the accounting options chosen; an attendance rate of 100% (percentage including the • manage the selection and reappointment of the Statutory committee’s outgoing member’s attendance). Auditors (through tendering procedure and submitted to the Board), verify their independence, give an opinion on The Committee’s work focused mainly on: the amount of fees they request, and submit the results of • the determination of elements of the compensation of the its work to the Board; Chief Executive Officer and of the Chairman of the Board • examine the details and appropriateness of the fees paid (in particular following his new duties as CEO of Corvidia by the Company and the Group to the Statutory Auditors Therapeutics Inc.), and ensure that said fees and corresponding services are • the report on elements of the compensation policy for unlikely to affect the auditors’ independence; Corporate officers, • authorize services, other than statutory audit work, that the • the information on compensation policy of the Group, Statutory Auditors and members of their networks may be • the Group Employee Stock Purchase Plan (terms of the asked to perform in accordance with the applicable laws plan, eligible entities, contribution, etc.), and regulations; • the reflection and implementation of granting of performance • conduct an annual review of the status of major disputes. shares to the Corporate officers and some employees of In the performance of its tasks, the Audit Committee: the Group and the free shares allocation plan to all Group employees, • submits to the Board its proposals regarding the appointment, compensation or replacement of the • the reflection on the harmonization and evolution of the Company’s Statutory Auditors; compensation and the retention policy within the Group. • reviews, with the management and the Company’s The work of the Committe has been reported and, when Statutory Auditors, the quarterly, interim and annual appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, after financial statements, the accounting principles and policies each Committee meeting. implemented, the Group’s audit and internal control 2018 Ipsen Registration document 201 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT principles and methods, risk management procedures Meetings and work of the Audit Committee and the analyses and reports relating to financial reporting, The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year, when ac c ou nting po li cy a nd c o m mu ni c ati o ns b et we e n convened by its Chairman. management and the Company’s Statutory Auditors; • examines and checks the rules and procedures applicable The Audit Committee met 6 times in 2018 with an attendance to conflicts of interest, expenses incurred by members of rate of 95% (percentage including the committee’s outgoing the management and the identification and measurement member’s attendance). of the main financial risks, as well as their application and The Statutory Auditors were present at meetings regarding submits its assessment every year to the Board; the review of annual and half-yearly financial statements • examines, checks and assesses on an annual basis the and presented the main aspects of the outcomes of the independence, the control procedures and the problems statutory audit and of the chosen accounting methods. encountered by the Company’s Statutory Auditors, as well as The Committee heard, in particular, the Statutory Auditors, the measures adopted to solve said problems, and monitors the Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer, the in the same manner the way in which internal audit operates; Group Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the Head of • more generally, it examines, checks and assesses Tax and the Head of Risk Management. A presentation everything likely to affect the regularity and fairness of the was also prepared for the members of the Audit Committee financial statements. by the Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer, regarding the Company’s significant risks and off-balanceThe Audit Committee ensures it is provided, and in sufficient sheet commitments. time, namely approximately one week in advance of each Committee meeting, all the necessary or useful information The Committee’s activities primarily involved: to be able to carry out the above task and calls on everybody • the review of the 2017 annual and consolidated financial whose testimony is deemed necessary or useful with regard statements, to said task. It may in particular have recourse to outside experts. • the review of the 2018 guidance, During the annual and half-year accounts examination an • the review of the 2018 half-year financial statements, Audit Committee’s meeting is held in a sufficient time prior to • the review of the 5-year strategic plan, the examination and the financial statements by the Board of Directors, namely two days before the Board meeting. • the review of the 2018 internal audit report, the 2018 and 2019 internal audit plan, and the work of the Group’s internal The Company refers to the AMF recommendation dated audit and of the internal control procedures, 22 July 2010 on the report of Audit Committees. Its functioning is yearly evaluated during the global evaluation of the Board of • the presentation and review of the risk mapping, Directors. Moreover, its work is subject to a report. • the implementation of an annual budget review policy, Composition • the 2018 closing options, The Audit Committee comprises a minimum of three Directors and a maximum of six Directors, including two-thirds of • the 2019 budget review. independent directors with regard to the independence These works have been reported and, when appropriate, a criteria referred to above, chosen from among Directors recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee who are not executive officers. All members of the Audit meeting. Committee must have financial or accounting expertise. The Board appoints the Chairperson of the Committee from among its members. The Chairperson of the Committee is The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty also an independent director. Care Role The Audit Committee is currently comprised of three members, two of whom are independent. The role of the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care is to: Its members are: • review the proposals presented by Management on • Carol Stuckley (Chairperson and independent member), internal Research & Development programs, Business • Paul Sekhri (Independent member), and Development and Merger & Acquisitions; • Philippe Bonhomme. • follow the update of the Business Development portfolio by In accordance with the terms of Article L.823-19 of the therapeutic areas; French Commercial Code at least one member of the • review divestiture programs if any to be endorsed later by Audit Committee must be independent and have finance, the Board. accounting or statutory audit expertise. Ms. Carol Stuckley and Mr. Paul Sekhri fulfill the independence and financial, To carry out its work, the Innovation and Development accounting or statutory audit criteria given their professional Committee – Specialty Care may audition the Group’s senior experience as described above. executives, whether corporate officers or not. 202 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Composition The Board may also decide the existence of permanent The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty guests to the Innovation and Development Committee – Care comprises the Chairman of the Board and five (5) other Consumer HealthCare. permanent members of the Board of Directors. The skill Its members are: set required from the participating committee members are science, drug development, financial, legal. • Marc de Garidel (Chairman); The Board may also decide the existence of permanent • Philippe Bonhomme; and guests to the Innovation and Development Committee – • Carol Xueref. Specialty Care. Its members are: Ms. Anne Beaufour, Mr. Henri Beaufour and Mr. David Meek are permanent guests of the Innovation and Development • Marc de Garidel (Chairman); Committee – Consumer HealthCare. • Antoine Flochel; Meetings and work of the Innovation and Development • Margaret Liu (Independent member); Committee – Consumer HealthCare • Michèle Ollier; The Committee meets at least four (4) times a year, when • Paul Sekhri (Independent member); and convened by its Chairman, or by a majority of its members. • Piet Wigerinck (Independent member). The Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer Ms. Anne Beaufour, Mr. Henri Beaufour and Mr. David Meek HealthCare met 4 times in 2018 with an attendance rate of are permanent guests of the Innovation and Development 100%. Committee – Specialty Care. During the year, the Innovation and Development Committee – Meetings and work of the Innovation and Development Consumer HealthCare mainly reviewed development projects Committee – Specialty Care and worked on the adaptation of the Consumer HealthCare The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty organization. Care meets at least four times a year, when convened by its Chairman, or by a majority of its members. Such work has been reported and, when appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty meeting. Care met 10 times in 2018 with an attendance rate of 98% (percentage including the committee’s outgoing member’s Ad hoc Committee: Scientific Advisory Board attendance). An ad hoc committee, the Scientific Advisory Board, has been The Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care established in 2018. mainly worked during the year on: • the review of proposed acquisitions, in particular Clementia The Scientific Advisory Board is composed of a Chairman, Phamaceuticals, who runs the Committee and four (4) additional external members at the most (in addition to the Chairman of the • the review of partnerships and Group development, Fondation Ipsen), chosen by this Chairman among those who • as well as the regular review of Group R&D pipeline. are the best placed and experienced to fulfill the missions of the Committee. These members are from outside Ipsen and These works have been reported and, when appropriate, a the term of their office may be renewed every year by tacit recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee reconduction. meeting. The Innovation and Development Committee – The Chief Scientific Officer and Head of Ipsen Research and Consumer HealthCare Development is a permanent guest to the Scientific Advisory Board. However, the Board may have closed sessions, Role without its presence. The role of the Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer HealthCare is to: Its members are: • review the proposals presented by Management on • Pr. Richard Trembath (Chairman); Business Development and Merger & Acquisitions, relating • Pr. Chas Bountra; to Consumer HealthCare; • follow the update of the Consumer HealthCare portfolio; • Pr. Paul M. Matthews; • review Consumer HealthCare divestiture programs if any to • Pr. Josep Tabernero; be endorsed later by the Board. • Pr. Simon Tavaré; and To carry out its work, the Innovation and Development • Mr. James Levine, Chairman of the Fondation Ipsen. Committee – Consumer HealthCare may audition the Group’s senior executives, whether corporate officers or not. The Scientific Advisory Board meets formally between once and twice a year with the Board of Directors. Composition The Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer The Scientific Advisory Board met for the first time in 2018 HealthCare comprises the Chairman of the Board and two (2) with the Board of Directors to start a dialogue on Group’s other permanent members of the Board of Directors. research areas. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 203 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 5.1.2 Executive Management Company’s Executive Management At its meeting on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors In accordance with the legal provisions, the executive changed the Company’s form of governance by separating management of the Company is the responsibility either of the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who then serves as Executive Officer. The separation of functions is effective since Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or of another person 18 July 2016, the start date of Mr. David Meek’s appointment appointed by the Board of Directors who then serves as Chief as Chief Executive Officer. With this change of governance, Executive Officer. The Board of Directors is responsible for the appointment of Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Board electing one of these two options for a period which may not of Directors has been confirmed. be less than one year. Executive Management David Meek Nationality: Shares owned: 7,906 Director and Chief Executive Officer American Voting rights: 7,906 BoD attendance rate 2018: Biography and experience 100% on 11 meetings David Meek was appointed CEO of Ipsen in July 2016. He is also on the Board of Directors of Committees: Ipsen. David Meek has over 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry where he has • Innovation and Development held various global executive positions in major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Committee – Specialty Care (Guest) Prior to joining Ipsen David Meek was Executive Vice-President and President of the oncology • Innovation and Development division of Baxalta. Committee – Consumer HealthCare David Meek started his biopharma career at Johnson & Johnson and Janssen Pharmaceutica (Guest) (1989-2004) where he held a variety of senior US sales and marketing positions across therapeutic areas in primary care, specialty care, and oncology. Date of birth: He then joined Novartis (2005-2012), where he successively served as the global business 12 September 1963 franchise head for the company’s respiratory and dermatology franchise in Basel, Switzerland; President and Chief Executive Officer of the pharmaceutical division in Canada; and the head Date of 1st appointment: of oncology for Northern, Central and Eastern Europe. From 2012 to 2014, he served as Chief Chief Executive Officer: 18 July 2016 Commercial Officer of Endocyte, an oncology biotechnology company. (unlimited term) Director: 7 June 2017 Prior to his biopharma career David Meek was an officer in the United States Army. He is a graduate of the University of Cincinnati. Term of office as Director: David Meek serves on the Boards of uniQure, PhRMA, EFPIA and Camping and Education 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting Foundation. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Ipsen SA** (France), Chief Executive Officer • Ipsen SA** (France), Director • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman • uniQure** (The Netherlands), Non-executive Board member* • PhRMA, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (United States of America), Board member* • EFPIA, European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, Board member* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years None. * Outside the Group. ** Listed company. For the purposes of his duties, the Chief Executive Officer is The Chief Executive Officer may be dismissed at any time by domiciled at the Company’s registered office. the Board of Directors. If the Chief Executive Officer is not the Chairman, his or her dismissal may give rise to damages if his The Chief Executive Officer or her dismissal is unjustified. Appointment and removal The Chief Executive Officer is subject to the provisions When the Board of Directors opts to separate the roles of of Article L.225-94-1 of the French Commercial Code on Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, it appoints simultaneous holding of office as Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, sets his or her term of office, and a member of Management Board, sole managing Director, determines any restrictions on his or her powers. 204 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Director or member of the supervisory board of French • Capital expenditures (Capex) exceeding a unit amount of sociétés anonymes with their registered offices in France. €20 million; If the Chairman is also the Chief Executive Officer, the • Strategic internal restructuring operations (including provisions concerning the Chief Executive Officer also apply significant reorganization and /or locations of major to him or her. industrial and commercial sites) and having a financial impact exceeding €20 million; Powers In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, • Financing transactions (including lease agreement) likely the Chief Executive Officer has the broadest powers to act at to modify the financial structure of the Company with a any time and in all circumstances in the name and on behalf financial value exceeding €20 million; of the Company, within the limits of the Company’s corporate • Creation, acquisition or transfer of legal entities when the purpose and subject to those powers expressly granted by total related investment exceeds €20 million; law to Shareholders’ Meetings and to the Board of Directors. • Litigations, penalties, fines, settlements, compromises, The Chief Executive Officer represents the Company in its exceeding €10 million. dealings with third parties. The Company is bound by the Chief Executive Officer’s acts even if the acts are outside The Chief Executive Officer may attend all of the meetings of of the corporate purpose, unless the Company can prove the Committees of which he is not a member in an advisory that the third party knew the act was ultra vires or could capacity and may consult them on any issue within their area not fail to have known this, given the circumstances, on the of competence. understanding that the sole publication of the Company’s Deputy Chief Executive Officers Articles of Association is not sufficient to constitute such proof. Upon a proposal of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors may appoint one or more persons to assist the However, for certain operations of Business Development, Chief Executive Officer with the title of Deputy Chief Executive the Board of Directors has determined specific thresholds, Officer. others than that mentioned below, for which the approval of the Board, upon recommendation of the relevant Innovation The maximum number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers is and Development Committee, will be required. set at five. As part of his duties, the Chief Executive Officer, member The scope and term of the powers granted to Deputy Chief of the Board of Directors, periodically meets the Company’s Executive Officers are determined by the Board of Directors investors and reports to the Board. and the Chief Executive Officer. Internal Rules of the Board of Directors With respect to third parties, Deputy Chief Executive Officers have the same powers as the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: Deputy Chief Executive Officers may be dismissed by the • The general management of the Company; Board of Directors at any time upon a proposal of the Chief • The chair of the Executive Leadership Team; Executive Officer. • Directing the Company and managing its operations; If the Chief Executive Officer ceases to exercise or is prevented from exercising his or her duties, the Deputy Chief Executive • Acting with the broadest powers in the name of the Company Officers will remain in office until a new Chief Executive in all circumstances, subject to powers attributed by law to Officer is appointed, unless the Board of Directors decides the Board of Directors or to the General Shareholders’ otherwise. Meeting. As of this Registration Document, no Deputy Chief Executive Notwithstanding the above and the specific thresholds for Officer has been appointed. Business Development, the Chief Executive Officer is required to obtain Board of Directors prior approval for the following Executive Leadership Team matters: To allow the Chief Executive Officer to conduct its missions, • Acquisition, licensing or sale of assets or equity investments an Executive Leadership Team (“ELT”) that is responsible within an approved strategy exceeding a unit amount of for managing the Company’s day-to-day operations and for €20 million commitment; coordinating the Group’s various scientific, legal, financial, commercial, and strategic actions has been set up. The ELT • Transfers of assets and/or equity interests, partnerships is also responsible for establishing consistent management or joint ventures, financial investments exceeding a unit policies throughout the Group and for assisting the Chairman amount of €20 million; of the Board of Directors in implementing the Board’s • Any transaction that is outside the Company’s approved decisions. strategic framework with a financial impact exceeding €10 million; 2018 Ipsen Registration document 205 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Composition of the Executive Leadership Team As at 15 March 2019, the members of the ELT are as follows: Name Function Date of entry in the ELT David Meek Chief Executive Officer 2016 Dominique Bery Executive Vice-President, Strategy & Transformation 2018 François Garnier Executive Vice-President, General Counsel 2015 Benoît Hennion Executive Vice-President and President, Consumer HealthCare 2017 Dominique Laymand Executive Vice-President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 2017 Alexandre Lebeaut Executive Vice-President Research & Development, 2017 Chief Scientific Officer Aymeric Le Chatelier Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer 2014 Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch Executive Vice President, Chief Business Officer 2018 Régis Mulot Executive Vice-President, Chief Human Resources Officer 2018 Aidan Murphy Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations 2018 Richard Paulson Executive Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer 2018 of Ipsen North America Harout Semerjian Executive Vice-President, Chief Commercial Officer, 2017 Specialty Care There are no family relationships between the members of the • disqualified from acting as a board member, senior executive ELT, nor with the members of the Board. It is specified that or supervisory board member or from participating in the Mr. David Meek is Chief Executive Officer and Director of the management of a listed company. Company. The members of the ELT, except David Meek, hold an To the Company’s best knowledge and as of the date of employment contract with the Group. There are no other publication of this Registration Document, over the last five agreements or service contracts entered into between the years, none of the members of the Executive Leadership Company or one of its subsidiaries and one of the members Team have been: of the Company’s ELT. • convicted of fraud, charged with any other offence or had Biographies of the ELT members any official public disciplinary action taken against them by The biography of David Meek is given above and in statutory or regulatory authorities; section 5.1.1 of this Registration Document. • implicated in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation as an executive officer or director; Dominique Bery Executive Vice-President, Strategy & Transformation Nationality: Biography and experience French Dominique Bery joined Ipsen in April 2017. Dominique Bery spent the previous 18 years with McKinsey & Company, where she was elected Partner in 2010. Appointment date: 13 March 2018 Dominique Bery co-led the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Products Practice in Europe and served multiple pharmaceutical and biotech companies. She also worked with diagnostics Date of birth: companies, hospitals, payors, ministries of health, patient associations, and public health 27 April 1971 organizations, gaining extensive experience in the healthcare industry. Located in Paris and Washington, Dominique Bery led many company-wide transformation projects across Europe, US and Africa, working hand in hand with management and their teams. She supported clients to set their strategic priorities at corporate, business unit, and therapeutic area level, and she worked with a number of brand teams to accelerate brand performance. She brings a truly cross-functional perspective, having worked closely with most functions in pharmaceutical companies. In parallel, she initiated the creation of a community of 400 women executives in France, focused on developing the capabilities of women executives on key business topics such as innovation, leadership in transformation, business model disruption. Dominique Bery is a graduate from ESSEC and holds a Master in Business Administration from Harvard Business School. Current positions inside the Group None 206 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT François Garnier Executive Vice-President, General Counsel Nationality: Biography and experience French François Garnier was appointed Executive Vice-President, General Counsel in December 2014, effective as of 5 January 2015. Appointment date: 5 January 2015 François Garnier began his career in 1989 at Servier S.A. as International Contracts Manager, and remained with the company until September 1995. He then moved to Rhône Poulenc Rorer Date of birth: S.A. to take up the position of Counsel for Corporate Transactions. In 1996 he moved to the 4 May 1962 United States as Associate Counsel, before being appointed Chief Counsel for France in 1999. François continued his career as Chief Counsel at Aventis Animal Nutrition until 2001, when he joined the Pharmacia Group as Chief Counsel for Europe. Francois joined Pfizer France in 2003, as Vice-President, General Counsel before moving on to become Chief Counsel for Pfizer’s operations in Europe from 2009 to 2014. He was International Chief Counsel (ex-US) for Pfizer Inc. from January 2014. A student from the IEP in Paris, Francois Garnier graduated from the University of PanthéonAssas prior to working in the legal departments of a number of pharmaceutical groups. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director Benoît Hennion Executive Vice-President and President, Consumer HealthCare Nationality: Biography and experience French Benoit Hennion has been Executive Vice-President and President, Consumer HealthCare since March 2017. Appointment date: 13 March 2017 Benoît Hennion joined Ipsen in 2006 within the Corporate Strategic Planning team. In 2009, he became Consumer HealthCare Business Unit Head for France, and subsequently, in Date of birth: 2011, General Manager of France Operations (including both Specialty Care and Consumer 7 March 1976 HealthCare). Following the separation of the Specialty Care and Consumer HealthCare businesses in 2014, Benoit Hennion was appointed Vice President, Asia-Pacific, Specialty Care. Benoit Hennion gained his MBA degree at ESSEC (Paris, France). Before joining Ipsen, he started his career at Société Générale in the Czech Republic and then served for six years in the Paris office of Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director • Ipsen Consumer HealthCare SAS (France), Chairman • Ipsen OOO (Russia), Chairman and Director Dominique Laymand Executive Vice-President Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Nationality: Biography and experience French Dominique Laymand was appointed Executive Vice-President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer in October 2017. Appointment date: 6 October 2017 Dominique Laymand joined Ipsen in 2015 as Senior Vice-President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. Date of birth: Dominique Laymand is in charge of Ethics & Compliance strategy for the Ipsen Group, the 23 August 1954 deployment of the Global Ethics & Compliance program and the organization of this department. The Global Ethics & Compliance program is based on an integrated approach to prevention and management of operational risks, as well as on strong principles of integrity and ethics in the conduct of business. Previously Dominique Laymand served as Vice-President Ethics & Compliance at Bristol Myers Squibb, setting up and managing the Ethics & Compliance Europe, Middle East, Africa, Turkey and Russia program. Dominique Laymand also chairs the committee of compliance at the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and also at the French Association of Pharmaceutical Industries (Leem). Dominique Laymand is the president of ETHICS, an association which includes international professionals in Ethics and Compliance working in the healthcare sector. Current positions inside the Group None 2018 Ipsen Registration document 207 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Alexandre Lebeaut Executive Vice-President Research & Development, Chief Scientific Officer Nationality: Biography and experience American Dr. Alexandre Lebeaut was appointed Executive Vice-President, R&D, and Chief Scientific Officer in April 2017. Appointment date: 14 April 2017 Dr. Lebeaut joined Ipsen in 2013 as Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer, Global Drug Development and was appointed Interim Head of R&D in December 2016. He earned his Date of birth: M.D. from Paris Diderot University and specialized in Pediatrics at Paris Descartes University. 14 November 1957 Before joining Ipsen, he held several global leadership positions in Clinical Development and Medical Affairs with biopharmaceutical companies including Axcan Pharmaceuticals, Sanofi, Novartis and the Schering Plough Research Institute. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director • Ipsen Pharmsciences SAS (France), Chairman • Ipsen Innovation SAS (France), Managing Director • Ipsen Bioscience Inc. (United States of America), Chairman and Director • Ipsen (Beijing) Pharmaceutical Science and Technology Development, Co. Ltd. (China), Director Aymeric Le Chatelier Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer Nationality: Biography and experience French Aymeric Le Chatelier was appointed as Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer in November 2014. Appointment date: 3 November 2014 Aymeric Le Chatelier, a graduate from HEC, started his career at Arthur Andersen in 1993. He became internal auditor first at Lagardère group in 1997 and then at Vivendi group in 1998. From Date of birth: 1999, he successively executed several roles in finance management in France and the United 26 May 1969 States within Veolia Environnement, notably as Deputy Chief Financial Officer of Veolia Water in 2004-2005. In 2006, he joined the Arjowiggins group, a leading manufacturer of creative and technical paper, and was appointed Group Chief Financial Officer in 2009. In 2013, Aymeric Le Chatelier was appointed Financial Director of ERDF (the electricity distribution network company of EDF) and in 2014, he became a member of the Management Board in charge of Finance and Sourcing within ERDF. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch Executive Vice-President, Chief Business Officer Nationality: Biography and experience American Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch Ph.D, J.D was appointed Executive Vice-President, Chief Business Officer in March 2018. Appointment date: 13 March 2018 Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch joins Ipsen from Axcella Health Inc., where she served as Executive Vice-President, Chief Strategy and Corporate Development Officer. Prior to joining Axcella, Ivana Date of birth: Magovčević-Liebisch was Senior Vice-President and Head of Global Business Development at 11 July 1967 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd (2013-2017), where she led and executed multiple business development transactions ranging from licensing to acquisition of drug candidates, commercial products and companies for the global specialty drug business. She previously worked at Dyax Corp (2001-2013) in management roles of increasing scope and responsibility, including Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer. Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch began her biopharma career at Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc (1998-2001), where she was Director of Intellectual Property and Patent Counsel. Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Applied Genetic Technologies Corporation (AGTC), Alivio Therapeutics and Aeglea BioTherapeutics. Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch is a Trustee of Suffolk University, and an overseer of the Boston Ballet, Boston Museum of Science and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch holds a Ph.D. in Genetics from Harvard University and received her J.D. in High Technology law from Suffolk University Law School. She graduated from Wheaton College with a B.A. in Biology and Chemistry. In 2008, Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch was the winner of the Women Entrepreneurs in Science and Technology Leadership Award. Current positions inside the Group None 208 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Régis Mulot Executive Vice-President, Chief Human Resources Officer Nationality: Biography and experience French Régis Mulot was appointed Executive Vice-President, Chief Human Resources Officer in March 2018. Appointment date: 13 March 2018 He joined Ipsen from Staples Inc., the global specialty retail and e-commerce company, where he served as Executive Vice-President, Chief Human Resources Officer, leading a global team Date of birth: of over 600 professionals. Prior to his career with Staples (2009-2018), Régis Mulot held HR 10 May 1966 leadership positions with Levi Strauss & Co (2002-2008) and the technology start-up Broadnet Europe (2000-2002), following earlier roles at GTECH Corporation (1994-2000), International Post Corporation (1991-1994) and Chronopost SA (1989-1991). Régis Mulot holds a DESS Entreprises Publiques (Master in Public Administration) from Paris XI-Sud in partnership with Paris IX-Dauphine and Institut International d’Administration Publique (IIAP). He also holds a Maîtrise Droit Public (Bachelor of Law) from Paris II–PanthéonAssas, and is a Beta Gamma Sigma honoree from the Simmons College Chapter. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director Aidan Murphy Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations Nationality: Biography and experience Irish Dr Aidan Murphy was appointed Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations, effective 1 January 2018. He has over 25 years experience in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology Appointment date: industry. Since joining Ipsen in 2006, Dr Murphy has held manufacturing leadership roles in a 1 January 2018 number of countries. Date of birth: During the period 2014 to 2017, Aidan Murphy was Senior Vice President Biologics Development 13 April 1966 and Manufacturing at Ipsen. Prior to this role, he led the manufacturing sites in Tianjin (China), Dublin (Ireland) and Wrexham (UK) and held global roles as SVP CMC (Chemistry, Manufacturing, and Controls) Development & Engineering and Head of Specialty Care Manufacturing. Dr Murphy holds a PhD in organic chemistry from Trinity College, Dublin. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director • Ipsen Manufacturing Ireland Limited (Ireland), Director Richard Paulson Executive Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen North America Nationality: Biography and experience Canadian Richard Paulson was appointed Executive Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen North America, effective 5th February 2018. Appointment date: 5 February 2018 He is responsible for driving continued growth in both the US and Canadian markets across key therapeutics areas of oncology, neurology and rare diseases. Date of birth: During a 10-year career at Amgen, Richard Paulson held a number of positions in the company, 11 September 1967 including General Manager, Central and Eastern Europe, and subsequently General Manager Germany, before assuming leadership positions in Amgen’s Oncology Business Unit. Prior to joining Amgen, he held international positions in general management, marketing and market access with Pfizer. He also served in a number of sales and marketing roles with increasing seniority for GlaxoWellcome in Canada. Richard Paulson earned his undergraduate degree in Commerce from the University of Saskatchewan, Canada, and his MBA from the University of Toronto, Canada. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (United States of America), Director 2018 Ipsen Registration document 209 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Harout Semerjian Executive Vice-President, Chief Commercial Officer, Specialty Care Nationality: Biography and experience Canadian Harout Semerjian, Executive Vice-President, Chief Commercial Officer, Specialty Care, has Appointment date: been a member of the ELT since 2 February 2017. 2 February 2017 Harout Semerjian has more than 23 years of pharmaceutical experience, including the last 17 years at Novartis focused on oncology and specialty care. He took on leadership roles with Date of birth: increasing responsibility across the U.S., Canada, Europe, Middle East & North Africa in addition 6 November 1970 to headquarter-based roles. His last role was Senior Vice-President and Global Launch Head of ribociclib. Prior to that, he was Vice-President and U.S. Hematology Franchise Head based in New Jersey. He holds dual MBA degrees from Cornell University, New York and from Queen’s University, Canada. He also holds a Bachelor Degree of Science in Biology from the Lebanese American University. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director Conflicts of interests, no-condemnation and The E xecutive Of ficers have signed a non-compete service contracts commitment to prevent certain situations of conflicts of interest arising when they leave the Group. Conflicts of interest involving governance, Management and Executive Managements bodies Absence of condemnation of the members of the Board The Director is elected by all the shareholders and must act in of Directors and the Executive Management all circumstances in the Company’s interest. To the Company’s best knowledge, and as at the date of this Registration Document, none of the members of the Board Directors must inform the Board about any actual or potential of Directors nor the Executive Management of the Company, conflicts of interest between themselves and the Company have been over the last past five years: or the Group and must abstain from attending the debate and taking part in any vote by the Board on the related • convicted of fraud, charged with any other offence or had deliberations. any official public disciplinary action taken against them by statutory or regulatory authorities; Moreover, as part of its missions, the Ethics and Governance Committee regularly reviews with the Board of Directors the • implicated in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation; issue of conflict of interest. Each Director must report its • disqualified from acting as a board member, senior executive activities to the Ethics and Governance Committee on an or supervisory board member or from participating in the annual basis for review and recommendation to the Board of management of a listed company. Directors. Service contracts with members of the Company’s To the best of the Company’s knowledge and as of the date of governing bodies publication of this Registration Document: To the Company’s best knowledge, no service contracts • there is no conflict of interest between the duties of the has been signed, involving directors or any member of the members of the Board of Directors, Executive Management, Board or of the Management and the issuing company or its and Company officers vis-à-vis the Company and their subsidiaries likely to provide such benefits. personal interests and other duties; Loans and guarantees granted to members of the Board • there is no undertaking or agreement with the main No loan or guarantee has been granted by the Company shareholders, clients, suppliers, or other parties pursuant to any member of its Board of Directors or its Executive to which one of the members of the Board of Directors and Management. of the Executive Management of the Company has been appointed as Director; Specific terms for participating in Shareholders’ • no Director or members of the Executive Management Meetings have entered into any agreement restricting the sale of The specific terms for the participation of shareholders in the their shareholding in the Company, at the exception, for the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting are found in section 5.2.1.4 of Company Officers, of the minimum portion of shares that this Registration Document. must be held until his term of office. 210 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Factors likely to have an impact in the event of a Delegations currently valid granted by the public offer Shareholders’ Meeting on capital increases The factors likely to have an impact in the event of a public offer The delegations currently valid and having been granted by are found in section 5.2.3.6 of this Registration Document. the Shareholders’ Meeting regarding capital increases are found in section 5.2.2.4 of this Registration Document. 5.1.3 Compensation of Corporate Officers ■■5.1.3.1 Directors’ fees receive an additional director’s fee of €20,000 for a full year of service, Rules regarding the allocation of directors’ fees The Board of Directors decided at its meeting of 10 November • each Director who is a member of at least one Committee 2009, with effect from the 2010 financial year, and within shall receive an additional amount of €5,000 for a full year the global limit of €1,200,000 approved by the Combined of service. Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017 (until new The Board of Directors can decide to allow additional decision), to allocate directors’ fees as follows: directors’ fees amounting to €5,000 for intercontinental travel • each member of the Board of Directors receives a director’s to attend a meeting of the Board. fee of €40,000 for a full year of service, The Board of Directors has decided on 13 December 2017 to • the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors receives an implement a variability system related to effective attendance additional fee of €50,000 for a full year of service, based upon the number of absences at the annual meetings of the Board and the Committees, breaking down as follows: • the members of Committees of the Board receive a director’s fee of €15,000 for a full year of service, • payment of a fixed propor tion (40%) at the end of 1st half-year; • the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee and of the Compensation Committee receive an additional director’s • payment of the variable proportion (60%) at the end of fee of €35,000 for a full year of service, 2 nd half-year af ter taking into account the ef fective attendance at the Board and Committee meetings over • the Chairpersons of the Nomination Committee, the the year. Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care and Innovation and Development Committee – Consumer The gross amount of directors’ fees paid by the Company in HealthCare and the Ethics and Governance Committee 2018 was €1,015,477. Individual amount of fees and other compensation paid to Directors (gross amounts – rounded) (Table 3 of AMF recommendations) Directors Amounts paid (*) in 2017 Amounts paid (*) in 2018 Marc de Garidel (1) – Director’s fees – – – Other compensation see section 5.1.3.3.2 see section 5.1.3.3.2 Anne Beaufour – Director’s fees €94,042 €62,532 – Other compensation – – Henri Beaufour – Director’s fees €65,897 €49,266 – Other compensation – – Philippe Bonhomme (2) – Director’s fees – €21,303 – Other compensation – – Hervé Couffin (3) – Director’s fees €75,000 €66,156 – Other compensation – – (*) Directors’ fees are paid on a half-year basis in arrears (within the month following each half-year closing), based prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the semester, if applicable. The variability system of the directors’ fees has been applicable since 1 January 2018. (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel does not receive any directors’ fees. It is stated that the compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel paid as Chairman of the Board of Directors are presented at section 5.1.3.3.2 of the Registration Document and should be added. (2) Director since 30 May 2018, the amount of director’s fees is calculated prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the year. (3) Director until 30 May 2018, the amount of director’s fees is calculated prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the year. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 211 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Directors Amounts paid (*) in 2017 Amounts paid (*) in 2018 Antoine Flochel – Director’s fees €160,000 €144,000 – Other compensation – – Margaret Liu – Director’s fees €10,000 €102,234 – Other compensation – – Pierre Martinet (3) – Director’s fees €110,000 €95,985 – Other compensation – – Mayroy SA (3) – Director’s fees €60,000 €53,072 – Other compensation – – David Meek (4) – Director’s fees – – – Other compensation see section 5.1.3.3.1 see section 5.1.3.3.1 Michèle Ollier – Director’s fees €75,000 €63,358 – Other compensation – – Jean-Marc Parant (5) – Director’s fees – – – Other compensation – – Hélène Auriol-Potier(3) – Director’s fees €95,000 €80,402 – Other compensation – – Paul Sekhri (2) – Director’s fees – €22,752 – Other compensation – – Carol Stuckley – Director’s fees €9,000 €95,427 – Other compensation – – Christophe Vérot (3) – Director’s fees €75,000 €66,156 – Other compensation – – Piet Wigerinck (2) – Director’s fees – €17,752 – Other compensation – – Carol Xueref – Director’s fees €75,000 €75,082 – Other compensation – – Total – Director’s fees €903,939 €1,015,477 – Other compensation – – (*) Directors’ fees are paid on a half-year basis in arrears (within the month following each half-year closing), based prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the semester, if applicable. The variability system of the directors’ fees has been applicable since 1 January 2018. (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel does not receive any directors’ fees. It is stated that the compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel paid as Chairman of the Board of Directors are presented at section 5.1.3.3.2 of the Registration Document and should be added. (2) Director since 30 May 2018, the amount of director’s fees is calculated prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the year. (3) Director until 30 May 2018, the amount of director’s fees is calculated prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the year. (4) Mr. David Meek has not received any directors’ fees. It is stated that the compensation elements of Mr. David Meek as Chief Executive Officer are presented at section 5.1.3.3.1 of this Registration Document and should be added. (5) Jean-Marc Parant has been designated Director representing the employees by the Works Council on 27 November 2018 and doesn’t receive any directors’ fees. It is stressed that he holds an employment contract within the Group and as such receives compensation that is unrelated to the exercise of his mandate. As a result, this compensation is not communicated. ■■5.1.3.2 Principles and criteria governing the Committee. They are presented below, and submitted to the compensation of Corporate Officers approval of the next Shareholders’ Meeting. The principles and criteria for determining, allocating and Principles and criteria governing the compensation granting base, variable and exceptional elements making up of Corporate Officers the total compensation and the benefits of any kind attributable The compensation policy with regard to Corporate Officers and to the Corporate Officers in respect of their duties, constituting their individual compensation is decided by the Board of Directors the compensation policy concerning them, are decided by the upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation outside the presence of the Corporate Officers concerned. 212 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The Board of Directors also refers to the AFEP-MEDEF principles and compensation criteria applicable to the Chief recommendations on compensation paid to executive officers Executive Officer would apply to the Chairman and Chief of listed companies. Executive Officer. This policy covers all aspects of the base, variable and Base compensation exceptional compensation and of the benefits of any kind, Base compensation takes into account the reference paid by the Company. markets of Ipsen. It is subject to be reviewed by the Board It is decided not only on the basis of the work carried out, of Directors, typically at relatively long intervals, according to the results obtained and the responsibility assumed, but also the Company’s market position and taking account changing on the basis of practices for comparable companies and the responsibilities. compensation of the Company’s other senior executives. Annual variable compensation The compensation of the Corporate Officers is structured as Annual variable compensation is linked to the Group’s follows: overall performance and to the achievement of Executive • base compensation; Corporate Of ficers’ personal targets. Ever y year, the Board of Directors defines and precisely predetermines • annual variable compensation (only for Executive Corporate qualitative and quantifiable criteria for determining the variable Officers); compensation and the target objectives. Quantifiable criteria • if applicable, multi-annual variable compensation (only for are preponderant to the determination of annual variable Executive Corporate Officers); compensation and a limit is set on the qualitative part. • if applicable, special financial indemnity (only for Executive Annual variable compensation is set on the basis of a target Corporate Officers); bonus equal to 100% of the base compensation, within a range • if applicable, eligibility for directors’ fees paid to Directors; between zero to a certain percentage, predetermined by the • allocation of stock options and performance shares under Board of Directors, in case of under or overperformance. The plans approved by the Board of Directors (only for Executive detail of qualitative criteria is not made public for confidentiality Corporate Officers); reasons. • if applicable, other benefits; As part of the separation of the functions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors has • if applicable, payments, benefits and compensation granted decided that no annual variable compensation shall be paid to to Corporate Officers upon termination of their functions. the non-executive Chairman of the Board. For information, the individual elements of compensation for The criteria for determining annual variable compensation for Corporate Officers are described in section 5.1.3.3 of this the 2019 financial year are presented at paragraph 5.1.3.3.1 B Registration Document. hereunder. In accordance with the Article L.225-100 of the French Multi-annual variable compensation Commercial Code, compensation elements paid or granted for financial year 2018 to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of The Board of Directors may decide, depending on opportunities the Board of Directors, and Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive and in light of legislatives changes concerning free shares, to Officer, shall be submitted to the vote of the shareholders at grant to Executive Company Officers, as well as some senior the Annual Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in executives of the group, a mid-term bonus in the scope of the 2019 to approve the accounts for the financial year ended on plans approved by the Board of Directors upon recommendation 31 December 2018, following a specific resolution for each of the Compensation Committee; it is determined on the basis of them. of a percentage of base compensation. For the record, according to Articles L.225-37-2, paragraph 2 These plans are subject to a presence condition and, if and L.225-100, paragraph 6 of the French Commercial applicable, precisely predetermined performance conditions Code, the payment of variable or exceptional compensation which must be fulfilled during an acquisition period set by elements for the past financial year and in respect of his term the Board of Directors. Nevertheless, in the event of death, of office is subject to approval, by the Annual Combined disability, retirement or exception granted by the Board Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2019 to approve the of Directors before the end of the acquisition period, the accounts for the financial year ended on 31 December 2018, beneficiary may retain his rights. The details of the external of the compensation elements paid or granted for the past and internal criteria and the completion levels (expected and financial year. realized) of the external and internal criteria are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons. In the event that the Board of Directors decides to appoint one or more Deputy Chief Executive Officers, the principles The Board of Directors has decided that no multi-annual and compensation criteria applicable to the Chief Executive variable compensation shall be paid to the non-executive Officer would be applicable to the Deputy Chief Executive Chairman of the Board. Officers. Exceptional compensations and/or financial indemnity In the event that the Board of Directors decides to combine The Board of Directors may decide, in case of specific the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the circumstances or events, to grant exceptional compensations. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 213 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT It can decide to grant an exceptional compensation and/or an the end of the holding period that has been decided by the exceptional financial indemnity to the Corporate Officers while Board of Directors. taking into account the specific circumstances in which they carry out their duties. The Board of Directors has established periods preceding the publication of half-yearly and annual financial statements Special financial indemnity and sales figures during which it is not permitted to carry out any transaction on Company shares and has established the The Board of Directors may grant a special financial indemnity following procedure: to a new executive company officer coming from a company outside the Group on taking up duty in order to offset the loss • the dates of the blackout periods for each financial year are of previously-held benefits. communicated at the beginning of each year and before each blackout period; Directors’ fees The Corporate Officers who are members of the Board of • outside blackout periods, an identified person must be Directors may, where appropriate, upon recommendation of consulted to ensure that no insider information is held. the Compensation Committee, and by decision of the Board Other benefits of Directors, receive directors’ fees due on the basis of their Corporate Officers may also be awarded benefits in respect of positions as Directors according to the rules applicable to all their duties carried out within Ipsen, including: benefits in kind of the Directors. (company car and temporary accommodation), assistance Stock options and performance shares for the preparation and filing of personal income tax returns, global healthcare coverage (mutual and life /disability Executive Corporate Officers as well as certain senior schemes) under the Group’s contracts, reimbursement of executives of the Group may benefit from stock options travel expenses and expenses incurred with the exercise of and/or performance shares under plans approved and set their corporate duties, D&O liability insurance. each year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee. In accordance with Payments, benefits and compensation granted to the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations (§24.2), nonCorporate Officers upon termination of their functions executive officers shall not benefit from stock option and/or Severance payment performance shares plans. Corporate Officers may benefit from a severance payment The definitive number of performance shares that will be clause, due in the event of termination of their duties, of which vested will depend upon the level of achievement of the the terms have been decided by the Board of Directors in performance conditions set by the Board of Directors, which accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF are based on one or several internal criteria (e.g., quantifiable Code: financial ratio) and on one or several external criteria (e.g., share price compared to a benchmark of comparable • payment due only in the event of a forced departure (départ companies). Each of these conditions shall be assessed by contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, comparing the target threshold and the actual performance • in an amount corresponding to 24 months’ base and annual of the Company over the period used as reference for the variable remuneration in respect of their term of office, applicable plan. Each of these conditions may generate a payout varying within a range between zero to a certain • which includes, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount percentage pre-established and determined by the Board of hereof, the amount due in respect of any non-compete Directors at the implementation of the plan. undertaking, if applicable, The Board of Directors decided that the Corporate Officers • payment of which is subject to a predetermined performance must retain, until the end of their term of office, a number of condition, assessed at least on two financial years. shares equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would be Non-compete payment realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from the exercise of stock options and/or from the performance shares. The Board of Directors may conclude a non-compete agreement with the Corporate Officers in case of departure These plans are subject to a presence condition (subject to from the Group for a reason other than a change of control. exceptions) and, if applicable, performance conditions, which This agreement shall be valid for a certain period following the must be fulfilled during a minimum acquisition period of two date of departure. years depending on the beneficiaries’ country of residence and, if applicable, a holding period. Nevertheless, in the event The non-compete payment may not exceed a ceiling of of death, disability, retirement or exception granted by the two years of compensation (base and annual variable), Board of Directors before the end of the acquisition period, including, if applicable, the amount of a severance payment, the beneficiary or, if applicable, its assignees, can keep their up to 50%. rights. Additional pension plan The Executive Corporate Officers who are beneficiaries of The Corporate Officers may benefit from defined contribution these stock options and/or performance shares undertook plan or defined benefit plan which more broadly benefits the a formal commitment not to engage in hedging transactions company’s executives, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF either on their options or on shares issued following the Code recommendations and article L.225-42-1 of the French exercise of options or on performance shares granted until Commercial Code. 214 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT ■■5.1.3.3 Compensation of Corporate Officers It is nevertheless specified that the payment of the variable 5.1.3.3.1 C  ompensation elements of Mr. David Meek, compensation elements granted to Mr. David Meek for the Chief Executive Officer financial year ended on 31 December 2018 will depend on the approval by the next Shareholders’ Meeting of the For financial year 2018, the compensation elements of compensation elements paid or granted on the previous year. Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, were determined by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation of the In accordance with Articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on 14 February the French Commercial Code, the principles and criteria for 2018. determining, allocating and granting base, variable elements making up the total compensation and benefits of any kind In accordance with Articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of the attributable to Mr. David Meek, in respect of his duties as Chief French Commercial Code, the compensation elements paid Executive Officer, were determined by the Board of Directors, or granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, for upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, at the financial year ended on 31 December 2018, in respect its meeting held on 13 February 2019 and will be subject to a of his term of office, comply with the principles and criteria resolution submitted to the approval of the next Shareholders’ approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting held on 30 May 2018 Meeting. in its thirteen ordinary resolution. A. Summary tables of compensation, options and shares granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer Summary table of compensation, options and performance shares (Table 1 of AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2017 Financial Year 2018 Financial Year David Meek Chief Executive Officer Compensations due for the year (see details below) 2,666,155 1,886,049 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – – Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the performance shares granted during the year (*) 1,248,291(1) 1,240,512(2) Total 3,914,446 3,126,561 (*) For further details, see section 5.1.3.3.1 paragraphs B and C below. (1) Book value for a target award of 13,365 performance shares, on the day of the grant. (2) Book value for a target award of 9,230 performance shares, on the day of the grant. Summary table of compensation (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) 2017 2018 (gross rounded amount – in euros) Amounts due Amounts paid Amounts due Amounts paid David Meek Chief Executive Officer Base compensation 900,000 900,000 900,000 900,000 Annual variable compensation – Annual performance 1,314,000 (4) 438,840 (1) 978,000 (5) 1,314,000 Multi-annual variable compensation – – – – Exceptional compensation – Integration within the Group – 300,000 (2) – – Special financial indemnity 450,000 (3) 450,000 – – Directors’ fees – – – – Benefits in kind (6) 2,155 2,155 8,049 8,049 Total 2,666,155 2,090,995 1,886,049 2,222,049 (1) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation for 2016 of the Chief Executive Officer at €438,840. This amount was paid in 2017. (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed an amount of €300,000 in respect of Mr. David Meek’s exceptional bonus linked to the success of his integration within the Company. (3) The Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016 decided to grant Mr. David Meek a special financial indemnity of a gross amount of €900,000, to be paid in two instalments, under condition, one in 2016 and one in 2017 (50% on the date of his appointment and 50% one year later, provided that he has not resigned or left the Company by that time), to offset the loss of a portion of the elements of his variable compensation at his previous employer. Mr. David Meek received this special financial indemnity of €450,000 in 2016 and €450,000 in 2017. (4) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 14 February 2018, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer for 2017 at €1,314,000. This amount has been paid in 2018, following the approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting of the compensation elements paid or granted to Mr. David Meek due to his mandate and for the previous financial year. The performance criteria and their achievement are presented in paragraph B below. (5) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 13 February 2019, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer for 2018 at €978,000. This amount will be paid in 2019, subject to the approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2019 to approve the 2018 financial statements, of the compensation elements paid or granted to Mr. David Meek due to his mandate and for the previous financial year. The performance criteria and their achievement are presented in paragraph B below. (6) Benefits in kind are defined in paragraph B hereunder “Other benefits”. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 215 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT B. D etails of the compensation elements granted to may vary within a range between 0% and 200% (i.e. from Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer 0 to €1,800,000) based on the following quantifiable and The compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is determined qualitative performance criteria: the two-thirds of this target by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the bonus depend on quantifiable criteria of equal weighting Compensation Committee. based on the achievement of level of consolidated net sales, core operating income, earnings per share and cash-flow Base compensation from operations; the balance is based on qualitative criteria Base compensation takes into account Ipsen’s reference concerning managerial and strategic objectives. The detail of markets. It is subject to be reviewed by the Board of qualitative criteria was precisely pre-established by the Board Directors, typically at relatively long intervals, according to but is not made public for confidentiality reasons. the Company’s market position and taking account changing At its meeting held on 14 February 2018, the Board of Directors, responsibilities. upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, set The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 14 February the gross amount of the variable part of the compensation for 2018 and upon recommendation of the Compensation financial year 2017 at €1,314,000. Committee, has set Mr. David Meek’s base compensation For the 2018 financial year, the Board of Directors, during its at a gross annual amount of €900,000, unchanged since his meeting held on 14 February 2018, has decided to grant to appointment in 2016. Mr. David Meek a gross target bonus of €900,000, which The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 13 February 2019 may vary within a range between 0% and 200% (i.e. from and upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, 0 to €1,800,000) based on the following quantifiable and has set the elements relating to the compensation and qualitative performance criteria: the two-thirds of this target benefits in kind for the Chief Executive Officer. The amount of bonus depend on quantifiable criteria of equal weighting the gross base compensation amounts to €950,000. based on the achievement of level of consolidated net sales, core operating income, earnings per share and cash-flow The base compensation has been calculated taking into from operations; the balance is based on qualitative criteria account the reference markets of Ipsen and the growth of concerning managerial and strategic objectives. The detail of the Group; its evolution is consistent with that of the other qualitative criteria has been precisely pre-established by the managers and employees of the Company. Board but is not made public for confidentiality reasons. Annual variable compensation At its meeting held on 13 February 2019, the Board of Directors, The annual variable compensation is linked to the Group’s upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, set global performance and to the realization of personal goals the gross amount of the variable part of the compensation for set for the Chief Executive Officer. financial year 2018 at €978,000. For the 2017 financial year, the Board of Directors, during its The weighting, the possible variation and the percentage meeting held on 22 February 2017, has decided to grant to of realization of the quantifiable and qualitative objectives Mr. David Meek a gross target bonus of €900,000, which decided by the Board of Directors are as follows: Potential variation Criteria Weight of the portion Consolidated net sales 1/6 0% to 200% Performance Core operating income 1/6 0% to 200% indicators Earnings per share 1/6 0% to 200% Cash-flow from operations 1/6 0% to 200% % of achievement Amount (in €) Quantifiable objectives 2/3 0% to 200% 128% 768,000 Qualitative objectives 1/3 0% to 200% 70% 210,000 Total 100% 0% to 200% 109%(*) 978,000 (*) * Amounts are rounded. The payment of the variable compensation elements of from operations; the balance is based on qualitative criteria Mr. David Meek is subject to the approval of the Annual concerning managerial, strategic and Social Responsabilities Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2019 to approve the (CSR) objectives. The detail of qualitative criteria has been financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, precisely pre-established by the Board but is not made public of the elements of compensation paid or granted in respect for confidentiality reasons. of the past year. Multi-annual variable compensation For the 2019 financial year, the Board of Directors, during Mr. David Meek does not receive any multi-annual variable its meeting held on 13 February 2019, has decided to grant compensation. Mr. David Meek a gross target bonus of €950,000, which may vary within a range between 0% and 200% (i.e. from Special financial indemnity 0 to €1,900,000) based on the following quantifiable and The Board of Directors may grant a special financial indemnity qualitative performance criteria: the two-thirds of this target to a new executive company officer coming from a company bonus depend on quantifiable criteria of equal weighting outside the Group on taking up duty in order to offset the loss based on the achievement of level of consolidated net sales, of previously-held benefits. Mr. David Meek has not received core operating income, earnings per share and cash-flow any special financial indemnity during 2018. 216 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The Board of Directors,at its meeting on 8 July 2016, and upon his duties, an healthcare coverage under a global healthcare recommendation of the Compensation Committee, decided to policy, and death and disability coverage under the Group’s grant Mr. David Meek a special financial indemnity of an annual policy or a specific policy, D&O liability insurance. gross amount of €900,000, payable in two installments (50% on the date of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and Payments, benefits and compensation likely a to be due 50% one year later, provided that he has resigned or left the to Mr. David Meek upon termination of his functions Company by that time), to offset the loss of a portion of the Details regarding these commitments are given below (see elements of his variable remuneration at his previous employer. section D). Mr. David Meek received this special financial indemnity in the C. Subscription and/or purchase options and amount of €450,000 in 2016 and €450,000 in 2017. performance shares granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Performance shares Executive Officer Executive Corporate Officers as well as certain senior Executive officers and other senior executives of the Group executives of the Group may benefit from stock-options and/ can be awarded stock options and/or performance shares or performance shares under plans approved and set each in the scope of the plans approved and set every year year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee. Compensation Committee. The definitive number of stock option and/or performance shares to vest will depend on the The Chief Executive Officer can benefit from these plans applicable performance conditions. whose features are described at paragraph 5.2.2.3.2 of this Registration Document. a. Subscription and/or purchase options granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 May 2018, granted to Mr. David Meek under the performance shares Subscription or purchase options granted during the 2018 plan and contingent on Company performance over the financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) 2018-2020 period, 9,230 shares, representing 0.01% of the No option was granted to the Chief Executive Officer, share capital. Mr. David Meek, during the 2018 financial year. Details regarding this allocation are given below, see Synthesis of the subscription or purchase options granted section C. (table 8 of AMF recommendations) Other benefits For more information about subscription or purchase options, see table 8, section 5.2.2.3.2. Mr. David Meek receives benefits resulting from the conditions linked to the performance of his duties at Ipsen, in The Chief Executive Officer, Mr. David Meek, does not hold particular: a relocation package in France, an assistance with any Ipsen option. filing his personal income tax returns, the reimbursement Subscription or purchase options exercised during the of reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred in 2018 financial year (table 5 of AMF recommendations) connection with the finalization of the terms and conditions of his office a company car and driver, the business travel No option was exercised by the Chief Executive Officer, and accommodation expenses incurred whilst exercising Mr. David Meek, during the 2018 financial year. b. Performance shares granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer Performance shares granted during the 2018 financial year (table 6 of AMF recommendations) Number of Book value performance of the shares Book value of Acquisition Date of Performance Plan date shares granted (per share) (1) the shares (1) date availability conditions David Meek 30/05/2018 9,230 (2) €134.40 €1,240,512 31/05/2020 31/05/2020 Yes Chief Executive (for 50% of the (for 50% of the Officer shares) shares) 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 (for 50% of the (for 50% of the shares) shares) (1) Share value at the date of grant. The global amount of granted shares book value is listed on table 1 under paragraph 5.1.3.3.1. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions, representing 0.01% of the share capital as of 30 May 2018. The Board of Directors decided, on 30 May 2018, upon allocated shares, from the allocation date. The shares thus recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the acquired will not be subject to a holding period. allocation of 9,230 shares to M. David Meek, Chief Executive Half of the performance conditions are based on an external Officer, in the form of performance shares in accordance with criterion based on the evolution of the Ipsen’s stock price the article L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code. within the STOXX TMI 600 Healthcare index, and half on an The definitive acquisition of these performance shares is internal criterion based on the core operating income. The subject to presence and performance conditions which will details of these internal and external performance conditions be assessed at the end of an acquisition period of 2 years for as well as the expected level of achievement have been 50% of the allocated shares, and of 3 years for 50% of the precisely determined by the Board but are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 217 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Each of the conditions is assessed on a scale of 0 to 200%. of 30 May 2018, the Board of Directors decided that the In case of over achievement of the expected performance (i.e. Chief Executive Officer must retain, until the end of his term 100%), the number of performance shares granted will be of office, a number of shares equivalent to 20% of the net adjusted accordingly. capital gain that would be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from the performance shares. According to the compensation policy of Corporate Officers approved by the sShareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting Summary of performance shares granted The table below describes, as of 31 December 2018, the total of performance shares granted to the Chief Executive Officer. For further details, see Table 10, section 5.2.2.3.2. Corporate Officer Date of grant Quantity Definitive Date of Number of granted Acquisition Date availability shares to be held David Meek 30/07/2020 (2) 29/07/2016 10,021 (1) 30/07/2018 Chief Executive Officer (for 50% of shares) 30/03/2021(3) 29/03/2017 13,365 (1) 30/03/2019 20% capital gain (for 50% of shares) net of acquisition 31/05/2020 31/05/2020 value (for 50% of shares) (for 50% of shares) 30/05/2018 9,230 (1) 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 (for 50% of shares) (for 50% of shares) Total 32,616 (*) (1) Subject to performance conditions, see section above and below. (2) 50% of the shares have been available on 30 July 2018. (3) 50% of the shares will be available on 30 March 2019. (*) Approximately 0.04% of the share capital, as of 31 December 2018. At its meeting held on 29 March 2017, upon recommendation the relative performance of Ipsen’s stock price compared to that of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors of the other companies which are part of the STOXX TMI 600 decided to award Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, Health Care index. The details of these internal and external 13,365 shares in the form of performance shares under article performance conditions as well as the degree of achievement L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code. (expected and achieved), that have been precisely determined by the Board but are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons. The definitive acquisition of the performance shares is subject In case of over achievement of the expected performance (i.e. to a presence condition in the Company. The definitive number 100%), the number of performance shares granted will be of performance shares acquired will depend on the level adjusted accordingly. These performance shares are subject to of achievement of the performance conditions applicable, a 2-year acquisition period from the date of grant and 50% of the that will be assessed annually by comparing the target level shares thus acquired will be subject to a 2-year holding period. of performance achieved by the Company during the first and the second financial years set by the plan. Each of the In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 of conditions is assessed on a scale of 0 to 250%. the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its meetings held on 29 July 2016, 29 March 2017 and 30 May 2018 The performance conditions are based, for the one third of established rules requiring the Chief Executive Officer to retain a the granted shares, on an internal criterion based on the core number of shares arising from the performance shares granted, operating income, for the second third on an internal criterion equivalent to 20% of the capital gain net of acquisition value that based on specific incomes and, for the last third, on an external would be realized upon the sale of the performance shares, until criterion based on the relative performance of Ipsen’s stock price the termination of his duties as Chief Executive Officer. compared to that of the other companies which are part of the STOXX TMI 600 Health Care index. The details of these internal Mr. David Meek undertook a formal commitment not to and external performance conditions as well as the degree of engage in hedging transactions, either on his performance achievement (expected and achieved), that have been precisely shares granted, until the end of the holding period that has determined by the Board are not disclosed for confidentiality been decided by the Board of Directors. reasons. Considering the expected performance (i.e. 100%), Performance shares that have become available during the number of performance shares granted has been adjusted the 2018 financial year (Table 7 of AMF recommendations) accordingly. These performance shares have been subject to a 2-year acquisition period from the date of grant and 50% of the 15,811 shares have been acquired considering the shares thus acquired are subject to a 2-year holding period. performance of the Group within the plan of 29 July 2016. During the 2018 financial year, 50% of the performance shares The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 July 2016, granted to the Chief Executive Officer became available. The upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, balance will be available on 30 July 2020. decided to grant to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, 10,021 shares, in the form of performance shares in accordance with For further information, see table 10, section 5.2.2.3.2. the article L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code. This number of shares was calculated on a prorata temporis basis. Corporate Officer Date Number of shares of grant becoming available The performance conditions are based, for the half of the granted David Meek shares, on an internal criterion based on the current operating 29/07/2016 7,906 (1) Chief Executive Officer income and, for the other half, on an external criterion based on (1) Allocation subject to performance conditions. 218 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT D. Summary of commitments issued in favor of Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer (Table 11 of AMF recommendations) Employment Additional pension Payments or benefits due Compensation under contract plan or to be due in connection a non-compete with the termination or clause change of functions Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No David Meek X X X X Chief Executive Officer Employment contract Given that entitlement to benefit from this plan requires a Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, does not have an 5-year seniority, if Mr. David Meek had claimed any payment employment contract. of his pension on 1 January 2019, he would have received nothing under the plan. Additional pension plan Payments or benefits due or likely to be due upon Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, may potentially termination of his functions within the Group benefit from the Company’s defined benefit additional pension commitment pursuant to the decision of the Board of At its meeting held on 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors Directors held on 8 July 2016. This pension commitment more decided to grant Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, broadly benefits to the company’s executives. the benefit of a severance payment on the following terms, in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF The benefit of the pension commitment is subject to: Code: • a minimum 5-year service, • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced • claiming the social security pension at a full rate, departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the • termination of any professional activity with the Company AFEP-MEDEF Code, at the date that basic and additional pensions are claimed. • equal to 24 months of gross ( base and variable ) remuneration, However, the right is maintained in case of early retirement or dismissal after the age of 55 subject to non-resumption • the grant of which will be subject to the maintaining of the of professional activity or if classified as having a 2nd or recurring operating margin of the Group during the three 3rd category disability. years preceding the departure at a minimum threshold of 15%, and Furthermore, in case of death of the beneficiary during • including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, retirement, the potential right to widow or widower’s pension the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete is maintained. undertaking. In accordance with ar ticle L.225-42-1 of the French Non-compete payment Commercial Code, the grant of this additional pension scheme shall be subject to a performance condition, the Mr. David Meek agreed, in the event of his departure from maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group the Group, during a period of 24 months following the date during the three years preceding departure at a minimum of his effective departure from the Company, not to perform threshold of 15%. or participate from an operational standpoint (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic The pension is calculated at the rate of 0.6% per year of Area (EEA) and/or North America, in any activity relating to seniority to the part of the reference compensation below 8 the development and/or the marketing of products belonging times the Annual Social Security Ceiling (“PASS”) and at a rate to the same therapeutic category (source IMS-Health) as of 1% for the part of the reference compensation in excess of one of the top three products of the Group based on the 8 times the PASS. turnover generated by such products or their importance The reference compensation is the average of the total gross from a strategic standpoint and any product acquired by amount of the compensation received for a full time position the Company, between 1 January 2016 and the date of (bonus included) during the last 36 months preceding the end Mr. David Meek’s effective departure, for a total consideration of the contract and/or office. Severance payments, expense exceeding €300 million. reimbursement, profit-sharing and incentives are excluded. The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this Seniority is limited to 40 years. non-compete undertaking will be deemed to be included, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, in the severance Terms governing survivor’s pension benefits are set forth in package referred to above if it is also owed. the plan. 5.1.3.3.2 Compensation elements of Mr. Marc de The annual pension owed to the beneficiaries shall not exceed Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors 45% of their base and variable compensation. For financial year 2018, the compensation elements of The potential rights are financed by non-individualized Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors, was premiums paid to an insurance institution. These premiums determined by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation are deductible from the corporate tax base and subject to the of the Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on contribution set forth in L.137-11, I, 2° a) of the Social Security 28 March 2018. These elements take into account both duties Code at the rate of 24%. of Marc de Garidel: his duties as Chairman of the Board of 2018 Ipsen Registration document 219 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Directors of Ipsen and his duties as Chief Executive Officer of Furthermore, the principles and criteria for determining, Corvidia Therapeutics Inc., a company organized and existing allocating and granting base, variable elements making up under American law based in the United States of America. the total compensation and benefits of any kind attributable to Mr. Marc de Garidel, in respect of his duties as Chairman In accordance with the articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of of the Board, was determined by the Board of Directors, upon the French Commercial Code, the compensation elements recommendation of the Compensation Committee, at its paid or granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the meeting held on 13 February 2019 and will be the subject of a Board, for the 2018 financial year, in respect of his term of resolution submitted to the approval of the next Shareholders’ office, comply with the principles and criteria approved by Meeting. Mr. Marc de Garidel does not receive variable the Shareholders’ Meeting held on 30 May 2018 in its twelfth compensation nor multi-annual variable compensation, ordinary resolution. subscription or purchase options nor performance shares. A. Summary tables of compensation, options and shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board a. Summary table of compensation, options and performance shares Total amount of compensation, options and performance shares granted for 2018 (table 1 of the AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2017 Financial Year 2018 Financial Year Marc de Garidel Chairman of the Board of Directors Compensations due for the year (see details below) 2,796,981 654,270 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – – Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the performance shares granted during the year – – Total 2,796,981 654,270 b. Summary table of compensation (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) Total amount of the compensation for 2018 financial year 2017 2018 Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts (gross rounded amount – in euros) due paid due paid Marc de Garidel Chairman of the Board of Directors Base compensation 800,000 800,000 650,000 (1) 650,000 (1) Annual variable compensation – 454,950 (2) – – Multi-annual variable compensation 1,990,906 (3) 1,990,906 (3) – – Exceptional compensation – – – – Directors’ fees – – – – Benefits in kind (4) 6,075 6,075 4,270 4,270 Total 2,796,981 3,251,931 654,270 654,270 (1) The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 28 March 2018 has redefined Mr. Marc de Garidel’s missions as Chairman of the Board of Directors following his new duties as Chief Executive Officer of Corvidia Therapeutics Inc. The amount of his gross base compensation for 2018 has been amounted to €600,000, prorata temporis basis from 1 April 2018, and was previously fixed at €800.000 until this date. For further information, see section 5.1.1. (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2016 at €454,950 (prorata temporis amount until 18 July 2016 calculated on a target annual basis of €750,000) This amount was paid in 2017. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 March 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the multi-annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2015 and 2016 at €1,990,906. For further details, see paragraph B bellow. The payment was done in 2017. (4) Benefits in kind are defined in section B hereunder “Other benefits”. 220 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT B. D  etails of the compensation elements granted to Garidel benefited from multi-annual variable compensation Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of mechanisms. Directors At its meeting held on 1 April 2015, the Board of Directors The compensation of the Chairman is determined by the Board also decided, upon recommendation of the Compensation of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, to implement a mid-term bonus for the 2015 and Committee. 2016 financial years, subject to performance and presence conditions, to benefit 168 beneficiaries within the Group. For the 2018 financial year, the Board of Directors, upon The Board of Directors granted, within this plan, a mid-term recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, bonus to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of a at its meeting held on 28 March 2018, the compensation gross amount of €375,000 (representing 50% of the base elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel in respect of his duties as compensation). This bonus was paid in 2017, following the Chairman of the Board of Directors. assessment by the Board of Directors that performance It is recalled that Mr. Marc de Garidel has been Chairman and conditions were achieved, which are based, for the half of Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016. the target amount, on the achievement of internal criterion based on the level reached by the current operating income a. As Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, until 18 July (excluding research tax credit) of the Group and, for the other 2016 half of the target amount, on an external criterion based on Annual variable compensation the performance of the stock market price of the share of the Company in comparison to the STOXX 600 TMI Health Care For the record, in respect of his duties as Chairman and Chief index. The detail of internal and external criteria and the level Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, Mr. Marc de Garidel of achievement (expected and realized) for quantitative criteria benefited from an annual variable compensation linked to the were precisely established by the Board but are not made Group’s global performance and to the fulfilment of objectives public for confidentiality reasons. The payment of the middetermined by the Board of Directors. term bonus decided by the Board of Directors on 1 April 2015 At its meeting held on 22 February 2017, the Board of was subject to a presence condition which had to be fulfilled Directors decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel an amount between 1 April 2015 and 1 April 2017. calculated on a prorata temporis basis in respect of his Mr. Marc de Garidel continued to benefit, in proportion to the duties as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Having time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year, established the fulfilment of the performance conditions, the from multi-annual variable compensation elements granted to Board of Directors decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel an him as part of Deferred Cash plans indexed to the Ipsen share amount of €454,950 (i.e. €842,950 on an annual basis), upon price, approved by the Board of Directors on April 1, 2015 (for recommendation of the Compensation Committee. the 2015 and 2016 financial years). Mr. Marc de Garidel did not receive any annual variable The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 29 March 2017 compensation for the 2017 and 2018 financial years. assessed the achievement of the performance conditions and Multi-annual variable compensation decided to pay the amount of €1,990,906. For the record, in respect of his duties as Chairman and Marc de Garidel didn’t receive multi-annual variable Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, Mr. Marc de compensation during 2017 and 2018 financial years. Summary table of multi-annual variable compensation 2016 2017 2018 (gross rounded amounts – in euros) Due Paid Due Paid Due Paid Marc de Garidel 1,588,396 1,588,396 1,990,906 1,990,906 (**) – – Chairman of the Board of Directors (*) (*) Mr. Marc de Garidel has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 then became Chairman of the Board from this date. (**) The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 29 March 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the achievement of the performance conditions and decided to pay the amount of €1,990,906. This amount was paid in 2017. b. As Chairman of the Board of Directors base compensation (for more information, see section 5.1.1 of this Registration Document). Upon recommendation of the Base compensation Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors fixed the Base compensation is subject to be reviewed by the Board base compensation of Mr. Marc de Garidel to an annual gross of Directors according to the Company’s market position and amout of €600,000 previously fixed at €800,000. For 2018, taking into account changing responsibilities. this amount has been paid in a prorata temporis basis as of 1 April 2018. The Company Board of Directors, at its meeting of 28 March 2018, approved an amendment of the specific missions of Annual variable compensation Mr. Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Board of Directors, The Board of Directors has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel linked to his functions as Chief Executive Officer of Corvidia will not receive any variable compensation in respect of his Therapeutic Inc., and reviewed consequently the amount of his duties as Chairman of the Board of Directors. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 221 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Multi-annual variable compensation • the benefit of a defined benefit additional pension scheme The Board of Directors has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel existing within the Company, will not receive any multi-annual variable compensation in • a compensation under a non-compete agreement. respect of his duties as Chairman of the Board of Directors These payments and benefits that may be owed to the of the Company. Chairman in connection upon termination of his duties replace Directors’ fees those previously granted in respect of his duties as Chairman The Board of Directors has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel and Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors of will not receive any director’s fees in respect of his office as 11 October 2010. Chairman of the Board of the Company. Details of these commitments are given below (see section D. Stock options and performance shares below). The Board of Directors has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel C. Subscription and/or purchase options and will not receive any stock options and/or performance shares performance shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, in respect of his duties as Chairman of the Board. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Other benefits Executive directors and other senior executives of the Mr. Marc de Garidel receives benefits resulting from the Group can be awarded stock options and/or performance conditions linked to the performance of his duties at Ipsen. shares in the scope of the plans approved and set every The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 28 March 2018, year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, Compensation Committee. The definitive number of shares redefined Mr. Marc de Garidel’s benefits following both duties that will vest will depend on the applicable performance of Marc de Garidel at Ipsen and at Corvidia Therapeutics Inc. conditions. The detail of those benefits is as follows: • Assistance for the preparation and filing of personal income For the record, in respect of his office as Chairman and Chief tax returns, in relation to his Ipsen compensation in France; Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, Mr. Marc de Garidel benefited from options described below. • Access to a company car and driver pool, for travel in relation to his Ipsen functions; In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code (§24.2), no stock • D&O liability insurance consistent with the D&O liability options and/or performance shares have been granted to Mr. insurance of the Ipsen Group; Marc de Garidel, in respect of his office as Chairman of the Board, since 18 July 2016. • Reimbursement of professional expenses incurred within the context of the exercise of his duties in relation to his a. Subscription or purchase options granted to Mr. Marc Ipsen functions; and de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until • Administrative assistance provided by the Ipsen executive 18 July 2016 assistants of the Company in relation to his Ipsen functions. Subscription or purchase options granted during the 2018 Payments, benefits and compensation due or to be due financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) to Mr. Marc de Garidel upon termination of his functions No options were granted to the Chairman, Mr. Marc de within the Group Garidel, during the 2018 financial year. In accordance with Ipsen policy and in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016, decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel: • a severance payment, Summary of the subscription or purchase options of Ipsen shares granted For further details, see section 5.2.2.3. Date Number Nature of Exercise Exercise Expiry Number of grant of options the options price date date of options granted exercised Marc de Garidel 30/06/2011 121,180 (2) Subscription €25.01 01/07/2015 30/06/2019 121,180 (3) Chairman of the Board options of Directors (1) Total 121,180 (1) (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. (3) Mr. Marc de Garidel exercised 121,180 options on 3 November 2016. 222 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-185 of Subscription or purchase options exercised during 2018 the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its (Table 5 of the AMF recommendations) meetings held on 30 June 2011, established rules requiring No options were exercised by Mr. Marc de Garidel during the the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to retain a number 2018 financial year. of shares resulting from options, until the end of his term of office, equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would Summary of performance shares granted be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from option Mr. Marc de Garidel did not benefit from performance shares shares. during the 2018 financial year. The table below describes the total of performance shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (1). For further details, see Table 10, section 5.2.2.3.2. Corporate Officer Date of grant Quantity Definitive Date of Number of granted acquisition date availability shares to be held Marc de Garidel 30/06/2011 4,490 (2) 01/07/2013 01/07/2015 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 30/03/2012 23,940 (2) 31/03/2014 31/03/2016 18 July 2016 (1) 28/03/2013 22,590 (2) 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 20% capital gain net of acquisition 27/03/2014 18,712 (2) 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 value 01/04/2015 12,588 (2)(3) 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 31/05/2016 5,070 (2)(3) 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 (5) Total 87,390 (4) (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. (3) As part of the separation of the functions, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016 decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel, in proportion to the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year, would continue to benefit from and (i) the variable compensation elements granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 1 April 2015 (for the 2015 and 2016 financial years) as well as (ii) the variable compensation elements granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2016 (for the 2016 and 2017 financial years). The number of performance shares granted to him, adjusted prorata temporis, amounted to 5,070 shares (27.35% or 5,070 shares). (4) Representing 0.1% of the share capital on 31 December 2018. (5) 50% of shares became available on 1 June 2018. In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 of Performance shares that have become available during the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its the 2018 financial year (Table 7 of AMF recommendations) meetings held on 30 June 2011, 30 March 2012, 28 March 2013, 27 March 2014, 1 April 2015 and 31 May 2016 established Company Officer Date Number of shares of grant became available rules requiring the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to retain a number of shares resulting from performance shares, Marc de Garidel 27/03/2014 22,552 (2) until the end of his term of office, equivalent to 20% of the net Chairman of the and Board of Directors (1) 31/05/2016 (3) capital gain that would be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from performance shares. (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. until 18 July 2016, undertook a formal commitment not to (3) 7,681 shares were acquired in consideration of the Group’s performance. 50% of the shares becoming available during the 2018 engage in hedging transactions either on his options or financial year. The balance will be available on 1 June 2020. on shares issued following the exercise of options or on performance shares granted until the end of the holding period that has been decided by the Board of Directors. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 223 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT D. Summary of commitments made to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors (Table 11 of AMF recommendations) Employment Additional pension Payments or benefits due Compensation under contract scheme or to be due in connection a non-compete with the termination or clause change of functions Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Marc de Garidel X X X X Employment contract contribution set forth in article L.137-11, I, 2° a) of the Social Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, does not have Security Code at the rate of 24%. any employment contract. For Mr. Marc de Garidel, the amount of the annual pension, as Additional pension scheme of 31 December 2018, is estimated at €236,323. This amount was calculated according to the procedures under Decree Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, may potentially No. 2016-182 of 23 February 2016, bearing in mind that this benefit from the defined benefit additional pension scheme amount is based on a reference compensation calculated on of the Company pursuant to the decision of the Board of the average gross full-time compensation (bonus included) Directors held on 8 July 2016. This pension commitment more received during the last 36 months. Under Mr. Marc de broadly benefits the company’s executives. Garidel’s new compensation structure, he will only receive The benefit of the pension commitment is subject to: base compensation in respect of his duties during the following financial years. This pension should progressively amount to • a minimum 5-year service, a level comparable to the one preceding his appointment as • claiming social security pension at a full rate, Chairman, should he leave on 31 December of the year of his 62nd birthday (see 2015 Registration Document). • the termination of any professional activity with the Company at the date of the liquidation of basic and Payments or benefits due or likely to be due upon additional pensions. termination of his functions within the Group At its meeting held on 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors However, the right is maintained in case of early retirement decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, or dismissal after the age of 55 subject to non-resumption the right to a severance payment on the following terms, in of professional activity or if classified as having a 2nd or accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF 3rd category of disability. Code: Furthermore, in case of death of the beneficiary during • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced retirement, the potential right to widow or widower’s pension departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the is maintained. AFEP-MEDEF Code, In accordance with the Article L.225-42-1 of the French • of an amount equal to the remuneration received from Commercial Code, the grant of this additional pension scheme the Company over the last 24 rolling calendar months shall be subject to the following performance condition: the preceding the effective date of his departure, maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding departure at a minimum • the grant of which will be subject to the maintaining of the threshold of 15%. recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of The pension is calculated at a rate of 0.6% per year of seniority 15%, and to the part of the reference compensation below 8 times the Annual Social Security Ceiling (“PASS”) and at a rate of 1% for • including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, the part of the reference compensation in excess of 8 times the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete the PASS. undertaking. The reference compensation is the average of the total gross Non-compete payment compensation received for a full time position (bonus included) Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, agreed, in the during the last 36 months preceding the end of the contract event of his departure from the Group, during a period of and/or corporate mandate. Severance payments, expense 24 months following the date of his effective departure, not reimbursement, profit-sharing and incentives are excluded. to perform or participate from an operational standpoint Seniority is limited to 40 years. (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Area (EEA) and/or North America, in any activity Terms governing survivor’s pension benefits are set forth in relating to the development and/or the marketing of products the plan. belonging to the same therapeutic category (source IMSThe annual pension owed to the beneficiaries shall not exceed Health) as the top three products of the Group in terms of 45% of their base and variable compensation. turnover on the date of his effective departure. The potential rights are financed by non-individualized The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this premiums paid to an insurance institution. These premiums non-compete undertaking will be included in the severance are deductible from the corporate tax base and subject to the package described above if it were also due, for a portion equal to 50%. 224 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 5.1.4 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments This is a free translation into English of a report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen Société anonyme 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 To the shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company, we hereby present to you our report on the regulated agreement and commitments. We are required to inform you, on the basis of the information provided to us, the features, key terms and conditions and the reasons for the interest of the Company, in the agreements and commitments of which we were notified or which we were able to find in the course of our work. It is not our role to determine whether these are beneficial or appropriate, or to ascertain whether any other agreements or commitments exist. It is your responsibility, under the terms of Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code, to evaluate the benefits arising from these agreements and commitments prior to their approval. We are also required, where appropriate, to inform you of the terms of Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the implementation, over the past financial year, of the agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. We performed the procedures we considered necessary in accordance with professional guidance issued by the French National Institute of Auditors (“Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes”), relating to this engagement. Our work involved verifying that the information provided to us is consistent with the underlying documentation from which it was extracted. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Agreements and commitments authorised during the past financial year We inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment authorized and entered into during the past financial year to be submitted for approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Code. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS ALREADY APPROVED BY THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Agreements and commitments approved in previous financial years a) the implementation of which continued during the past financial year We inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting which continued to be implemented over the past financial year. b) which were not implemented during the past financial year Furthermore, we have been notified of the continuation of the following agreements and commitments, which had already been approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting in previous financial years, the implementation of which did not continue into the past financial year. Undertakings in the event of termination of duties in favour of Mr Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors, at its meeting of 8 July 2016, approved the compensation elements of Mr Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors from 18 July 2016. These compensation elements include: • The benefit of membership of the additional pension plan in force within the Company, giving right to, on retirement and subject to (i) a minimum length of service of five years within the Group, already acquired (ii) an eligibility to social security retirement at the full rate (i.e. a retirement age of 62, at the earliest, in accordance with the current French law), and (iii) the respect of a performance condition mentioned below, the payment of an annuity calculated by reference to seniority within the Group, (x) at a rate of 0.6% of the total gross remuneration (“TGR”) per year of service for the portion of the TGR lower than eight times the French annual social security ceiling and (y) at a rate of 1% per year of service for the portion of the TGR exceeding eight times the French annual social security ceiling (with the French annual social security ceiling amounting to €38,616 in 2016). The grant of this Company pension scheme will be subject to the same performance condition as the one applicable to the severance payment (the maintaining of the Group’s recurring operating margin for the three years prior to departure at a minimum threshold of 15%). 2018 Ipsen Registration document 225 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Board of Directors also decided that Mr Marc de Garidel is to benefit from three additional years of service within the context of the Company’s additional pension scheme in return for his undertaking to continue his involvement within the Group as Chairman of the Board, provided that his effective departure from the Company does not take place prior to the month of November of the year he reaches 62 years of age. These additional years of service will allow Mr Marc de Garidel to benefit from an annuity equal to at least €80,000, i.e. an annuity comparable to the one that would result from the pension entitlements at the end of the 2015 financial year (about €88,000), should he leave on the year of his 62nd birthday. The accrual of these additional years of service would take place on a year-by-year basis starting with financial year 2017 and subject to compliance with the performance conditions described above for the year in question. This benefit would not result in Mr Marc de Garidel accruing conditional entitlements at a pace exceeding the maximum accrual allowed by law (i.e., currently, 3% of the annual benchmark compensation used to calculate the annuity paid under the Company’s supplementary pension plan). • A severance payment with identical terms and conditions, in accordance with the recommendations set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, namely: –– an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, –– of an amount equal to the compensation received from the Company over the last 24 rolling calendar months preceding the effective date of his departure, –– the grant of which will be subject to the same performance condition as that applicable to the severance payment, namely maintaining the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of 15%, and –– including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, the amount payable in consideration of the non-compete undertaking referred to below. Non-compete undertaking of Mr Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, agreed, in the event of his departure from the Group, during a period of 24 months following the date of his effective departure, not to perform or participate from an operational standpoint (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Area (EEA) and/or North America, in any activity relating to the development and/or the marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic category (source IMSHealth) as one of the top two products of the Group in terms of turnover on the date of his effective departure. During the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016, Mr Marc de Garidel accepted to maintain this undertaking in the framework of his sole functions as Chairman of the Board of Directors, it being specified that the non-compete obligation will now focus on the top two products of the Group in terms of turnover on the date of his effective departure. The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this non-compete undertaking will be deemed to be included in the severance package referred to above, if the latter is also due. Undertakings in the event of termination of duties in favour of Mr David Meek, Chief Executive Officer The Board of Directors, in its meeting held on 8 July 2016, approved the compensation elements of Mr David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016. These compensation elements include: • The benefit of membership of the additional pension plan in force within the Company, giving right to, on retirement and subject to (i) a minimum length of service of five years within the Group, (ii) an eligibility to social security retirement at the full rate (i.e. a retirement age of 62 at the earliest in accordance with the current French law), and (iii) the respect of a performance condition mentioned below, the payment of an annuity calculated by reference to length of service within the Group, (x) at a rate of 0.6% of the total gross remuneration (“TGR”) per year of service for the portion of the TGR lower than eight times the French annual social security ceiling and (y) at a rate of 1% per year of service for the portion of the TGR exceeding eight times the French annual social security ceiling (with the French annual social security ceiling amounting to €38,616 in 2016). The grant of this Company pension scheme will be subject to the same performance condition as the one applicable to the severance payment (the maintaining of the Group’s recurring operating margin for the three years prior to departure at a minimum threshold of 15%). • A severance payment whose terms and conditions are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, namely: –– an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, –– equal to 24 months of gross (fixed and variable) compensation paid for his duties as Chief Executive Officer, –– the grant of which will be subject to a performance condition (the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of 15%), and –– including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete undertaking of Mr David Meek referred to below. Non-compete undertaking of Mr David Meek, Chief Executive Officer • During the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016, Mr David Meek agreed, in the event of his departure from the Group, for a period of twenty four (24) months following the date of his effective departure from the Company, not to perform or participate from an operational standpoint (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Area (EEA) 226 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT and/or North America, in any activity relating to the development and/or the marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic category (source IMS-Health) as (1) one of the top three products of the Group based on the turnover generated by such products or their importance from a strategic standpoint (as assessed by the Board of Directors) on the date of Mr David Meek’s effective departure, and (2) any product acquired by the Company between 1 January 2016 and the date of Mr David Meek’s effective departure for a total financial consideration exceeding €300 million (this financial consideration being the sum of any initial payment and any commercial or regulatory payment from a subsequent stage or, in the event of a corporate acquisition, the portion of the acquisition price – corresponding to the initial price plus any earn-out or other price supplement – corresponding to the product in question). The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this non-compete undertaking will be deemed to be included in the severance package referred to above, if the latter is also due. The Statutory Auditors Paris La Défense, 15 February 2019 Paris La Défense, 15 February 2019 KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés KPMG S.A. Department Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner Partner 2018 Ipsen Registration document 227 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 5.2 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 5.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association ■■5.2.1.1 Corporate purpose (Article 2 of the Chairman of the Board of Directors has been confirmed. For Articles of association) further details, see section 5.1. The Company’s corporate purpose is the following in France ■■5.2.1.3 R  ights and obligations attached and any other country whether directly or indirectly: to shares • to invent, manufacture, process, and sell pharmaceutical Distribution of profits (Article 29 of the Articles products, para-pharmaceutical products, cosmetics or of association) any other manufactured products in the fields of drugs and fine chemicals, and all products and materials used to In accordance with the terms and provisions of Article 29 manufacture, process and sell such products; of the Articles of association, after approval of the financial statements and recognition of a distributable profit within the • to conduct all industrial and commercial activities directly meaning of the law, the Shareholders’ Meeting may resolve to or indirectly related to the foregoing purpose, including transfer the distributable profit to one or more discretionary research and design, acquiring, owning, exploiting and reserve accounts, for which it fixes the allocation or use, selling patents, licenses, know-how and more generally all or retained earnings or to distribute it as a dividend. After intellectual and industrial property rights; and deduction of any prior year losses, at least 5% of each year’s net profit is transferred to the statutory reserve as required by • more generally, to conduct all industrial, commercial, law. This provision ceases to apply once the statutory reserve financial or property transactions which may directly has reached one tenth of the Company’s share capital. or indirectly facilitate or further the achievement of the foregoing purposes and any similar purposes. The Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute amounts from reserves to which the shareholders are entitled. In this ■■5.2.1.2 Governance of the Company case, the resolution must expressly indicate which reserve Board of Directors accounts are to be used. However, dividends must be drawn in priority from the year’s distributable profit. The Company is governed by a Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is responsible for defining and implementing The Shareholders’ Meeting may resolve to offer payment of all the Company’s strategic objectives. Subject to the powers or part of the dividend or interim dividends in cash or in shares expressly reserved for the Shareholders’ Meeting and within at the personal choice of each shareholder. the limits of the Company’s corporate purpose, the Board A shareholder’s right to the profits and contribution to losses of Directors is competent to consider and settle all issues is proportional to the percentage of share capital owned. involving the proper functioning of the Company through the passing of its resolutions. Form of shares issued by the Company (Article 9 of Executive Management the Articles of association) In accordance with the legal provisions, the executive The shares issued by the Company may be registered or management of the Company is the responsibility either of bearer shares. Existence of the shares is evidenced by their the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who then serves as registration on securities accounts held in the name of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or of another person holder under the terms and conditions set out by law either appointed by the Board of Directors who then serves as Chief by the Company or its appointed custodian in the case of Executive Officer. registered shares or by an authorized intermediary authorized of bearer shares. The Board of Directors is responsible for electing one of these two options for a period which may not be less than one year. Shareholders’ voting rights (Articles 26.1 and 11.3 of the Articles of association) At its meeting on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors In Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, each decided to change the Company’s form of governance by shareholder has a voting right equal to the number of shares separating the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors he/she holds or represents without limit. and Chief Executive Officer. The Company also announced on 16 February 2016 that it had initiated the process to recruit However, the Board of Directors held on 30 August 2005 its future Chief Executive Officer. The separation of said decided that a double voting right is attached to any ordinary functions is effective since 18 July 2016 date of entry into fully paid-up share which is owned under the registered form office of David Meek as Chief Executive Officer. Within this by the same shareholder for at least two years. The double change of governance, the appointment of Marc de Garidel as voting rights shall automatically end with its conversion to the 228 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL form of bearer share, as well as its transfer, except in cases place at the registered office or any other place indicated in provided for by law. the notice of meeting. According to the provisions of article 11.3 of the Articles of The agenda is set by the person who convenes the meeting. association, the voting right attached to shares belongs to the However, one or several shareholders may request, under usufruct holder in Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and to the the terms and conditions set forth by legal and regulatory bare owner in Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. provisions in force, the inclusion of items or draft resolutions in the agenda. The works council may also require the inclusion Actions necessary to modify shareholder’s rights of proposed resolutions in the agenda in accordance with There are no specific existing rules regarding the modification the regulation in force. The Shareholders’ Meeting may not of shareholders’ rights which are made in accordance with resolve on items which are not on the agenda, in accordance the legal provisions. with the current regulation. However, it may in any event remove one or more Directors from office and appoints new ■■5.2.1.4 Shareholders’ Meetings (Articles 21 to directors in replacement. The agenda may not be revised for 26 of the Articles of association) an adjourned meeting. Participation in Shareholder’s meetings Quorum Any shareholder has the right to attend Shareholders’ The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting validly deliberates, on Meetings and take part in the vote either in person or by proxy, first notice, if the shareholders present or represented, or regardless of the number of shares owned, by providing voting by postal vote, represent at least one fifth of the shares evidence of his/her status as shareholder. with voting rights. No quorum is required for an adjourned meeting. It passes its resolution by a simple majority vote of In accordance with article R.225-85 of the French Commercial the shareholders present or represented or voting by postal Code, the right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings vote. The quorum is calculated on the basis of the shares is subject to the account registration of the shares being comprising the share capital, less any shares deprived of registered in an account in the name of the shareholder voting rights in accordance with the law and provisions of the or of the financial intermediary acting on the shareholder’s Company’s Articles of association. behalf, at midnight, Paris time, on the second business day preceding the date of the General Meeting, either in the The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting validly deliberates if registered share accounts kept by the Company or in the the shareholders present or represented, or voting by postal bearer share accounts kept by the authorized intermediary. vote, represent, on first notice, one quarter of the shares with voting rights, and one fifth on second notice. In the event this Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings quorum is not reached, the second Shareholders’ Meeting The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting receives the Board may be postponed to a further date no later than two months of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ reports, from the original convening’s date. approves the annual financial statements and votes on the distribution of profits. It appoints and dismisses the Directors Shareholders attending the meeting by videoconferencing or and sets their compensation in accordance with the legal other means of telecommunication allowing their identification provisions and the Articles of association. It appoints the and compliant with the legal and regulatory provisions are Company’s Statutory Auditors. counted as present for the purpose of calculating the quorum. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may delegate authority ■■5.2.1.5 C  rossing of thresholds (Article 10.3 of to the Board of Directors at the Board’s request to deal the Articles of association) with all matters not specifically reserved for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. In addition to the legal disclosure requirements set out in Article L.233-7 of the French Commercial Code, any person More generally, the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting resolves or legal entity, acting either alone or in concert, who holds on all matters that do not entail a direct or indirect modification by any mean a number of shares representing one percent of the Articles of association. (1%) of the share capital or voting rights, or any multiple The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting is held every year no thereof, must no later than five (5) business days after the later than six months after the end of the previous financial occurrence, advise the Company by fax of the total number year-end, unless this time period is extended by court order. and percentage of shares and voting rights held, with written confirmation sent the same day by recorded delivery mail. Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Such persons are also required to advise the Company if their The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may amend any holding falls back below those thresholds, under the same and all of the provisions of the Articles of association of the terms and conditions. Company. However, it may not increase the shareholders’ liability, or change the nationality of the Company except under In case of failure to comply with these requirements, the the terms and conditions set forth by law and international shares exceeding the part that should have been disclosed treaties. are deprived of the voting right for any Shareholders’ Meeting that would be held in a two-year period following the date of Notice and Meeting of Shareholders’ Meetings regularization of the disclosure. Except in the case of crossing General Shareholders’ Meetings are called by the Board of one of the thresholds provided for by Article L.233-7 of the Directors or, if applicable, by the Statutory Auditors or any French Commercial Code, the deprival of the voting rights, other person duly empowered by law. The meetings take which will be recorded in the minutes of the Shareholders’ 2018 Ipsen Registration document 229 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Meeting, may only occur if requested by one or more of the ■■5.2.1.7 S  pecific provisions governing changes shareholders representing at least one percent (1%) of the in the share capital share capital and voting rights of the Company. The share capital and the rights attached to shares can only be modified in accordance with applicable legal provisions. ■■5.2.1.6 Identification of bearer shareholders The Articles of association of the Company do not provide for (Article 10.2 of the Articles of any specific provision in that respect. association) The Company may at any time, in accordance with the ■■5.2.1.8 Financial year (Article 27 of the Articles applicable legal and regulatory provisions and at its own of association) expenses, request the relevant central depositary for financial Each financial year has a 12-month term beginning on instruments, to provide it with the name, or the corporate 1 January and ending on 31 December. name in case of a legal entity, nationality and address or as the case may be, the registered office, of holders of securities ■■5.2.1.9 Provisions that could delay, defer or conferring the right to vote at its General Shareholders’ Meetings either immediately or in the future, as well as the prevent a change in control number of securities held by each of them and any restrictions There is no specific provisions of the Articles of association attached thereto. that could delay, defer or prevent a change in the control of the Company. 5.2.2 Share Capital ■■5.2.2.1 Amount of the share capital fully subscribed and paid-up of same class, each with a par value of €1. As of 31 December 2018, the share capital of the Company amounted to €83,808,761 divided into 83,808,761 shares All the shares are registered or bearer shares and are fully subscribed and paid-up of same class, each with a par freely transferable. They are traded on Euronext Paris value of €1. (Compartment A) (ISIN code FR 0010259150). As of 28 February 2019, the share capital of the Company amounted to €83,808,761 divided into 83,808,761 shares ■■5.2.2.2 Changes in share capital Date Operation Par value Number Nominal Share or Cumulative Cumulated Cumulated per share of shares amount contribution share or amount of number of (in euros) (in euros) premium contribution share capital outstanding (in euros) premiums (in euros) shares (in euros) 16/12/2015 Options exercises 1 21,340 21,340 525,967 720,112,264 83,245,602 83,245,602 29/02/2016 Options exercises 1 900 900 27,657 720,139,921 83,246,502 83,246,502 31/05/2016 Options exercises 1 13,180 13,180 457,229 720,597,150 83,259,682 83,259,682 21/07/2016 Capital increase 1 80,000 80,000 3,372,000 723,969,150 83,339,682 83,339,682 by issue of shares 27/07/2016 Cancellation 1 (80,000) (80,000) – – 83,259,682 83,259,682 of treasury shares 27/07/2016 Options exercises 1 10,435 10,435 326,749 724,295,899 83,270,117 83,270,117 05/10/2016 Options exercises 1 117,367 117,367 4,157,665 728,453,564 83,387,484 83,387,484 15/12/2016 Options exercises 1 160,380 160,380 4,166,322 732,619,886 83,547,864 83,547,864 31/12/2016 Options exercises 1 10,000 10,000 322,100 732,941,986 83,557,864 83,557,864 22/02/2017 Options exercises 1 22,630 22,630 796,433 733,738,419 83,580,494 83,580,494 07/06/2017 Options exercises 1 57,440 57,440 1,967,094 735,705,513 83,637,934 83,637,934 30/06/2017 Options exercises 1 2,600 2,600 92,664 735,798,177 83,640,534 83,640,534 26/07/2017 Options exercises 1 20,000 20,000 712,800 736,510,977 83,660,534 83,660,534 230 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Date Operation Par value Number Nominal Share or Cumulative Cumulated Cumulated per share of shares amount contribution share or amount of number of (in euros) (in euros) premium contribution share capital outstanding (in euros) premiums (in euros) shares (in euros) 04/10/2017 Options exercises 1 32,289 32,289 1,150,780 737,661,757 83,692,823 83,692,823 13/12/2017 Options exercises 1 38,724 38,724 1,418,879 739,080,636 83,731,547 83,731,547 31/12/2017 Options exercises 1 510 510 18,176 739,098,812 83,732,057 83,732,057 14/02/2018 Options exercises 1 50,251 50,251 1,790,946 740,889,758 83,782,308 83,782,308 30/05/2018 Options exercises 1 11,820 11,820 421,265 741,311,022 83,794,128 83,794,128 31/12/2018 Options exercises 1 14,633 14,633 420,439 741,731,462 83,808,761 83,808,761 ■■5.2.2.3 Potential share capital With respect to all plans, in the event of a tender offer, granted As of 31 December 2018, the potential share capital represents options are immediately acquired and exercisable. Moreover, a maximum potential dilution of less than 0.01% distributed as the underlying shares are negotiable, without any condition follows: attached. 5.2.2.3.1 Stock purchase or subscription options plans As of 31 December 2018, with respect to all Ipsen plans, there were 36,085 outstanding options (after deduction of Description the number of options exercised or cancelled to take into Every Ipsen SA stock subscription or purchase option grants account the departure of certain beneficiaries), of which the right to subscribe to or purchase one Company share. 30,070 purchase options and 6,015 subscription options, representing a potential increase of the share capital up to The rights resulting from options granted to beneficiaries are €6,015 and a maximum potential dilution of less than 0.01%. entirely acquired at the end of a four-year period and can be exercised on one or several occasions. The following table (Table 8 of AMF recommendations) presents, as of 31 December 2018, the description of the Ipsen Options granted and valid: Date of Date of Board Grant date Number of options granted Nature of Date Date Exercise Number of options Shareholders’ of Directors the options of exercise of expiry price Meeting Total number Of which number granted granted (in euros) Exercised Cancelled or Outstanding as at expired as at as at Of Of options To company Of options 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 31/12/2018 beneficiaries officers 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 31 42,000 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 29.88 10,500 31,500 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 20 28,500 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 33.21 13,000 15,500 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,668 – – Purchase 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 38.73 206,668 60,000 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,666 – – Purchase 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 35.86 206,666 60,000 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,666 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 33.21 206,666 60,000 0 02/06/2006 29/09/2008 29/09/2008 1 10,000 – – Subscription 29/09/2012 29/09/2018 34.68 0 10,000 0 02/06/2006 29/09/2008 29/09/2008 201 216,200 – – Purchase 29/09/2012 29/09/2018 34.68 125,450 90,750 0 02/06/2006 30/03/2009 30/03/2009 41 148,300 – – Purchase 30/03/2013 30/03/2019 26.39 42,550 75,680 30,070 04/06/2009 10/11/2009 10/11/2009 1 12,000 – – Subscription 10/11/2013 10/11/2019 34.74 12,000 0 0 04/06/2009 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 22 40,710 – – Subscription 31/03/2014 01/04/2018 36.64 24,560 16,150 0 04/06/2009 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 105 321,360 (*) – – Subscription 31/03/2014 01/04/2018 36.64 177,820 143,540 0 27/05/2011 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 10 16,005 – – Subscription 30/06/2015 01/07/2019 25.01 12,980 2,775 250 27/05/2011 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 6 189,703 (*) 1 121,180 Subscription 30/06/2015 01/07/2019 25.01 170,102 13,836 5,765 (1) Total 1,824,778 1,208,962 579,731 36,085 (*) Options granted under performance conditions. (1) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 1 April 2015, noticed the achievement of performance conditions attached to these options based on the evolution of income and the achievement of strategic objectives. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 231 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Grant of stock options during 2018 financial year to ten The shares are transferable as from their delivery to the employees of the Group receiving the highest number beneficiairies; (Table 9 of AMF recommendations) • of a four-year duration starting from the grant date for nonDuring the 2018 financial year, no options were granted. French and US tax resident beneficiaries at the grant date. Exercise of stock options during 2018 financial year by The shares are transferable as from their delivery to the employees of the Group exercising the highest number beneficiaries. (Table 9 of AMF recommendations) The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the 2018 During the 2018 financial year, the options exercised by plans mentioned in the chart below, is effective at the end of the ten employees that have exercised the highest number the acquisition period: reached a total of 44,932 options at a weighted average • of a two-year duration starting from the grant date for all price of €37.04. These exercises resulted in the attribution of the beneficiaries with an effective delivery of 50% of the 44,932 Ipsen shares. acquired shares at the term of the two-year acquisition 5.2.2.3.2 Bonus Shares and Performance shares grants period; Description • of a three-year duration starting from the grant date for all The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the 2014 the beneficiaries with an effective delivery of the remaining and 2015 plans mentioned in the chart below, is effective at 50% of the acquired shared at the term of an acquisition the end of an acquisition period: period of three years; • of a two-year duration starting from the date of grant • the shares granted are not subject to any holding periods. for French tax resident beneficiaries. These shares must The final acquisition is then effective subject to a presence be retained by French tax resident beneficiaries for an condition and, for certain plans, to the achievement of additional two-year period following the final acquisition; performance conditions set out by the Board of Directors. • of a four-year duration starting from the date of grant for During the 2018 financial year, 209,152 shares were transferred non-French tax resident beneficiaries as of the date of to beneficiaries at the end of the acquisition period for bonus grant. shares granted under the 27 March 2014, 31 May 2016 and The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the 2016 29 July 2016 plans, under the form of existing shares. and 2017 plans mentioned in the chart below, is effective at As of 31 December 2018, with respect to all Ipsen plans, the end of the acquisition period: 482,748 rights to bonus shares that may be acquired by • of a two-year duration starting from the grant date for beneficiaries were still valid (after deduction of the number of French tax resident beneficiaries with an effective delivery shares acquired or of rights cancelled to take into account the of the acquired shares at the term of the of the two-year departure of certain beneficiaries), under the form of existing acquisition period. Half of the shares are transferable as shares, no increase of share capital is to be planned. from their delivery to the French tax resident beneficiaries The following table (table 10 of AMF recommendations) and half of the shares must be held during an additional presents, as of 31 December 2018, the description and terms period of two years following the final acquisition date; of the Ipsen bonus shares and performance shares granted, • of a two-year duration starting from the grant date for US subject to the completion of presence conditions and, for tax resident beneficiaries with an effective delivery of half certain grants, of performance conditions set out by the of the acquired shares at the term of the of the two-year Board of Directors: acquisition period and of half of the remaining acquired shares two years after the term of the acquisition period. Date of the Date Grant date Number of Bonus shares granted Nature of Date of final Date of Number of Bonus shares Shareholders’ of the Board the Bonus shares acquisition availability Meeting of Directors Total number Of which number granted granted Cancelled as Number of shares Outstanding as at 31/12/2018 transferred or at 31/12/2018 Of Of Bonus To company Of Bonus created beneficiaries shares officers shares 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 113 138,379 (1) 2 32,933 Existing shares 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 27,629 (2) 110,750 – 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 10 30,781(1) – – Existing shares 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 12,322(2) 18,459 – 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 33 20,795 (1) – – Existing shares 28/03/2018 28/03/2018 7,481 13,314 – 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 89 95,882(1) 2 22,658 Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 15,056 (3) 80,826 – 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 17 39,970 (1) – – Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 9,066 (3) – 30,904 (*) 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 31 26,195 (1) – – Existing shares 02/04/2019 02/04/2019 6,715 – 19,480 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 115 60,008 (1) 1 2,535 Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2018 17,285 (4) 64,556 – 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 115 59,963 (1) 1 2,535 Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 17,276 (4) 64,502 – 232 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Date of the Date Grant date Number of Bonus shares granted Nature of Date of final Date of Number of Bonus shares Shareholders’ of the Board the Bonus shares acquisition availability Meeting of Directors Total number Of which number granted granted Cancelled as Number of shares Outstanding as at 31/12/2018 transferred or at 31/12/2018 Of Of Bonus To company Of Bonus created beneficiaries shares officers shares 31/05/2016 29/07/2016 29/07/2016 1 5,011(1) 1 5,011 Existing shares 30/07/2018 30/07/2018 – 7,906 – 31/05/2016 29/07/2016 29/07/2016 1 5,010 (1) 1 5,010 Existing shares 30/07/2018 30/07/2020 – 7,905 – 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 58 47,571(1) – – Existing shares 01/06/2020 01/06/2020 9,170 – 58,745 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 19 32,367(1) – – Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2018 10,908 (4) 32,510 – 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 19 32,360 (1) – – Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 10,906 (4) – 32,504 (*) 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 113 30,472(1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 3,926 – 26,546 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 113 30,428 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 5,599 – 24,829 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 1 6,683 (1) 1 6,683 Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 – – 6,683 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 1 6,682 (1) 1 6,682 Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 – – 6,682 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 68 35,790 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2021 30/03/2021 2,070 – 33,720 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 18 20,923 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 5,162 – 15,761 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 18 20,912 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 5,158 – 15,754 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 410 43,755 – – Existing shares 01/06/2020 01/06/2020 – – 43,755 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 410 43,755 – – Existing shares 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 – – 43,755 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 153 61,815 (1) 1 4,615 Existing shares 01/06/2020 01/06/2020 – – 61,815 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 30/05/2018 153 61,815 (1) 1 4,615 Existing shares 31/05/2021 31/05/2021 – – 61,815 Total 957,322 165,729 400,728 482,748 (1) Bonus shares granted under performance conditions, see 5.1.3.2. (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 March 2017, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (4) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2018, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (*) The registration on the accounts will be made after a four-year period following the date of grant. Grants of Ipsen performance Shares to the employees ■■5.2.2.4 Authorized and non-issued share during financial year 2018 capital During the 2018 financial year, the top ten Group employees The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings held on 7 June 2017 and (excluding corporate officers) to whom have been granted 30 May 2018 authorized the delegation of authority to the Board the highest number of performance shares, received a total of Directors regarding shares capital increases as followed, number of 30,540 bonus shares. being specified that below are mentioned only the ongoing delegations and authorizations as of 31 December 2018: Issues reserved to shareholders Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase by incorporating reserves, 7 June 2017 (20e) 26 months 20% of the share capital (a, c, e, i) profits and/or premiums as bonus shares grant (6 August 2019) and/or increase share par value Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 7 June 2017 (21e) 26 months 20% of the share capital (a, b, e, i) and/or securities with retention of preferential (6 August 2019) subscription rights for shareholders 2018 Ipsen Registration document 233 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Issues without preferential subscription rights for shareholders Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 7 June 2017 (22e) 26 months 10% of the share or securities without preferential subscription rights (6 August 2019) capital (a, c, d, e, i) for shareholders by offer to the public Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 7 June 2017 (23e) 26 months 10% of the share or securities without preferential subscription rights (6 August 2019) capital (a, c, d, e, i) for shareholders by private placement Share capital increase to compensate contributions 7 June 2017 (25e) 26 months 10% of the share in kind of shares or securities (6 August 2019) capital (a, e, i) Issues reserved to employees (and, if applicable, to company officers) Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal Shareholders’ amount of the share Meeting (resolution capital increase number) authorized Share capital increase reserved for members of a 7 June 2017 (26e) 26 months 5% of the share company savings plan (6 August 2019) capital (a, e) Stock subscription and purchase options granted 7 June 2017 (27e) 26 months 3% of the share to employees and company officers (6 August 2019) capital (e, f, h) Authorization to allocate free of charge existing 30 May 2018 (15e) 26 months 3% of the share shares and/or shares to be issued to waged (29 July 2020) capital (f, g, h) staff members and/or certain company officers (a) Based on a share capital of €83,557,864 as at the date of the combined Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017. (b) Global common limit of 20% of the share capital as of the date of the 7 June 2017 combined Shareholders’ Meeting. (c) The issues decided under this delegation are deducted from the global common limit of 20% of the share capital. (d) The issues decided under delegations by offer to the public or private placement are deducted respectively from limits of each delegation, in addition to the global limit of 20% of the share capital. (e) Unused. (f) Common limit of 3% of the share capital. (g) On the basis of the share capital at the grant day. This authorization has been used in 2018 up to a target amount of 211,140 shares, both performance and free, i.e., 0.25% of the share capital, for the shares granted under such performance conditions. It was also used in February 2019 as part of a grant of a total of 25,880 shares to Ipsen employees, under presence conditions, i.e. 0.03% of the share capital. (h) Sub-ceiling of 20% of the share capital within this envelop for allocation to company officers. (i) Supsended in period of public offer. ■■5.2.2.5 Number of shares held by the Company Authorizations Share repurchase program and cancellation of shares Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Characteristics Shareholders’ Meeting (resolution number) Share repurchase 30 May 2018 18 months Maximum repurchase price per share: €250 (14th resolution) (29 November 2019) Limit of 10% of the number of shares comprising the share capital (a) Cancellation of shares 7 June 2017 24 months 10% of the share capital as of the date (19th resolution) (06 June 2019) of decision of cancellation (a) Supsended in period of public offer. This authorization has been used in 2018, mainly as part of a share buyback program in a total number of 250,000 shares of the Company, see 5.2.2.6 below. 234 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Treasury shares (excluding liquidity agreement) Pursuant to this decision, the Board of Directors decided on As of 31 December 2018, the Company held 721,974 of its 30 May 2018 to set up a new share repurchase program with own shares dedicated to the covering of its stock purchase a limit of 10%. options, bonus shares and performance shares plans. On 4 June 2018, the Company announced having appointed As of 28 February 2019, the Company held 720,974 of its Natixis to purchase 250,000 Ipsen SA shares, or about own shares dedicated to the covering of its stock purchase 0.3% of the share capital, for a period of at least 3 months. options, bonus shares and performance shares plans (see The shares purchased under this agreement will be mainly sections 5.2.2.3.1 and 5.2.2.3.2). allocated to cover its free share allocation plans and its new employee share ownership plan. ■■5.2.2.6 Share repurchase program The liquidity contract originally implemented with Natixis has Since 26 February 2007, the Company had mandated Natexis been transferred to the company ODDO BHF with effect Bleichroder, a subsidiary of Natixis, to implement a liquidity 18 July 2018. The program ended on 10 October 2018 due to contract for a one-year period with tacit renewal. This contract to the acquisition of the target number of shares. is compliant with the market practice admitted by regulations. 342,249 treasury shares have been used in 2018 as part of As per the liquidity contract, the following assets appeared on the exercised purchase options’ coverage (see 5.2.2.3.1). the liquidity account: 46,838 shares and €1,259,939.79. Review of the share buyback program The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held on 30 May 2018 conferred to the Board of Directors a new authorization to The following tables present the purchase and sale repurchase the Company’s shares for a 18 month period and transactions carried out by the Company in respect of its own terminated the prior authorization granted on 7 June 2017. shares, between the opening and closing dates of the 2018 financial year: Number of shares purchased: 772,159 Average purchase price: €131.39 Number of shares sold: 520,158 Average sale price: €128.09 Total amount of dealing and brokerage expenses: €255,411 Number of shares used in 2018: 551,401 allocated shares: – 342,249 shares for the coverage of options and – 209,152 shares for performance shares plans Number of shares registered in the name of the Company at the end of the 743,622 (of which 21,648 shares within the liquidity financial year: contract and 250,000 within the repurchase program) Estimated value at the average purchase price: €95,235,669.54 Nominal value: 743,622 including: – 471,974 dedicated to the coverage of options and shares plans – 250,000 as part of the share buyback program – 21,648 within the liquidity contract for the purposes of the animation of shares price Distribution of own shares % of the share capital Animation of share price 0.026% Coverage of stock purchase options or other employee share ownership system 0.86% Securities giving right to shares – Acquisitions – Cancellation – ■■5.2.2.7 Non-equity securities The case of financial display about the emission plan of commercial papers and the outstanding discounted bills As at 2 December 2015, the Company organized an emission of emissions can be consulted on the banque of france website plan of commercial papers (negotiable debt securities) to (www.banque-france.fr). satisfy the general needs for financing the Group. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 235 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 5.2.3 Shareholding ■■5.2.3.1 Share ownership and voting rights par value of €1. The corresponding theoretical number of voting rights as of 28 February 2019 amounts to 131,854,896 As of 31 December 2018, the Company’s share capital and the number of net voting rights amounts to 131,124,912. amounted to €83,808,761 divided into 83,808,761 shares, each with a par value of €1. The corresponding theoretical The difference between the number of shares and voting number of voting rights amounted to 131,856,403 and the rights results from the double voting right. number of net voting rights amounts to 131,112,781. The difference between the number of theoretical voting As of 28 February 2019, the Company’s share capital amounts rights and the number of real voting rights corresponds to the to €83,808,761 divided into 83,808,761 shares, each with a number of treasury shares. As of 31 December 2018, to the best knowledge of the Company, the main shareholders were: Share capital Gross voting rights Net voting rights Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Mayroy SA 47,269,813 56.40% 94,539,624 71.70% 94,539,624 72.11% Free Float 34,627,518 41.32% 34,627,518 26.26% 34,627,518 26.41% Other registered shareholders 779,305 0.93% 1,286,034 0.98% 1,286,034 0.98% (including free shares to employees (*)) Treasury shares (1) 743,622 0.89% 743,622 0.56% 0 0% Employee FCP (2) 235,725 0.28% 384,545 0.29% 384,545 0.29% Board of Directors 152,778 0.18% 275,060 0.21% 275,060 0.21% (excluding Mayroy SA)(3) Total 83,808,761 100% 131,856,403 100% 131,112,781 100% (1) Including the liquidity agreement. (2) The FCP Ipsen Shares is the sole employee shareholding fund to the share capital of the company. (3) A presumed concert exists between Mayroy SA and certain Directors of the Company: Anne Beaufour and Henri Beaufour, who each own 1 share and 2 voting rights, and 100% of the share capital of Beech Tree S.A. (major shareholder of the company Mayroy SA, see below), Marc de Garidel, who owns 141,549 shares and 262,829 voting rights, Carol Xueref and Philippe Bonhomme, who each own 500 shares and 1,000 voting rights, Michèle Ollier, who owns 500 shares and 500 voting rights and Antoine Flochel. It is specified, to the Company’s knowledge and based on Directors’ statements, that VicJen Finance SA, a company of which Antoine Flochel is Chairman of the Board of Directors, holds as at 31 December 2018, 2,000 shares and 4,000 voting rights, and the company Financière de Catalogne of which M. Flochel is the manager, holds, 3,000 shares and 6,000 voting rights as at 31 December 2018. Subsequently the concert participation amounts to 56.58% of the share capital and 72.32% of the voting rights. (*) The free shares granted mainly include the ones provided in accordance with article L.225-102 of the French Code of Commerce, i.e. 54,821 shares, representing 0.07% of the share capital on 31 December 2018. In accordance with the provisions of the law and its bylaws • the company BNP Asset Management declared to the providing the disclosing of any detention of more than 1% of the Company that it crossed: share capital or voting rights, the Company has been informed –– upwards, 10 November 2017, the 1% voting rights of the following thresholds during the last three financial years: threshold. • the company AXA Investment Managers, acting on its own To the Company’s knowledge, on this declaratory basis, no account and the account of its affiliates, declared to the other shareholder owns, directly or indirectly, acting alone or Company that it crossed: in concert, more than 5% of the share capital or voting rights –– downwards, on 25 October 2018, the 1% of the share except to what is described above. capital threshold; –– upwards, on 8 November 2018, the 1% of the share As at the registration document’s setting-up date, and to the capital threshold; Company’s knowledge, there were no significant alterations of –– downwards, on 28 November 2018, the 1% of the share the share capital distribution, with regard to the one presented capital threshold; above on 31 December 2018. • the company BNP Paribas Investment Partners declared to Mayroy is a société anonyme organized and existing under the Company that it crossed: the laws of the Luxembourg. As at the date of registration of –– upwards, on 12 February 2016, the 1% share capital the present registration document, its share capital is owned threshold; by Beech Tree S.A. (“Beech Tree”), also a société anonyme –– upwards, on 7 April 2016, the 1% voting rights capital organized and existing under the laws of the Luxembourg, up threshold; to 93.29%, including 58.15% directly, and 35.15% indirectly, through its subsidiaries FinHestia S.àr.l. and Bee Master –– upwards, on 30 June 2016, the 2% share capital Holding BV, these two companies are incorporated under the threshold; forms of limited liability companies existing under the laws of –– downwards, on 17 March 2017, the 2% share capital the Luxembourg. threshold; • the Caisse des Dépôts declared to the Company that it Anne Beaufour and her brother, Henri Beaufour, hold together, crossed: directly and indirectly, 100% of Beech Tree share capital, which, in the absence of any shareholders’ agreement, is –– downwards, on 9 May 2017, the 1% share capital governed by its Articles of association. threshold; 236 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■5.2.3.2 Transactions on Company’s Shares trading in Company securities is prohibited and stipulates that Definition of blackout periods the indicated periods do not anticipate the existence of other blackout periods that result from knowledge of precise non The Company complies with the recommendation n°2016-08 public information that directly or indirectly concerns Ipsen, of the Autorité des marchés financiers of 26 October 2016, and which, if it were disclosed, would be likely to have a significant the European Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 on market abuse. affect on the price of the securities concerned. Accordingly, purchases and sales of Company securities or financial instruments are prohibited during the periods In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF running from the date on which persons having managerial Code (section 24.3.3), hedging of any kind on securities of the responsibilities, as well as any other person who has access Company, with regard to options, to shares resulting from the to privileged information on a regular or occasional basis, exercise of options or to performance shares, is prohibited. have knowledge of information of a precise nature, which Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Marc de has not been made public, relating, directly or indirectly, to Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors, undertook a one or more issuers ot to one or more financial instruments, formal commitment not to engage in hedging transactions and which, if it were made public, would be likelty to have a either on their options or on shares issued following the significant effect on the prices of those financial intruments exercise of options or on performance shares granted until or on the price of related derivative financial instruments. the end of the holding period that has been decided by the Furthermore, they are also prohibited during a period of: Board of Directors. • 30 calendar days prior to the publication of press release on the annual and half-year financial statements and the day of Transactions on the Company’s Securities Carried Out publication included, and in 2018 • 30 calendar days prior to the publication of quarterly Pursuant to Article 223-26 of the General Regulations of the information and the day of publication included. Autorité des marchés financiers, the table below sets out transactions on Company’s securities carried out in 2018, At the beginning of every year, the Company draws up and as such transactions were notified to the Company and the releases, a timetable that defines the periods during which Autorité des marchés financiers: Purchases Sales Exercice of stock-options Date Number Price per unite Date Number Price per unite Date Number Price per unite Carol Stuckley 03/01/2018 1 (1) – – – – – – – Director David Meek 03/01/2018 1(1) – – – – – – – Chief Executive Officer and Director Margaret Liu 03/01/2018 1(1) – – – – – – – Director Carol Stuckley 11/01/2018 352 €104.20 – – – – – – Director Carol Stuckley – – – 11/01/2018 1(2) – – – – Director Margaret Liu 15/01/2018 411 €105.55 – – – – – – Director Margaret Liu – – – 15/01/2018 1 (2) – – – – Director Marc de Garidel – – – 02/05/2018 9,000 €134.45 – – – Chairman of the Board of Directors Marc de Garidel – – – 03/05/2018 9,712 €133.78 – – – Chairman of the Board of Directors Marc de Garidel 01/06/2018 7,681(3) – – – – – – – Chairman of the Board of Directors David Meek 30/07/2018 15,811(4) – – – – – – – Chief Executive Officer and Director Piet Wigerinck 24/08/2018 680 €147.05 – – – – – – Director David Meek – – – 27/08/2018 7,906 (5) €147.37 – – – Chief Executive Officer and Director Margaret Liu 10/09/2018 278 €148.70 – – – – – – Director Paul Sekhri 19/11/2018 100 $139.94 – – – – – – Director (1) This share was loaned by the Company. (2) This share was returned to the Company. (3) Acquisition of performance shares granted under the 30 May 2016 plan, when Marc de Garidel was Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen SA. (4) Acquisition of performance shares granted under the 29 July 2016 plan. (5) Sell of performance shares that became available under the 29 July 2016 plan. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 237 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■5.2.3.3 Evolution of share ownership and voting rights over the past three financial years 2018 Number of shares % Number of gross % Number of net % voting rights voting rights Mayroy SA 47,269,813 56.40 94,539,624 71.70 94,539,624 72.11 Free Float 34,627,518 41.32 34,627,518 26.26 34,627,518 26.41 Treasury shares (*) 743,622 0.89 743,622 0.56 0 0 Other registered shareholders 779,305 0.93 1,286,034 0.98 1,286,034 0.98 Employee FCP (**) 235,725 0.28 384,545 0.29 384,545 0.29 Board of Directors 152,778 0.18 275,060 0.21 275,060 0.21 (excluding Mayroy SA) Total 83,808,761 100 131,856,403 100 131,112,781 100 2017 2016 Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % of shares of gross of net voting of shares of gross of net voting voting rights rights voting rights rights Mayroy SA 47,269,813 56.45 94,539,623 71.85 94,539,623 72.49 47,269,813 56.57 94,539,617 71.96 94,539,617 72.58 Free Float 34,223,963 40.87 34,223,963 26.01 34,223,963 26.24 34,019,228 40.71 34,019,228 25.89 34,019,228 26.12 Treasury shares (*) 1,159,476 1.39 1,159,476 0.88 0 0 1,128,340 1.35 1,128,340 0.86 0 0 Other registered shareholders 740,922 0.89 1,229,941 0.93 1,229,941 0.94 750,581 0.90 1,196,456 0.91 1,196,456 0.92 Employee FCP(**) 178,366 0.21 265,941 0.20 265,941 0.20 201,000 0.24 288,575 0.22 288,575 0.22 Board of Directors 159,517 0.19 166,051 0.13 166,051 0.13 188,902 0.23 214,659 0.16 214,659 0.16 (excluding Mayroy SA) Total 83,732,057 100 131,584,995 100 130,425,519 100 83,557,864 100 131,386,875 100 130,258,535 100 (*) Including the liquidity agreement. (**) The FCP Ipsen Shares is the sole employee shareholding fund to the share capital of the Company. ■■5.2.3.4 Shareholders’ agreements and parties • presence of one independent Director of three members in acting in concert the Nomination Committee; Agreements between shareholders of the Company • presence of two independent Directors of three members in the Audit Committee, including the Chairperson of the None. Committee; Agreements between shareholders of Mayroy • presence of two independent Directors of four members in None. the Compensation Committee; • presence of one independent Director of three members Parties acting in concert in the Ethics and Governance Committee, including the A presumed concert exists between certain Directors of the Chairperson of the Committee; Company (Anne Beaufour, Henri Beaufour, Antoine Flochel, Marc de Garidel, Philippe Bonhomme, Carol Xueref and • presence of a director representing the employees to the Michèle Ollier) and the company Mayroy SA. Board of Directors, designated on 27 November 2018, in accordance with the modification of the articles of ■■5.2.3.5 Nature of control association approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting on 30 May 2018. The Company is controlled as described above. Measures taken to avoid any abusive control are, in particular, the ■■5.2.3.6 Information or agreements likely to following: involve a change in control or to have • separation of the functions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; an impact in the event of a takeover bid • presence of four independent Directors of thirteen members Agreements likely to involve a change in control in the Company’s Board of Directors as described in None. chapters 5.1.1. of this registration document; • presence of three independent Directors of six members in the Innovation and Development Committee – Specialty Care; 238 2018 Ipsen Registration document CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Information likely to have an impact in the event of • Control mechanisms provided for in an employee a public offer shareholding system if controlling rights are not exercised In accordance with provisions of Article L.225-37-5 of the by said system: voting rights attached to the Ipsen shares French Commercial Code, the following information may have held by employees through the FCP Ipsen Shares, the an impact in the event of a public offer: only mutual fund for employees, are exercised by a person empowered by the supervisory board of the mutual fund • Ownership of the Company’s share capital: see section 5.2.3 in order to be represented in shareholders’ meeting (see of the present document. section 5.2.3 of the present registration document). • Restrictions contained in the Articles of association on • Agreements between shareholders of which the Company voting rights: none; except, in case of none-statement of is aware that may cause restrictions to transfers of shares crossing a statutory threshold, temporary suspension of and exercises of voting rights: see section 5.2.3.4 of the voting rights which may be requested during a shareholders’ present registration document. meeting by one or more shareholders holding at least 1% of the share capital or voting rights (article 10.3 of the Articles • Provisions governing the election and replacement of Board of Association, see section 5.2.1.5). Members: see section 5.1.1 of the present document. • Restrictions contained in the Articles of association on • Provisions governing the amendment of the Company’s transfer of shares or agreements whose the Company has Articles of association: legal rules. knowledge in accordance with the provisions of Article • Powers of the Board of Directors, in particular concerning L.233-11 of the French Commercial Code: not applicable. issuance or repurchases of shares: see sections 5.2.2.4 • Direct and indirect interests in the share capital known by and 5.2.2.5 of the present registration document. the Company in accordance with the provisions of Articles • Agreements entered into by the Company that are amended L.233-7 and L.233-12 of the French Commercial Code: see or expire in the event of a change of control of the Company, section 5.2.3 of this document. unless this disclosure, except if required by law, may have a • Shareholders holding any share conferring specific control material negative impact on its interests: none. rights and description: there are no shares conferring • Agreements providing for compensations of members of specific control rights. However, a double voting right the Board of Directors or employees in case of resignation exists for any fully paid-up registered under the name of or dismissal without cause or if their employment ends as a same shareholder for at least 2 years as described in a result of a public offer: see section 5.1.3 of the present section 5.2.1.3 (Article 26 of the Articles of association). document. ■■5.2.3.7 Dividends Dividends paid in the past five financial years Dividends paid in 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total number of shares giving rights 83,782,308 83,580,494 83,246,502 82,882,958 82,611,659 to dividend Distribution (in euros, excluding 83,782,308 (*) 71,043,419.90 (*) 70,759,526.70 (*) 70,450,514.30 (*) 66,089,327.20 (*) tax credit) Gross dividend amount per share 1.00 0.85 0.85 0.85 0.80 (in euros, excluding tax credit) (*) Including dividends on treasury shares assigned to the carry-forward profit account. Dividends and reserves distribution policy ■■5.2.3.8 Related-party transactions The dividend payout policy is determined by the Company’s The Company and the Schwabe group hold joint participations Board of Directors after analysis, mainly, of the Company’s in certain companies, as joint operations, see section 3.2, financial results and position. The Company’s objective for note 25. future years is to develop a payout policy consistent with its growth strategy. Subject to, (i) the agreements entered into with the Schwabe group described in section 1.2.2.2 of the present document, Statute of limitations (ii) information regarding related-party transactions described Dividends which are not claimed within five years of their in section 3.2, note 26, (iii) the agreements and commitments payment date shall lapse and become the property of the described in the Special Report of the Statutory Auditors State. on regulated agreements and commitments presented in section 5.1.4 of the registration document, there are no other agreements between the Group and related parties. 2018 Ipsen Registration document 239 6 ANNEXES 6.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 242 6.1.1 Attestation of the person responsible for the registration document 242 6.1.2 Person responsible for financial information 242 6.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees 242 6.2 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTERESTS 243 6.3 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS 243 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 243 6.4.1 Cross-reference table for the Registration Document 243 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table 246 6.4.3 Cross-reference table of the Management Report and of the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 247 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing of the financial statements 249 6 ANNEXES PERSON RESPONSIBLE 6.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 6.1.1 Attestation of the person responsible for the registration document Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen I affirm that having taken all reasonable care to ensure that included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description such is the case, the information contained in this registration of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with may be confronted. the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I’ve obtained a letter from the Statutory Auditors certifying that I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial they have verified the financial and accounting information statements have been prepared in accordance with the provided in this registration document and that they have read applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view the document as a whole. of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Boulogne-Billancourt, Company and all the other companies included in the scope 26 March 2019 of consolidation, and that the Management Report presented in paragraph 6.4.3 of the present registration document gives David Meek, a fair description of the business developments, results and Chief Executive Officer financial position of the Company and all the other companies 6.1.2 Person responsible for financial information Aymeric Le Chatelier Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer Eugenia Litz Vice-President, Investor Relations Ipsen 65, quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt cedex Phone: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00 Fax: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 01 investor.relations@ipsen.com www.ipsen.com 6.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees ■■6.1.3.1 Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés KPMG Audit Represented by Mr Jean-Marie Le Guinier Department of KPMG S.A. 6 place de la Pyramide Represented by Catherine Porta and Cédric Adens 92908 Paris-La Défense Cedex – France 2, avenue Gambetta CS 60055 First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 92066 Paris-La Défense Cedex – France 17 December 1998. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 31 May 2016. First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 18 June 2005. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017. 242 2018 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES ■■6.1.3.2 Alternate Statutory Auditors ■■6.1.3.3 Auditors’ fees B.E.A.S. The auditors’ fees can be found in section 3.2.5, note 30. 7-9, villa Houssay 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex – France First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 10 April 2002. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 31 May 2016. 6.2 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTERESTS None. 6.3 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS During the validity period of the present registration document, Copies of the present registration document are available the Articles of incorporation, the Statutory Auditors’ reports, free of charge at the Company’s registered office (located the annual financial statements of the past three years, as at 65 quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt well as any reports, letters or other documents and historical cedex – France – Tel.: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00) as well as on financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries over Ipsen’s website (www.ipsen.com) and on the AMF’s website the past three years and, valuations and statements made by (www.amf-france.org). experts, where such documents are provided for by law and any other document provided for by law may be consulted at the Company’s registered office. 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.1 Cross-reference table for the Registration Document To facilitate consultation of this registration document, the table below outlines the minimum information to be included in this registration document pursuant to Appendices I of Regulation no. 809/2004 of the European Commission dated 29 April 2004. INFORMATION Sections Pages 1. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 1.1 Persons responsible for the registration document 6.1.1 – 6.1.2 242 1.2 Declaration of the person responsible for the registration document 6.1.1 242 2. STATUTORY AUDITORS 2.1 Identities and addresses 6.1.3 242 2.2 Changes NA 3. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3.1 Historical financial information Introduction 3 3.2 Financial information for interim periods NA 2018 Ipsen Registration document 243 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATION Sections Pages 4. RISK FACTORS 2.1 30 5. INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.1 History and development 5.1.1 Legal and commercial name 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.2 Place of registration 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.3 Date of incorporation and duration 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.4 Headquarters – legal form – applicable law 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.5 Important events in the development of the company 3.1.1 42 5.2 Investments 5.2.1 Investments achieved 3.1.3.1 49 5.2.2 In progress 3.1.3.1 49 5.2.3 Scheduled NA 6. BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Principal activities 6.1.1 Operations and principal activities 1.1.1.2 – 1.2.1 6–9 6.1.2 New products 1.2.1 9 6.2 Principal markets 1.2.1 – 1.2.5 9 – 26 6.3 Exceptions factors 3.1.1 42 6.4 Extent to which the issuer is dependent 2.1 30 6.5 Competitive position 1.2.5.2 26 7. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 7.1 Brief description of the Group 1.2.7.1 27 7.2 List of significant subsidiaries 3.2.5 note 29 111 8. PROPERTY, PLANTS AND EQUIPMENT 8.1 Information regarding any existing or planned material tangible fixed assets 3.2.5 note 3.13 72 8.2 Any environmental issues that may affect the utilisation of the tangible fixed assets 4.3 148 9. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 9.1 Financial condition Introduction – 3 3 – 41 9.2 Operating results 9.2.1 Significant factors 3 41 9.2.2 Material changes in net sales or revenues 3 41 9.2.3 Any factors that have materially affected, or could affect, directly or indirectly, 1.2.6 – 3 26 – 41 the issuer’s operations 10. CAPITAL RESOURCES 10.1 Capital resources (short and long term) 3.1.3 49 10.2 Cash flows 3.1.3 49 10.3 Borrowing requirements and funding structure 3.1.3 49 10.4 Restrictions on the use of capital resources 3.1.3 49 10.5 Anticipated sources of funds needed NA 11. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES 1.1.1 – 1.2.3 6 – 19 12. TREND INFORMATIONS 12.1 Recent trends production 1.2.6 – 3.1.6 26 – 58 12.2 Events that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on prospects 1.2.6 26 13. PROFIT FORECAST OR ESTIMATES 13.1 Principal assumptions NA 13.2 Report prepared by auditors NA 13.3 Forecast basis NA 13.4 Disclose of forecast approval NA 244 2018 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATION Sections Pages 14. ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Name, business address, and functions of the corporate officers in the issuing 5.1 180 company 14.2 Administrative, management and supervisory bodies and senior management 5.1.2 210 conflicts of interest 15. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Remuneration paid 5.1.3 211 15.2 Amounts set aside to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits 5.1.3 211 16. BOARD PRACTICES 16.1 Date of expiration of the current term of office 5.1.1 – 5.1.2 181 – 204 16.2 Service contracts 5.1 180 16.3 Committees 5.1.1 198 16.4 Compliance with principles of corporate governance 5.1 180 17. EMPLOYEES 17.1 Breakdown of employees 4.2.1 143 17.2 Shareholding and stock options 5.2.2.3 231 17.3 Description of any arrangements for involving the employees in the capital 4.2.2 145 18. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 18.1 Interests in capital 5.2.3.1 236 18.2 Different voting rights 5.2.1 – 5.2.3.1 228 – 236 18.3 Control of the issuer 5.2.3.1 – 5.2.3.4 236 – 238 18.4 Description of any arrangements 5.2.3.4 – 5.2.3.5 238 19. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 5.2.3.8 239 20. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES 20.1 Historical financial information Introduction – 3 3 – 41 20.2 Pro forma financial information NA 20.3 Financial statements 3.2 – 3.3 59 – 117 20.4 Auditing of historical annual financial information 20.4.1 Statement that the historical financial information has been audited 3.2.6 – 3.3.3 114-131 20.4.2 Indication of other information audited 5.1.4 225 20.4.3 Indication of other information unaudited NA 20.5 Age of latest financial information 3.2.5 note 3 68 20.6 Interim and other financial information NA 20.7 Dividend policy 5.2.3.7 239 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings 2.1.1 30 20.9 Significant change in the issuer’s financial or trading position 3.2.5 note 1 and 67 note 2 21. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.1 Share capital 21.1.1 Amount of issued and fully paid capital 5.2.2.1 – 5.2.2.4 – 230 – 233 – 234 5.2.2.5 21.1.2 Shares not representing the capital NA 21.1.3 Treasury shares or shares held by subsidiaries 5.2.2.5 234 21.1.4 Securities 5.2.2.3 231 21.1.5 Terms of any acquisition NA 21.1.6 Options or understanding NA 21.1.7 History of share capital 5.2.2.2 230 2018 Ipsen Registration document 245 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATION Sections Pages 21.2 Memorandum and articles of association 21.2.1 Corporate purpose 5.2.1.1 228 21.2.2 Regulations of administrative, management and supervisory bodies 5.1.1.1 195 21.2.3 Rights and preferences attached to shares 5.2.1.3 228 21.2.4 Modification of the rights of shareholders 5.2.1.3 229 21.2.5 Shareholders’ meetings 5.2.1.4 229 21.2.6 Change of control 5.2.3.5 238 21.2.7 Shareholding thresholds 5.2.1.5 229 21.2.8 Conditions governing modifications to articles of Association 5.2.1 229 22. MATERIAL CONTRACTS 1.2.2 16 23. THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF ANY INTEREST 23.1 Expert Statement 6.2 243 23.2 Other statements NA 24. DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 6.3 243 25. INFORMATION ON HOLDINGS 1.2.7 – 3.2.5 note 29 27 – 111 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table INFORMATION Chapters Pages Attestation by the person responsible 6.1.1 242 Annual financial statements 3.3 117 Consolidated financial statements 3.2 59 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the annual financial statements 3.3.3 131 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial statements 3.2.6 114 Statutory Auditors’ fees 3.2.5 note 30 113 Management Report: 6.4.3 247 Information contained in Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code: • Analysis of changes in the business, results and financial position of the 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, 42 – 43 – 49 – 67 Company and the Group 3.2.5 notes 1 and 2 • Financial and non-financial key performance indicators of the Company and the Introduction 3–4 Group • Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group 2.1, 3.1, 3.2.5 notes 1 30 – 42 – 67 and 2 • Internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation 2.2 34 and processing of accounting and financial information of the Company and the Group • Objective and hedging policy for transactions of the Company and the Group for 2.1 – 2.2 – 3.2.5 30 – 34 – 104 – 106 which hedge accounting is used notes 23 and 24 • E xposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group • Use of financial instruments by the Company and the Group • Financial risks linked to the effects of climate change and low carbon strategy 2.1.2.2 32 of the Company and the Group Information regarding the buying back of shares (Article L.225-211 of the French 5.2.2.6 235 Commercial Code) 246 2018 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.3 Cross-reference table of the Management Report and of the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance ■■Management Report INFORMATION Chapters Pages Information regarding the activities of the Company and the Group Position of the Company and the Group during the previous financial year, foreseeable 1.2, 3.1.1, 3.1.6 9 – 42 – 58 changes and significant events after the reporting period (Articles L.232-1 and L.233-26 of the French Commercial Code) Activities and results of the Company and the Group by business segment 3.1.2.4 48 (Article L.233-6 of the French Commercial Code) Objective and exhaustive analysis of developments in the business, results and 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, 42 – 43 – 49 – 67 financial position of the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French 3.2.5 notes 1 and 2 Commercial Code) Financial and non-financial key performance indicators of the Company and the Group Introduction 3–4 (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group 2.1, 3.1, 3.2.5 notes 1 30 – 42 – 67 (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) and 2 Internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and 2.2 34 processing of accounting and financial information of the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Objective and hedging policy for transactions of the Company and the Group for which 2.1 – 2.2 – 3.2.5 notes 30 – 34 – 104 – 106 hedge accounting is used 23 and 24 Exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group Use of financial instruments by the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Financial risks linked to the effects of climate change and low carbon strategy of 2.1.2.2 32 the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Research and Development activities of the Company and the Group (Articles L.232-1 1.2.3 19 and L.233-26 of the French Commercial Code) Existing branches within the Company (Article L.232-1 of the French Commercial NA Code) Legal, financial and tax information of the Company Breakdown and changes in share ownership (Article L.233-13 of the French 5.2.3.3 238 Commercial Code) Names of controlled companies and portion of the Company’s share capital they hold 1.2.7 27 (Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code) Significant holdings acquired during the financial year in companies whose NA headquarters are located in France (Article L.233-6 of the French Commercial Code) Cross-shareholding (Article R.233-19 of the French Commercial Code) NA Statement of employee profit-sharing (Article L.225-102 of the French Commercial Code) 5.2.3.1 236 Acquisition and disposal by the Company of its own shares (buyback of shares) 5.2.2.5 and 5.2.2.6 234-235 (Article L.225-211 of the French Commercial Code) Adjustments to securities giving access to the share capital in the event of financial NA transactions (Article R.228-91 of the French Commercial Code) Adjustments to securities giving access to the share capital and the stock options in NA the event of the buyback of shares (Articles R.228-90 and R.225-138 of the French Commercial Code) Dividends distributed for the three previous financial years (243 bis of the French 5.2.3.7 239 General Tax Code) Non-tax deductible expenses and charges (223 quater of the French General Tax 3.3.4.14 136 Code) Court orders or financial penalties imposed for anti-competitive practices NA (Article L.464-2 I paragraph 5 of the French Commercial Code) 2018 Ipsen Registration document 247 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATION Chapters Pages Payment deadlines and breakdown of the accounts payable and accounts receivable 3.3.4.13 135 balances (Article L.441-6-1; D.441-4; A.441-2 of the French Commercial Code) Amount of the inter-company loans (Article L.511-6 3 bis of the French Monetary and 3.3.2 note 3 121 Financial Code) Information on the operation of a SEVESO site (Article L.515-8 of the French NA Environmental Code) (Article L.225-102-2 of the French Commercial Code) Information regarding the corporate officers Summary of securities transactions performed by persons with managerial 5.2.3.2 237 responsibilities and closely affiliated persons (Article L.621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code; 223-26 of the AMF Regulation) CSR Information Awareness of the social and environmental consequences of the activities, including 4.1 – 4.3 140 – 148 the impact on climate change and the impact resulting from the use of the goods and services produced, as well as the societal commitments promoting sustainable development, the circular economy, the fight against food waste, the fight against discrimination and the promotion of diversity (Articles L.225-102-1; R.225-105; R.225105-1 of the French Commercial Code) Monitoring plan NA ■■Appendices to the Management Report INFORMATION Chapters Pages Report on payments to governments (Article L.225-102-3 of the French Commercial NA Code) Table on the Company’s results during each of the last five financial years 3.3.4.17 137 (Article R.225-102 of the French Commercial Code) ■■Corporate Governance Report INFORMATION Chapters Pages Compensation information Information on the compensation policy of Corporate Officers (Articles L.225-37-2 and 5.1.3.3 215 L.225-82-2 of the French Commercial Code) Total compensation and benefits in kind paid during the fiscal year to each corporate 5.1.3 211 officer of the Company, the companies it controls or the company that controls it (Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code) Commitments of any type undertaken by the Company for the benefit of its corporate 5.1.3.2 – 5.1.4 212 – 225 officers (Article L.225-37-3 and D.225-104-1 of the French Commercial Code) Option selected by the Board regarding the procedures for the retention of free shares 5.1.3.2 – 5.1.3.3.1 212 – 218 – 223 and/or shares resulting from the exercise of stock options by the corporate officers – 5.1.3.3.2 (Articles L.225-197-1 and L.225-185 of the French Commercial Code) Information regarding the composition, operation and powers of the Board List of all offices and positions held by each of the corporate officers in or outside 5.1.1 183 the company during the financial year (Article L.225-37-4 1° of the French Commercial Code) Agreements entered into directly or via an intermediary (i) between a corporate 5.1.4 225 officer or shareholder holding a percentage of voting rights in excess of 10% and (ii) a company of which more than 50% of the share capital is held, directly or indirectly (with the exception of agreements involving ordinary transactions that are entered into under normal conditions) (Article L.225-37-4 2° of the French Commercial Code) Summary of the delegations regarding capital increases (Article L.225-37-4 3° of the 5.2.2.4 233 French Commercial Code) Form of Executive Management (Article L.225-37-4 4° of the French Commercial Code) 5.1.2 204 Composition, conditions for the preparation and organization of the work of the Board 5.1.1 181 (Article L.225-37-4 5° of the French Commercial Code) Application of the principle of balanced gender representation on the Board 5.1.1 195 (Article L.225-37-4 6° of the French Commercial Code) 248 2018 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATION Chapters Pages Potential limitations that may be imposed on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer 5.1.2 205 by the Board of Directors (Article L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code) Reference to a corporate governance code and application of the “comply or explain” 5.1 180 principle as well as the location where this code may be consulted (Article L.225-37-4 8° of the French Commercial Code) Procedures for the participation of shareholders in the Annual General Meeting 5.1.2 210 (Article L.225-377-4 9° of the French Commercial Code) Information regarding items likely to have a material impact in the event 5.1.2 211 of a public offer (Article L.225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code) 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing of the financial statements INFORMATION Chapters Pages Annual financial statements 3.3 117 Consolidated financial statements 3.2 59 Management Report 3.1 42 Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance and conclusions of the statutory 5 – 3.3.3 179 – 117 auditors Activities of the Company and the Group/Other 1.2 9 Results of the last five financial years 3.3.4.17 137 2018 Ipsen Registration document 249 250 2018 Ipsen Registration document Designed & published by +33 (0)1 40 55 16 66 Contacts Readers can address any comments and questions on this document to: Ipsen 65, quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Phone: +33 1 58 33 50 00 Fax: +33 1 58 33 50 01 www.ipsen.com 2017 Registration document This Annual Report is also available on the Company’s website at www.ipsen.com. * Innover pour mieux soigner. www.ipsen.com
