Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Powering the smart connected future Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Powering the smart connected future “In 2018 we signed a landmark agreement with our largest customer, Apple Inc., for the license of certain of our main PMIC technologies, and the transfer of over 300 employees 02 04 08 23 and certain assets” Entering a new chapter in About Dialog Materiality Value chain Dr. Jalal Bagherli the story of our Company. Chief Executive Officer Introduction 01 2018 was an important year We are a fabless semiconductor We aim to align our The technical excellence of Materiality [08] in the history of our company. company primarily focused sustainability management our products and our deep Our people [14] In October 2018 we signed on the development of highlyactivities, including reporting, fabrication partnerships result Business ethics [18] a landmark agreement with integrated power-efficient with our most material issues. in value to customers. Apple Inc. which clarified our mixed-signal products for Environmental responsibility [21] long-term business relationship consumer electronics, and Value chain [23] and monetised our unique IP. other high-growth markets. Society [28] We are confident about the Our ambition is to power the Appendix [32] future of our business and the smart connected future with Group directory [34] opportunity to create long‑term leading power management value for a wider range and energy-efficient integrated of stakeholders circuits (“ICs”). Our technologies contribute to the extension of battery life in portable devices, charge batteries faster and safely, and provide efficient connectivity in Internet of Things (“IoT”) applications. You can read more about our sustainability performance at www.dialog-semiconductor.com/ sustainability Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 01 Introduction Introduction Materiality This is our seventh annual sustainability report, published in April 2019 and covering the 2018 calendar year. Since 2015, the company has adopted the Global Reporting Initiative Our people (GRI) framework. In 2018, we transitioned to the GRI Standards, and this report makes a GRI-referenced claim. This report places primary focus on those topics that are considered most material to Dialog and its stakeholders – Business ethics as defined through a materiality assessment (pages 8-13). Environmental More details, including a table of GRI Standard topics and responsibility disclosures, can be found on our website. The content of this report is not subject to external assurance. Value chain Society www.dialog-semiconductor.com (GRI information) 02 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Entering a new chapter in the story of the company Our expertise, proven track record and talent, gives me confidence in the future success of our business 2018 was an important year in the story of our Dialog remains fully committed to playing an Although fabless, we are ultimately responsible company. On 11 October 2018, we signed an active role in extending responsible business for the delivery of our products to our agreement with Apple Inc. for the licensing of practices across the supply chain. One more customers. In order to monitor and optimise the “We are creating a vibrant certain of our main PMIC technologies, and year, our teams worked hard to continue manufacturing process, we assign Dialog staff and ambitious mixedthe transfer of over 300 employees and certain strengthening the audit verification process members to any foundry producing our ICs. signal business with a assets. This agreement reflects the quality of our relating to human and labour rights, health and This supports a continuous quality improvement talent, the strength of our technology, and close safety, and the environment. We published our process which seeks to minimise risks potentially growth strategy supported customer relation. second Gender Pay Gap analysis report, an associated with the manufacturing process. by our competitive important topic for our industry which we aim As a result, we can assure our customers that Every day we continue building strong and advantage and values” to manage and contribute positively towards. we will deliver the ICs on time and in line with responsible relationships with a wide range of This year we also published “Our approach to their exacting standards. Dr Jalal Bagherli stakeholders. Together with our customers, tax”, which is in line with the principles of our Chief Executive Officer employees, fabrication partners and the On behalf of the Board and the Executive Code of Business Conduct. communities in which we operate, we create Team I would like to thank our teams in Human value through innovative and differentiated Innovation is at the core of our sustainable Resources, Quality and Environment Systems, energy-efficient integrated circuits (“ICs”). business model. In 2018 we invested Supply Chain and Value Management, and Our products helped enhance the usability, US$326 million in R&D, meaning that since 2012 Manufacturing – as well as our sustainability effectiveness and sustainability of more than a we have invested approximately US$1.4 billion. champions and all other employees involved billion electronic consumer products during 2018. – for their ongoing commitment and efforts to The nature of our fabless model means that, while For the last three years Dialog has been listed in support our sustainability activities. exposure to sustainability risks within our own the Carbon Clean 200 index, a testimony of the operations is reduced, we must maintain strong role our technology plays in supporting the move oversight of our suppliers to ensure they perform Dr. Jalal Bagherli to a cleaner and more energy-efficient economy. in a way that does not undermine our values nor Chief Executive Officer Our ambition to power the smart connected compromise our customer relationships. Our ICs future in a responsible and efficient manner are manufactured by leading foundries in highly remains intact. As a participant in the United automated plants. They are staffed by qualified Nations’ Global Compact – to which we technicians and engineers, and are subject to committed since 2012 – we continue to apply rigorous operational controls. Our fabrication sustainability management standards in the partners apply mature management systems to pursuit of our business ambitions. In 2018, we address issues such as quality control, human carried out an interim review of our materiality resources, and environmental performance. matrix and we aim to undertake a full materiality assessment in 2019, in line with our policy. Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 03 Our performance over the year OUR VALUES In 2018, we continued to strengthen our audit verification process relating to human and labour rights, health and safety and the environment, Introduction and distributed US$1.3 billion in economic value to our stakeholders Agility We believe in being entrepreneurial, always moving and decisive: delivering excellence, Materiality In 2018, we carried out an interim review of our Key highlights include: UU Our emerging talent programmes continued and keeping things simple. materiality matrix. Our materiality assessment successfully in 2018, with 23 graduates identified and prioritised (with the help of our UU Distribution of US$1.3 billion in economic (2017: 26; 2016: 35) and 56 interns external partners) those sustainability issues value to our employees, suppliers, host (2017: 45; 2016: 51) entering the business; and impacting Dialog and its stakeholders. The results governments, local communities and providers of capital. This represents 90% UU Participation in a strategic partnership with Difference are used to help define our sustainability strategy of our total turnover; University Technical College Swindon (“UTC and to ensure the right allocation of resources Our people Swindon”) and the UK Electronic Skills for its effective implementation. Furthermore, the UU The auditing of all 11 existing significant Foundation (“UKESF”) in the United Kingdom. results have directly informed the contents of this fabrication partners against our Supplier We care about our impact and know that report – which make a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim Audit Checklist and Corporate Social In 2019 we aim to make further progress we make a difference to our customers against the Global Reporting Initiative Standards Responsibility Checklist; towards a well-defined sustainability strategy. and their end-consumers, to employees (GRI Standards). This will help ensure that our sustainability UU Throughout 2018 we have strengthened our and society. journey stays on course and we continue to Business ethics supplier audit verification process relating to integrate sustainability into our business and human and labour rights, health and safety, support Dialog’s long-term value. and the environment. All major deviations found at our subcontractors’ audits have For further sustainability information, please contact: Many been implemented and verified by Dialog; UU The screening and auditing of new and existing fabrication partners (i.e. those supplying jose.cano@diasemi.com more than 95% of our total volume of sustainability@diasemi.com We are at our best when we work together, Environmental integrated circuits) against our Self-Audit across geographic and cultural boundaries. Checklist. This covers labour and human This is about sharing ideas, challenging each responsibility rights, health and safety, the environment other and building strong relationships with and business ethics, as well as the application our customers, employees and suppliers. of pre-qualification audits to all new fabrication partners; Value chain Our approach to tax Ideas In 2018 we published “Our approach to tax”, a document which sets out Dialog’s approach to how we conduct our tax affairs and deal We have a passion for innovation and with tax risks. thrive on new ideas. This is about For more information see our website pushing boundaries and taking pride in Society www.dialog-semiconductor.com/investornew approaches. relations/approach-tax 04 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 About Dialog Developing power management and powerefficient technologies to keep people connected Our passion for innovation and entrepreneurial Our products enhance consumer experience spirit ensures we remain at the core of mobile and enable our customers to differentiate and computing and the Internet of Things (“IoT”). move fast to market. Our highly-integrated Innovation is at the core of our business. standard and custom mixed‑signal ICs are OUR TARGET END-MARKETS optimised for mobile computing, wearables, LED Our most important assets include our highlysolid state lighting (“SSL”) and backlighting, and skilled engineers and intellectual property (“IP”), Smart Home applications. The highly-integrated IoT the strength of our customer relationships and approach helps to reduce component size and close collaboration with responsible production numbers, meaning our customers can reduce partners. All these play an important role in the materials and costs and maximise performance. design of our products. Our technology portfolio includes power Through a collaborative R&D approach and management, audio, Bluetooth® low energy, responsible supply chain management, we Rapid Charge™, configurable mixed-signal ICs, develop and market highly‑integrated power AC/DC converters and LED drivers. management and energy-efficient mixedFor more information on our product range and forward signal ICs. focus, please see our 2018 Annual report For more information on our business model, please see our 2018 Annual report Our technologies contribute to the extension of battery life in portable devices, charge Key outputs batteries faster and safely, and provide efficient connectivity in IoT applications. Economic value creation 30 MOBILE AUTOMOTIVE Power-efficient product range 05 Reusable IP portfolio 19, 30 Trusted relationships with customers 19, 24 COMPUTING & STORAGE Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 05 About Dialog continued Introduction Materiality TECHNOLOGIES KEY OUTCOMES HOW WE MAKE OUR PRODUCTS SUSTAINABLE POWER MANAGEMENT UU Power efficiency; Dialog replaces multiple discrete power Typical usage tests show our power Our people management components with one highlymanagement integrated circuits (“PMICs”) UU Longer battery life; and integrated chip; these single chip solutions can decrease the power consumption of UU Lighter, thinner, smaller products. reduce energy usage and provide a simple a portable device by up to 30%. yet flexible design at a lower cost. Business ethics CONNECTIVITY UU Ultra-low power Bluetooth® low energy; Since the launch of our first Bluetooth® low Smart connected devices such as wearables energy System-on-Chip we have shipped over or Smart Home applications, are increasingly UU Digital Enhanced Cordless Technology; 200 million units of Smartbond™. Our Wearable part of our daily lives. This type of device UU Approximately 50% reduction in power on-Chip™ enables consumers to benefit from requires power-efficient connectivity Environmental consumption and size of classic Bluetooth® more energy-efficient wearables, Smart Home and sensing technologies to interact with products; and applications, proximity tags and various other the environment. responsibility connected smart applications. UU One of the most energy-efficient connectivity solutions available to consumers. Value chain ADVANCE MIXED‑SIGNAL UU Configurable Mixed-signal ICs (“CMICs”); CMICs integrate multiple analog, logic and annually in the United States alone (enough discrete component functionality into a single to power more than nine million American UU High efficiency AC/DC power converter; chip, reducing components and board space. households). Dialog was the first company to UU Reduction in number of components Our AC/DC converters and LED drivers are introduce a zero standby power AC/DC pulse required; and width modulations (“PWM”) controller. designed to cost-effectively reduce energy UU Zero standby power consumption for consumption by maximising power conversion Our SSL LED drivers support very high portable devices. efficiency with digital technology that uses efficiency, long-lifespan SSL bulbs. It is Society fewer components. This includes converters estimated that the increased use of energythat use little or no power while on standby efficient LED lighting of all kinds in the United – a particularly important aspect when you States alone will save 300 terawatt hours by consider that standby demand consumes more 2030 – equivalent to approximately 210 million than 100 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions. 06 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Our approach to Sustainability Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 07 Our vision and applicable external standards Embedding sustainable and responsible practices into our business Introduction As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we aim to do business in a way that respects human rights, supports responsible labour practices, protects the environment and maintains strong business ethics – while helping advance broader sustainable development. Materiality It’s not just the right thing to do. We believe We extend related requirements to our major Sustainability management this approach will ultimately support the longsuppliers through the application of our Supplier term value of our business. This is due to the Code of Conduct, which incorporates the During 2018 we continued to integrate increasingly stringent expectations of our requirements of the Responsible Business sustainability management into our business investors, our customers and the end-consumers Alliance (“RBA”). activities. Human Resources, Manufacturing, of the products in which our technology Business Development and Legal departments In addition, we apply the following are responsible for the management of their is integrated. Our people external standards: respective sustainability issues – and are subject As such, our Vision is to embed sustainable to the oversight of the Executive Committee. and responsible practices into the way we act UU Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact; We believe this is a better way to fully embed internally and engage externally. We are guided in UU ISO14001 environmental management system sustainability into the responsibilities – and this respect by a range of corporate policies and standard, to which we are certified; actions – of managers throughout the Company. codes, including our: The Sustainability Committee is comprised UU ISO50001 energy management system Business ethics UU Corporate Code of Business Conduct (“Dialog standard, to which we are certified of a representative of engineering, human Code of Business Conduct”); in Germany; resources and investor relations – who coordinate these activities. UU Quality, Environmental and Energy Policy; UU ISO9001 quality management system standard, to which we are certified; and Where sustainability management performance UU Health and Safety Policy; issues are of sufficient importance, responsible We are also guided in our external sustainability departments will report these directly to the UU Intellectual Property Policy; and reporting by the Global Reporting Initiative Board on an ad hoc basis. Further details UU Conflict Minerals Policy. Standards (GRI Standards). regarding the management of specific Environmental issues within Dialog can be found in the following chapters. responsibility Value chain Society 08 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Materiality Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 09 Materiality assessment The outcome of the materiality process informs Introduction our sustainability strategy Our approach is to undertake a full materiality assessment every other year. In 2018 we carried out an interim review, and we aim to undertake a full materiality assessment in 2019. Materiality MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS Our people 1 2 3 4 5 Initial review of Definition of a In-depth analysis Gathering of feedback Mapping Dialog’s sustainability issues “Dashboard” of to prioritise each on the results from most material issues facing Dialog relevant issues Dashboard issue based internal discipline against the GRI Business ethics (and the wider for Dialog and on Dialog’s actual and experts and external Standards Topics. electronics sector) its stakeholders potential impact on stakeholders and the We have worked with external advisers its stakeholders and appropriate adjustment to identify and prioritise our most UU Dialog stakeholders including investors, value chain partners, vice versa of scores material issues on the basis of: Environmental employees, etc. UU The potential or actual impact of This included: UU Engagement with Human Dialog on its stakeholders; and Resources, Supply Chain, responsibility UU Analysis of Dialog’s activities, Manufacturing, Investor Relations, UU The potential or actual impact of locations and business partners; stakeholders on the ability of Dialog etc; and UU A review of existing company to achieve its business objectives. management system components; UU Engagement with investors, SRI analysts, sustainability Value chain UU A review of Dialog’s existing risk specialists, etc. assessment and supply chain audit results; and UU A review of external analysis and commentary on the semiconductor (and wider electronics) industry. Society 10 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Materiality process Stakeholder engagement Risk management Our ongoing engagement with internal and Our Risk Management office identifies the external stakeholders helps us understand: key risks faced by Dialog and reports these, STRATEGIC RISKS along with the status of any mitigating actions UU The impact of our activities and relationships or controls, to the Management Team and on others – and how we can best manage Human capital: To keep ahead in a very competitive market we invest in product innovation Audit Committee. and ensure Dialog has the appropriate leadership capabilities for an expanding and increasingly these impacts in a responsible manner; These risks are recorded in a central risk register, complex global operation. UU The potential risks and opportunities which is reviewed by our Management Team and associated with stakeholders and how we can Dependency on key customers: The Company relies on a relatively small number of customers Audit Committee. The risk register is used to plan for a substantial proportion of its revenue. best manage these in a proactive way; and our internal audit activity and assess any potential UU The ongoing effectiveness of impact on our strategy. our management actions. In this context, we select stakeholders we engage Key sustainability risks in 2018 with on the basis of: Although the risk register cuts across all OPERATIONAL RISKS UU Their actual and potential impact on Dialog; aspects of our business, key risks relating to and our sustainability performance are set out on Fabless business model: We work together with our fabrication partners and suppliers to this page. ensure that they perform (both operationally and otherwise) in a way that does not undermine UU Dialog’s actual and potential impact on our customer relationships. stakeholders – both positive and negative. Each of these has been integrated into our materiality process. In 2018, a geopolitical risk In addition to informing our materiality process, has been added to our principal risks. For more stakeholder engagement also helps inform our information on our principal risks, please see corporate risk management process. pages 53 to 56 of our 2018 Annual report. LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Compliance with laws and regulations: The expansion of the business into new jurisdictions, means that we need to understand – and comply with – applicable local laws and regulations. The need to ensure that (in the context of the fabless model) suppliers comply with applicable environmental regulations. Intellectual property protection: The need to legally and physically protect highly innovative intellectual property held by Dialog. Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 11 Materiality process continued Introduction ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our ongoing engagement with internal and external stakeholders helps us understand the impact of our activities and relationships on others. This engagement also informs how we can best manage these impacts in a responsible manner, as well as the potential risks and opportunities, to create value for all our stakeholders. Materiality Strategic partners Society/ Investors Our people Customers and suppliers Communities Our people General stakeholder engagement activity in 2018 Stakeholder type Form of engagement Frequency of engagement Examples of issues raised Employees UU Employee annual reviews UU At least monthly UU Involvement in sustainability activities UU Regular communications on Company intranet UU Quarterly group conference calls UU Terms of employment UU Global sustainability group representatives from each office UU Employee turnover UU Company strategy Business ethics UU Learning and development Investors UU Annual report UU At least daily UU Competition for talent UU Sustainability report UU Technological trends UU Investor roadshows UU Company performance UU Ongoing investor relations engagement UU Business strategy and customer concentration UU Capital Markets Day UU Supply chain management UU Investors perception report UU Governance (including sustainability) Customers UU Customer service feedback UU Monthly to annual contact with key customers UU Product design Environmental UU Customer audit activity UU Product quality and price UU Delivery schedules responsibility Community UU Sustainability report UU Monthly to annual contact with local communities UU Donations and in-kind support UU Community projects Peers UU Industry forums and work groups UU Ad hoc UU Industry dynamics Value chain UU Technological trends Government/ UU Government consultations UU Ad hoc UU Environmental regulations Regulators UU Regulatory enquiries UU Product standards Suppliers UU Procurement contract tenders UU At least daily with respect to major suppliers UU Product quality and price UU Supply chain audits UU Delivery schedules UU On-site presence at fabrication plants UU Management of identified issues in the 2018 process UU Performance reviews UU Implementation of the 2019 auditing process Society 12 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Materiality process continued Our material areas have a clear link with our key business issues Material sustainability issues Our core material issues Change from 2017 Mapping to business issue KEY In 2018, we carried out an interim review of our UU Economic performance and impact = Society + New material issue materiality matrix in line with our materiality review policy and as in 2017, mapped our material sustainability topics and our key business areas. UU Technological innovation and agility = Society = No change The outcome of the interim review resulted in UU Intellectual property = Business Ethics adjustments to the prioritisation of two of our core material issues: UU Compliance with customer standards = Value Chain ! Re-prioritisation UU Retention, morale and engagement went up of material issues one position; and UU Product impacts = Environment ! UU Employee development went down one position. UU Labour rights and human rights (supply chain) = Value Chain UU Retention, morale and engagement ! People UU Employee development ! People UU Corporate governance and compliance = Business Ethics UU Diversity and equality = People Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 13 Materiality process continued The outputs of our interim review are Introduction set out in the materiality matrix Materiality About the materiality matrix The outputs from our materiality assessment process are set out in the matrix. This includes MATERIALITY MATRIX our most material issues, as well as a range of additional relevant issues that we are also 5.0 Society Economic performance proactively managing. Business ethics and impact Our people Value chain The materiality matrix has been directly Environment 4.5 People informed by: Technological innovation and agility UU Ongoing stakeholder engagement Product impacts throughout 2018; 4.0 Intellectual Labour rights and property UU Targeted stakeholder engagement in 2018 to human rights (supply chain) Business ethics Diversity and equality Compliance with directly support our materiality process; and Major customer standards Impact on stakeholders 3.5 Conflict UU Our corporate risk management process. minerals Employee development Enhancing the external skills pool Corporate governance and compliance 3.0 Recruitment of Environmental impacts professionals and graduates (supply chain) Transparency (supply chain) Retention, morale Environmental Significant Energy and carbon emissions and engagement 2.5 Corruption/ Philanthropy bribery responsibility Health and safety 2.0 Pollution, resources and waste 1.5 Value chain 1.0 Moderate 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 Impact on Dialog Society 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Our people Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 15 Our people The ability to recruit, develop and retain top talent is vital Introduction to fostering innovation We remain committed to encouraging more women to apply for roles within Dialog and to participate in initiatives that support women in engineering. Materiality Materiality Management approach Recruitment and retention The nature of our business, which relies on We manage our people through: The nature of our industry means those the ongoing advancement of cutting-edge UU The application of national-level human working in it are highly skilled, international and “Dialog provides the opportunity semiconductor technology, means we are highly mobile. Our growing employment brand and to work on exciting projects resource policies, tailored to reflect local reliant on our ability to recruit, retain and develop development of a strong employment proposition high-quality electronic engineering professionals, legal requirements, business priorities and continues to help us attract people to all with a range of stakeholders Our people labour markets; across international boundaries. as well as leading management talent. This is our locations. particularly the case given: UU The application of our corporate Code At the end of 2018 we employed 2,100 people The training and mentorship of Business Conduct, which sets out our UU Strong, ongoing competition for skills within minimum, Group-wide requirements in relation (excluding temporary staff on fixed-term provided is instrumental in the sector; contracts), a 1% increase on 2017. We now building on my knowledge to labour and human rights, health and safety operate from 29 locations in 16 countries and UU An ageing electronics engineering demographic; and related issues; our global workforce continues to increase in base as I delve deeper into Business ethics UU Declining numbers of students in electronics UU Ongoing talent planning and skillset diversity. Dialog employees are drawn from the industry.” engineering degree programmes and declining gap identification; 69 nationalities. Lynette Otiti numbers of students taking STEM subjects Investor Relations Graduate at school required for entry into electronics UU Proactive engagement at university level to We continue to recruit globally for the most identify and recruit emerging talent; and talented people, identify centres of engineering engineering university programmes; and talent and build our business around them. UU Careers fairs and university events; and UU Our commercial growth. UU Ongoing identification and engagement of In 2018, we integrated the employees from Silego high-value professionals and leaders. UU Focused graduate and intern Environmental Technology into our design centres in Europe, In this context, we are focused on maintaining assessment days. Responsibility for our performance sits with the Asia and North America. a sustainable skills pipeline – ranging from responsibility Senior Vice President Human Resources. She is In 2018, this helped us recruit a total of 23 new the identification, development (and ultimate recruitment) of high-potential undergraduates supported in this role by dedicated local Human Emerging talent programmes graduates into our workforce – all of whom have Resource teams. been enrolled in our formal Dialog Graduate through to the attraction of experienced experts. Ensuring we maintain a robust and sustainable For more information see our website Development Programme. In addition, we hired We take a holistic view towards both recruitment skills pipeline is essential for our current www.dialog-semiconductor.com/investor-relations/ over 56 interns in 2018, many of whom are likely and retention that looks beyond the provision corporate-governance/our-code-business-conduct and future success. We run targeted intern Value chain to become our future graduate hires once their of highly competitive financial rewards. We also and graduate recruitment and development educational studies have been completed. aim to deliver the kind of lifestyle, working programmes to ensure our emerging talent environment, development opportunities and pipelines remain healthy. Retention inclusive culture that allow our people to develop high-quality, long-term careers with us. Key components of our emerging talent In 2018, staff turnover was broadly in line with recruitment process include: 2017 at 10.7% (2017: 10.3%; 2016: 7.9%). UU Sponsorships and internships; We continue to monitor our staff turnover rate, Society assess our employees’ professional background UU Direct graduate recruitment from our and examine the reasons for leaving through partner universities; exit interviews. 16 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Our people continued Development As a research and development-led business Pay quartiles that specialises in innovative technology, it is important that we stay at the cutting edge of our sector. We need to invest in our existing employees on an ongoing basis. How many men and women are in each quarter of our UK payroll: Who received bonus pay: In particular, we need to provide employees TOP QUARTILE LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE with access to high-quality development 89% 85% opportunities. This not only builds their skills, 100% expertise and knowledge, but also enhances the internal pool of world-class talent we can call upon. It also incentivises high performers to MEN MEN of men continue developing their career with us. 11% 15% Coaching and developing each other is an important aspect of employee life at Dialog. We offer all employees a wide variety of development opportunities and encourage WOMEN WOMEN a 70/20/10 development split of “on the job” learning (70%), feedback and mentoring (20%) 2017: Men 97% Women 7% 2017: Men 88% Women 12% and classroom learning (10%). We have also responded to business demand by developing programmes for key employee types and career stages. UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE LOWER QUARTILE 100% 89% 65% of women MEN MEN 11% WOMEN 35% WOMEN 2017: Men 88% Women 12% 2017: Men 69% Women 31% Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 17 Our people continued Overall workplace profile1 as of 31 December 2018 Employment type Gender Full time Part time Male Female Total Permanent employees 2,028 72 1,731 369 2,100 Temporary employees 31 8 23 16 39 Introduction Total employees 2,059 80 1,754 385 2,139 1 The temporary employee category is made up of employees on fixed-term contracts. Please note that we do not make material use of workers who are legally recognised as self-employed. Overall workplace profile1 as of 31 December 2017 Employment type Gender Materiality In 2018 we also delivered development The globalised nature of our footprint and the Full time Part time Male Female Total opportunities to our employees including nature of our sector mean that we benefit from a Permanent employees 2,005 66 1,723 348 2,071 mentoring, technical and professional training. highly international workforce. We have a total of Temporary employees 30 6 21 15 36 During the year we rolled out key technical 69 nationalities represented within our business Total employees 2,035 72 1,744 363 2,107 leadership skills development workshops for – as well as a senior executive team representing our engineers. We continually measure the seven different nationalities. 1 The temporary employee category is made up of employees on fixed-term contracts. Please note that we do not make Our people impact of training by the percentage increase in material use of workers who are legally recognised as self-employed. The electronic engineering sector performs competence 90 days post-training, and this figure relatively poorly in terms of gender diversity. drives our return on investment measurement. Growing focus is being placed on invisible, Geographic distribution of workforce In 2018, the total number of training hours for structural considerations that may induce a Gender 2018 Gender 2017 our managers was 3,454 with an average of degree of self-deselection (i.e. rather than any Region Male Female Total Male Female Total 15 training hours per person. We will continue conscious barriers on the part of the sector). Asia 302 94 396 295 89 384 to develop our virtual and online solutions into Business ethics 2019 to offer flexible development options to Women are also underrepresented in our Europe 1,134 208 1,342 1,110 198 1,308 our employees. workforce. Female representation on our Board of North America 295 67 362 339 76 415 Directors is 12.5 % (one of eight directors). We are Total 1,731 369 2,100 1,744 363 2,107 At the same job function and level, pay keen to raise awareness amongst women, both differences are only driven by permissible factors, inside and outside the Company, about the As far as our recruitment and selection processes are concerned, and subject to any relevant such as performance or experience. exciting potential careers available to them at regulatory restrictions, the national or sub-national origins of applicants is irrelevant. Dialog and to encourage them to explore these Environmental Diversity and equality opportunities with us. Our Second Gender Pay Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared with local We recognise the value a diverse workforce can Gap Report showed a difference in the median minimum wage at key operating sites responsibility bring in terms of creativity, dynamism and the pay between all men and women in Dialog UK of 22.9% (2017: 23.8%). This gender pay gap Ratio of employees’ standard entry level wage sharing of new perspectives. Dialog is committed to local minimum wage (if applicable) to employing and developing those people who is a reflection of the lower number of women in engineering and in senior roles, an important Minimum wage have the necessary skills, experience and values Location in place? Male Female to excel in their relevant role – irrespective of their issue in the electronic engineering sector. Value chain Austria Yes 2.55 2.55 gender, ethnicity, religion, disability or any other For more information on our gender pay gap, please non-work related personal characteristic. In 2018 see our 2018 Gender Pay Gap report China Yes 4.89 4.89 there were no allegations of discrimination made Germany Yes 2.91 2.91 with respect to our employees. Netherlands Yes 2.25 2.25 United Kingdom Yes 2.21 2.21 USA Yes 2.73 2.73 Society Note: The standard entry level is the entry level for professionals after completed university education. Minimum wage figures used are the rates effective in January 2019. For the US the California minimum wage rate has been used, and for China the Shenzhen minimum wage rate. 18 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Business ethics Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 19 Business ethics We strive to establish long-term relationships with Introduction our stakeholders, based on trust and adherence to our Code of Business Conduct Materiality Materiality UU A range of specific policies addressing Because of this, we put a significant amount The performance of our suppliers in this regard is issues such as bribery and corruption, fraud, of energy into understanding our customers’ assessed by the following Dialog departments on Maintaining our partners’ trust depends on: money laundering, financial dealings and extensive requirements and applying an ongoing basis: UU Our strict adherence to our customers’ whistleblower protection; and comprehensive management systems to ensure that these are fully met by both the design of UU Quality and Environmental: Quality exact technical, commercial and UU Mandatory training on specific topics such as engineering, physical laboratory, quality and ethical requirements; our products, as well as their production by our bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, environment system; fabrication partners. This includes, for example: Our people UU The protection of both our own intellectual preventing harassment and insider dealing. UU The posting of Dialog personnel at our UU Global Manufacturing Operations: Test property and that of our business partners, Responsibility for this framework sits with our development, offshore operations and which is fundamental given the technologically fabrication partners’ sites to monitor Senior Vice President General Counsel. He is assembly development; and innovative nature of our business; and production activities; supported in this role on a day‑to-day basis by the Assistant Company Secretary. UU An extensive raft of operational quality control UU Supply Chain and Value Management: UU Our strict compliance with the laws of our host Global procurement, supply chain and trade Business ethics societies – including those relating to antimeasures through which we assess our compliance, customs and foreign trade. bribery and corruption. Compliance fabrication partners; Similarly, our customers typically apply their Any breach of this trust, or of our legal Customer and industry standards UU Regular business reviews with our own set of compliance measures to ensure we obligations, has the potential to seriously manufacturing partners to understand their As a supplier of semiconductors to manufacturers are meeting their requirements. This includes compromise our business – whether in terms of performance and future capabilities; and of sophisticated electronic goods, we are subject auditing of: the loss of valuable commercial relationships, the UU Ongoing annual auditing of our manufacturing to a significant body of technical, legal, social UU Our management systems, processes and undermining of our reputation or the application partners, including against the following responsibility, and quality control requirements Environmental of official sanctions. facility specifications; defined by our customers. management system standards (as well as our Suppliers Control Plan): UU The communication of their own standards responsibility Management approach In many cases, our compliance with these to our manufacturing partners and their requirements is included as a condition of UU ISO9001 (quality management); application in practice; We manage business ethics through: contract with our customers – making our strict UU TS 16949 (quality management); UU The application of the Dialog Code of adherence essential. This is particularly the case UU Product testing processes and documentation; with respect to the technical specifications and UU ISO14001 (environmental); Business Conduct, which addresses a UU Materials and product traceability; and Value chain broad range of issues including conflicts quality of our highly sophisticated products. UU OHSAS18001 (health and safety); of interest, discrimination, trading in Dialog Any slight variation in this respect is not only likely UU Possible contamination of products by shares, protection of intellectual property, to render them valueless from the perspective UU ANSI/ESD S20.20 (electrostatic discharge disallowed substances. confidentiality, competition, trade restrictions of our customers, but also has the potential to control); and We evaluate customer satisfaction with the quality and export controls, accuracy of records, data undermine our customers’ own products (and UU Responsible Business Alliance Code and specifications of our products on an ongoing privacy and reporting of infractions. The Code thus brands). of Conduct. basis, using: of Business Conduct is applicable to all Dialog Further information on our supply chain auditing employees, consultants and contractors; UU Individual reviews; Society activity can be found on pages 23 to 27 UU Analysis of any customer complaints; and UU Customer surveys. 20 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Business ethics continued Intellectual property Although we are not subject to the conflict manufacture do not directly or indirectly Patented technology minerals reporting requirements set out in Section finance or benefit armed groups that The protection of intellectual property is vital 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank Act, many of our perpetrate serious human rights abuses in for any business focused on the creation of customers are. In this context, we are committed DR Congo or its adjoining countries; and innovative and high-value technological solutions. With an expanded portfolio of patented to providing our customers with assurance by: Any failure in this regard could have profound technology, Dialog leverages years of research UU Carry out due diligence on the source and consequences, for example, on the value of our and development in digital, mixed-signal and UU Identifying whether any 3TG in our chain of custody of their 3TG and make these inventions, products and Company. Furthermore, analog circuits to bring innovative, powerproducts has originated from the DRC or due diligence measures available to customers our semiconductors are specifically designed for efficient products to market. adjoining countries; when requested. integration as components into our customers’ GreenPak ™ UU (If it has), understanding whether the 3TG In addition, our Supplier Code of Conduct own products. This means we necessarily access in our products has financed or otherwise requires suppliers to complete and return PrimAccurate™ SmartPulse™ and work with customers’ intellectual property benefited armed groups; and information requests regarding the origin of any and/or commercial and technological secrets. SmartBond™ SmartWave™ 3TG contained in products supplied to Dialog. This requires a high degree of trust on the part of Flickerless™ BroadLED™ UU Disclosing the results of this process to The Conflict Minerals Reporting Template our customers, whose business we would lose AccuSwitch™ SmarteXite™ our customers. (CMRT) is created by the Responsible Minerals were this trust to be broken. SmartBeat™ As such, our Conflict Minerals Policy commits Initiative (RMI) supporting companies to deliver We ensure that all intellectual property is us to: accurate information to their customers about For more information on our technology see our safeguarded through the application of: mineral country of origin and the smelters and website www.dialog-semiconductor.com/ UU Supporting the aims and objectives of those refiners they use. Dialog Semiconductor requires technology UU A dedicated Intellectual Property Policy provisions of the US Dodd-Frank Act 2010 that from its suppliers to complete and return the (as well as related Information Technology relate to 3TG; (see page 30 for further details on our creation latest CMRT 5.11 regarding the origin of any and Intellectual Property Security Policies). of patentable inventions). Our dedicated Patent UU Not knowingly procuring 3TG minerals from 3TG contained in products supplied to Dialog. Together, these address issues including Committee oversees the identification and legal the DRC or adjoining countries that are not Our QA & Environmental Systems Lead Auditors data security, the regulation of external protection of all new inventions. certified to be “conflict free”; permanently audit the suppliers on this topic and communications and incident management; check the compliance. In 2018 we had no complaints relating to UU Asking our suppliers to undertake reasonable UU Related restrictive provisions in both our breaches of customer privacy, losses of customer supply chain due diligence to ensure that they If we do identify 3TG in our products that originate Code of Business Conduct and our contracts data or the misuse of customers’ intellectual only use 3TG that is: (1) sourced from outside from the DRC or adjoining countries and which of employment; property (2017: nil; 2016: nil). the DRC or adjoining countries; or (2) sourced may have financed or benefited armed groups, we UU Robust information technology systems to from within the DRC or adjoining countries and will carry out further due diligence. If this shows prevent data leakage; and Conflict minerals which is certified by an independent third party that the 3TG has financed or benefited armed to be “conflict free”; groups, it will be excluded from our supply chain. UU Access controls to specific project data for We support international efforts to ensure that the employees and third parties. mining and trading of tin, tungsten, tantalum and UU Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires our In 2018, as in previous years, we did not identify gold (known as “3TG”) from high-risk locations suppliers to comply with the Responsible any cases where 3TG integrated into our In addition, we seek to protect our intellectual Business Alliance Code of Conduct products may have or did finance or support does not contribute to conflict and/or serious property from being illegitimately copied or used (“RBA Code”). Under the RBA Code, armed groups in the DRC or adjoining countries. human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic by others through the application of patents, companies must: Provide reasonable of the Congo (“DRC”) and the Great Lakes region copyright and trademarks on a global basis assurance that the 3TG in the products they of Africa (or elsewhere). Environmental 21 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics responsibility Value chain Society Environmental Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 responsibility 22 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Environmental responsibility 19% As we contract out the fabrication of our products, our direct environmental impact remains limited reduction in CO2 emissions from 2017 Materiality Management approach Hazardous substances Energy and carbon emissions We operate environmentally responsible practices Responsibility for environmental performance The monitoring of hazardous substances used in We are working across our offices to significantly within our own business and promote them sits with our Senior Vice President Global our labs is one of the key objectives of our annual reduce CO2 emissions and minimise the carbon across our supply chain. Manufacturing Operations. We further govern “Environment Goals Programme”. footprint of our business. In 2018, there was our environmental responsibility through the a 19% reduction in the CO2 emissions. As in Our products are based around a range of Recycling application of the Dialog Code of Business previous years, we offset 100% of emissions from energy-efficient IC solutions, and we aim to Conduct, which addresses our emissions to all air travel and the use of rental cars. We work have a positive impact on the wider environment We implement the recycling of metals, such air and water, resource use, management of with Climate Care to offset CO2 emissions through the development and marketing of as gold, silver and copper, from waste and hazardous substances and waste management. through various renewable energy projects in energy-saving technology. We make an ongoing damaged products. Furthermore, we are certified to the ISO14001 Turkey, China and Taiwan. effort to minimise our: environmental management system standard, Each of our major sites systematically measures CO2 emissions 2016 2017 2018 UU Energy consumption and carbon emissions; and our Company Quality and Management and records our emissions, waste and recycling Scope 1 86.2 92.5 81.2 Manual support our efforts to achieve on a monthly basis. This reporting system UU Pollution and waste; and continuous improvement. is utilised to ensure that we closely monitor Scope 2 1,739.2 1,651.5 1,170.3 UU Use of natural resources. certified to the ISO14001 environmental outputs from our major offices to minimise our Scope 3 4,685.2 5,210.2 4,203.6 environmental impact. management system standard, and our Company Scope 1: Direct emissions from self-generation. Quality and Management Manual support our Our major sites, such as our Swindon design Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the consumption of efforts to achieve continuous improvement. centre, measure our recycling levels by type purchased electricity, heat or steam. Scope 1 and 2 of waste, waste recovery levels and the level emissions from our two largest design centres – Nabern Our ISO50001-certified energy management and Swindon. of waste sent to landfill sites. This allows us to system is a comprehensive tool to control Scope 3: Other indirect emissions including those related to calculate the percentage of recycling, the amount energy efficiency within our internal facilities transport. Includes all air travel and car hire. of energy recovered, and the number of trees we and equipment. have saved per month. CO2 emissions 2016 2017 2018 Pollution, resources and waste Scope 1 0.05 0.05 0.04 Scope 2 0.98 0.86 0.56 Natural resources Scope 3 2.65 2.71 1.99 We take the scarcity of natural resources Total 3.68 3.62 2.59 seriously and consider the conservation of raw materials to be a priority. Dialog continues to identify potential methods to improve existing technologies and substitute gold for copper, to minimise our impact on the environment, and reduce costs without sacrificing quality and performance. Environmental 23 Introduction Materiality Our people Business ethics responsibility Value chain Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Value chain 24 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Value chain In 2018, we continued to strengthen our audit verification process relating to human and labour rights, health and safety, and the environment Materiality Management approach Given the nature of our business model and We manage our value chain through: UU Annual auditing of all existing fabrication UU Suppliers are achieving a level of performance our commercial relationships, value chain partners against our Supplier Audit Checklist that is in line with our customers’ requirements management is a particularly important issue for UU A policy of only dealing with fabrication and Corporate Social Responsibility (including those around supplier environmental partners who are accredited to or are Checklist. In addition to requirements performance, for example); and Dialog. This not only includes operational aspects compliant with the ISO14001 (environmental) relating to ISO14001, OHSAS18001 and (including the avoidance and mitigation of supply UU The products supplied to customers meet any and ISO9001 (quality) management system ISO9001, auditing covers a range of broader chain disruption and supply constraints), but also relevant sustainability criteria that the customer standards. In addition, we require our major sustainability issues, including those drawn sustainability aspects such as: has committed itself to (including those relating suppliers to commit to the requirements of our from the SA8000 social accountability UU The impact of our business partners on human Supplier Code of Conduct (and by extension, to the type and source of input materials, standard. In 2018, Dialog carried out 22 rights and labour rights; to the RBA Code of Conduct) and to apply for example). supplier audits on this basis (2017: 18; their own documented corporate social 2016: 18). The outcomes of our auditing activity Responsibility for supply chain management UU Health and safety performance amongst our responsibility policy; suppliers; and can be seen on page 26; and sits with the Senior Vice President Global UU Screening of all new significant fabrication Manufacturing Operations. He is supported UU The environmental impacts of both our UU Regular business reviews during which Dialog in this role on a day-to-day basis by the partners (i.e. those supplying more than 1% of managers meet with its suppliers to discuss suppliers and the contents of our products. Environmental Manager. our total volume of integrated circuits) against performance and future capabilities. This reflects: our Self-Audit Checklist (which covers labour and human rights, health and safety, the In addition, our customers carry out additional UU Evolving stakeholder expectations, which environment and business ethics), as well as auditing both of Dialog and our suppliers. This is place ever-growing emphasis on the need for to ensure that: pre-qualification audits prior to their integration “In 2018 we rolled-out the RBA companies to identify, and use their legitimate into our supply chain.; UU Dialog is effectively communicating customer influence to proactively manage their indirect Further details on our screening activity can be found standards to our suppliers – and has adequate Code of Conduct to our CMBU sustainability impacts; and on pages 26 to 27 systems in place to monitor their ongoing major subcontractors. Integration UU Dialog’s duty to help protect its customers application in practice; of acquisitions and social from reputational, contractual or commercial harm. responsibility compliance of their manufacturing partners will be our focus for the future.” Bernd Müller-Allinger Quality & Environment System Manager, Global Operations and Quality Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 25 Value chain continued Labour rights Health and safety An efficient and responsible supply chain Environmental management Ethics Introduction is one of our competitive advantages Materiality “In 2018, we successfully OUR SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT upgraded to the latest Labour rights Environmental Health and safety management Management systems ISO9001 (quality) and ISO14001 Ethics Our people (environmental) management system standards.” Moshe Reuven Vice President, Global Operations and Quality Assurance Business ethics About our Supplier Labour Health Environmental Ethics Management Code of Conduct rights and safety management systems We expect all of our major suppliers to comply Including the International Including occupational Including pollution Including business integrity, Including policies, with our Supplier Code of Conduct. Labor Organization (“ILO”) health and safety, prevention, reporting, intellectual property, lines of accountability, Environmental management Ethics Management systems Health and core Under the Supplier Code of Conduct, relevant labour standards, safety emergency preparedness, hazardous substances, competition, whistleblowing compliance mechanisms, working hours, wages industrial hygiene, waste and wastewater and conflict minerals. risk assessment, training, Environmental suppliers must comply with the RBA Code and benefits, and the living conditions and management, and auditing and sub-suppliers. of Conduct. This comprehensive document treatment of employees in physical safeguards. emissions to air. responsibility imposes minimum standards with respect to: the workplace. Dialog Code of Business Conduct By requiring its suppliers to comply with the RBA requirements, Dialog helps “cascade” good Value chain www.dialog-semiconductor.com/sites/default/ files/dialog_code_of_business_conduct_-_v4_ practice throughout its supplier base and minimise its indirect negative impacts. By doing so, dec_2016.pdf it is not only protecting its own reputation, but also the reputation of its customers – some of whom are potentially vulnerable to consumer activism. www.responsiblebusiness.org/standards/code-of-conduct www.responsiblebusiness.org Management systems Ethics Environmental (Code ofmanagement Conduct) Society 26 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Value chain continued Sustainability screening and auditing of significant fabrication partners Transparency by issue type (new fabrication partners screened1/existing fabrication Value chain transparency is vital for the partners audited2) maintenance of predictable sourcing and THE MOBILE INDUSTRY 2016 2017 2018 marketing activities, as well as the avoidance and/or minimisation of any negative indirect ACCELERATES THE DELIVERY Health and safety 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% OF THE SUSTAINABLE impacts to which we might otherwise contribute. Environment 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% This includes impacts relating to human DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) Labour rights (incl. human rights) 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% rights, labour rights, health and safety, and In its third edition of the Impact report Society 100%/100% 100%/100% 100%/100% the environment. (GSMA 2018), the mobile industry 1 Screening activity is aimed at improving the performance of our fabrication partners where necessary, rather than their It is a particularly important issue for Dialog, demonstrates significant and measurable exclusion from our supply chain. due to: impact in contributing to the UN Sustainable 2 Includes both auditing of documentation and on-site auditing. All of our fabrication partners were subjected to on-site Development Goals (SDGs) and is auditing of specific operating sites in 2018. UU Our fabless business model, which makes us strengthening its commitment to improving highly reliant on the ability of our fabrication lives around the world. Type and number of “major” negative audit findings3 partners to meet the stringent quality requirements imposed on us by our customers 2016 2017 2018 The Mobile industry has continued to increase – and to protect our own reputation by Health and safety 0 6 7 its contribution against all 17 Goals since maintaining responsible working practices; the mobile sector became the first sector in Environment 14 2 55 UU High levels of sensitivity amongst key the world to commit to delivery of the SDGs Labour rights (incl. human rights) 0 3 206 consumer-facing electronics brands regarding in 2016. Society 0 0 0 their potential exposure to reputational risk via their supply chains; and Our technology contributes to keeping 3 i.e. audit findings of sufficient seriousness that Dialog requires immediate correction on the part of the supplier. 4 Discrepancy found in actual temperature setting vs Safety Data Sheet. UU Increasing stakeholder scrutiny of the people connected for longer so they can 5 Such as, boundary noise management, waste management and indoor air quality management. electronics industry regarding indirect negative continue to access more advanced mobile6 Such as working hours management above and beyond local law and foreign contract worker protection. impacts taking place at lower, less visible tiers enabled services. In 2018 we continued to strengthen our audit processes and encountered a marked increase in of the supply chain (including amongst subsuppliers) – particularly in relation to mineral Through technological innovation we the number of major audit findings relating to labour rights. During the year, the scope of our audits extraction, trading and processing. contribute to the commitment of the mobile expanded due to the integration of the acquisition of Silego Technology Inc in November 2017. ecosystem to maximise its impact across This will help ensure our suppliers continue to be held to high standards and our customers can the SDGs. be confident in the quality and sustainability of our supply chain. All of these findings have been communicated to the relevant suppliers, who are expected to address them within a reasonable timeframe. Progress in addressing such findings is monitored on an ongoing basis. Examples of negative audit findings in 2018 Health and safety Insufficient signage of escape routes in some areas Environment Boundary noise management Labour rights (incl. human rights) Third-party contract handling for the recruitment of foreign workers Society None Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 27 Value chain continued In this context, we require our major suppliers to: The Dialog Code of Business Conduct is UU Implement emergency planning and response UU Responsibly manage solid waste (including directly informed in this respect by the following measures, including evacuation procedures, through recycling) and wastewater (including UU Provide assurance regarding their compliance Introduction instruments and standards: the provision of fire detection and suppression through treatment prior to discharge, ongoing with our Supplier Code of Conduct through equipment, the maintenance of adequate exits monitoring and the control of discharges to Self-Assessment Questionnaires, validation UU Universal Declaration of Human Rights; and recovery planning; and local water bodies); audits and the provision of documentation; UU ILO International Labour Standards; UU Control the exposure of workers to UU Responsibly manage emissions to air UU Maintain membership of the RBA’s online data management system (“RBA-ON”); and UU UN Global Compact; hazardous substances and to physically (including volatile organic chemicals, aerosols, demanding tasks. corrosives, particulates, ozone depleting UU Complete and return information regarding the UU RBA Code of Conduct; and chemicals and combustion by-products) and Materiality origin of potential conflict minerals integrated UU SA8000 social management system standard. Environmental impacts minimise their greenhouse gas emissions; and into parts supplied to Dialog (page 20). The highly regulated and automated nature It is important that our fabrication partners UU Adhere to all applicable laws, regulations In addition, we assign at least one Dialog of our fabrication partners’ plants – as well as respect the environment. This is why we will only and customer requirements regarding the representative to each of the fabrication plants the mature nature of their health and safety work with major suppliers who are accredited exclusion of specific substances in products producing integrated circuits for us. This allows management systems – means that their to, or comply with, the ISO14001 environmental and manufacturing. us to clearly communicate our operational, risk profile is relatively low compared with management system standard. Our people We are continuing to work with our major quality control and sustainability requirements many assembly plants higher up the value Under our Supplier Code of Conduct (and related suppliers to develop recovery processes, and to our partners on an ongoing basis, while also chain (where chips are integrated into larger RBA Code), our major suppliers are required to: resource substitution technologies and other identifying and (in partnership with our fabrication consumer products). methods to reduce greenhouse gas emissions partners) proactively addressing any issues of UU Comply with relevant environmental laws Nonetheless, we work with our major suppliers throughout the supply chain. potential concern. and regulations; to ensure that whatever risks do exist, are In 2018, none of our significant suppliers or our minimised. In this context, the Dialog Code of Business ethics Responsible supply chain UU Minimise their use of resources (including own operations were found to pose a significant Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct water and energy) and their generation of solid management (including the related RBA Code) require them, risk to the environment (2017: nil ; 2016: nil). waste and wastewater; Human and labour rights and amongst other things, to: UU Identify and safely manage hazardous health and safety UU Minimise worker exposure to potential materials. This includes the provision of health and safety risks, including through relevant materials declarations under EU Dialog’s suppliers must demonstrate a the application of design, engineering and Directive 2011/65/EU (Restriction of Hazardous commitment to upholding workers’ human rights Environmental administrative controls (including safe work Substances or “RoHS3”) and EU Regulation and to treating them with dignity and respect. procedures, training and the encouragement (EC) 1907/2006 (Registration, Evaluation, In addition to key requirements around the ILO responsibility of employees to raise related concerns) – as Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals core labour standards (relating to forced labour, well as the provision of protective equipment or “REACH”); child labour, discrimination and freedom of where necessary; association/collective bargaining), the Dialog Code of Conduct also requires our major UU Apply systems to prevent, manage, track suppliers to: and report health and safety incidents, Value chain including the proper recording of all cases of UU Follow relevant national law with respect to occupational injury and illness, the provision of working hours, holiday entitlements and the medical treatment and the development and outsourcing of labour; and implementation of corrective action plans; UU Ensure workers are not subject to physical or verbal abuse, bullying, or any form of unlawful harassment and intimidation. Society 28 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Society Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 29 Society Through our business activity, we create value Introduction for a wide range of stakeholders Materiality Materiality We also remain committed to having a positive We help promote electronic engineering skills in Societal benefits impact at a local level. Our most material issue our local communities through a range of means, Our most important social impact (as well as in this respect is the enhancement of local skills including: Economic impact our raison d’être) is our generation of economic pools. This not only benefits school and university value – much of which is distributed amongst students by enhancing their engineering UU The provision of sponsorship and access As with any business, our primary obligation is our investors, employees, suppliers, host bursaries to engineering students at the to generate profit for our shareholders. In pursuit capabilities, but also helps bolster our own ability of this aim, we also generate broader economic governments and other beneficiaries. Given the universities of Edinburgh, UK Electronic to recruit talented new graduates and support our Our people ongoing opportunities for expansion of our Skills Foundation, and Women in value, much of which is distributed to a wider set long-term skills pipeline. of stakeholders. business, as well as ever increasing demand Engineering Society. for advanced semiconductor technology, this Beyond this, we also carry out community engagement and philanthropy. Although these UU Key partnerships with University Technical positive impact is expected to grow – as are our Direct impacts College Swindon (“UTC Swindon”), including associated indirect economic impacts. do not represent material issues, such activity the provision of an enterprise adviser, in the Our most important means of distributing value is in line with our corporate values, the Furthermore, our position at the forefront of United Kingdom and the UK Electronic Skills are through: Business ethics “Spirit of Dialog”, and helps support our semiconductor R&D means we are constantly Foundation (UKESF); corporate reputation. UU Payments to our employees and employed helping to advance scientific knowledge in this UU Industrial placements for undergraduate contractors (including both wages area – laying the ground for future technological Management approach students in global offices; and and benefits); innovation, whether by ourselves or others. Full details on how we manage our direct Likewise, the nature of our products, which are UU Mentoring and support of school students in UU Payments to other businesses, including our and indirect economic value generation and the UK and the Netherlands. fabrication partners and other suppliers; primarily focused on power management, power distribution, as well as our research and conversion, low power short range connectivity, Environmental development activities, can be found throughout Responsibility sits with our Chief Executive Officer UU Payments to government, including taxes; SSL LED and LED backlighting, means we play our 2018 Annual report. and Chief Financial Officer (with respect to our an integral role in helping millions of end-users UU Community investment spending (page 31); responsibility economic performance). Meanwhile, our Senior access affordable and life-enhancing technology. Vice President Engineering is responsible for and technological innovation. UU Payments to our providers of capital. Value chain Society 30 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Society continued Our business and its positive impacts would Indirect impacts Total value generation and distribution by type (US$ millions) cease to exist if we fail to generate economic In addition to our direct economic impact, 2016 2017 2018 value. This would materially affect a wide range of we also generate a range of indirect economic Economic value generated 1,197.6 1,352.8 1,442.1 our stakeholders, including individuals we employ, impacts, including through: Economic value distributed 1,076.2 1,183.1 the customers whose specialised products we 1,304.2 procure goods and services from, suppliers and UU The application of our technology to improve Operating costs1 794.9 881.3 933.7 the governments to whom we pay taxes. We also the capabilities and portability of handheld Employee wages and benefits2 230.3 274.5 311.2 published the 2018 edition of “Our approach to electronic devices (amongst others). tax” which follows the principles established in Payments to providers of capital 3.4 1.3 3.1 This enhances the ability of our customers our Code of Business Conduct. to develop and market enhanced consumer Payments to government 47.4 25.8 56.0 products – as reflected in the recent boom Community investments 0.2 0.2 0.2 The table opposite shows how much value we in advanced mobile communications and Economic value retained 121.4 169.7 137.9 generated over the last three years – and to wearable technology. In turn, this has helped whom it was distributed. support the creation and maintenance of jobs 1 Excluding employee wages and benefits and property tax. There are no material government shareholdings amongst suppliers and customers working 2 Including share-based payments. in our Company. in this exciting sector. Furthermore, it also supports the delivery of ever-more productive Technological impact and portable communications and computing Our business is also helping advance integrated, mixed-signal circuit technology in a range technology to end-users. In 2018, for example, of areas, including: DIALOG TAX PRINCIPLES we shipped in excess of 2.5 billion integrated circuits; and UU Mobile power management; UU Full compliance with applicable laws UU The enhancement of skills and knowledge UU Power conversion; and regulations; within the electronic engineering community UU Bluetooth® low energy connectivity; and UU Acting ethically, honestly and with through our range of “pre-employment” integrity in line with the Dialog Code of educational initiatives, our recruitment UU Configurable mixed-signal ICs. Business Conduct; and development of high-quality graduate Given the rapid evolution of technology and fast-moving consumer demands, the sustainability of electronics engineers, the experience our business requires us to stay at the cutting edge of these technologies. As a result, we invest a UU Consistent with the Group’s overall our senior engineers gain by working on business strategy and approach to risk significant amount into R&D. In 2018, for example, we invested US$326 million on R&D activities or cutting-edge products and our considerable 22.6% of our total revenue (2017: US$303 million; (2017: 22.4% of revenue). management; and investment in R&D. * Certain product development costs have been reclassified from cost of sales to research and development expenses UU Utilising available and legitimate tax (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for the full year ended 31 December 2018). incentives and reliefs to minimise the tax cost of conducting our business. For more information, please see our website www.dialog-semiconductor.com/company/ corporate-social-responsibility Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 31 Society continued Number of United States patents Product impacts Minimisation of negative product impacts The key means by which we manage product (held and pending) in each The nature of our integrated circuits means that health and safety issues include the following: Introduction Positive product impacts given year (non-cumulative) their actual and potential negative impacts are UU Pre-emptive product design – including the 2016 2017 2018 The technology that we develop and market relatively limited. Nonetheless, we design our application of proven “fail-safe” technology supports the wider provision (by our business products in a way that is intended to minimise and processes; Granted 93 94 102 partners) of advanced, affordable technology to any negative impacts they might have over their Filed 86 112 119 consumers in a range of global mass‑markets, UU Extensive lab-testing of new designs – lifecycle. This includes efforts to reduce the size of including: including factors relating to physical integrity, As a result of this kind of investment, we produce our integrated circuits (thus reducing the amount heat emission and functionality; and of input materials required, as well as the amount Materiality original technological inventions on an ongoing UU Personal, portable handheld devices; basis. This not only helps underpin the future of packaging used to protect and ship them). UU External auditing of product technical success of our business, but also increases the UU IoT applications; In addition, and as described above, we aim to performance – including by our customers. sum of global technological knowledge in the UU LED solid state lighting and backlighting; and make our integrated circuits as energy-efficient These are applied to all of our product categories, three areas set out above. as possible – while also enhancing the energy UU Automotive technology. with the aim of achieving continuously improved efficiency of the larger products in which they As at 31 December 2018 we had approximately performance. These processes are overseen by In this context, our products offer a range of are integrated. the Senior Vice President of Global Manufacturing Our people 860 inventions (2017: approximately 810; 2016: advantages to end-users (and, by extension, Given the important role our integrated circuits and Operations, who is ultimately responsible for approximately 700) for which we are pursuing our customers who are selling to them). play in managing the power supply of more ensuring the safety of our products. or have already obtained patent protection, 673 These include: than a billion consumer end-products, we place (2017: 574; 2016: 460) of which have already been As a result of such efforts, in 2018 we had no granted in the United States. While intellectual UU Mobile power management: Greater power significant emphasis on ensuring they do not reported incidents of non-compliance with any property protection around this technology efficiency, resulting in longer battery life and pose health and safety risks to end-users. legal or customer requirements concerning the means it will not be shared in the short to increased mobility. For example, typical cross-lifecycle health and safety performance of Business ethics This includes extensive measures to minimise medium term (see page 20), in the long term it is usage tests suggest our Power Management the risk of our products (in the context of their our products. technology that can be applied by anyone. Integrated Circuits decrease the power integration into larger electronic end-products) consumption of smartphones, tablets and contributing to: Community benefits Ultrabooks™ by up to 30%; UU Overheating; Community engagement and corporate giving UU Power conversion: Our high efficiency AC/ DC power converters and LED drivers help UU Fire risks; and Dialog has an active community engagement Environmental maximise power conversion efficiency using UU Power overload. and corporate giving programme, and in 2018 digital technology and fewer components; we gave approximately US$154,000 to various Furthermore, we are subject to extensive official responsibility causes aligned with our business objectives UU Configurable mixed-signal ICs: Integrating legal and customer requirements in this regard (2017: US$181,000). These included: the use multiple analog, logic and discrete (page 19), making product health and safety of our technology for good causes, promoting components into a single IC, contributing to a a key compliance issue. For example, we are STEM education, and encouraging women reduced number of components and board required to ensure that all of our products meet in engineering. The Corporate Giving Policy, space; and the following official standards (in addition to Value chain encourages employees to engage with the UU Connectivity: Our ultra-low power Bluetooth® comprehensive customer standards imposed by communities in which they work. The policy low energy, SmartBond™ System-On-Chip consumer-facing electronics brands): places a stronger emphasis on activities to helps to significantly increase the battery UU RoHS3; which we can bring additional value through our life of a range of connected devices and expertise and business activities. IoT applications. UU REACH SVHC191; and UU Halogen-free. Society 32 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Appendix External review of reporting UU Engagement: Including both remote and GRI Standards Material Topics on sustainability face-to-face engagement with Dialog GRI Standard Material Page Semiconductor managers; Verisk Maplecroft was commissioned by 101: Foundation Y* 1, 7, 9–10, GRI table Dialog Semiconductor Plc to help advance its UU Materiality process: Implementation, with 102: General disclosures Y* Throughout the report sustainability reporting. Dialog Semiconductor, of an interim review of 103: Management approach disclosures Y* Throughout the report our materiality assessment which was aligned This included guidance with respect to reporting with the GRI Standards; and strategy, materiality, selected content and 201: Economic performance Y 29–20, GRI table reporting best practice. This statement is UU Performance enhancement: The outcomes 202: Market presence made in our capacity as a service provider to from the above processes were used, where possible, to enhance Dialog 203: Indirect economic impact Y 29–31 Dialog Semiconductor Plc on this assignment. Semiconductor’s level of reporting and support 204: Procurement practices Verisk Maplecroft did not verify the data contained in this sustainability report. its closer alignment with the GRI Standards 205: Anti-corruption Y 19, GRI table reporting requirements. 206: Anti-competitive behaviour Approach Verisk Maplecroft was involved in the following Gus Macfarlane, 301: Materials activities between mid 2018 and early 2019: 06 March 2019 302: Energy Verisk Maplecroft, 1 Henry Street, Bath BA1 1JS, 303: Water and effluents UU Review of reporting standards: Including the Global Reporting Initiative Standards(“GRI United Kingdom 304: Biodiversity Standards”) and the Ten Principles of the 305: Emissions www.maplecroft.com United Nations Global Compact; info@maplecroft.com 306: Effluents and waste 307: Environmental compliance Y 19–20, 22, GRI table UU Gap analysis: To identify and, where feasible, help address gaps in Dialog Semiconductor’s 308: Supplier environmental assessment Y 24–27, GRI table existing reporting practices against the relevant * Applicable for the material topics identified by Dialog in 2018 reporting standards; Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 33 Appendix continued UN Global Compact reference table Introduction GRI Standard Material Page Category Principle Page 401: Employment Y 15–17. GRI table Human rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 07, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table 402: Labor/management relations Human rights 2 Businesses should make sure that they 403: Occupational health and safety are not complicit in human rights abuses 07, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table 404: Training and education Y 15–16, 19, GRI table Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom 405: Diversity and equal opportunity Y 16–17 of association and the effective recognition 406: Non discrimination Y 17 of the right to collective bargaining 07, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table Materiality 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining Y 24–25, 27, GRI table Labour 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 07, 15–17, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table 408: Child labor Y 27, GRI table Labour 5 Businesses should uphold the effective 409: Forced or compulsory labor Y 27, GRI table abolition of child labour 07, 15–17, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table 410: Security practices Labour 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination 411: Rights of indigenous peoples of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 07, 15–17, 24–27, GRI table Our people 412: Human rights assessment Y 20, 24–27, GRI table Environment 7B  usinesses should support a precautionary 413: Local communities approach to environmental challenges 07, 22, 24–27, 29-31, GRI table 414: Supplier social assessment Y 24–27, GRI table Environment 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to 415: Public policy promote greater environmental responsibility 07, 22, 24–27, 29-31, GRI table 416: Customer health and safety Y 31, GRI table Environment 9 Businesses should encourage the development and 04–05, 12–13, 30–31, GRI table, diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Annual report 417: Marketing and labelling Y 31, GRI table Business ethics Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in 418: Customer privacy Y 19–20, GRI table all its forms, including extortion and bribery 07, 19–20, 24–27, GRI table 419: Socioeconomic compliance Y 19–20, GRI table Environmental responsibility Value chain Society 34 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Sustainability report 2018 Group directory Germany The Netherlands Japan China Taiwan Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Dialog Semiconductor B.V. Dialog Semiconductor K.K. Dialog Semiconductor Trading Dialog Semiconductor GmbH (Shanghai) Ltd Neue Strasse 95 Het Zuiderkruis 53 8F, W-Building 1-8-15 Konan Taiwan Branch D-73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern 5215 MV ‘s-Hertogenbosch Minato-Ku Room 703, 7F, Kehui Building 7F, 392 Ruiguang Road Germany The Netherlands Tokyo 108-0075 No.1188 North Quinzhou Road Neihu District Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 Phone: (+31) 73 640 88 22 Japan Shanghai Taipei City 11493 Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 Fax: (+31) 73 640 88 23 Phone: (+81) 3 5769-5112 200233 Taiwan, R.O.C. Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com Email: dialog.nl@diasemi.com Fax: (+81) 3 5769-5101 China Phone: (+886) 281 786 222 Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com Phone: (+86) 215 4249 058 Fax: (+886) 281 786 220 United Kingdom North America Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com Dialog Semiconductor (Shenzhen) Ltd Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Dialog North America Korea 25F, Lifetech Scientific Building Delta 200 2560 Mission College Boulevard South 12 Road, Southern District in, Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Delta Business Park Suite 110 High-tech Zone Welton Road Santa Clara Korea Branch Nanshan District Swindon California 95054 6 FL, Deokmyeong Building, 625 Shenzhen Wiltshire SN5 7XB USA Teheran-ro 518057 United Kingdom Phone: (+1) 408 845 8500 Gangnam-gu China Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 Fax: (+1) 408 727 3205 Seoul, 06173 Phone: (+86) 755 2981 3669 Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 Email: NA_sales_enquiries@diasemi.com Korea Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com Phone: (+82) 2 3469 8200 Dialog Semiconductor Inc. Fax: (+82) 2 3469 8291 100 Longwater Avenue Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com Green Park 675 Campbell Technology Parkway Reading RG2 6GP Suite 150 United Kingdom Campbell Phone: +44 1793 757700 California 95008 Fax: +44 1189 450219 USA Email: info@diasemi.com Registered office Dialog Semiconductor Plc Tower Bridge House St Katharine’s Way London E1W 1AA UK www.dialog-semiconductor.com www.dialog-semiconductor.com
