CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS LETTER FROM PRESIDENT 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT 5 SECTION 1 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 1.1 COMPANY PROFILE 8 1.2 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 9 1.3 ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT & INTEGRITY OF AUDIT SERVICES 10 1.4 CLIENT DATA SECURITY & PRIVACY 11 1.5 WALK THE WALK 12 SECTION 2 EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY 2.1 RECRUITING AND RETAINING THE RIGHT TALENT 14 2.2 COMMUNITY 15 SECTION 3 ENVIRONMENT 3.1 EMISSIONS 16 SECTION 4 SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD 18 APPENDICES APPENDIX I: SRI AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 19 APPENDIX II: SRI STANDARDS MAPPED TO SDGS 21 APPENDIX III: MANAGEMENT SYSTEM APPROACH 22 APPENDIX IV: GRI INDEX 23 APPENDIX V: B CORP CERTIFICATION AND JUST LABEL 24 APPENDIX VI: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS CALCULATION 25 Prepared by: Jana Lake, SRI CSO & CSR Solutions Lead Krupa Patel, Sustainability Engineer Jennifer Tomaro, Senior Communications Manager Miranda Rankin, Sustainability Operations Specialist February 2019 Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 2 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT sponsible care for chemical companies, and other standards that are now part of many companies’ commitments to sustainability. SRI started its own internal CSR initiatives in 2006, by making a commitment to employeefocused programs and using outside, independent verification to demonstrate our performance. In 2008, SRI expanded its environmental and sustainability capabilities by establishing SRI Green Building Certification, which has now reviewed more than 8000 LEED project phases and more than 2000 projects around the world. We see healthy buildings as a key component to help companies meet many of their sustainability goals around employee health and productivity, environment, and energy management. In 2014, SRI created 3R as a whollyowned subsidiary to help our clients meet their CSR goals involving everything from people and communities, to corporate governance, and the natural and built environment. Most recently, we added social accountability and CSR assurance to our resume. SRI has demonstrated leadership in areas of Corporate For SRI, CSR is a great way to bring many of our proResponsibility and Sustainability throughout its 25-year grams together both internally, for our employees and history, and was acknowledged as a Pennsylvania Best business strategy, and externally, for our clients, as well Place to Work in 2015 and 2018. SRI’s President, Chrisas identify additional opportunities for us to create value. topher Lake, shares his vision: We are using a management system approach, built on principles from corporate responsibility frameworks, in line “We like to do our part to be a good global corporate citiwith our accredited ISO 17021:2015 management system. zen, to be a leader in our industry, and to set an example We created our Sustainability Plan in 2017 and this is our for other small companies. SRI is committed to being a first Sustainability Report. This year, we were awarded B responsible, resilient, sustainable company for our stakeCorp certification (which is considered a “gold standard” holders, our business, and the environment. As a familyfor demonstrating commitment to CSR), and created our owned company, SRI is always looking for ways to ensure JUST label. We are truly walking the walk. the long-term success of SRI for future generations. Creating our Sustainability Plan offered the frameSRI has always implemented CSR and sustainability initiwork to assess our current programs and identify opportuatives into our practices for our employees and our businities to better help our employees, our customers, and ness, but we hadn’t labeled them as such. Having a cohethe environment. Sharing our commitment and progress sive CSR/Sustainability Plan gives us the ability to forwith our clients enables us to bring them along on the malize our strategies and measure our goals and targets journey and educate them on the value sustainability can against a scorecard, providing us with exciting opportunioffer to their companies. To further demonstrate its comties. It truly impacts every part of our business and enamitment, SRI signed onto the UN Global Compact and is bles us to think and operate with a sustainability mindset, committed to the UNGC principles in support of human which motivates our employees and customers by giving rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. This them a way to ‘do good’ as a natural course of business. Sustainability Report serves as our first annual Communication of Progress (COP) to our stakeholders. One effort that came from listening to our employees durSRI began seeing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) ing the early phases of stakeholder engagement was that questions and issues emerging from our clients in the last our mission, vision, and values were outdated. They had few years, so we increased our efforts internally, as a been created shortly after the founding of SRI in 1991, member of our clients’ supply chain, and in our commitand had served the company well for 25 years, but it was ment to be a full-service provider of sustainability solutime to take a fresh look to make sure they could work for tions. Like our clients, we’ve been working in this space (at least) another 25 years. We gathered our employees for years. SRI started our efforts in sustainability for our together and talked about the things that make SRI unique clients in 1996 when we began offering environmental and what gets us excited to come to work each morning. services with the ISO 14001 standard. Over the years, The new mission, vision, and values came from that effort we’ve added health and safety, energy management, reand was adopted by the SRI Board of Directors in September, 2018.” Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 3 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SRI QUALITY SYSTEM REGISTRAR MISSION Enable our stakeholders to achieve their goals for a sustainable and successful future. VISION Be a respected, full-service leader in sustainability, assurance, and social responsibility by partnering with our stakeholders to improve their business, the environment, and the communities in which we work. VALUES We will do this by... • Being a flexible, responsive team of well-trained, healthy employees • Using creativity and our unique abilities to meet customer needs • Supporting our work with updated technology and culture • Enhancing communication and stakeholder success SUSTAINABILITY GOALS In order to achieve our corporate strategy, mission, and vision, SRI identified our material topics, defined our sustainability goals, and built our targets into our management system in order to track progress against them. We are committed to: 1. Providing service with the highest level of integrity and ethical conduct 2. Maximizing SRI’s impact in supporting clients’ sustainability goals 3. Recruiting and retaining the right talent to best meet customers’ needs 4. Minimizing environmental footprint Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 4 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT This SRI 2018 Sustainability/CSR Report has been creatSCOPE AND BOUNDARIES ed to demonstrate SRI’s commitment to build corporate responsibility and sustainability management of its materiSRI is headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and al impacts into its management system. This report is the this report will focus on US operations; however, where next step in the journey to formalize sustainability goals global data is available, it has been noted and included. and targets and the actions that are required to meet them. It has been created in support of SRI’s corporate As a professional services firm with mandated on-site austrategy and is reflective of work done during 2018 and to dits, and occasional on-site client visits and training, the be continued in 2019. In some cases (where noted), actulargest areas of material impact internally relate to ethics al data is not available for new performance metrics, so and integrity of SRI’s professional services, SRI’s people, estimates have been made and will be updated in future and the emissions created by traveling to client reports. sites. Externally, SRI has a minimal supply chain of primarily office supplies, which are purchased locally when This SRI Sustainability/CSR Report reflects performance possible. Looking further down SRI’s value chain, there is for 2018. It is consistent with the Global Reporting Initiaa strong case to be made for the impact SRI has in suptive (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines in accordance porting clients’ sustainability goals, from improving emwith the GRI Standards: Core Option. It aligns to ISO ployee health and reducing environmental impact through 26000:2010 (Social Responsibility) and the UN Sustainahigh-performing buildings, or ensuring clients are managble Development Goals and will satisfy the UN Global ing their environmental impacts through ISO 14001 auCompact Communication of Progress requiredits. The impact of these services is currently in the early ments. Relevant sustainability topics and metrics have stages of estimation. been identified by benchmarking competitors and other professional service organizations, as well as frameworks STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & MATERIALITY such as Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ASSESSMENT (SASB). Finally, the report is compliant with the AA1000 Assurance standard. Updates to the Sustainability Report will be done bi-annually thereafter. Input from key stakeholders was gathered to perform a materiality assessment, in order to define impacts of highest importance to the stakeholders and the business. SRI welcomes any comments and/or questions regarding Those impacts which rank high on importance for both this report and its corporate responsibility efforts. For stakeholders and the business were classified questions about this report or its contents, please email “material”. Employees, auditors, customers, community info@sriregistrar.com. members, and SRI management, were either interviewed or provided a survey to give feedback ranking the importance level of governance, social, and environmental impacts. EMPLOYEES AND MANAGEMENT OTHER STAKEHOLDERS Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 5 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT This chart compares the importance of each impact as the stakeholders perceive it and how management perceives it to focus on topics of primary concern to both parties. 1. Ethical business conduct 11. Employee work/life balance 2. Integrity of audit services/anti-corruption 12. Having socially-responsible leadership within the company 3. Ensuring client data security and privacy 13. Having strong economic performance 4. Recruiting and retaining the right talent 14. Being a leader/influencer in the industry 5. Walking the talk (doing internally what we advise to our clients) 15. Reducing environmental impact of daily operations (energy, water, materials, waste) 6. Equal pay for women and men for the same job 16. Providing products and services for sustainability 7. Employee training, continued education, and professional development 17. Reducing environmental impact of travel (to clients, office, training, meetings, etc.) 8. Employee health and safety 18. Employee diversity & inclusion (gender, racial, educational background, etc.) at all levels 9. Having preventative social policies (discrimination, harassment, etc.) 19. Working with the local community and local companies 10. Having transparency of company performance 20. Volunteer work and charitable giving The material topics in the upper right quadrant indicate what is important to both the stakeholders and the company. The assessment shows that SRI’s focus should be on: (grouped into three main areas) • Governance & Management: Ethical Business Conduct, Integrity of Audit Services, Client Data Security and Privacy, Walk the Walk • Employees & Community: Recruiting and Retaining the Right Talent, Equal Pay, Training and Development, Health and Safety • Environment: Emissions related to Travel and Operations These material impacts guided the development of SRI’s sustainability goals. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 6 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT Stakeholder engagement is important to SRI throughout the year. Engagement with stakeholders provides SRI with the opportunity to gain a stronger understanding of the needs of customers, industry, and the communities in which SRI works. In addition to this Sustainability Report, SRI responds to stakeholder issues through customer phone calls and emails, advisory council meetings, newsletters, and community and industry meetings. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TOPIC(S)/ISSUE(S) Sustainability Team Ethical Business Conduct Health & Wellness Committee Having Strong Economic Performance Employees Annual Employee Satisfaction Survey Employee Work/Life Balance Materiality Survey and Interviews Post-event Feedback Surveys Integrity of Audit Services/Anti-corruption Technical Advisory Council Ethical Business Conduct Customers Website and Phone Calls Ensuring Client Data Security and Privacy Materiality Survey and Interviews Walking the Walk (acting internally as we advise to our clients) Meetings Partners Integrity of Audit Services/Anti-corruption Materiality Survey and Interviews Ethical Business Conduct Ethical Business Conduct Communities, Meetings and Events Walking the Walk (acting internally as we advise to our Organizations and Materiality Survey and Interviews clients) Associations Working with the Local Community and Local Companies Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 7 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 1 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 1.1 COMPANY PROFILE SRI Quality System Registrar is a privately-held ISO Reg(Guidance on Corporate Social Responsibility), SA8000 istrar, founded in 1991 and headquartered in Pittsburgh, (Social Accountability), B Corp Certification, and many of Pennsylvania. SRI also has offices in Japan and Ireland. the other CSR frameworks. 3R can also help companies, SRI has nearly 50 internal employees and approximately wherever they are on their CSR journey, through program 150 contract auditors who perform audits to ISO (and othevaluation, to improve their environmental, social, and er) standards globally, including ISO 14001 governance actions to better meet their CSR goals, and (Environmental Management), ISO 50001 (Energy ManGRI-based reporting. SRI’s Chief Sustainability Officer, agement), ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & SafeJana Lake, led the development of SRI’s CSR Plan, enty), LEED (Green Building Certification), and Corporate gaging stakeholders internally and externally, identifying Social Responsibility (CSR) Assurance to AA1000, to material impacts, mapping current initiatives, and setting name a few (complete list in Appendix II). As an AccreditSMART goals in each material area. Inspired by the UN ed Registrar, SRI follows the ISO 17021 management Sustainable Development Goals and the UN Global Comsystem approach and is accredited by ANAB, RvA, IATF, pact, this report cross-references impacts and actions FSSC, APMG, AA1000, and USGBC (GBCI). SRI is an across the various standards. active member of US Green Building Council (USGBC), Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), Association for In the past year, SRI has embarked on a series of imIron & Steel Technology (AIST), Independent Association provements to further integrate social responsibility into of Accredited Registrars (IAAR), Green Building Alliance the organizational foundation. For example, the company (GBA), Sustainable Pittsburgh, International Society of updated its Mission and Vision Statements and the list of Sustainability Professionals (ISSP), and U.N Global ComCompany Values, as well as the Code of Ethics/Conduct pact. and several related policies. By refining and aligning the company’s mission and policies to reflect the company’s SRI has two wholly-owned subsidiaries which provide culture, SRI showcases its commitment to the environcomplementary services: 3R Sustainability, which offers ment and reaffirms its dedication to social responsibility CSR and Built-Environment Consulting, and iQ Training, for its employees and the community. Additionally, the which provides online and in-person professional skills family-owned company has been awarded B Corp certifidevelopment training services. The supply chain is relacation and is one of fewer than 100 companies globally to tively small, consisting primarily of office equipment and be issued the JUST label. For 2018, SRI’s 3R subsidiary supplies. won its division of the Sustainable Pittsburgh Challenge and in 2019, SRI will apply for the regional Southwestern SRI prides itself in being on the leading edge of adopting Pennsylvania Business Compact. new standards, so the emergence of CSR-related standards was a natural transition. In addition to CSR Assurance (AA1000) on the auditing side, to provide validation that CSR is built into a company’s management system, 3R provides CSR Assessments to AA1000, ISO 26000 Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 8 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 1 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT 1.2 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Christopher Lake, President of SRI, and Peter Lake, To implement its Sustainability/CSR Plan, SRI has built its Founder and CEO, lead the SRI Board of Directors, which sustainability goals and actions into its management sysoversees SRI’s commitment to sustainability/corporate tem. responsibility and corporate performance. • Following initial stakeholder engagement and interviews with the Executive Team, material impacts were Employee programs are managed by Lara Eury, SRI Diidentified rector of Human Resources. Governance issues, such as • Sustainability strategies and goals were created in ethics and compliance are managed by Christopher Lake, line with SRI’s corporate strategy and business objecincluding anti-corruption, information privacy, and data tives security. Environmental initiatives related to client-site • Sustainability Plan, with accountability, was defined to travel are managed by Michael Lake, Director of Operamanage, monitor, and drive performance to achieve tions, and office-based environmental initiatives have the sustainability goals oversight by SRI’s CSR/Sustainability Team. • Sustainability goals, metrics, and initiatives were built As SRI’s Chief Sustainability Officer, Jana Lake oversees into SRI’s management system to drive culture SRI’s internal CSR commitments and engages a crosschange and ownership of the goals throughout the functional task force of employees (The Sustainability organization Team) and management to track performance toward sus• New and updated policies, procedures, and tools tainability goals and identify opportunities for improvewere launched with related training to increase awarement. The group meets bi-monthly to ensure integration ness of sustainability goals and communicate changof CSR efforts across the business and conducts workes shops and educational sessions on sustainability for SRI’s • A Sustainability Team was created to serve as an amstaff. bassador for sustainable changes and identify opportunities for continual improvement throughout the year • Sustainability goals were built into performance management discussions to ensure that goals were adopted not only at the division and department level, but also for each individual Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 9 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 1 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Sustainable Goal #1: Providing Service With The Highest Level of Integrity and Ethical Conduct 1.3 MATERIAL IMPACT: ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT & INTEGRITY OF AUDIT SERVICES MANAGEMENT APPROACH SRI has always operated with the highest ethical standtleblower Policy. SRI does not retaliate against anyone ards and integrity, and has earned its valued reputation as who reports suspected violations in good faith. All reports an ethical and responsible employer and business partof misconduct are investigated in a timely fashion. Unless ner. To reflect its ongoing commitment to ethical practices the individual chooses to remain anonymous, he or she and the UN Global Compact, SRI updated its Code of Ethreceives feedback on the results of the investigation, to ics and related policies to ensure it is living up to the highthe extent allowed by applicable law. est standards in areas such as anti-corruption, anticompetitive behavior, whistle-blower actions and data priGOAL & METRICS vacy. In 2018, SRI did not have any negative incidents with reSRI is committed to demonstrating honesty, fairness, and gard to public policy, privacy, corruption, ethics, bribery, accountability in its decisions and actions, including each anti-competitive actions, anti-trust violations; or monopoly interaction with its employees, customers, suppliers, and practices, societal impacts, the environment, labor practicpartners. The SRI Code of Ethics applies to every SRI es; or employee discrimination or harassment; nor were employee, auditor, and member of the Board of Directors; there any sanctions or fines for noncompliance. links to relevant policies and procedures; and is available on the company intranet. SRI also rendered the services ACTION PLAN of a confidential Ethics & Compliance Hotline Provider SRI’s Sustainability goals and updated Code of Ethics and encourages employees to speak to their manager or were introduced to employees at SRI’s February, 2019 communicate through the hotline if they have a confidenstaff meeting. Ongoing training of SRI’s sustainability protial issue. grams will be conducted at the next Technical Conference Employees are responsible for appropriately communiin May, 2019. cating concerns regarding suspected unethical or illegal In order to better track and measure success in this area, conduct to a supervisor, Human Resources, or the Ethics SRI will add a question to its post-audit surveys for cus& Compliance Hotline, as outlined in the company’s Whistomer feedback: “Do you feel the audit of your company was conducted with utmost integrity?” Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 10 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 1 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Sustainable Goal #1: Providing Service With The Highest Level of Integrity and Ethical Conduct 1.4 Material Impact: Client Data Security & Privacy MANAGEMENT APPROACH GOAL & METRICS SRI’s auditors and Customer Care Team work carefully to There have been no claims concerning breaches of manage customer data privacy, in line with SRI’s customer privacy or loss of customer data. accreditation under ISO 27001 (Information Security), GDPR, and customer requirements. It is SRI’s policy not ACTION PLAN to take any client data from the client site and customers GDPR requirements have been incorporated in the have agreed not to share sensitive data (e.g. HIPA, relevant policies and procedures, communicated to SRI individual salaries, etc.) with the auditors. If an auditor staff and auditors, and built into ongoing training. errantly becomes exposed to sensitive data, the auditor is required to remind the client that sensitive information should not be shared. The Technology Team works to ensure that all employee and customer information is secure. SRI’s Human Resources team works to ensure that SRI’s internal use of personal data also complies with applicable laws, SRI policies, GDPR, and customer expectations. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 11 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 1 GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Sustainable Goal #2: Maximizing SRI’s Impact in Supporting Clients’ Sustainability Goals 1.5 MATERIAL IMPACT: WALK THE WALK Building on the consulting work that the 3R division startMANAGEMENT APPROACH ed in 2014 relating to the built environment, SRI made a As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, a B Corp certicommitment to expand its service offerings by hiring a fied company, and recognized with its JUST Label, SRI Chief Sustainability Officer and CSR Solutions Lead to continues to demonstrate its leadership in the industry in coordinate sustainability solutions for clients. In 2018, corporate responsibility. SRI is an industry leader in offerSRI and 3R began to market its sustainability offerings as ing products and services which support sustainability, such, to support its customers in creating sustainability such as ISO 14001, RC14001, ISO 45001, Information reports, implementing or assuring a Sustainability ManSecurity, Food Safety, and Green Building Certification agement System, and pursuing sustainability certifications (for full list see Appendix II), SRI is also active in industry (when appropriate) for areas of material impact. groups and partners with others to push forward shared GOAL & METRICS objectives, such as sustainability. In 2018, 40% of SRI’s revenue was related to its sustainaCustomers and auditors expect SRI to be on the leading bility offerings. SRI would like to see this number inedge of new trends. In the last few years, SRI has seen crease; however, client demand is out of our control. SRI an increase in clients and certifications for such currently spends approximately 50% of its advertising and ‘sustainability’ standards. Many of SRI’s clients meet the marketing dollars on sustainability services and commits European Union criteria for Sustainability Reporting, to spend 10% more in 2019. therefore, there is an opportunity to provide external assurance assessments to clients to ensure CSR is built into ACTION PLAN their management systems and reporting. SRI is a leader in the industry by offering new standards and working with By generating more awareness of the importance of susleading-edge auditors and customers. SRI develops parttainability to business, SRI expects to see an increase in nerships with others in the industry groups to advance the number of our current clients who add a sustainability shared goals. focus to their management systems. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 12 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 2 EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY In the spirit of trying to do the right thing for employees, SRI has implemented a number of programs which address employee needs and expectations over the years. Given the nature of the business as a professional services firm, employees are SRI’s most important asset, so these programs are not only the right thing to do, but also a wise investment. The value of having sustainability built into our management system reflects on SRI’s focus of continual improvement as well as allows for the evaluation of program effectiveness as they relate to material impacts. SRI particularly holds strength in the areas of employee health & wellness, education and training, and quarterly communications to staff on business strategy and economic performance. In the past year, SRI has signed the UN Global Compact, became B Corp certified, issued the JUST label, and has implemented a number of actions to further improve its position as an industry leader (See Appendix V) . Due to the rigor and attention to detail embedded into these programs, the HR and Sustainability teams have been working to update policies (such as parental leave, volunteering, etc.), to determine the baseline for new metrics, and build the necessary changes into SRI’s management system. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 13 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 2 EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY Sustainable Goal #3: Recruiting and Retaining the Right Talent 2.1 MATERIAL IMPACT: RECRUITING AND Diversity represents an opportunity to generate new and RETAINING THE RIGHT TALENT different ideas. SRI is actively seeking two women with manufacturing and/or audit experience to join its Board of Directors and has set a goal to find five new female conMANAGEMENT APPROACH tract auditors (one in each business service line). In order to recruit and retain the right talent, SRI offers a number of programs, including employee training and pro% Women Target fessional development, equal pay for women and men for (Current) 2020 the same job, employee health and safety, and a focus on employee work/life balance. One of SRI’s more progresAdministrative 84 Auditors Staff 33 sive programs is for new parents to help with the transition Auditor Contractors 10 +5% back to work after the addition of a baby to their famiManagement Team 57 ly. Parents (men and women) are eligible to bring their Board of Directors (8 total, 2 open) 0 +25% baby to work for six months in a private workspace. SRI also offers $750 per employee for training each year, in addition to company-sponsored skill development, plus $2000 per employee in tuition reimbursement. SRI offers ACTION PLAN options in healthcare benefit plans to meet a range of employee needs. SRI has always strived to implement ideas solicited from employees in order to improve satisfaction and engageGOAL & METRICS ment. In addition to the Health and Wellness Committee, SRI formed a Sustainability Team this year to encourage EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION ideas on a broader range of topics, and has relaunched its In a 2018 Worker Satisfaction Survey, SRI employees Employee Suggestion Box at each location (and through a reported the following: confidential email box), to encourage employees to help promote continual improvement. SRI has seen an increase in the pipeline of women in “Considering all aspects of your job, management positions who will have the experience nechow satisfied are you with your company?” essary to eventually become auditors. In 2005, women represented less than 5% of people in positions in indusScore: 8.7 out of 10 try with the potential to become auditors. Today, that num“How likely is it that you would recommend ber is estimated to have surpassed 20%. In the same time your company as a good place to work?” frame, SRI has grown its percentage of female auditors from 5% to 10% of the total. SRI developed a path and Score: 8.7 our of 10 program to train its internal staff to perform audits, if he/ she would like to pursue that career, and actively recruits auditors at conferences and through other networks. To further demonstrate its commitment, SRI has signed the SRI currently scores 8.7 for Employee Satisfaction and UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. Engagement, and has set a goal to reach 9.1 next year. In the long term, SRI leadership believes STEM (Science, GENDER DIVERSITY Technology, Engineering, and Math) is a critical skill set While SRI’s total workforce population (employees plus for women and men, and is evaluating programs that supcontractors) is quite well balanced, there is variability port school-age girls and boys to pursue careers in robotwhen analyzed at a more granular level (see Gender Diics, as a necessary skill for the workforce of the future. versity table below). Diversifying SRI’s Board of Directors and in field auditors is one area of CSR that SRI is specifically committed to. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 14 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 2 EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY 2.2 COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH ACTION PLAN Given the large percentage of women in SRI’s internal SRI updated its Volunteer Policy, which launches Q1 of operations, SRI has made a commitment to address gen2019. With it, SRI will now offer one paid day per quarter der-based violence and domestic abuse for its employfor employees to pursue individual or corporate volunteer ees. SRI supports the organization, Victim Outreach Inactivities. This will build upon individual employee voluntervention Center (VOICe), which helps women and chilteer efforts of a small group by encouraging individuals to dren who are in the process of leaving abusive situapublicize upcoming events and coordinate throughout the tions. Donations are collected throughout the year from company to gain additional volunteers. SRI is building enemployees who choose to participate. Donations often vironmental and social, including volunteer, metrics into its include backpacks for school-aged children and Christperformance management review process to encourage mas gifts, and SRI matches employee donations. Furnithe development of individual objectives in line with deture that is no longer used, or that does not fit into a space partment and company goals. SRI is also active in the after renovations, are donated to this organization as well. Pittsburgh community through its work with local NGO’s (e.g. Green Building Alliance and Sustainable Pittsburgh) The support SRI provides to VOICe, through employee to increase awareness of sustainability issues and immaterial donations and SRI financial matches, serves both prove the quality of life in Pittsburgh. the employees’ desire to help others and helps the Pittsburgh community address a very serious problem. SRI In realizing the direct impact of gender-based violence, employees also engage in the local community through SRI leadership has decided to expand its support of work with organizations, such as Green Building Alliance, VOICe by hiring temporary workers from VOICe to fill its to promote sustainability in Pittsburgh. At a February, seasonal needs, to provide job experience, help with re2019 training, a team from VOICe will speak to SRI emsume development, and share interviewing skills. In ployees about the organization and will provide Active 2019, SRI will identify 1-2 candidates for this program and Bystander training. evaluate the program for possible expansion in the future. GOAL & METRICS As members of Sustainable Pittsburgh, SRI has created a Sustainable Purchasing Policy to address the importance SRI has established the following metrics and targets: of buying products locally from diverse vendors, as much as possible. In doing so, SRI supports the local community and reduces the carbon footprint associated with shipMETRIC CURRENT TARGET ping and transportation. Value of company contributions 1% 1.5% (% of revenue) Volunteer Days Involvement .1% .5% (% of total time) Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 15 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 3 ENVIRONMENT Sustainable Goal #4: Minimizing Environmental Footprint greatly reduced the number of participants who needed to travel. Approximately 40% of training is now done at a client site, so the trainer is the only individual traveling. The impact in 2018 alone, was equivalent to the environmental ‘savings’ of roughly 400 participants who were able to attend training locally without travel. GOAL & METRICS In 2018, SRI launched online training which will further reduce the environmental impact associated with travel and hotels. The target is for 80% of training to be offered on-site or online by 2020. Scope 1: SRI does not produce Scope 1 emissions. As a professional services organization, we do not manufacture or distribute a product, nor do we burn fuel on-site. Scope 2: Includes utilities of SRI offices = 269 tons of CO 2 SRI has employed a number of initiatives to improve enerequivalent. gy efficiency and reduce environmental impact in its corporate headquarters and Pittsburgh office. The new PittsScope 3: Includes travel associated with audits and trainburgh office was awarded LEED-Gold Commercial Interior ing plus employee commuting and waste in operations = status and this will serve as a standard for all new SRI 1045 tons of CO2 equivalent. office spaces. The headquarters has implemented many of the same energy efficiency specifications. Both offices SRI’s total emissions equate to: have applied a number of programs to reduce waste, • Housing, feeding and clothing 18 children for a year compost, and buy local. SRI eliminated plastic bottles and • 33,442,426 hours of computer operation paper plates, reduced the number of times the dishwasher • Powering 113 homes for a year runs, and removed all processed sugars from the compa• 4,544 trees planted per year to reverse our impact ny snack room to promote healthier eating choices. 2020 Target Reduction for Scope 2 and Scope 3 = 10% 3.1 MATERIAL IMPACT: EMISSIONS (See Appendix VI for calculations) MANAGEMENT APPROACH Given that most audit activities are required to be completed at a client’s site, SRI’s largest environmental impact is auditor travel to client facilities and travel to offsite training. On-site inspection is a mandatory part of the audit process, so greenhouse gas emissions cannot be eliminated entirely, yet; however, the Scheduling Department tries to reduce the environmental impact by scheduling local auditors with the right skills to nearby client sites. The benefits include lower travel costs for the client, improved work/life satisfaction of the auditor, and reduced impact on the environment. Steps have already been made in the area of training to reduce environmental impact by changing the business model from city-based to client-site training. In the past, 100% of training was offered at locations around the country, with nearly all participants traveling to the training event. This year, client-site training was offered, which Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 16 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 3 ENVIRONMENT 3.1 MATERIAL IMPACT: EMISSIONS (CONTINUED) To address Scope 3 Emissions: SRI has embarked on a project called, “Path to Net Zero Emissions,” through which SRI identifies opportunities to reduce emissions related to auditor and training travel. SRI will also evaluate the opportunity to offer carbon offsets for purchase by clients who have their own carbon reduction commitment. SRI will participate in and support the industry’s efforts to evaluate options for virtualization and greater use of technology to reduce the greatest impact on the environment. In 2020, SRI will start offering the option on customer invoices to offset the environmental impact of a company’s audit or training, which will be used to purchase Renewable Energy Certificates (REC’s). The aforementioned Sustainable Purchasing Policy will also address the purchasing of sustainable and local materials, in a manner that supports the local community. In addition to the incoming products and materials, outgoing waste is being recycled or will be donated to local charities. A waste audit was performed at both offices to set a baseline for waste diversion to allow the company to take ACTION PLAN action to set goals for continuing reduction. Finally, SRI now offers to pay for a transit pass, in lieu of a parking SRI’s first step in assessing material impacts was to calpermit, for its Pittsburgh-office employees, to encourage culate baseline GHG emissions (tons) and energy usage use of public transportation and reduce emissions related (kWh), in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and EPA to employee commute. standards. Information is tracked and collected for reporting (see Appendix VI for calculations). In addition to a 10% reduction target for 2020 for Scope 2 and 3 Emissions, SRI aims to offset another 10% through client and direct purchases of Renewable Energy Certificates. To address Scope 2 Emissions: A Sustainable Purchasing Policy is being implemented to ensure the most environmentally-friendly products are being purchased and utilized at the two offices. The main purchasers will have tools to ensure that they are purchasing energy-efficient equipment, such as computers, water fixtures and kitchen appliances. To further reduce environmental footprint, the employees and auditors are being trained on how to conserve energy and water so they can meet both environmental and financial goals at the office and at home. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 17 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report SECTION 4 SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD BASELINE TARGET GOAL/METRIC (2018) (2020) Goal #1: Providing Service With the Highest Level of Integrity and Ethical Conduct Metric: Code of Ethics violation Zero Metric: Customer Survey Question: Integrity of Audit No Data/New Metric: Customer Data Security Breach Zero Goal #2: Maximize Impact for Clients’ Sustainability Goals Metric: Sustainability Services as % of Revenue 40% Metric: Sustainability as % of Marketing Spend 50% 60% Goal #3: Recruit and Retain the Right Talent Employee Satisfaction (JUST) 8.72/10 9.1/10 Recommend as “Good Place to Work” (JUST) 8.72/10 9.1/10 Volunteer Time (% of total hours) 0.1% .5% Charitable Donations (% of net revenue) 1% 1.5% Minimize Impact on Environment Metric: Total GHG Emissions (Tons) Scope 2 269 10% Metric: Total GHG Emissions (Tons) Scope 3 1045 10% Metric: Energy Use (kWh) 398,560 10% Renewable Energy Credits and Carbon Offsets 1.3% 10% Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 18 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report APPENDIX I: SRI AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS INTERNAL PRACTICES The United Nations (UN) created the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a call to action for all countries, both developed and developing, to work toward a sustainable future. While all of the SDGs are interconnected, each one has a specific set of targets and goals to reach by 2030. SRI signed onto the UN Global Compact at the beginning of 2018. The UN Global Compact works together with the SDGs to push companies to “align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals.” SRI has identified five of the 17 SDGs, which the organization strongly supports through daily operations and best practices. These five SDGs are #3 Good Health and Well-being, #5 Gender Equality, #12 Responsible Production and Consumption, #13 Climate Action, and #17 Partnerships for the Goals. At SRI, good health and well-being has always been a priority within the workplace in order to leverage the organization by retaining the best talent. A health and wellness committee is responsible for making fresh fruits and vegetables accessible in the office, afternoon walks, activity competitions, and afternoon tea once a week. SRI knows that a company is successful when its foundation is diverse. Currently, over half of SRI’s management team is female and SRI is looking to increase female representation on the board of directors by 25%. Responsible consumption and production is taken seriously at SRI. Our organization has implemented a Sustainable Purchasing Policy, which emphasizes buying local, chemical-free and sustainably-sourced products. SRI has also made efforts to reduce consumption by using ceramic dishes instead on single use plastic and to divert remaining waste through composting and recycling efforts. Based on the Materiality Matrix, SRI understands that reducing its environmental footprint is critical to business. One of the largest contributors to SRI’s carbon footprint is due to auditor travel. SRI is committed to offsetting our emissions by investing in Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and reducing scope 3 emissions through strategically planned travel for our auditors. SRI is committed to cultivating its partnerships with other organizations across the industry that also share a strong, sustainably-focused vision. SRI has identified a unique opportunity to educate clients and partners on the importance of sustainability from a business management perspective by showing that sustainable measures not only minimize environmental impact, but also cost. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 19 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report APPENDIX I: SRI AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EXTERNAL PRACTICES As an organization, SRI is in a unique position to help clients reach their sustainability goals through auditing to sustainability management system standards, and through its 3R Sustainability division with sustainable consulting in the built and corporate environments. Expertise and personal ties to sustainability position SRI to help customers realize business value by ensuring sustainability is built into their management system. With SRI’s global presence, hundreds of companies across the world are better able to meet their own goals relating to environmental impact, ethical conduct, human rights, labor, transparent supply chain, quality, energy management, and health and safety. ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) provides a framework to guide companies on goals related to Corporate Social Responsibility and AA1000 Accountability Assurance standard ensures that sustainability has been addressed within a company’s management system. These are comprehensive frameworks that help companies manage their impacts and achieve their progress toward their sustainability goals and the UN SDGs. 3R has successfully consulted companies to shift their business strategy from a traditional bottom line to the triple bottom line (people, planet, profit) in order to incorporate sustainability into their core mission, vision, and values. 3R has also directed clients towards building sustainable spaces through vast knowledge on the LEED, WELL and other high-performance building standards. SRI realizes that clients and companies, alike, are starting to demand higher standards when it comes to social and environmental practices. We want to be able to meet this new shift, both within the industry and on the global business front, by continuing to be a leader through best practices that translate to clients. SRI’s success is linked to its talent, innovation and compliance, but it is also linked to its ability to stand out as an organization. Sustainability is what gives SRI a competitive advantage. Given SRI’s work across a number of standards and frameworks, SRI is positioned to help clients achieve many of their own SDG goals: Affordable and clean energy, ensures access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. The SRI Green Building Team has reviewed more than 8000 LEED project phases, which seeks to reduce energy usage in the built environment. ISO 50001 (Energy management system) ensures that energy use is being actively managed by a company. Industry, innovation and infrastructure, builds resilient infrastructure, promotes inclusive and sustainable industrialization and fosters innovation to improve resource-use efficiency and promote adoption of clean and environmental technologies. SRI’s management system approach ensures that companies manage their environmental and other industrial impacts through audits to a number of ISO standards: ISO 9001 (Quality Management); IATF 16949 (Automotive Quality Management); ISO 28000 (Supply Chain Management); ISO/ TS 29001 (Oil and Gas Management); ISO 50001 (Energy Management); AS/EN/JISQ 9100/9120 (Aerospace Quality Management); ISO 27001 (Information Security Management); ISO 20000-1 (Information Technology Service Management). Safe, resilient, inclusive, and sustainable cities can be ensured through safe and affordable housing, access to green spaces, improving municipal waste management and public transport, and minimizing the environmental impact of cities. The LEED suite of standards addresses not only buildings, but neighborhoods and communities, on topics from building design to access to green spaces and public transport, as well as waste and water management. Responsible consumption and production ensures sustainable consumption and production patterns to reduce waste throughout the entire value chain of a product or service, from cradle to cradle. The TRUE Zero Waste standard provides a framework to reduce waste; RC 14001 (Responsible Care) defines responsible use within the chemicals industry; ISO 28000 (Supply Chain Management) ensures control, security and traceability within a company’s supply chain; and FSSC 22000 addresses food safety and management. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 20 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report APPENDIX II: SRI STANDARDS MAPPED TO SDGS SRI STANDARDS OFFERED SDG SUPPORTED ISO 9001 (Quality Management System) 9 , 12, 17 ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) 6, 12, 14, 15 RC 14001 (Responsible Care Management System) 6, 11, 12, 14, 15 ISO 14064 (Greenhouse Gases Management System) 7, 13 ISO 50001 (Energy Management System) 7, 9, 13 ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management System) 3 ISO 26000 (Guidance on Corporate Social Responsibility) All ISO 28000 (Supply Chain Management System) 9, 12, 16 ISO 31000 (Risk Management System) 5, 8, 16 ISO 27001 (Information Security Management System) 9, 12, 16 Green Building Design Assessment (LEED, ASHRAE) 7, 11, 13, 17 ISO 20000-1 (Information Technology Service Management System) 9, 12, 16 IATF 16949 (Automotive Quality Management System) 3, 9, 12, 16 AS/EN/JISQ 9100/9120 (Aerospace Management System) 3, 9, 12, 16 ISO/TS 29001 (Oil & Gas Management System) 7, 9, 13, 14 ISO & FSSC 22000 (Food Safety Management System) 2, 3, 6, 12 Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 21 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report APPENDIX III: MANAGEMENT SYSTEM APPROACH BUILDING SUSTAINABILITY INTO SRI’S MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) provides a framework upon which SRI built its Sustainability Goals and defined its management system requirements. During the Planning and Materiality Assessment phase, SRI leveraged multiple frameworks to ensure our completeness in scope and principles, from ISO 26000 to GRI Reporting, the UN Sustainable Development Goals, SASB metrics, B Corp certification, AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement and Assurance, and best practices in other industries, etc. The themes across sustainability frameworks are quite similar. SRI mapped its material impacts and actions to the specific sections within the various frameworks. Below is a high-level ISO 26000 mapping. SRI SUSTAINABILITY GOALS ISO 26000 CORE SUBJECT Providing Service with the Highest Level of Integrity and Ethical Fair Operating Practices Conduct Organizational Governance Consumer Issues Maximize Impact for Clients’ Sustainability Goals Consumer Issues Recruiting and Retaining the Right Talent Organizational Governance Human Rights Labor Practices Community Involvement and Development Minimizing Environmental Footprint The Environment To ensure that sustainability is built into SRI’s management system, the principles of AA1000 for stakeholder engagement and assurance were followed. AA1000 goes beyond a scope framework and provides a principles-based approach to sustainability strategy, governance and operational management. As an AA1000 trained and licensed provider, SRI has incorporated these principles into its own sustainability management system and process for continual improvement. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 22 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report APPENDIX IV: GRI INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE SECTION PAGE 101 Foundation About This Report: Introduction 5-7 102 1. Organization Profile (102-1 102-13) Letter from the President 3 Letter from the President 102 2 Strategy (102-14) About This Report: Stakeholder Engagement & 3-7 Strategy (102-15) Materiality Assessment 102 3. Ethics and Integrity (102-16 102-17) Letter from the President: Values 3 102 4. Governance (102-18 102-39) Governance & Management 8-9 About This Report: Stakeholder Engagement & 102 5. Stakeholder Engagement (102-40 102-44), 5-7 Materiality Assessment, Internal and External 102 6. Reporting Practices (102-45 102-56) Sustainability Scorecard 18 Sustainable Goal #1: Providing Service with the 205 Anti-Corruption 10 Highest Level of Integrity and Ethical Conduct Sustainable Goal #4: Minimizing Environmental 302 Energy 16-17 Footprint Sustainable Goal #4: Minimizing Environmental 305 Emissions 16-17 Footprint Sustainable Goal #3: Recruiting and Retaining the 404 Training and Education 13-15 Right Talent Sustainable Goal #3: Recruiting and Retaining the 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 14 Right Talent Sustainable Goal #1: Providing Service with the 418 Customer Privacy 10 Highest Level of Integrity and Ethical Conduct Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 23 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report APPENDIX V: B CORP CERTIFICATION AND JUST LABEL B Corp Certification assesses the overall positive impact of a company. Certified B Corporations achieve a minimum verified score on the B Impact Assessment—a rigorous assessment of a company’s impact on its workers, customers, community, and environment—and make their B Impact Report transparent on bcorporation.net. Certified B Corporations also amend their legal governing documents to ensure their management and board of directors balance profit and purpose, by considering the triple bottom line impacts of environment, social and governance factors. The combination of third-party validation, public transparency, and legal accountability help Certified B Corps build trust and value. B Corp Certification is administered by the non-profit B Lab. Today, there are just over 2,500 Certified B Corps around the globe. SRI is proud to join them in redefining success in business, so that one day everyone may use business as a force for good. To learn more about this certification, check out SRI’s B Corp profile. For more information on B Lab and B Corp Certified Companies visit: bcorporation.net. SRI Quality System Registrar is proud to now be a part of the International Living Future Institute’s (ILFI) JUST™ Program. This program provides a transparent platform of disclosure, and a “nutrition label” for socially responsible organizations and corporations. Francis Janes, Associate Director, International Living Future Institute praised, “The International Living Future Institute is pleased to announce that SRI has been recognized with the JUST Label. SRI’s pursuit of a Social Equity Disclosure Label is consistent with the organization’s long-standing support of Corporate Social Responsibility principles and practices.” SRI qualified for the JUST Label through voluntary disclosure of internal policies in key JUST categories such as diversity, equity, safety, employee benefit, local benefit and community stewardship. SRI has consistently shown what it means to be an innovative company and a role model within the sustainability community. Creating a CSR Plan and applying for B-Corp certification show dedication and engagement, and the JUST distinction goes on to exemplify SRI’s commitment to sustainability and well-being. The goals of the JUST Program and the goals of SRI closely align with one another. SRI recognizes the connection between retaining the best talent and a socially just and equitable work environment. In addition to exemplifying transparency, SRI continues to grow as a leader in the sustainability industry. The most recently released version of ILFI’s Living Building Challenge, LBC v3.1, requires that a JUST labeled organization must have an integral role during the design and construction phase of a project when submitting for Living Certification. 3R, as a subsidiary of SRI, can act as a sustainability consultant on any LBC project. The JUST label is verification and a convenient summary of SRI’s efforts in social justice and sustainability embodied in its working environment and culture. SRI is proud to advocate for and contribute to the success of equitable and just workforces. Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 24 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report APPENDIX VI: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS CALCULATION SCOPE 3 CALCULATIONS MADE TO CREATE A BASELINE FOR THE GREENHOUSE GAS PROTOCOL Includes audit/training travel to client sites, staff travel to office, conferences and sales events. AUDITS • 3,103 events (actual from 2018) • 2.2 days per audit • Travel Breakdown  75% Flight Events, 2 hotel nights  10% Long Distance Car Events (~250 miles), 2 hotel nights  15% Short Distance Car Events (~50 miles), 0 hotel nights TRAINING • 20 events (actual from 2018) • 3 days per training • 100% Flight Events, 3 hotel nights OTHER TRAVEL EVENTS (CONFERENCES, SALES, ETC.) • 10 trips per year • 3.5 people per trip • 2 days per trip, 1.5 hotel nights per trip • Travel Breakdown  75% Flight Events, 2 hotel nights  10% Long Distance Car Events (~250 miles), 2 hotel nights  15% Short Distance Car Events (~50 miles), 0 hotel nights EMPLOYEE COMMUTING • 245 working days • 50 employees • 1 day per week for telecommuters or workers with compressed work weeks • 10 miles on average as a distance to the office (each direction) Copyright 2019 © SRI Quality System Registrar 2018 CSR Report. All Rights Reserved. 25
