Corporate Social Responsibility 2018 2 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Letter from How do Living by the the president we work? values at Ficosa About our Ficosa and Human Rights report the Sustainable Development Goals Ficosa at Compliance and Information a glance business ethics security C S R — R E P O R T 3 Commitment Commitment to Innovation in to quality the environment our products Commitment Responsible Content Index to our people sourcing Commitment to Commitment to Appendix 1 – health and safety society OHSEQ Policy 4 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Dear All, I am pleased to share with you our fifth CSR The automotive industry is going through a cation in which the interconnection between report, which aims to offer readers an overview spectacular technological transformation people, objects and infrastructures has no liof Ficosa’s performance in facing the challenin which electronics and electromobility are mits. At the same time, one of Ficosa’s future ges of the automotive sector, and describe our set to change business models and the provisions is to venture into the efficiency of new actions to integrate the United Nations Global ducts and services of the future. We are enenergy vehicles. Ficosa develops software Compact and its principles into our business tering a new era in which cars are no longer and hardware solutions for the operation of just a means of transport, but become Smart hybrid, electric, and fuel cell vehicles. These strategy, culture and daily operations. Cars, connected devices that will form the products impress with their quality, reliability, At our Company, we continually strive to delicentral hub of the Internet of Things. Coninnovative technology, and compliance with ver excellence in our products and to do so, nected cars will totally transform our lives the strictest requirements. we continue to work on providing the most to make them safer, more comfortable and In this regard, at Ficosa, we have undergoinnovative solutions, developing and manumore informed, with endless entertainment ne a profound technological transformation facturing products with high added value and opportunities. The car will become the most in recent years by focusing on three areas high quality standards. powerful multi-platform source of communiof growth: connectivity, safety and efficiency. C S R — R E P O R T 5 This year, 2018, we have achieved the foR&D in 2018. We expect to maintain these Ficosa’s journey towards internationalization llowing technological product sales: high rates for the future. stands out for its pioneering spirit, the complexity of its operations abroad and for ope• Ficosa has successfully accomplished Ficosa has been actively working with Paning a market with global customers at the hithe first worldwide Cellular-V2X deploynasonic during 2018 to materialize synerghest level. Nevertheless, it will present new ment in the city of Denver under the gies in three areas: Technology, Customers challenges for the company as competition CityNOW Project to supply the TCU (Teand Geography. New milestones have been for specialists is growing in the global labour lematic Control Unit) for Harley-Davidson achieved. Products like Telematics Control markets. For this reason, we want to ensure motorcycles, where Panasonic will proUnits for cloud services, Gearbox Actuators that all our employees are provided the worvide Cloud Services through OneConand Smart Connectivity Module are a good king conditions they deserve. Ficosa´s comnect Platform. example of the potential offered by the intemitment to its employees is the result of our gration of our technology with Panasonic. • Ficosa was awarded a contract for two strong employee management programme, BMS (Battery Management System) In this profound technological transformation, based on maximizing the potential of our emprograms for a German OEM. the customer is the focal point of all our ployees. management. For this reason, we continue • Ficosa has won contracts for the success We maintain a solid commitment towards into strengthen our quality standards by of their Intelligent Interior Mirror for light tegrity. One example of this is our continued implementing stricter rules in the 3Q3 audits for commercial vehicles with an integrated support for the Ten Principles of the United manufacturing plant and supplier management. toll payment system in the interior mirror. Nations Global Compact in the areas of HuI would also like to highlight the strong Ficosa man Rights, Labour, Environment and An• Ficosa closed several deals for new Shift worldwide presence and its new premises. ti-Corruption. Moreover, the new release of by Wire gearbox including a contract for During 2018, Ficosa inaugurated its first prothe Corporate Code of Ethics, approved by an EV in Silicon Valley and several gearduction centre in Morocco and its new e-Moour Board of Directors, was shared and ackbox actuators. bility Hub in Viladecavalls (Barcelona, Spain), nowledged by our employees in 2018. • Ficosa developed and manufactured a pioneering centre at international level for Our Code of Ethics defines the standards the digital rear-view system (CMS) of electric mobility technology. and responsible behaviour expected of all the Audi e-tron, the first vehicle on the With an investment of €50 million, Ficosa’s those related to the Company and with which market to include this new technology. new facility in Rabat will become the Centre they must comply. We are all responsible for New programs have been awarded for of Excellence in Automobile Cameras for the complying with these benchmark standards, other OEMs. whole group, bolstering the company’s hub for which are essential guidelines in order to • Ficosa won contracts for Surround View new technologies in vision, connectivity, safety guarantee our management model. Systems and Rear View Cameras (inand efficiency in Viladecavalls. The plant will The Code is an extension of our values, cluding 16 million cameras and 3 million employ 700 people and deliver an estimated which convey the essence of our Company, ECUs). yearly turnover of €150 million by 2022. how we think and believe we should act. I These new technological products aimed The e-Mobility Hub is positioned as the dribelieve that the real value of a company is in at more assisted driving, the autonomous ving force for electromobility solutions for Fiits employees. vehicle, the connected car and e-mobicosa at a global level and adds to the other I encourage you to explore all the details of our lity, have become the pillars of the group’s Connectivity and Safety hubs that Ficosa has activities through this report that strongly reflects growth. We forecast that the sales of these in Viladecavalls, consolidating its leadership the commitment and dedication of Ficosa. new technological systems will increase from in key technologies in the transformation of €100 million in 2017 to around €800 million the automobile. in 2023/2024. At the same time, a new technical centre in Sincerely yours, Furthermore, as we are committed to cutIndia (Hyderabad) took its first steps to beJosep Maria Pujol ting-edge innovation to remain at the top end coming a software development centre for President of the sector, 8% of revenue was invested in Ficosa’s New Tech Business Units. 6 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 This 2018 Report aims to offer readers a transparent and balanced overview of Ficosa’s performance in relation to the non-financial or CSR challenges that the company has faced in 2018. Objective of the Report In this report, Ficosa aims to explain how bility Reporting Guidelines belonging to the To summarize, the key points to highlight in non-financial and diversity risk and CSR Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). this report are: challenges are approached, and Ficosa’s Therefore, in determining the content to performance in 2018, for the purpose of be included in this report, we consider the offering stakeholders complete and reliable pertinent developments, initiatives and the —— Customer satisfaction information. The company has centred this materiality analysis carried out in 2018. The through quality report on explaining how it takes environmateriality analysis took the Ficosa CSR mental, ethical, labour, social, and human diagnosis (gap analysis) as the starting point —— Sustainable innovation rights aspects into consideration during the and the action plan prepared in 2015 involand technology daily operation of the company. Likewise, it ving the CEO, the members of the Executive describes the annual progress made by the Committees and our key Management sub—— Diversity and Integration company in implementing the Ten Principles sidiaries. It was complemented with external sources such as the GRI Pilot version of —— Development, training of the United Nations Global Compact in terms of human and labour rights, the enthe Automotive Sector Supplement and the and knowledge vironment and the fight against corruption. Auto Parts Sustainability Accounting Stanmanagement Furthermore, this CSR report describes how dard prepared by the SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board). —— Occupational Health and our company is progressing in each of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Safety Other key drivers included the Drive Our core business determines which of the Sustainability (biggest world automaker —— Healthy lives and wellglobal sustainability goals Ficosa supports first and foremost. In particular, our activipartnership to promote sustainability) being promotion guidelines set out in the Automotive ties focus on health and safety (SDG3) and Sustainability Guiding Principles which outline —— Climate change combating climate change (SDG 13). In adexpectations for suppliers on key responsibility mitigation dition to this, our commitment to sustainable issues including human rights, environment, practices includes decent work and econoworking conditions and business ethics. —— Commitment to society mic growth (SDG 8), responsible consumption and production (SDG 12), and promoIn addition, the EcoVadis CSR assessments —— Responsible Sourcing, requested by several of our OEMs have also ting peace and justice (SDG 16). Consumption and been taken into consideration. EcoVadis proThis report has been prepared in accorProduction vides the holistic Corporate Social Respondance with the provisions of the Sustainasibility (CSR) ratings service for companies. C S R — R E P O R T 7 Scope and boundary The 2018 CSR report covers the period from pact of our activities, products, and services 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. Unon biodiversity are not significant. less indicated otherwise, the quantitative inThere are no IUCN Red List species or naformation reported in this document shows tional conservation listed species with habithe performance of the company at global tats in areas affected by the operations of level and includes 100% of the facilities and our organization. sites where Ficosa holds a majority stake and, is consequently, responsible for their On the other hand, this report does not inoperation and control. Thus, the report include the company Idneo Technologies, cludes information from our operations in S.A., since it left the Ficosa Group in March Asia, Africa, Europe, North America and 2018, so including three months in this reSouth America. port would distort the sustainability indicators. Likewise, the joint venture Tata Ficosa To provide a better understanding of the Automotive Systems Ltd is not included eicompany’s performance, previous years’ ther as it is a 50% 50% JV. data if available has also been included. In addition, the indicators regarding occupatioThe report focuses on the company’s the nal Health, Safety and Environment only cover main business lines: research, development, the Ficosa sites where there are vehicle parts production and sales of high-technology vimanufacturing plants due to their materiality. sion, safety, energy efficiency and connecSo, the following sites have not been consitivity solutions (connected cars, driverless dered in the OHSE indicators: Le Neubourg vehicles, assisted driving and e-mobility). (France), Rüsselsheim (Germany), Köln (GerBiodiversity is not included in the scope of many), Lindau (Germany), Hyderabad (India), this report, as Ficosa operational sites are Venaria Reale (Italy), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), not located in protected areas or areas of Detroit (USA) and Tokyo (Japan). high biodiversity value. Additionally, the im7 8 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 · Barcelona Group Highlights · Soria · Sant Guim The company, headquartered in Barcelona —— €1,184 million sales (Spain), generated sales of €1,184 million in 2018 and has a team of more than —— Production plants, 10,000 employees, with manufacturing technical centres plants, technological centres and business or sales offices in offices located throughout 18 countries in 18 countries, over 4 Europe, North America, South America, continents. Africa and Asia. Ficosa has been expanding its international presence based on its —— Established in 1949 in strategy to be located near the decision and Barcelona (Spain) production centres of the majors OEMs in order to be able to offer a more competitive —— 10,243 employees and global service. The alliance with Panasonic, signed in 2015, has boosted —— Pioneers in high· Detroit (Mi) regional synergies and the international technology vision, · Cookeville (TN) activity of the company. Ficosa has gained safety, connectivity and new customers and initiated new programs efficiency systems for · Shelbyville (KY) in all regions, mainly in Asia. In addition to the automotive and boosting its global presence, Panasonic mobility sectors and Ficosa are combining their respective technologies to jointly develop products —— 21 manufacturing plants such as electronic mirror systems, next· Salinas-Victoria generation cockpit systems and Advanced —— 14 R&D and technical · Escobedo Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), which centres will facilitate business expansion in fields where future growth is anticipated. With this transaction, Ficosa will accelerate the commercialization of products jointly · Sao Paulo developed by both companies. · Porto C S R — R E P O R T 9 Plants Technical Center Commercial Office Research · Dieuze · Rüsselsheim · Dabrowa Gornicza (Licence agreement) (Licence agreement) · Le Neobourg · Köln · Lindau · Wolfenbüttel · Taicang · Chongqing · Shenyang · Gyeongsangbuk-do (Joint-venture) · Tokyo (office) · Kuala Lumpur · Sala Al Jadida ·Venaria Reale · Bursa · Pune (two plants) · Morcone (Joint-venture) · Gemlik · Pant Nagar (Jointventure) · Hyderabad 10 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Ficosa is now one of the top-tier gloIn 2018, the regions where Ficosa registebal providers operating in the research, red the greatest increase in sales volume development, manufacturing and marwere Asia and Europe. In Europe, growth keting of high-technology vision, safecame mainly due to a higher market volume ty, connectivity and efficiency systems in existing projects and the new products for the automotive and mobility sectors. launched in New Technologies. In Asia, Ficosa ended 2018 with sales in considerait was attributable to programs with local ble excess of 1 billion euros for the year. The OEMs, growing market share. Growth in solid growth experienced by the company China would have been bigger if it had not since 2012 is due to a clear commitment to been impacted by the general reduction of globalization, operational efficiency, innovacar production and sales in the second half tion and activity diversification. of the year. The threat of commercial war with the USA led to a reduction in consumpFicosa’s internationalization strategy restion, reducing annual sales of vehicles for ponds to its strong commitment to keeping the first time in about two decades. a close relationship with its clients to offer a better service. Therefore, the company North America sales reduced compared to is continually strengthening its international last year due to unfavourable exchange rapresence. During 2018, the company betes and lower volumes in some OEMs. Negan the process of implantation in new marvertheless, this has become, after Europe, kets. In March 2018, Ficosa inaugurated its the most important market for Ficosa, which first production centre in Morocco. At the began operations in this region in 1994, same time, a new technical centre in India (Hyderabad) took its first steps to becoming a software development centre for Ficosa’s New Tech Business Units. Sales per region 2018 (€ million, %) Sales (€ million) 14 % 66 % Asia> 163 Europe> 779 902 925 939 1.100 1.153 1.190 1.184 18 % North America > 214 2% 20121 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182 South America > 28 (1) €828 million in sales, excluding the temporary contracts with Sony (2) The appreciation of the euro against all the currencies of the non-euro countries where Ficosa is present (except Malaysia) led to a small reduction in 2018. At constant currency, sales would have increased by 1.7%, compared with global car production decreasing 1.0%. C S R — R E P O R T 11 where it produces mirrors, gearboxes and In Brazil, sales remained stable when brake systems. In the United States, Ficosa converted to euros but would have grown currently has a sales office and a develop17.2% in constant currency. The additional ment centre in Detroit (Michigan); a manuvolume was the result of the general facturing plants in Shelbyville (Kentucky) and improvement in the economy, with car sales Cookeville (Tennessee), which replaced the improving at almost 10%, and additional Crossville factory (Tennessee) at the end of projects launched in late 2017. Those 2016. This facility, in which the company has effects compensated the impact of the invested more than $50 million, is equipped deterioration of the Argentinian economy. with the latest technology, making it the Ficosa also benefited from the opening of group’s most advanced plant in the world their new factory in Jandira (Sao Paulo), in and boosting overall efficiency, operating 2016. This new plant is equipped with the capacity and competitiveness. Furthermore, latest-generation technology that meets the two Ficosa plants in Mexico, located in the highest standards of energy efficiency, Salinas Victoria (Nuevo León) and Escobedemonstrating Ficosa’s commitment do (Nuevo León), where the company also to sustainability and respect for the has a R&D plant, reinforce Ficosa’s activity environment. The facilities at Jandira has in the North American region. also a R&D centre that develops solutions for the Mercosur region. Distribution of employees per region 2018 (N. employee, %) 16 % North America > 1,626 18 % Asia> 1,858 3 % South America > 316 63 % Europe> 6,443 12 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Structure of Ficosa International At present, Ficosa is a conglomerate of companies formed by engineering centers, manufacturing plants and commercial offices, distributed all over the world. The group is organized into different Business Units, most of them are detailed below. Rear-view systems: Commercial vehicle: Develops, produces and commercializes rear-view Develops, produces and commercializes all Fimirrors and vision systems -forward, backward cosa’s product portfolio for buses, trucks and and lateralfor vehicles. industrial and commercial vehicles. Command and control Advanced Driver systems: Assistance systems: Develops, produces and commercializes systems Develops, produces and commercializes syswhich interact between the driver and the vehicle, tems that assist drivers during the driving process. such as shifters, parking brakes and drive cables. Under hood systems: E-mobility: Develops, produces and commercializes fluid Develops, produces and commercializes elecand ventilation systems installed at the vehicles’ tric powertrain technologies and connected inunderhood. frastructures to enable the electric propulsion of vehicles and fleets. Advanced communications: Develops, produces and commercializes antenna systems for vehicles, communication modules and antennas for navigation systems. C S R — R E P O R T 13 Sales by division – 2018 (% of sales, € million) 19.1 % 5% Under hood Command and systems > 59.3 Control system > 225.6 4.9 % Advanced Communications > 58 3.8 % Commercial vehicle > 44.5 1.7 % Adas > 20.4 0.7 % e-Mobility > 7.7 3,2 % Aftermarket and Others > 37.8 61.7 % Rear View System > 731.0 Ficosa is composed of two business The capital and business alliance with groups: Traditional products and New Tech Panasonic has helped the company products. Within the traditional products to accelerate the development of new category, most significant is the rear-view products with high added value, by allowing systems which represent around 62% of the integration of both companies’ knowtotal sales. Ficosa is one of three global how in the field of image and automotive leading companies in this area. technology. In terms of product, the major increase in Both companies are already working sales has occurred in new technological together in this direction on new products products focused on safety and comfort linked to active safety (advanced mirrors), systems (ADAS), e-Mobility and advanced electric cars and communication systems communications. (connected car). 14 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 New e-Mobility Hub Ficosa inaugurated its e-Mobility Hub on OcThe e-Mobility Hub will become a global benchtober 8th 2018. This centre specialises in mark in the development of electric mobility teelectromobility systems for hybrid and electric chnology, driving Ficosa’s leadership in an area vehicles and is a pioneer at a national and inthat is key for the mobility of the future. In this ternational level. Located in Viladecavalls (Barregard, it plays a strategic role, as it will become celona), the company has invested more than a driving force in electromobility solutions for the €10 million in this new 1,200m2 facility, emwhole group on an international level. ploying more than 120 engineers, 60 of which are new recruits. C S R — R E P O R T 15 New manufacturing plant in Morocco Ficosa has established itself in Africa for the first time, opening a new production centre in Rabat (in the Technopolis free zone), Morocco. With an investment of up to €50 million, the new plant was inaugurated in March 2018 and will employ roughly 700 people with an estimated yearly turnover of €150 million by 2022. At this new plant, which has a total surface area of 12,000 square metres that can be expanded to 17,000, Ficosa is inaugurating its Centre of Excellence in Cameras for the whole group, where the company will develop and produce highly complex vision systems that are crucial for the car of the future. These facilities will also produce electric cable sets. In addition, they will manufacture traditional products for the local market, such as rear-view mirrors, shifter systems and washer systems, with the goal of providing a better service. Ficosa reinforces its presence in Portugal Ficosa has boosted its presence in Portugal These new facilities strengthen Ficosa’s capaIn this regard, the new building, which is now with a new 7,800 m2 facility. This new spacity in Portugal by re-organizing its facilities to completed and was expected to go into use ce, in which the company has invested €5 support its commitment to competitiveness, on January 2019, features newly created million, is an expansion of Ficocables, the efficiency and productivity, as well as providing spaces equipped with the latest-generation Ficosa plant in the city of Maia (Oporto). a better workplace for all of its employees. technology to meet the very highest standards of energy efficiency. These include technical offices, engineering rooms and laboratories, with a more modern, fresher image. Likewise, it significantly increases the social spaces available to employees, including a canteen with food services, dining halls, first-aid area, new car park and outdoor green areas. 16 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Mission Vision Values In particular, our mission is to innovate, deveOur strength comes from our commitment. At Ficosa, we believe that success depends lop and create high added value products that For us, success is not measured by size, on how we live our Vision and the Values on contribute towards improving mobility in key but by flexibility, speed and creativity, and in which it is based. Our Values reflect the spirit aspects of progress such as safety, comfort, understanding that being the best means of our company, the way we think and how communications and the environment, excemeeting the needs of our employees, cuswe believe we should act, and have become eding market and customer expectations. tomers, community and shareholders alike. the mainstay of our Code of Ethics. We are convinced that if we act in accordance with our values, we can achieve our Vision. The company values are on display at the different company sites and every new employee receives an explanatory leaflet informing them about our values when joining the company. C S R — R E P O R T 17 The values that guide our conduct and identify us as a company are as follows: Caring for People: Teamwork /Learning toPeople are a key part of our corporate project. gether Learning and training, respect, diversity, conSharing knowledge, openly communicating, cern, friendly and informal relationships should learning from mistakes, cooperating, and reflect the very essence of us as a company. understanding that personal success is the company’s overall success. Commitment & Passion Innovation & Creativity for Work All our employees have the capacity to exhibit Enthusiasm for the corporate project, knowing and create; therefore, we have to enable their how to live our values. Feeling part of the fulideas to emerge through our leadership. Brafilment of our vision, persevering with hard ve the market by being bold and assuming work, enjoying work and a job well-done. risks, but always with sound judgement. Everybody’s work is equally important. Customer Focus Honesty & Integrity Helping our customers achieve success is Being honest and acting with integrity in all key to us achieving ours. We should be able our actions and behaviors. Ethical principles to build relationships based on trust with them, and our values should guide us in our day-tounderstanding and anticipating their needs. day decisions. Leadership Modesty, not taking center stage, understanding that everybody’s work is equally important, is essential in Ficosa’s leadership style. Lead by example and showing appreciation for people. Delegate, decentralize, and trust in the ability of people. Live the values that constitute the essence of the company. 18 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 19 The company’s strengths come from its commitment As a member of the United Nations Global Compact since and its understanding that being the best means 2002, we have embraced the Sustainable Development being able to respond to the needs of our employees, Goals (SDGs). customers, community and shareholders in equal Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), introduced in manner. In this regard, Ficosa continues its efforts 2016, are an ambitious plan of action defining sustainable to generate shared value among its stakeholders development priorities at a global level for 2030, with the and add sustainability practices in its business aim of eradicating poverty and promoting decent lives strategy and culture. CSR makes our company more with opportunities for all. There are 17 goals and 169 sustainable and innovative, which contributes to a universal targets that are inter-connected, applicable to more sustainable economy. all nations and people, and that represent a call to action In 2018, the Chief Executive Officer holds the ultimate for governments, civil society and the private sector. The responsibility for implementing our commitment to CSR. company reviews all the SDGs to identify areas where Any new CSR initiatives and programs are reported to we can maximize our positive contributions. We focus the Executive Committee. The integration of CSR into our activities related to sustainability on those SDGs that daily activities is promoted through a cross-functional greatly influence our business model and value chain and organization that involves different business functions help us bring about real change. This mainly affects the and countries. following SDGs and associated sustainability activities: SDG 3 — Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages According to the World Health Organization (WHO), car accidents kill approximately 1.2 million people worldwide each year, representing a quarter of all deaths caused by injury. Additionally, about 50 million people are injured in traffic accidents. If preventive measures are not taken, road traffic death is likely to become the third-leading cause of death in 2020 from ninth place in 1990. By collaborating with national and international programs to accelerate the development and standardization of connected cars and autonomous vehicles and by developing new emergency systems or new tools and products to improve the vision of the driver, help prevent collision or estimate the degree of attentiveness of the driver, Ficosa is contributing to the Health Goal to reduce road traffic fatalities by 50% by 2020. Learn more: Innovation in our products. 20 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 SDG 13 — Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts The transportation sector is responsible for 14% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Reducing emissions from transport is therefore an important part of any strategy to combat climate change and its impacts, in line with Sustainable Development Goal 13. The widespread electrification of transport through the adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) is one strategy to reduce GHG emissions. If EVs are charged with electricity from emission-free sources, their use can also increase the share of renewables in the global energy mix (Target 7.2 – Affordable and clean energy), and contribute to reducing air pollution and related health impacts (Target 3.9 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages and Target 11.6 Reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities). By investing in research and development to improve efficiency, reducing the complexity of electric vehicles and developing new generations of Battery Management Systems or On-Board Chargers (OBC), Ficosa is contributing to combating climate change and its impact. Furthermore, the company is using less-carbon intensive manufacturing processes to mitigate the effects of climate change. Learn more: Innovation in our products; commitment to environment. SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production Ficosa is designing and manufacturing products through the responsible use of raw materials and natural resources. The company is working to reduce its waste generation throughout the companies’ life cycle. For example, Ficosa is working in all its operational facilities to increase the recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals and to reduce the amounts of these substances emitted from its plants. Furthermore, one of the company’s main goals is to keep the number of defective parts at minimum level and improve both its processes and its employees’ skills, using problem-solving and analysis tools with the aim of reaching zero defects. Learn more: commitment to environment; commitment to quality. C S R — R E P O R T 21 SDG 16 – Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Ficosa is working to ensure that conflict-free minerals are used in the manufacture of its automotive components. Ficosa implemented an annual supplier inquiry to collect the Standard Survey (EICC/Gesi template) on conflict minerals from all its suppliers. The information collected is internally processed and provides useful information to ensure procurement that is free from conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. Learn more: Conflict minerals. SDG 8 – Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all The company has a team of more than 10,000 employees, with manufacturing plants, technological centres and commercial offices located throughout 18 countries in Europe, North America, South America, Africa and Asia. In all the countries where Ficosa operates, the company is building a safe and secure workplace where employees feel valued, where their rights are respected, and where they can do meaningful work. Learn more: commitment to our people; commitment to health and safety. 22 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 23 At Ficosa, we are committed to meeting Italian, Portuguese, Polish, Turkish, Chinese Under this framework, several regulations, high ethical standards and complying with and Arabic). procedures and protocols were implemented all applicable local, national, and internatioto support crime prevention in areas such as During 2018, a Code of Ethics e-learning nal laws wherever we do business. Behaving money laundering, antitrust, corruption in buprogram has been designed to be used to ethically is fundamental to establishing and siness, treasury and social security and subtrain all company employees from 2019. sustaining legitimate and productive relasidy fraud, fraudulent and unfair behaviour, tionships between organizations. At Ficosa, we have a body called the gifts and hospitality, intellectual and indusCompliance Committee responsible for trial property, the transportation of persons, In this direction, a new release of the Ficosa’s distributing and ensuring compliance of the goods and other related activities. All the diCode of Ethics was approved by the Board of Code of Ethics among all the company’s fferent regulations, procedures and protocols Directors in 2017. Our Code of Ethics is an employees. In order to guarantee the focus on company and sector-specific risks extension of our values and defines the staneffective application of the regulations and and priorities and cover the facilities and sites dards and responsible behaviour expected of the guidelines of this Code, the company where Ficosa holds a majority stake and is all those related to the company, and which is has established a whistleblowing channel to consequently responsible for their operation of obligatory compliance. We are all responsinotify any breach of the Code of Ethics. and control. ble for complying with these benchmark standards, which are essential guidelines in order to Furthermore, Ficosa’s policies and proceduIn 2018, a Compliance Information and Traguarantee our management model. The Code res, available worldwide, ensure compliance ining Programme was launched in order to is available for all employees in the Ficosa intrawith J-SOX in all activities performed in the raise awareness in our organization. In addinet and it is included in the welcome package day-to-day operation of Ficosa. Controls have tion, a specific workshop on competence law given to new employees, to be signed the first been implemented to monitor compliance was prepared in 2018 to be released to our working day together with the contract. with these procedures and are evaluated resales, purchasing and R&D teams in 2019. gularly to ensure its effectiveness. Periodical In 2018, Ficosa organized training sessions audits are carried out. and awareness campaigns to ensure that employees are aware of Ficosa’s new comAt Ficosa, we are convinced that emphasimitments and confirm their compliance with zing the compliance culture makes a signithe Code of Ethics. The Code of Ethics was ficant contribution to securing the sustainaprovided to all indirect employees (job posible success of our company. In this regard, tions with mail address) and to all FICOSA the company has decided to define a Crime countries through a database system rePrevention Mode, which was introduced in quiring acknowledgement by employees. At 2016. The goal was to adopt and effectithe end of December 2018, the Code’s emvely implement the appropriate measures to ployee acknowledgement was 97% (2,551 prevent and detect criminal risks and ensure employees, 10 countries out of 11 showed ethical practices within the company. This 100% ratio). compliance is integrated as part of a corporate culture, which has always been centred Our Code is available in all FICOSA languaon the promotion of ethical values at all leges (English, Spanish, French, German, vels. 24 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Ficosa’s values underpin everything we do and must be reflected in our day-to-day behaviour. To ensure every employee understands and truly experiences the corporate values of Ficosa, the company turned them into specific operating principles and communicates them often. At all sites, the values are displayed inside the factories and offices to make it clear what matters to us. For example, Mexico has implemented a specific program to ensure that all employees understand and “live” by the values of Ficosa. Every year the manufacturing plant in Mexico organizes workshops and different campaigns to make sure that its employees embrace the company values. In Shelbyville (USA), each quarter, the operational facility focuses on one value. Team members are nominated based on how well they exemplify this value. An office-wide voting determines who best embodies the values of Ficosa. The team member is announced, presented an award and recognized for their outstanding commitment at the next quarterly meeting. C S R — R E P O R T 25 26 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Ficosa is responsible not only for its own Organizations (ILO) conventions to respect decisions and activities, but it also wants to employees’ rights, age and working-hours ensure its suppliers and business partners limits, etc. The purchase orders sent by any operate in line with the company’s CSR prinFicosa company or any of its subsidiaries ciples and respect the Universal Declaration must include the terms and clauses of the of Human Rights and environmental proGeneral Purchasing Conditions. tection. In addition to following the General Furthermore, the company performs a yearPurchasing Conditions, and all laws and rely control through the central employee dagulations applicable to the supplier, it is also tabase by calculating the age of their emtheir obligation to respect social responsibility ployees to ensure all Ficosa staff are above duties and especially the requirements bathe legal age to work and assure no child sed on the Universal Declaration of Human labour is permitted. Rights (UDHR) and the International Labour C S R — R E P O R T 27 In 2017, Ficosa strengthened its InformaThe ISMS includes the implementation of risk tion Security Management System (ISMS assessment and management scenarios baonwards) based on ISO/IEC 27001:2013 sed on the MAGERIT methodology (Version 3). standard. A Security Committee was formaFicosa has also implemented zoning (S1lly appointed and is authorized by the Board S2-S3) where S3 zones correspond to thoof Directors to govern the ISMS. The Comse related to confidential and secret classimittee is responsible for defining and estafied projects. Each zone has been provided blishing the information security strategy and with its own security criteria, controls, alarmanagement system. The current scope of ms, cameras, procedures, training, etc. the ISMS includes engineering, prototypes and testing business functions. As part of the ISMS project, Ficosa has developed and enhanced a training and awaCurrently the scope of the ISMS covers the reness program. More than 600 employees areas dealing with most highly sensitive inhave attended the training sessions, incluformation, shared sensitive information with ding management. customers and contract, intellectual and industrial property law, and protected informaFurthermore, the company has implemention. ISMS aims, among other internal goals, ted an incident management procedure to to increase the confidence of stakeholders enable any employees and stakeholders to regarding information management and the report security concerns regarding informasecurity of its information systems. tion in order to prevent recurrences. 28 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 29 Policies The rating given to a car and the value of an automotive manufacturing plants. In 2016, the company implemented manufacturer’s brand are dependent on the customer’s a new internal 3Q3 Process Design Audit to certify the appraisal of quality. In this context, Ficosa believes that design of the production process at Ficosa sites (plastic the automotive part and equipment industry has an & metal injection, injection tooling, paint shop). The new important responsibility to constantly provide top-level internal audit is applicable to all the Company’s technical quality to customers at every stage, from the planning of centres and manufacturing plants. new products, through to development, manufacturing, Additionally, in 2016, the company added three new distribution and sales to after-sales service. checklists in the 3Q3 Plant Audit to make sure that In 2009, Ficosa implemented the Corporate Quality 3Q3 each site adheres to Ficosa standards for the proactive program, which aimed to improve quality threefold within management of warranties. More demanding rules were three years’ time, thus propelling the business to the top added in the 3Q3 audits for technical centres. The main of the automotive sector. The 3Q3 program is annually goals of the new checklist is to certify that any software updated, accompanied by a specific roadmap and quality developed by Ficosa is aligned with the ISO/IEC 15504 targets to make sure that all the regions are following the guidelines. Furthermore, these stricter rules have been best practices in this area. Through the 3Q3 program, implemented to guarantee that the design and production the company performs more than 100 audits per year to of safety products comply with the highest standards of ensure that all the sites comply with the company’s quality the automotive industry. requirements. In 2018, the notice period for the communication of a In 2015, the company implemented stricter rules in the 3Q3 3Q3 Plant Audit was reduced from ten to two days. The audits for supplier management, project management and objective is to obtain a true picture of the Ficosa site and technical centres, using the same criteria as for Ficosa avoid any ad hoc preparations being made in advance. Quality Managemennt IATF 16949:2016 (replaces ISO/TS 16949:2009) defines Operational Ficosa facilities certified the quality management system requirements for the IATF 16949 and ISO 9001 (%) design and development, production and, when relevant, 100% installation and service of automotive-related products. It is a specific standard to the automotive industry and is based on the ISO 9001 standard. 30 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Governance The mission of the quality function is to improve the performance of Ficosa, thereby ensuring customer satisfaction. To do this, it is endowed with a corporate structure and local quality control organizations in the production plants and support centres (technical centres, purchasing, project management, etc.). The main tool to ensuring the mission of the quality function is achieved, is the quality system, which is deployed on a corporate level in order to comply with international, national and local standards, and those of our customers. Main Risks and Challenges Customer warranties are a significant part The company remains focused on improving do not have to wait to receive the official of our quality management system. In both our processes and our employees’ notification of defective parts in order to 2018, a new warranty reporting system was skills, using problem solving, analysis tools take action. We will continuously monitor launched in all Ficosa manufacturing sites. and techniques in an aim to reach zero any possible warranty incidents thanks to This system continuously monitors our OEMs defects. One of the main challenges for the the improved monitoring of our customer B2B warranty applications to obtain a better company will be to reduce the number of portals. Furthermore, we will use statistical picture of the current and future scenario, repetitive complaints by 62% in 2021 (base tools to predict any future trends and contrast helping us to react quickly to any possible year: 2016). To achieve this, the companies the effectiveness of our actions. In addition, incident before an official warranty analysis will assign one team per problem to work on, the company will focus on implementing request is issued. and elaborate procedures and a handbook the Lean Six Sigma methodology in all the to standardize the solutions and share the manufacturing plants and technical centres Parallel to this, the collaboration between lessons learnt. Parallel to this, the company and improving the communication between Design and Manufacturing has been will focus on improving the management of operation and product design. Finally, the strengthened in order to analyse the “no warranties. We will monitor the customer company will improve its development system trouble found cases” to provide faster support portals to reduce response times, since we to ensure top-level quality in the design and to our customer in the resolution of problems. development of new technology products. C S R — R E P O R T 31 Key results Company quality is managed through the monitoring of KPIs. The company has defined a balanced scorecard system that displays the site’s monthly values versus target figures. This monthly reporting enables the company to pinpoint areas where improvement is needed. Target Target 2016 2017 2018 2018 2019 Customer satisfaction (%) 94% 98% 98% 93% 93% Reduction in the number of OEM QCR due to suppliers 65 56 54 60 51 Warranty cost vs sales (%) 0.36% 0.27% 0.27% 0.28% 0.26% Reduction in the number of recurrent complaints 229 210 196 137 175 (*) Reduction in the number of customer claims 356 315 327 317 298 Reduction in the number of defective parts per million delivered (ppm) – Customer 4.4 4.1 5.1 7.0 6.0 Reduction in the number of defective parts per million delivered (ppm) Supplier assembly 32 32 28 35 27 Over sales from Non-Quality Costs (NQC) (%). 0.76% 0.46% 0.41% 0.49% 0.48% (*) Target increase as scope of recurrent complaint have been increased In the last three years, Ficosa has reduced provide Ficosa with written evidence of the their defective part indicators by 35% most recent certification renewal. (Customer ppm) and by 48% (Supplier Ficosa conducts periodic supplier assessassembly ppm). In line with this improvement, ments to ensure that the suppliers’ qualithe company has reduced its customer ty meets the standards established. Since claims by 14% since 2015. These indicators 2015, the supplier’s audits have been foshow a very high quality level, although some llowing the same criteria as the ones used for of them reflect a small increase in 2018 vs Ficosa’s manufacturing plants. Furthermore, 2017, the reason for this is the sensitivity of Ficosa reviewed and made the criteria used the indicator (parts per million calculation). to select suppliers for its Purchasing Optimum Quality management goes beyond Ficosa Panel (POP) more restrictive. From 2017 on, activities. The company wants to ensure the company has implemented a strict prothat its suppliers also operate in line with the gram to reduce the impact of suppliers on company’s commitment to excellence. All customers by enforcing stringent rules and our suppliers must have a quality certification consolidating supplier audits in all the coun(ISO 9001, VDA, EAQF, and IATF) and must tries where the company operates. 32 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Awards and recognition In 2018, Toyota presented Ficosa with the In recent years Toyota has distinguished Value Analysis award. the work of Ficosa on various occasions, highlighting the excellent service the With this prize, the Japanese multinational company provides to all its customers. recognizes the know-how and capacity of Ficosa to offer high-quality products, optimiOther awards and recognitions of particular zing the ratio between function and cost, and note in 2018, include the Groupe PSA distineliminating costs that do not add value. guishing Ficosa as one of its best suppliers in the Iberian Peninsula in an event held in Vigo. The Toyota Motor Europe awards ceremony was held during the 2018 Annual Supplier Ficosa won awards for their industrial efficienBusiness Meeting, which brought together cy and ability to respond to the quality requimore than 70 European suppliers. With these rements of Groupe PSA. prizes, every year the Japanese multinational recognizes the most outstanding suppliers in the areas of quality, value analysis, project management, supply and cost. C S R — R E P O R T 33 Continuous improvement (FIT Program) Within the aim of consolidating its market positions as an automotive lated to production as well as the financial-administrative, purchasing, manufacturer and strengthening its presence in all markets, Ficosa commercial and R&D departments. bases its strategy on continuous improvement in terms of both proTo ensure there is structured support in continuous improvement, the ducts and all the processes involved in them. Ficosa Improvement Transformation (FIT) Program was launched at the Ficosa understands that continuous improvement is any change of end of 2016. This Continuous Improvement (CI) program is supported direction to improve processes by eliminating inefficiencies and mainby top management and has been implemented in all of Ficosa’s opetaining consistent quality. All Ficosa employees are responsible for rational facilities. The project is supported by an action plan aimed at continuous improvement, from the first operator to the last manager implementing self-sufficient CI teams in all the countries where Ficosa of the company. Continuous improvement affects all departments reoperates. The program has been divided into 4 main pillars: MAIN GOALS WHAT DID WE DO IN 2017 & 2018? Continuous improvement structure in every Plant: CI Managers and experts (YB, GB, BB) in all the facilities, Making sure any site has Regional CI Directors and Corporate CI Director responsible for implementing Local CI Steering Committees held every month CI Structures Almost 700 employees trained as CI experts (Yellow/Green/Black Belts) the FIT program FICOSA IMPROVEMENT TRANSFORMATION Using self-developed Ficosa training materials for YB and GB sessions. Implementing and running Close to 3.000 Six Sigma projects, lean workshops and kaizens. Fighting waste projects and CI activities Quick Kaizen standardized Six Sigma methodology was deployed in Ficosa operations and variation Developing a suggestion system that can be used to collect, analyze Ideas and Gathering suggestion and and track any suggestion. Building a Yokoten culture to share best practices within plants opportunities sharing best practices The company achieved 0,5 suggestions per employee. Standardization of a new 5S system to make sure that all the plants are following the same standards and criteria. Transparency Gathering data to detect Big Pic: Implementation of diagnosis tools to find opportunities and Focus any issues (ie. VSM, yamazumi). MES: Deployment of Manufacturing Execution System. The program involves the use of continuous improvement methodolevels: White, Yellow, Green and Black Belts, sharing a common goal logies, such as Lean Six Sigma, as well as soft skills that support of everyday improvements. The company’s new FIT program is not employees in their everyday quest for better products and procesonly about optimizing the manufacturing process, but also changing ses. Ficosa allows for the development of human resources in its the culture of the company and training people to give them greater broadest sense, by adapting organizational structures to globalization capacity to make the right decisions every day. process needs. We have active experts (called Belts) with different 34 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 35 Ficosa’s commitment to people is at the foundation of the company’s culture. Policies For Ficosa, being a responsible employer Procedure for Recruitment and Hiring, Proinvolves a number of challenges: training cedure for Performance Evaluation, Internaemployees, promoting them, providing them tional Assignments Management Procedure, with fair salaries, looking after their well-being Procedure for the Planning and Follow-up of at work, combining operational excellence the Training and New Employees Welcome and personal development and encouraging Procedure. a fluid social dialogue. Ficosa has numerous Furthermore, the company has defined an internal guidelines, policies and procedures employee handbook available for all emploto ensure that all their sites are following the yees. The handbook includes information best practices in recruitment, career manaabout fair business practices at work, our gement and talent development. The main code of ethics, health & safety, training, perones are: Management of Personnel Dataformance development, prevention of discribase, Management of Short Term Benefits, mination and promotion of diversity, etc. Management of Other Employee Benefits, Governance The Chief Human Resources Officer, member of the Executive Committee, is the highest responsible person for labour practices in the workplace. The Corporate Human Resource department is responsible for defining the above guidelines, policies and procedures. Every site has a Human Resources Manager, who is responsible for implementing the policies defined at corporate level in every country where the company operates. 36 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Main risks and Challanges Ficosa develops its activity in a very compeThe following areas have been identified as titive and demanding industry. Since 2008, the most significant areas of our impact on the company has tapped into new business the workforce: areas and international markets and integrated them into the corporation. In this regard, Ficosa has become committed to creating —— Diversity and integration high value jobs. Evidence of this is the fact that between 2014 to 2018, the number of —— Development, training engineers working at the headquarters in Viand knowledge ladecavalls (Spain) has doubled. Moreover, management the company is hiring hundreds of employees worldwide with a wide variety of skillsets —— Dialogue and and educational backgrounds for its new aucommunication tomotive manufacturing facilities, such as the newest one in Rabat (Morocco). The need —— Health promotion and to hire new staff is posing new challenges well-being for the company as competition for specialist and managerial staff is increasing in some —— Safe and healthy areas of the global labour markets. We are working conditions (see therefore implementing all the necessary me“Commitment to Health chanisms to get the best out of our teams and Safety”) and recruit the best professionals in order to maintain our competitive advantage in the —— Absenteeism long term. management Key results Variance from 2016 2017 2018 previous year Average Workforce (FTE)(1) 9,855 10,239 10,243 0% Non-production Indirect Turnover (%) 7.74% 9.30% 6.99% -25% Female staff in total (%) 46% 42% 44% 0% Female staff in top executive positions (%) 14.0% 14.0% 15.2% 8% Employees with a disability 120 125 133 6% Dismissals (%) 2.59% 2.82% 2.70% -4% (1) 2018 figure is not including Idneo with 310 employees in Dec’18 C S R — R E P O R T 37 Workforce by country (2018) Group Contracts age* (2018) Brazil 316 Mexico 700 PermaTempoPartnent rary time China 1,804 Morocco 76 Employees 1,569 303 21 France 352 Poland 873 < 30 years Germany 275 Portugal 1,303 30 < Employees 5,430 314 200 < 50 years India 18 Spain 2,195 Employees 1,349 51 42 Italy 287 Turkey 1,082 > 50 years Japan 7 USA 926 Malaysia 29 Total general 10,243 Group Workforce job category* (2018) Group Workforce age* (2018) 2018 1,893 Employers < 30 years Senior executives 158 Area managers 472 Engineers and technicians 1,864 1,442 Employers > 50 years Administrative personnel 302 Direct Production staff 4,992 Indirect Production staff 1,491 5,944 30 < Employers < 50 years 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 Group Contracts job category & gender* (2018) Engineers Direct Indirect Senior Area Administrative and Production Production executives managers personnel technicians staff staff Permanent (Men) 132 372 1,225 88 1,792 1,160 Permanent (Women) 23 90 504 109 2,604 249 Temporary (Men) 0 3 41 66 193 54 Temporary (Woman) 0 0 24 23 256 8 Part-time (Men) 2 1 16 3 14 9 Part-time (Woman) 1 6 54 13 133 11 *.To measure these indicators, the company takes the workforce figures at the end of the year 38 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Diversity and Integration At Ficosa, the criteria and procedures for the prisoners. In 2015, the company received a recruitment of human resources embraces special prize “Empresa Socialmente Responthe principle of equality and non-discrimination sable” (Socially Responsible Company) from based on the grounds of gender, race, natioFADESS (“Fundación de Ayuda al Discapanal or social origin, social class, birth, religion, citado y Enfermo Psíquico de Soria” – The disability, sexual orientation, union association, Soria Foundation for Physical and Intellectual political opinion, age or any other condition. Disabilities) that recognizes their commitment to hiring, training and reintegrating released Additionally, our Code of Ethics states that or former Soria prisoners. The company Ficosa Management will take all appropriate collaborates with FADESS and ASOVICA measures to prevent acts of harassment, dis(“Asociación Virgen del Camino de Familiacrimination or violence within the company. res de Personas con Enfermedad Mental” – At the same time, the employees undertake Association for Families of the Mentally Ill) to not to promote or allow situations of abuse, promote the social inclusion of physically and harassment, violence or discrimination in the intellectually disabled people. Furthermore, workplace. These prevention actions are enin collaboration with the Red Cross, the site hanced locally with specific equality and anhas implemented a programme to promote ti-harassment plans, like those at the Soria the integration of disadvantaged groups. and Viladecavalls sites. In Shelbyville (USA), new recruits are given Furthermore, all job agencies that work with mandatory training on Diversity, Harassment us must guarantee equality in gender, origin, and Proper Workplace Communication. Emethnicity, political affiliation and religious ployees are instructed in how to report any beliefs for all candidates pre-selected for violations. Furthermore, the employees at this our company. All managers and middle site are provided with multiple channels and management are responsible for ensuring ways to report any violations. non-discriminatory treatment to employees and collaborators. In 2015, Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland) received a special prize “Icebreaker” for its comIn 2018, we started a specific corporate mitment to promoting the inclusion of people training plan focused on increasing the with disabilities, awarded by the Foundation cultural intelligence among different cultures for Vocational Activation of People with Disaand nationalities. This year we have also bilities and the Polish Organization of Emploimplemented two specific training actions yers of Disabled Persons. One of the main focused on equality at work and generational goals of the site is to reach six percent of diversity in Viladecavalls (Spain). employees with disabilities. Since 2010, the In Soria (Spain), all managers have already site has been using a specific programme received training on equality and harassment defined to promote the employment of disain the workplace. In Turkey, the manufactubled people. Every disabled employee at the ring plants have defined local gender equality site receives special treatment with external training for their employees. doctors. Furthermore, the company regularly checks workplaces or job positions to make Soria (Spain) collaborates with correctional sure that working conditions are adapted to institutions to foster the rehabilitation of former disabled people’s needs. C S R — R E P O R T 39 In Taicang (China), the company defined an acBrazil has made workplace adjustments and tion plan to improve the employment of people provided new infrastructure on the assembly with disabilities. The action plan included interline to accommodate deaf or hard of hearing views and on-site visits to various local manufac(HOH) employees. Furthermore, the comturing plants to share best practices and review pany has updated its emergency procedure different examples of infrastructure adaptation to and visual aids to effectively alert its deaf or accommodate employees with disabilities with HOH employees in an emergency situation. the collaboration of the Rotary Club of ShanIn different countries such as France, Braghai. Furthermore, employees from the Human zil, and Spain, the company has conducted Resources, Quality and Operating departments surveys to measure the potential impact of participated in an awareness training course psychosocial risks and work-related stress conducted by the Social Inclusion Academy experienced by its workers. The surveys (SIA) and Inclusion Advisory Group. The Social included questions regarding discrimination Inclusion Academy training programme is the and harassment. result of a cooperation between the Inclusion Factory and the German Chamber of ComAll Ficosa employees are covered by local merce to promote the successful integration of labour collective bargaining agreements expeople with disabilities in a variety of positions in cept in those countries where these colleca cross-sectoral environment. In 2017, the plant tive bargaining negotiations do not exist as hired three new employees with disabilities. The the collective labour rights are protected and plant has defined a new action plan in 2018 to guaranteed by national laws. This is the case hire 20 new employees with disabilities over the for Ficosa sites located in USA, China, India coming years. and Morocco. 40 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Employee development Employee development is a priority for Ficosa. Since 2011, Ficosa has adopted system-wide performance, which focuses on setting performance goals for employees according to their responsibilities and departmental objectives. A supplementary mid-year review has been also implemented to update the existing objectives with new information that may have arisen during the first half of the year. Every site sets the performance goals at the beginning of the year, taking into account process implementation and local conditions and shares this decision with corporate development. The technical and soft skills associated to each position are also assessed, generating development opportunities for each person. Finally, it is important to highlight the informal mutual feedback generated between employees and managers throughout the year, which forms the basis of the main dynamics for people development in Ficosa. Variance from 2017 2018 previous year No. of employees with access to performance and career 1,981 2,173 10% development review (target) Employees receiving regular performance and career 81% 84% 4% development reviews (%)* *.according to the target C S R — R E P O R T 41 Growing @Ficosa In 2014, Ficosa launched a Competency Development Programme programme, not only because it lasts two years (between 2016 and with the aim of identifying and maximizing the potential of key em2018 there were 136 participants), but also because each year we ployees. This programme starts with an external assessment that have a new group joining the programme. In 2018, there were already enables each one of the participants to gain in self-awareness and more than 20 Growing@Ficosa graduates, and we are preparing the to map their strengths and development areas. This analysis forms new 2019 group with participants from different functional areas, the foundation of Growing@Ficosa, a programme that provides the levels of responsibility and countries. resources and support for accelerated development adapted to the Growing@Ficosa is helping to create a homogeneous people deveneeds and motivation of each of the participants. lopment culture across the organization. It involves participants with Ficosa is committed to increasing the number of participants in an different backgrounds working together with Human Resources, maongoing process to develop key people. This is a global long-term nagers and top lines of the Company worldwide. The programme is based on a 3-tier commitment and is structured around: 01 An Individual Development Plan (IDP): An ad-hoc plan resulting from one-to-one interviews 02 A Corporate Program: With training in areas such as Leadership, Teamwork, People Development, Impact and Influence, and supported by coaching, with the participants and their managers to better mentoring and specific metrics, as 360º or understand and define their main expectations and other behavioural KPIs. development. This is a blended programme based on the 70-20-10 model with a strong focus on learning on-the-job and social learning. Experimental learning Social learning Formal learning 70 Work-related collaboration 20 Peer learning and 10 Learning program support On-the-job performance support coaching Mentoring High potential development Successfactors Until 2015, the company used different Human Resources systems and tools that supported personnel administration processes and that needed a global and integrated solution. To improve the efficiency, Ficosa has implemented a new Human Resources Information System called SuccessFactors. This new tool is an employee-centred system and enables each employee to complete HR tasks more quickly and perform strategic HR activities more frequently such as their annual goals, performance, development plans, training programmes, etc. SuccessFactors will include the company’s development module and the learning program for 2019, facilitating the creation and follow-up of development plans for each employee. 42 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Training and knowledge management Variance from 2016 2017 2018 previous year Total number of training hours provided to employees 165,871 194,787 168,090 -14% Training investment (€) 1,413,932 1,924,471 1,830,673 -5% Average cost training per employee* 143 214 197 -8% Average training hours per employee* 19 22 18 -16% At Ficosa, we understand that the best way of all, the company prioritizes the technical Total number of training to learn is to build on previous knowledge knowledge required for the job position in hours provided to 2018 and experience, and to put into practice what new business and technologies. Secondemployees* our employees learn in their job positions. ly, Ficosa selects the Corporate Knowledge Thus, working along with some of our best Owners and Local Knowledge Owners to Direct employees 61,430 professionals is the most valuable and direct generate, distribute and improve knowledge way to improve our employees’ knowledge. in the plants, technical & development cenIndirect employees 106,660 This hands-on experience is supplemented tres. Ficosa has 22 Corporate Knowledge in each case with specific training programs Owners who meet regularly to work on speTotal general 168,090 given by professionals in our company, as cific training materials & content adapted to well as business and training institutes and Ficosa standards and processes (e.g. case universities. studies, practical exercises & evaluation). The training materials focus on error prevenEach year, each site defines a quantified and tion, practical cases & activities that ensure budgeted annual training plan and submits learning through close-to-reality situations it for formal approval by the corresponding and assessment tools. For example, the Plant Manager, Country General Manager or Corporate OHSE department has develoRegion/Business Unit Director. The company ped and taught six specific on-site courses: records the annual training data from each OHSE Introduction, Emergency Response, site to detect areas for improvement in the Waste management, Personal Protective training activities implemented worldwide. Equipment (PPE), “5S” method, Lockout/ More than 50% of the training sessions are Tagout (LOTO) and Handling of Chemicals. related to manufacturing, quality, health & saThese training courses serve as a basis for fety or engineering contents. each site’s OHSE Specialists, who will have *.To measure these indicators, the company takes In order to ensure that all employees have to adapt them to their manufacturing plant. the workforce figures at the end of the year. the technical knowledge required to perform The Local Knowledge Owner is responsible their duties successfully and are familiar with for adapting the corporate training materials The main reasons for the training hours and Ficosa’s tools and methodologies, Ficosa to train employees at their site. This learning investment reduction in 2018 are the previous year’s implemented a robust learning system for system has already been implemented in (2017) outstanding training programs (massive plant positions that includes diverse training the new manufacturing plants of Cookeville deployment of continuous improvement in quality modules related to assembly and injection and Morocco, and in 2019, this new learning and manufacturing areas) together with the 2018 process, OHSE, quality, supply chain, painsystem will be implemented in all the plants perimeter change. ting process, lean manufacturing, etc. First where the company operates. C S R — R E P O R T 43 Key figure to generate, Key figure to spread Knowledge Corporate Local disseminate and improve in his/her site and provide knowledge owner knowledge owner Knowledge of the FICOSA feedback to Corporate Gamification through e-learning is also used to train our employees on important subjects such as culture intelligence, time management, negotiation and different dimensions of leadership. Furthermore, in-house training is still one of our pillars when developing our people skills and abilities. Employee communication and satisfaction Ficosa strives to foster strong and effective duced an employee survey in the past four communication with its employees to make years. The results were presented to the top sure they understand where the organizamanagement and followed by an action plan. tion is heading and are up-to-date with key In 2018, the Viladecavalls site has implemeninformation about the company. To do this, ted a new employee satisfaction survey and the company has developed different chanwe expect to deploy the same one in all sinels to communicate with its employees, tes worldwide in 2019-2020. The result will such as intranet, suggestion box, employee be not only a specific action plan adapted to newsletter, round table meetings with plant each site, but also a global analysis to deploy managers, one-on-one interviews, town hall certain corporate actions to be implemented meetings, etc. worldwide if needed. At a local level, some sites, such as CookeviFurthermore, all our company sites promote lle (USA), Shelbyville (USA), Dabrowa Gornicand facilitate structured labour relations throuza (Poland), Dieuze (France), Taicang (China), gh the local employee representatives bodies Salinas and Escobedo (Mexico), Porto (Porand/or trade unions with periodical meetings tugal), Bursa and Gemlik (Turkey) have introto discuss and follow-up different labour topics. 44 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 International assignments One of our objectives as a company consists of promoting the deveMain local “Commitment lopment of our people through the creation of a dynamic and attractive environment with opportunities for lateral, vertical, functional and to our people” actions: geographical movements. In this sense, international assignments are a key part of people development at Ficosa. Employees benefit by gaining international experience, growing personally and developing professionally; Ficosa also benefits by expanding the distribution --Official measures to promote work-life of knowledge and skills, increasing technical expertise and promoting balance a consistent global culture. --Telecommuting (remote work) policy for R&D collective Ficosa has defined a specific International Assignments Management procedure to guarantee the application of homogeneous practices --Full acceptation for part-time working within all the sites of the company. In all cases, the company guaranrequests for parents with children under 12 years old and shift choice tees that employees returning to their home country will have a job position with the same level as that which they had before the inter--Time flexibility for employees and national assignment and a salary level in the home country equivalent subcontractors to the level of the last position held in the destination they are posted. --Bus shuttle to connect with public transport --Flexible payment options --Healthy life training Workplace health promotion & programme (mindfulness, work-life balance healthy habits, laughter therapy workshop) Ficosa is working to ensure that the entire workforce receives an an--Physiotherapy service for employees nual medical examination in all their countries of operation. The ma--Same holiday periods for couples jority of sites have a specific healthcare program for employees. The working in Ficosa workplace health promotion and work-life balance initiatives depend on each site and are led by the Human Resources department. The company is defining a specific programme to make sure that all sites implement measures related to workplace health promotion, including specific objectives for stress prevention. In Dieuze (Fran--Welfare campaigns (health week, ce), the members of the Health & Safety Committee and the HR debreast cancer campaign) partment have received specific training on psychosocial risks. Every --Wellbeing total programme year, the site conducts a survey to identify and assess psychosocial (programme offered to our employees risks. The results are presented to the top management and are fothrough a psychologist) llowed by an action plan. In Morcone (Italy), the company has conducted a specific study to identify improvements in its company’s workplace ergonomics scheme. Employee absences have a large impact on revenue and productivity. Knowing the driving factors behind employee absenteeism and --Welfare campaigns (health performing employee tracking is key for Ficosa in order to prevent surveys to promote lifestyle, eating habits and the practice absenteeism. All Ficosa sites monitor the factors using an integrated of sports) system to follow-up the absences by corporate managers. The main actions for its prevention are focused on improving employee habits through wellness programmes to promote healthier lifestyles. The local health and safety committees periodically evaluate absenteeism records to implement countermeasures. --Psychology service for all employees --Welfare campaigns (healthy lifestyle) --Sport promotion C S R — R E P O R T 45 --Time flexibility for employees --Welfare campaigns (influenza --Welfare campaigns vaccination, medical eye test, --Sport promotion anti-smoking campaign) --Sport promotion --Full acceptation for part-time --Time flexibility for employees --Welfare campaigns working requests for parents and subcontractors (overtime restraint) --Teleworking --Sport promotion --Time flexibility for white collar employees 46 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 47 Policies At Ficosa, we believe that all injuries, occupational illnesses and incidents can be prevented, and we strive for zero harm by: --Complying with the laws, regulations and --Identifying, implementing, monitoring and Ficosa operational policies and standards reinforcing the safe behaviour we expect in our business to eliminate unsafe acts and --Establishing measurable OHS objectives practices and targets, recognizing and celebrating their achievement --Providing appropriate OHS training to employees and contractors --Identifying, assessing and controlling hazards and impacts, and adopting an --Investigating incidents and sharing the approach that will strive to eliminate or experiences learnt to prevent them reduce the risk to a residual level --Informing employees, contractors, visitors and the public of these hazards and impacts Operational facilities We adopted a common approach across the company to manage health & safety. In addition to strict compliance with legal regulations, certified OHSAS we implement our own OHSE policy and stringent OHS procedu18001 (%) res that include hazard identification and risk assessment, employee health control, risk control planning, chemical products management, 84% PPE management for employees as well as contractors, etc. In 2018, 84% of our operational facilities were In 2018, the corporate OHS department certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001 strengthened the OHSE internal audit gover– the international standard for Occupational nance and procedures by making sure that Health and Safety (OHS). In 2018, the manuall operational facilities in Europe are following facturing plants of Rabat (Morocco), Chongthe same standard for ISO 14001 and OHqing (China), Shenyang (China) and CookeSAS 18001. In this area, the corporate OHS ville (USA) were not OHSAS 18001 certified. department is leading the OHSAS 18001 inNevertheless, all operational facilities have ternal audits in Europe. To achieve this, an conducted an employee health & safety risk internal audit checklist has been implemenassessment and carry out internal OHS auted to perform the internal OHS audits. The dits on a regular basis. In 2019, the company checklist contains more than 500 questions is planning to implement the OHSAS 18001 and gives a global scoring of the OHSAS managements system in all the manufactu18001 implementation system status of each ring facilities where the company operates site. The target is to ensure that by 2019, all and obtain the OHSAS 18001 certification. sites have a local auditor trained by the corFurthermore, the OHS department will work porate OHSE department for internal audit to make the transition from OHSAS 18001 to procedures and processes. During 2018, ISO 45001:2018 within 2019. 4 sites were able to join this initiative (Bursa, Gemlik, Viladecavalls and Maia). This expeSince 2016, the corporate quality audit rience shows a more effective implementa“3Q3” questionnaire has included OHS istion of the OHSE Management System and sues regarding safe behaviour and equippositive technical knowledge and lessons ment safety. learnt through sharing. 48 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Governance The corporate OHSE team is responsible for developing any new In 2018, the company held a global forum on OHSE in Viladecavalls OHS standards and procedures. Furthermore, the department is resthat brought together all the OHSE managers from each Ficosa maponsible for establishing a global system to collect the main OHS nufacturing plant to share experiences and explore common issues data from all countries, and ensuring that each subsidiary complies focusing principally on the environmental, health and safety dimenwith the internal standards and procedures. Each plant has speciasion. The forum recognized the efforts in OHSE management made lists in charge of implementing the company’s health & safety stanby overseas Group companies. Additionally, a workshop was organidards and procedures. zed with a renowned global company to discuss how the Industry 4.0 project can help in the management of health and safety systems. Plant managers are held accountable for the OHS performance of each plant, and all employees are expected to take personal responAll the Ficosa manufacturing plants, except the Rabat site, have local sibility for their actions, and to get involved in improvement initiatives health and safety committees or employee representatives aimed at and developing and setting standards. Creating the right safety culpromoting safety activities and sharing with management the responture at our sites is important. It takes strong leadership and an active sibilities for implementing and monitoring Ficosa’s safety programme. commitment to safe operating from our workforce. The new site in Rabat is working to launch the health and safety committee in 2019. Main Risks and Challenges The main incidents that our employees may face are related with ergonomics and bumps, cuts and burns occurring mainly during the injection and assembly process. Key Results 2016 2017 2018 Target 2018 Target 2019 Group ORIR 1.22 1.17 1.07 1.20 1.10 ORIR South Europe 1.98 1.87 1.64 1.76 1.56 ORIR North Europe 0.76 1.02 0.89 1.04 0.97 ORIR Asia 0.49 0.12 0.44 0.50 0.48 ORIR NAFTA 0.72 0.72 0.76 0.90 0.82 ORIR South America 2.50 2.15 0.86 1.85 1.20 Given that OHSAS Recordable Incident Rate (ORIR) is one of the priOur corporate ORIR has been reduced year after year. Although this mary safety measures, we have defined a specific annual performanis encouraging, we continue to focus our efforts on safety to reduce goal in our ORIR at a corporate level and for each manufacturing ce incidents, mostly due to ergonomic issues, possible bumps, cuts plant. Each plant manager is responsible for successfully achieving and burns in the injection or assembly process. the annual goals. ORIR is a measure widely used in the U.S. industry Every month, we analyse the ORIR of each site to track not only what to track on-the-job injuries. The ORIR in the tables represents the types of injuries tend to be recurring, but also in which production number of Ficosa employee and contractor injuries (apart from minor process they occur. This monitoring helped us to target our OHS traifirst aid cases) per 200,000 hours worked. The lower the number, the ning and action plans. In 2019, the challenging goal will be to maintain closer we are to achieving our goal for zero injuries. a corporate ORIR below 1.10. C S R — R E P O R T 49 Variance from 2016 2017 2018 previous year Group Lost time severity rate1 NA NA 0.14 NA Group – Injury frequency rate2 NA NA 0.53 NA Number of fatalities 0 0 0 OHSA training (hours) 25,186 30,179 29,901 -1% Nº OHSA improvement actions 2,288 2,399 2,737 14% (1) No. of days lost due to injuries*1,000/total number of hours worked. (2) Incidence rate of over-1-day absence injury per 100.000 workers (2018) Men Women Group Lost time severity rate(1) 0.17 0.10 Group Injury frequency rate(2) 0.66 0.37 The company is investing in training to make employees aware of plemented a practical safety training area based on the concept of the OHS risks associated with their duties. In recent years, corpo“learning by living” where employees can learn about direct safety rate development has designed different learning modules that have experiences regarding the risks associated with their jobs and their been implemented in each site. The main goal is to ensure a skilled possible consequences. The results are encouraging as since this OHS team and prepare them for any changes within the company. practical safety training area was implemented in September 2018, Furthermore, every manufacturing plant launches an annual awarethe trend of accidents has decreased. ness campaign on OHS aimed at promoting safety in the workplace. The Dieuze plant launched several actions in 2018 such as additional During 2019, the corporate training materials will be updated using exhaust ventilation in the injection area to eliminate exposure to plastic new technologies and innovative tools in order to increase the training fumes, safety ladders to access the higher parts of the manufacturing effectiveness and impact. machines, new ergonomic working tables adaptable to the emploWe would like to highlight the implementation of a couple of effective yee’s height, and a pilot test on a new components supply rack to actions at the Wolfenbüttel site in 2018: a new battery charging area to avoid awkward postures based on the Karakuri method. prevent overloading and help protect the environment at the same time, In Mexico, the plant organized a Safety Week in an aim to increaand the implementation of new hand washing routines for skin protection se awareness among employees on health and safety and reduce promoted among manufacturing employees with new dispenser sysincidents. During the week, several dynamic training sessions were tems and new materials available in all manufacturing area bathrooms. given: Safety and environment at work, Proper use, care and storage In May 2018, the Gemlik plant in Turkey organized a “Safety Day”. of personal protective equipment, and Noise and Fire Fighting. The message deployed was to incorporate health and safety into our To reduce the risk of falls during production tracking, the Shelbyville life and daily routines to develop a safety culture. The plant awarded plant launched a couple of actions: the area around the platform was a prize to four employees who had incorporated occupational safety altered to enable the operator to check the count from floor level, into their lives. In order to encourage all employees, the plant orgascales were added to several presses so that the parts are weight nized a lunch in the plant dining hall attended by the plant manager counted. This improves safety and increases productivity. and the department managers. Additionally, the Gemlik plant has im50 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 51 Policies The increasing global population and the rapid vity cycle from R&D product design to acquigrowth of the world economy have complex ring raw materials and manufacturing, and the and diverse connections with the global enviuse and disposal of our products. ronment. They also affect the environment in In addition to strict compliance with legal renumerous ways. At Ficosa, we are committed gulations, we implement our own OHSEQ1 to bringing and offering safer, more connected policy, which ensures environment protecand efficient systems for the automotive and tion, energy efficiency, the mitigation and mobility sectors, and to reducing our environadaptation to climate change, and a responmental impact as we do so. Our commitment sible resource and waste management. to the environment extends to our whole acti(1) Please see Appendix 1 92% Operational facilities certified ISO 14001 (%) The Group’s commitment to environmental environmental risks and opportunities ple 15 of ‘The Rio Declaration on Environprotection remains clearly demonstrated in our related to Ficosa’s environmental aspects, ment and Development’ in order to prevent activities through the implementation of an incompliance with obligations and other environmental degradation. Applying the tegrated management system in the different issues. In 2018, the corporate environmental Precautionary Principle help us to reduce or sites where the company operates. Ficosa’s department reinforced the OHSE internal avoid negative impacts on the environment. environmental management model is based on audit governance and procedure by making In order to avoid environmental damage that the international ISO 14001:2015 standard. In sure that all operational facilities are following could be caused by the acquisition of new 2018, the manufacturing plants in Shenyang the same standard for ISO 14001 and products and / or processes, and in order (China) and Rabat (Morocco) were not ISO OHSAS 18001. The corporate department to determine effective actions to counter any 14001 certified. The site in Rabat began opeleads and performs the ISO 14001 internal damage, Ficosa has established different inrating in 2018, and the company will implement audits in Europe. Accordingly, an internal ternal procedures in relation to the purchase the ISO 14001 managements system in 2019. audit checklist has been introduced to of chemical products, purchase of productiFurthermore, the manufacturing plant of Shenperform the internal environmental audits. ve and non-productive equipment, and the yang already obtained the ISO 14001 certificaThe checklist has more than 500 scored purchase of new industrial facilities. All the tion at the beginning of January 2019. questions (245 related to Environment) and company investments include the corporate gives a global scoring of the ISO 14001 OHSE department verification and approval. Since 2016, the corporate quality audit “3Q3” implementation system status for each site. questionnaire has included environmental These procedures are aimed at evaluating, During 2018, the internal auditor team was questions regarding waste disposal, waste in advance, any environmental impacts that reinforced by incorporating two new OHSE storage, environmental emergency means, may occur due to the purchases mentioned technicians who have been trained by the prevention of spills, industrial hygienic above in order to be able to authorize or recorporate department covering internal audit protection of equipment and machines, etc. ject acquisitions. In the case of authorization, standards and processes. In 2017, the corporate OHSE department a series of preventive measures are determiimplemented a new methodology for Ficosa applies the precautionary approach ned, implemented and monitored, ensuring a all plants in order to identify the main introduced by the United Nations in Princifinal effectiveness check. 52 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Governance The corporate OHSE team is responsible for developing any new entechnicians from all company sites. This meeting served to present vironmental standards and procedures. Furthermore, the department the strategic lines and objectives for the year as well as providing the is responsible for establishing a global system for collecting the main opportunity for the plants to present their best practices implemented environmental data from all the countries and ensuring that each subsiand share their concerns with the aim of benchmarking and improving. diary complies with the internal standards and procedures. Each plant Ficosa has taken out a civil liability insurance against accidental environhas managers or technicians in charge of implementing the company’s mental pollution, covering material and/or personal damage and their conenvironmental instructions and systems. sequences caused by the contamination of soil, water or atmosphere. In January 2018, the company held the first OHSE worldwide meeting organized at the Viladecavalls (Spain) facilities, attended by all the Main Risks and Challenges At Ficosa, our activities are carried out paying special attention to prowaste management. At the same time, we are working on reducing tect the environment and to ensure the efficient use of natural resourour Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions. ces. Each manufacturing plant evaluates and maps its environmental Since 2016, all manufacturing plants have implemented individual impacts every year. The painting and injection processes account for reduction targets to reduce their GHG emissions, electric and wathe largest share of environmental impact during the manufacture of ter consumption and waste generation, and specific action plans Ficosa products in terms of air pollution, energy consumption and to achieve them. These targets follow the corporate guidelines and waste generation. The paint shop is a manufacturing area that raises from 2018 (base year), under the strategic line “Climate Change Miconcern because of its VOC emissions. Furthermore, the injection tigation”, a midterm goal have been set: to Reduce Ficosa CFP and process is a large energy consumer and contributes actively to carEnergy consumption (target year 2023) based on the historical annual bon dioxide emissions. reduction goal trend. In this context, the technology used in the paint application and inFurthermore, each plant establishes its own objectives based on the jection machines must meet high quality standards, remain cost effisignificant environmental aspects detected in the environmental imcient, and also be environmentally responsible. In 2018, our main pact assessment. activities were centred on reducing our CO2 emissions in our value chain, particularly by improving our energy efficiency activities and Key results Reducing local pollution A current challenge is to reduce volatile organic compounds (VOCs), In Taicang (China), Cookeville (USA), Soria (Spain) and Dabrowa which readily evaporate and produce gas in the atmosphere. VOCs Gornicza (Poland), the company installed a catalytic burner (RTO) to are carbon-based materials that can be toxic and create adverse reduce the volatile organic compounds (VOC) present in the paint health and environmental impacts. The company has implemented shops. The RTO destroys VOC emissions by creating a chemical different systems and control standards in its manufacturing plants reaction within the air pollutant and oxygen at elevated temperatures. with painting process to monitor and reduce the amount of air polluThis reaction destroys VOC emissions in the airstream by converting tants emitted during their operation. them to gas, water and heat. The heat is recycled and used in proC S R — R E P O R T 53 cesses carried out at the plant. This enables the plant to reduce its with zero ozone depletion potential and fully supports the use of reconsumption of natural gas needed for heating. Thanks to the RTOs, frigerants with lower Global Warming Potential (GWP). These refrigeVOC emissions have dropped by 92-95%. rants are mandatory in all related investments. From 2018, the CFP analysis has included the air conditioning and Furthermore, the company is working on four main initiatives to opemissions from climatic chamber refrigerants in order to monitor and timize the transportation and distribution of purchased products or prevent any leakage. Ficosa advocates the use of refrigerant gases products sold by the company: 01 02 Consolidation of shipping containers: ShipMost Ficosa manufacturing plants have imments to the USA from Barcelona are consoplemented a milk run delivery method. Inslidated in the port and no shipment is made tead of each supplier sending a vehicle every until the container is full. Ficosa has a similar week to meet Ficosa’s needs, one vehicle initiative in Mexico and China. In China convisits each supplier on a weekly basis and tainers also have to be full before sending picks up the purchased products for Ficosa. them to the manufacturing plants of ViladeThis way, each vehicle load delivers Ficosa’s cavalls and Soria (Spain). full weekly requirements from each supplier. 03 04 In the manufacturing plant of Dabrowa GorFrom 2018, the freight transportation emisnicza (Poland), all the Shanghai imports are sions have been monitored to be included in carried out through container trains. the scope 3 of CFP. Addressing Climate Change Since 2016, we have defined guidelines to reduce our greenhouse Additionally, Ficosa has worked on reducing GHG emissions based gas (GHG) emissions annually at site levels. Each site has to reduce on the SBTi methodology. The SBTi (Science Based Targets initiative) its GHG emission intensity by 3%. Each plant manager is responsible has developed a publicly available Excel tool to calculate science-bafor successfully achieving this goal. In 2018, the company worked to sed corporate scope 1 and 2 emission targets. This tool uses the improve the gathering and consolidation of carbon footprint data, by Sectoral De-carbonization Approach (SDA). The SDA tool calculates implementing a more robust internal tool to ensure that each operaemission reduction targets based on the relative contribution of the tional facility reports the data in accordance with the Ficosa standards company to the total sector activity and their carbon intensity in relaand criteria. The tool has enabled the company to increase its reportion to the sector’s intensity in the base year. This is in line with IPCC ting on GHG emissions throughout its value chain and products. (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) recommendations and provides companies a benchmark from which to develop long-term climate targets up to 2050. 54 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by type of source Since 2014, we have been conducting an inventory of our GHG emissions, using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. In 2018, we completed our GHG inventory with the relevant categories for our company (through size, influence and reporting availability assessment). Variance from In t of CO2e 2016 2017 2018 previous year Scope 1, direct GHG emissions 8,397 7,178 9,214 NA From refrigerant and other NA NA 972 NA From fossil fuels 8,397 7,178 8,232 14.7% From owned vehicles NA NA 10 NA Scope 2, indirect GHG emissions Location-based emissions from electricity consumption2 N/A 65,055 61,440 2.9% Market-based emissions from electricity consumption2 57,311 60,547 51,873 -26.1% Scope 3, other indirect GHG emissions Waste generated in operation3 NA NA 1,251 NA Total GHG emissions1 Total market-based GHG emissions 65,708 67,725 61,087 NA Total location-based GHG emissions NA 72,233 70,653 NA Total location-based GHG emissions per sales (tCO2e/MEUR) NA 60.7 59,7 NA 1 Total emissions are based on actual data. The most appropriate emission factors have been used for each activity data type, from internationally recognized (IEA 2018) and regional sources or if more relevant, from country or contract specific sources. The factors include all GHGs where possible and the gases’ Global Warming Potential as per the IPCC assessments. 2 For the location-based emissions from electricity consumption, emission factors from IEA (2018) were used for the countries where Ficosa operates. For the market-based emissions from electricity consumption, emission factors from each supplier were used for the countries where Ficosa operates (for countries where the information were not available, Ficosa uses the emission factors from IEA). 3 This category includes emission from disposal treatment of the following solid waste that goes to the landfill: Asbestos, wood, glass, clothing, mixed municipal waste, organic waste, waste electrical / electronic equipment, batteries, metals, plastics and paper. This category also includes the emissions from the disposal of wastewater. C S R — R E P O R T 55 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by region North South South In t of CO2e Asia Nafta Europe Europe America Total location-based GHG emissions (Scope 1&2) 9,141 20,175 17,532 23,502 303 Total market-based GHG emissions (Scope 1&2) 10,206 20,167 19,412 10,999 303 Scope 1, direct GHG emissions 410 1,818 2,572 4,402 12 From refrigerant and other 334 245 393 From fossil fuels 72 1,573 2,570 4,005 12 From owned vehicles 4 2 4 Scope 2, indirect GHG emissions Location-based emissions from electricity 8,731 18,357 14,960 19,101 291 consumption Market-based emissions from electricity 9,796 18,349 16,840 6,597 291 consumption Scope 3, other indirect GHG emissions From waste management 58 423 131 579 60 Each site has to reduce its location-based GHG emission per sales by 3% annually. 56 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Energy efficiency and renewable energy Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions In 2017, the OHSE policy was updated to to reach the lowest energy consumption by in Ficosa is mainly about reducing energy include each employee’s responsibility for the introducing highly efficient equipment, improconsumption. In this regard, the company is company’s energy saving strategy. To do this, ving manufacturing techniques and adopting committed to mitigating its impact on climate the different sites organize regular employee energy saving lighting or sensors with prechange by defining a solid energy strategy bameetings and energy awareness campaigns. sence detectors. sed on energy efficiency, the increased use of In its manufacturing process, Ficosa engarenewable energy, and process optimization. ges in a variety of energy saving activities Variance from 2016 2017 2018 previous year Electricity consumption (MWh) 121,887 129,503 132,392 2.2% Electricity from renewables in Spain (MWh) 24,004 33,851 33,997 0.4% Electricity consumption in kWh per sales (kWh/MEUR) 106 109 112 2.8% (1) (1) The appreciation of the euro against all the currencies of the non-euro countries where Ficosa is present led to a small reduction in 2018 sales. At constant currency, sales would have increased by 1.7% and this energy intensity rate would show no increase. The increased use of renewable energy is critical to the transition to (France) buy energy that comes from renewable sources. At the end a low-carbon economy. The company is striving to reduce emissions of 2017, the manufacturing plant in Taicang (China) set up 6,160 solar by using renewable energy. From March 2016, 100% of the electricipanels on its roof with a total power generated of 1.66MWh/year. This ty in Spain sites (Viladecavalls, Soria and Sant Guim) has come from action has helped the company to actively contribute to the mitigation renewable sources or high-efficiency cogeneration. Furthermore, the of climate change in addition to reducing grid electricity consumption manufacturing plant of Wolfenbüttel (Germany) and the plant in Dieuze by 13.24% vs previous year. Each site has to reduce its energy intensity by 3% in 2018. Most of our sites achieved their annual goals: Reduction of electricity consumption by sites (% of reduction) ) ico y) éx ) M an A s( in) zil ) er m US lin a pa y) ra a) l (G Y, Sa (S e (B in (K s rk Ch tte ille & all (Tu ulo g ( bü yv do av a Pa an en be ec rs o ic olf elb co lad Bu Sa Ta W Sh Es Vi 0,00% -5,00% -10,00% 2018 -15,00% Target 3% -20,00% -25,00% -30,00% -35,00% The new reduction target for 2019 has been -40,00% set at -2.5%. C S R — R E P O R T 57 ISO 50001 in Ficosa Brazil Ficosa do Brasil is the first plant in the group Based on this mapping, the management team As a result, the main projects in 2018 were: to obtain the ISO 50001 – Energy Manageidentified significant energy uses and opportu--Utilities: Air compressor installation and ment certification. Using energy efficiently nities to improve the energy performance of the high performance dehumidifiers; helps organizations save money as well as processes involved. After finalizing the energy helping to preserve resources and tackle cliconsumption diagnosis, Ficosa do Brasil defi--Lighting: Replacement of fluorescent lamps mate change. ISO 50001 supports Ficosa ned the objectives and targets to reduce energy and mercury vapour with LEDs, providing do Brasil to use energy more efficiently throuconsumption and improve its carbon footprint, up to 80% energy savings; gh the development of an energy managegathering elements to identify opportunities and --Air conditioning: Replacement of air ment system. improvement actions to add into their integrated conditioners by inverter system, and management system and strategic planning. By implementing the ISO 50001 requirements, implementation of operational control to Such actions contributed to their energy perforthe Brazilian plant mapped all their processes establish operating temperature limits; mance improvement. and obtained a diagnosis of their energy con--Plastic Injection: Replacement of four sumption. The Energy Management System Following these measures, the Brazilian plastic injection machines with high(EMS) was able to recognise the global enerplant expects to be able to calculate and reperformance machines with embedded gy consumption and the main energy sources port their work in terms of energy efficiency frequency inverters; contributing to CO2 emissions. and implement specific actions to reduce energy consumption. --Awareness: Awareness campaigns and communication programs by Ficosa do Brasil for its employees. Water management Most Ficosa manufacturing plants do not use water for industrial proany leak that may occur at the site. In Bursa (Turkey), the manufacturing cesses. Nevertheless, all the plants have to reduce their water conplant decreased its water consumption in the paint shop by eliminating sumption intensity (m3/net sales) by 3%. Around 30% of the manufacthe water curtain and using a new dry filter painting system. This action turing plants use water in cooling towers or for the painting process. supported the annual water reduction achievement of -36%. In most cases, the manufacturing plants are using closed cooling The Ficosa plants in Soria (Spain), Taicang (China), Bursa (Turkey) and systems. The company is committed to employing new technology Salinas (Mexico) with painting installations are distilling used paint in to reduce its water consumption and increase the amount of recycled order to obtain pure solvent, which can be used as a cleaning agent. water in the painting process. In Poland, the manufacturing plant imIn Viladecavalls (Spain), 36% of the water is reused. In Dieuze (France), plemented a new leakage monitoring water system that enables the the manufacturing plant implemented a new oil collector to reduce the plant to measure the water consumption in each section and identify treatment of wastewater coming from the compressor. Variance from 2016 2017 2018 previous year Water consumption in m3 234,069 237,838 241,704 1.6% Water consumption in m3 per sales (m3/MEUR) 203 200 204 2.0%(1) (1) The appreciation of the euro against all the currencies of the non-euro countries where Ficosa is present led to a small reduction in 2018 sales. At constant currency, sales would have increased by 1.7% and this energy intensity rate would show a decrease. 58 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Waste management 2018 During 2018, the waste reporting systems have been improved to Total waste generated in tonnes 11,827 comply with the GHG Protocol. The plants report the tons of waste that go to landfill (waste that is not recycled or reused) and the total waste Total waste generated in tonnes per sales (Tm/MEur) 10.0 generated at the different sites. Ficosa plants have different waste containers in all areas (production plants. Furthermore, all the manufacturing plants organized awareness and otherwise) in order to collect waste by type and character, facilicampaigns for workers aimed at reducing packaging waste and sorting tating specific future treatment. Ficosa is working in all its operational at source. Ficosa considers that the involvement of its employees is facilities to increase the recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemiessential to reducing waste generation. cals and to reduce the amounts of these substances emitted from its Recyclability ratio (%) by sites 2018 Result Target 2019 (% of improvement) In order to increase the percentage of Ficosa recyclability, a 2019 indi0 50% 9.0% vidual plant recyclability objective has been established based on the table below. The target depends on the previous year result. 50-90% 5.0% 90-99% 1.0% >99% 0.01% Several initiatives were carried out plant wise in order to address this The Gemlik plant in Turkey, worked on a product life cycle assessobjective. In 2018, the Dieuze plant (France) launched, under the conment by D&P-FMEA. The project objective was to work together with tinuous improvement FIT programme, a project to reduce non-hazarthe design team and our customers to use components with a higher dous waste due to last year’s weight increase. After measuring and recyclability ratio, thus reducing the environmental impact. A standard analysing the current process, a new standard operation procedure shifter cable was selected to run the above analysis. The recycling, was put in place, aiming to achieve a 5% reduction in 2019. A new recovery, disposal and loss during the recycling process ratios togeparts supply train collecting waste and providing specific assembly ther with internal scrap management and warranties/spare parts figures parts supports this new procedure. Furthermore, the train drivers and were considered for the FMEA. An improved design, raw materials and line operators have been trained to prepare and collect the right waste. assembly processes were the output with recommended action plans. C S R — R E P O R T 59 Also in Turkey, the Bursa plant implemented a new programme in because it was light and clean, prevented scratching, and allowed 2018 for the correct segregation of waste based on educational semore parts to be placed in a container than traditional dunnage. Neminars and the daily monitoring of waste containers. The results were vertheless, foam, which is not biodegradable, was going into landfill. very positive as industrial waste was reduced from 39,630 kg in 2016 In the last two years, it is reused as delivery packaging resulting 60% to 15,500 kg in 2018. foam waste reduction. The manufacturing plant in Shelbyville (USA) implemented the A4 The Poland plant reduced paint sludge from 72.000 kg in 2017 to Continuous Improvement Program. All areas of the plant are cha38.000 kg in 2018 (while painting roughly the same number of parts). llenged to come up with ideas to make improvements. The ideas It was achieved thanks to a robotized application which generates can come from anyone. A team works on the project and presents less overspray and new chemicals which produced less water conit to management. Improvements can be anything improving quatent sludge. lity, cutting costs, making a job easier. These concepts also apply The Taicang plant also reduced paint sludge from 84.792 kg to to safety and environment not just production. In the last two years, 72.663 kg. This was achieved by changing chemical treatment to the plant has implemented foam reuse to promote waste reduction. bacteria treatment. Today sludge has almost no solvent odour in the The manufacturing plant was using a lot of foam. It was very popular sludge pits. 60 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 61 Policies Ficosa works with two types of suppliers: ces and mixtures) and the Dodd-Frank-Act --Productive Suppliers: suppliers that are relating to Conflict Minerals (gold, tin, tantalum essential to the performance of the comand tungsten sourced from conflictive regions pany’s operations. Ficosa’s purchases are as the Democratic Republic of Congo and oriented towards a specialization in product adjacent countries); labour laws in general, families, which are divided into three large working hours and employment conditions, areas: Electrics and Electronics (Batteries, connectors, semiconductors, PCB, glass workers’ rights, employment benefits, submirrors, pumps, etc.), Chemicals (painted contractor selection, safety of vehicles and parts, chromed parts, blow moulding, etc.) installations, etc. and Metals Commodity (zamak, aluminium parts, tubes, wire rope, etc.). In addition to all applicable laws and regulations to be observed by the suppliers, it is --Indirect Suppliers: Suppliers that supply products and services of a general nature, also their obligation to respect social responnot directly related to the business, such sibilities and duties, especially, but not limited as office materials, paper, computer conto, the requirements based on the Universal sumables, maintenance, suppliers, travel, Declaration of Human Rights and the Internatraining, temporary employment agencies, consulting, legal services, insurance, intional Labour Organization (ILO) conventions vestment, etc. for the respect for employees’ rights, age and working hour limits, etc. Our production processes demand the achievement of optimum quality and service levels, At the beginning of 2019, the general puras well as competitive prices when buying the chasing conditions were updated to include a materials used to supply our production line. business ethics and anti-corruption provision In this context, the company has developed requiring suppliers to act in accordance with its own standards and quality processed that the highest standards of integrity and ethical regulate the company’s purchasing activity. conduct, in compliance with current laws, and to follow all relevant regulations and stanThe Ficosa Purchasing Policy and Procedards, particularly with regards to local and dures and the segregation of duties ensure international anti-corruption law, in addition to compliance with J-SOX and with all applicaFicosa’s Code of Ethics. ble laws. Additionally, the General Purchasing Conditions establish the relationship between Furthermore, the company has developed a Ficosa and its suppliers. The purchase orders Supplier Quality Manual that details the main sent to suppliers by any Ficosa company or procedures and systems used for supplier any of its subsidiaries or affiliates have to be selection, business assignment, component accepted in accordance with these terms and approval, performance follow up and supplier conditions. The Supplier and any products or development. The supplier quality manual services supplied by them must comply with specifies that all suppliers wishing to be incluall laws and regulations applicable to the desded in the Ficosa Supplier Panel should base tination countries where the product is going their code of conduct on the ten principles of to be produced and/or used, or related to the the United Nations (Global Compact) in the production, labelling, transportation, importaareas of human rights, labour, environment tion, exportation, approval and certification of and anticorruption. This manual is available on products or services. This includes, but is not Ficosa’s website. limited to, those related to the environmental Lastly, the company has developed other issues directive set out in the ELV, REACH standards and procedures in order to improve (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and the communication and simplify processes for Restriction of Chemicals), CLP/GHS (Classibetter logistics. fication, labelling and packaging of substan62 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Governance Main risks and challenges The Corporate Team consists of the Purchasing Director, CommodiOur production processes demand optimum quality and service levels, ties and Project Managers, as well as support and consultancy teams as well as competitive prices, and continuous assurance of the ressuch as Quality, Human Resources, Logistics, and Control functions ponsible sourcing of our supply chain. who coordinate all purchasing activities worldwide. Every country has a The supplier selection process is key to guaranteeing the quality levels Local Purchasing team led by a LPD (Local Purchasing Director), who and the sustainability of our supply chain, and is focused on working is managed by both the Purchasing and Regional Directors. The LPD together with our suppliers to attain the highest standards in business coordinates the country’s purchasing functions (Commodity Buyers, integrity and social and environmental performance. Purchasing Project Leaders, and STAs). Ensuring that Ficosa is using conflict-free minerals is also essential to our organization and our customers. Key results To become a Ficosa Supplier it is compulsory to have the ISO/TS IATF 16949 certification. All the suppliers must provide Ficosa with written evidence of the most recent certification renewal. Ficosa specially appreciates and promotes IATF 16949, OSHAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications from their suppliers. Variance from 2016 2017 2018 previous year Suppliers certified ISO 9001 (%) 100% 100% 100% 0% Suppliers certified ISO/TS 16949 (%) 45% 49% 61% 24% In addition, any new supplier must fulfil a specific company self-asFicosa has developed an internet platform for suppliers called FPSS sessment and be approved by the Ficosa audit process. The aim here (Ficosa Purchasing System Software) that is used for the different puris to examine the supplier’s suitability to provide throughout the term chasing Processes: Supplier Registration, Offers, Assignments, Quality established by using specific indicators including financial and quality and Service incidents management and Suppliers Development. criteria as well as general corporate aspects. The platform includes all the relevant documents from each supplier Ficosa regularly monitors the performance of its suppliers and evaluates (REACH declaration, conflict minerals declaration, certifications, etc.). them to confirm its performance versus the defined targets. These asThis platform is a quick, preferential, and clear communication channel sessments enable the company to track improvements in its suppliers linked to the Purchasing Department, allowing Ficosa to manage the and determine the potential support they may need from Ficosa. In purchases of all materials. All the productive suppliers must be registerecent years, the 3Q3 supplier audit also includes questions about the red in the FPSS and the company expects to increase the scope and compliance with REACH Authorization and Conflict Minerals regulation. include the indirect suppliers too. C S R — R E P O R T 63 On the other hand, Ficosa customers (OEMs) encourage and support the use of sustainable, renewable natural resources while reducing waste and increasing reuse and recycling. Accordingly, the raw materials used by Ficosa follows the customer technical requirements or belongs to their certified material list. To promote reuse, most automotive parts are shipped through returnable packing to our customers. These initiatives also come from Ficosa. As an example, our Morcone plant in Italy implemented a new packaging in 2018 to reduce CO2 emissions by more than 75% compared to the previous system. This initiative strengthens our commitment to sustainability and was launched by us thanks to our involvement in “CONAI” (private non-profit consortium which in Italy is the instrument through which producers and packaging users guarantee the recycling and recovery targets for packaging waste set by law). Conflict Minerals In recent years, there has been an increasing international focus on “conflict minerals” emanating from mining operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. Armed groups engaged in mining operations in this region are believed to subject workers and indigenous people to serious human rights abuses and are using proceeds from the sale of conflict minerals to finance regional conflicts. On August 22, 2012, in response to these concerns, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted a final rule to implement reporting and disclosure requirements related to “conflict minerals”. The “conflict minerals” are cassiterite (tin), columbite-tantalite (coltan), gold and wolframite (tungsten), as well as their derivatives and other minerals that the US Secretary of State may designate in the future (Dodd–Frank Section 1502). Tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (3TG) are used in some vehicle parts and components made by Ficosa, such as circuit boards or heater terminals. We enforce due diligence to investigate the origin of the conflict minerals in our products. Our goal is to work with DRC conflict-free 2016 2017 2018 suppliers. Accordingly, Ficosa implemented an annual supplier’s inquiry and collect from all its suppliers the Standard Survey (EICC/Gesi tem% of suppliers and materials plate) on conflict minerals. The collected information is internally profor which conflict mineral 100% 100% 100% cessed and provides useful information to monitor suppliers and report information is available to clients about the company’s use of minerals for each plant. 64 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 65 Visits to the factory Every year, the manufacturing plants in Dieuze (France), Salinas and Escobedo (Mexico), Dabrowa (Poland), Cookeville (USA), Taicang (China), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Gemlik (Turkey), Maia (Portugal), Soria and Viladecavalls (Spain) organize factory visits for students, employee family members, and local businesses to explain the main characteristics of the production process. These visits enable the company to attract new members and demonstrate the strength of their manufacturing capabilities. Family day at the Viladecavalls site Ficosa and the Polytechnic University of Catalonia (UPC) On September 15th, as part of our “Committed to you” campaign, the company opened the doors of its facilities in Viladecavalls for the first FICOSA/UPC Course on Automotive Embedded Systems time. The employees were able to share their work environment with their families and enjoy a fun day with activities for adults and kids. A total of 2,100 people attended this initiative. This open day was organized with the main objective of recognizing the great work and all the success In collaboration with the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC), Ficoachieved throughout history by all the Ficosa team members. sa has designed the Automotive Embedded Systems course addressed “Committed to you” is an initiative launched at a global level in an aim to Master’s students in Telecommunications Engineering. to reaffirm the company commitment with all its teams through different After detecting the need to offer a specialization to all those engineers actions and activities such as Family Days or the launch of satisfaction interested in the development of electronic communications systems for surveys, etc. the automotive sector, Ficosa, the UPC and CARNET (academic-indusThe same day, a food collection campaign took place with the main aim trial consortium to support new mobility) created and launched the first of covering the basic needs of the most disadvantaged families in the pilot test of this training course at the beginning of 2018. Due to the great city of Terrassa, in collaboration with the Busquets Foundation and the success of the first edition, the UPC has decided to include this course INSERCIÓ eco Association. again in its new academic programme 2018 2019. Both the Busquets Foundation, a century-old entity in Terrassa that serFicosa, whose specialists will teach part of this course, offers both the ves the most needy families daily through its food bank, the INSERCIÓ possibility of receiving a scholarship to study this course, as well as the Association, whose mission is the creation of jobs through the deveopportunity to join the company once the course has finished. In this lopment of economic activities related to the environment, and Ficosa, way, the company strengthens its links with the university and fulfils the valued very positively the results of this joint action. objective of training and attracting new talent in electronics, communications and telematics for the automotive industry, a key field for the car and Ficosa employees, together with members and volunteers from both enthe mobility of the future. tities were in charge of carrying out the food collection that took place during Family Day. 66 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Each decentralized location is responsible for organizing its own charity projects, donations and other Soria: social initiatives. The social initiatives --Partnership and collaborations with entities who depend on the site-specific challenge promote employment for disabled people (Asamis, and are led by the local Human Ilunion), National Association against cancer (AECC), Resources department. National League Against Cancer in Children (LINCECI) --Sponsorship of sports activities Examples of Ficosa social initiatives in locations where the company operates: --Blood donation campaigns --Collaboration with correctional institutions for fostering the rehabilitation of prisoners Viladecavalls: --Blood donation campaigns --Volunteering programme with local community organizations (Habitat for Humanity) --Partnership and collaborations with entities who promote the employment for disabled people (Friends --Food and cleaning supplies drive Specialisterne) --Farm and warehouse distribution centre collaboration --Collaboration with the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation for disadvantaged citizens (Mulla’t and Gospel Girona) --Soup kitchen for the homeless --Financial donations to social entities (ANAET) through a --Adopting a family for Christmas profit sharing vending machines agreement --Senior Centre volunteering --Collaboration with a local symphony orchestra (Orquestra Sinfònica del Vallès) to promote and foster --Walk for kidney disease musical culture. --Donation to caring organization (United Way) --Adopt a road Programme --Donation of toys for children from low income families --Collaboration with the Red Cross --Visits to nursing homes --Programme “Adopt a tree” to promote reforestation --Small citizen programme (training programme for elementary students) --Donation of school benches to local elementary school --Collaboration with “Sweet hands” association (integration in society for young people with Down syndrome) · Collaboration with the municipality of Itapevi to donate clothes for people in a situation of social vulnerability C S R — R E P O R T 67 --In-kind and financial donations to several institutions, --Sponsorship of sports activities such as the Holy House of Mercy of Maia, --Donation to children’s villages “Rarissímas” (an institution that supports children with rare diseases), “National League Child HopeRenaissance”, “House of the People of Vermoim”, “Institute of Social Support A Life A Smile” --Collaboration in several initiatives with the City Hall of Maia (culture, sport) --In-kind and financial donations for --Supporting found for employee who has a son with a several institutions (Noble Pack, serious illness Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, --Awareness campaign to support children and local fire brigade festival for children) young people with intellectual disabilities and/or --Sponsorship of sports activities multideficiency --In-kind and financial donations (book and toys) --Collaboration with TEMA, the Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats --Sponsorship of sports activities 68 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 C S R — R E P O R T 69 Ficosa’s vision of innovation is based on our commitment to the most advanced technology. In this regard, the company invests in the research and development of products and solutions based on the fields of connectivity, safety and efficiency to maintain its position of leadership and anticipate the needs of the mobility industry. The company is now a technological partner of a vast majority of automotive companies from all over the world and seeks new ways to bring about further optimization and contribute to sustainable mobility. 69 70 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 R&D Capabilities Our great dedication to innovation and a clearly global focus, has enain electronics, SW development and electro-mechanics technology bled us to create a solid network of R&D centres in Europe, North Amefor developing new solutions in safety, connectivity and energy effirica, South America and Asia. These are divided into centres of expertise ciency as well as world class testing and prototyping laboratories. focused on specific product families – technologies and local engineeOur strong commitment to innovation has also resulted in high added ring centres closely located to our main customers’ design centres. value job creation. Ficosa has an excellent and experienced team of The Technology Centre in Viladecavalls (Spain) acts as the driving engineering talent on board to face the company’s new challenges. The force for the group’s global research efforts and fuels the 14 develototal number of engineers devoted to R&D was 1,130 in 2018. pment centres we have around the world. This facility is a benchmark C S R — R E P O R T 71 Partnerships R&D Expenditure (thousand €) We also collaborate, both nationally and internationally, with other In 2018, Ficosa spent more than €94 million in R&D to provide its clients companies, engineering firms, universities and technical centres on with the most innovative solutions that anticipate the challenges of a studies, training, advisory services, technology transfer, validations, constantly changing industry. tests, etc., that allow us to meet more demanding time to market and This figure represents an investment by the company of nearly 8% of its complex system requirements. New technologies require a much hiannual revenue in R&D in order to provide customers the most innovative gher level of open innovation and strategic partnerships than traditiosolutions possible. Ficosa currently holds 769 active patents and it is nal electromechanical products. one of the most active Spanish holding companies in Spain in terms of patenting. 94,601 80,317 64,316 60,000 56,088 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 —— Research centers —— · Viladecavalls —— · Waseong-Gun —— · Wolfenbüttel / Lindau —— · Tokyo —— · Dieuze —— · Taicang —— · Porto —— · Hyderabad / Pune —— · Bursa —— · Sao Paulo —— · Detroit —— · Salinas Victoria 72 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Innovation in high-value products Ficosa is convinced that its success and future are founded on innovative products that benefit our society, providing safer, more efficient, sustainable and comfortable ways of mobility. SAFETY The Challenge According to the World Health Organization (WHO), car accidents kill approximately 1.2 million people worldwide every year, representing a quarter of all deaths caused by injury. Additionally, about 50 million people are injured in traffic accidents. If preventive measures are not taken, road traffic death is likely to become the third-leading cause of death in 2020 from ninth place in 1990. A study from the American Automobile Association (AAA) revealed that car crashes cost the United States $300 billion per year. There has been a significant rise in the use of electronics in vehicles. Vehicles today have shifted from being conventional vehicles to intelligent vehicles and are equipped with communication systems that alert or assist the driver in a potential accident. Nevertheless, there is still work to do to achieve the ambitious road safety target of halving the global number of deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes by 2020 (Source: 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development). Collaboration with national and international program RobustSENSE (ECSEL) The main objective of RobustSENSE is to improve the reliability of automated driving in all types of driving conditions. RobustSENSE gives Ficosa the opportunity to prove the capability of this system to interoperate in any conditions with other systems and then make its products available to a broader range of applications, with particular regard to automatic driving, thus widening its market opportunities. Ficosa is participating in the deployment of a Camera Monitoring System featuring Lane Change Assist, Soil Detection and a Driver Monitoring system that analyses the respiratory signal and records it on video in order to estimate the degree of attentiveness of the driver. C S R — R E P O R T 73 SOMNOADAS (IBEROEKA) This project consists of the development of a system of cameras integrated into a vehicle to detect the breathing pattern of the driver and estimate their state of drowsiness. The main objective of this project is to design and manufacture a contactless drowsiness detection system using camera technology that allows the involuntary movement of the subject caused by breathing to be analysed. The system consists of a high-resolution camera integrated into the vehicle’s interior and focused on the upper part of the thorax. Video recordings are analysed in real time in order to estimate the degree of drowsiness of the driver from the extraction of the respiratory signal from the video signal. SOMNOADAS II (IBEROEKA) This project develops a system of cameras integrated on the vehicle to detect the facial expressions of the driver in order to estimate their state of drowsiness. The main objective of this project is to develop a camera-based system that analyses facial expressions related to pre-defined drowsy stages. The system consists of a mono IR camera integrated into the vehicle’s interior aimed at the face and upper part of the thorax. Video recordings are analysed in real time in order to estimate the degree of drowsiness of the driver combining the drowsiness detection index from the extraction of the respiratory signal and the drowsiness detection index from the analysis of facial expressions, both from the video signal. 74 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 PRYSTINE Ficosa is developing an interior camera for driver monitoring that comprises an IR mono camera integrated in pillar A and a laser integrated in the interior of the rear view mirror which aims a cloud of points at the driver’s chest. The camera records these points and the algorithm processes the video data in order to extract the respiration signal using the distance between points. Once the respiration signal has been detected, the Thoracic Effort Drowsiness Detection algorithm (TEDD) analyses this data in order to estimate the degree of drowsiness of the driver. V-RECON (EUREKA!) This project consists of producing a CMS system (Camera Monitoring System) to replace vehicles’ exterior mirrors (Class III-traditional). The system developed during this project will initially be for passenger vehicles but may extend to other types of vehicles (cargo, industrial, etc.). In order to achieve the final objective, research and development activities are required to design a demonstrator with the three main elements that make up the integrated system: 1. External wing or mechanical camera support to capture the rear view. 2. The camera itself. 3. An electronic control unit (ECU) that will also contains a display where the images are projected. (I_HeEro) Harmonized eCall European Deployment Ficosa participated in the deployment of eCall service in Europe. In these projects, 14 EU participating Member States and 1 associated country analysed the feasibility and robustness of the eCall service with pilot installations on both the PSAP and vehicle side. As from October 2018, the eCall system will be installed in all new car models and light vans sold in the European Union. Ficosa has developed an in-vehicle telematics control unit that is able to perform Next Generation 112 emergency calls (NG112 eCall), which is the next paradigm to be supported for this life saving technology. This Next Generation eCall supports LTE and newer networks, based on IP Communications, and provides a future-proof solution for the regulatory eCall, which was originally designed for voice circuit-switching networks like 2G and 3G. Also, moving to an IP-based solution has extra benefits, i.e. leveraging existing standards such as SIP, and enhancing communication by sending extra data or video feeds. The project was successfully closed in 2018 with the final validation test with the European 112 Services. C S R — R E P O R T 75 ESCAPE The “European Safety Critical Applications Positioning Engine” (ESCAPE) is funded by the European GNSS Agency (GSA) under the European Union’s Fundamental Elements research and development programme. Its aim is to exploit the services offered by Galileo, the European satellite navigation system, by designing a dedicated reliable and accurate engine natively targeted for the automotive safety-critical applications. The project kicked-off in October 2016, and is led by Ficosa in collaboration with Groupe Renault, GMV, ST Microelectronics, IFSTTAR and ISMB. The in-vehicle unit, produced by Ficosa during this project, was displayed during the Mobile World Congress 2018 in Barcelona. This development is an electronic board able to precisely indicate the position of the car with an innovative GNSS receiver developed by our partner STMicroelectronics. The unit is going to be implemented as the positioning engine in a self-driven car made by a first level OEM. C2C-CC (Car to Car Communication Consortium) Ficosa participated in the deployment of eCall service in Europe. In these projects, 14 EU participating Member States and 1 associated country analysed the feasibility and robustness of the eCall service with pilot installations on both the PSAP and vehicle side. As from October 2018, the eCall system will be installed in all new car models and light vans sold in the European Union. Ficosa has developed an in-vehicle telematics control unit that is able to perform Next Generation 112 emergency calls (NG112 eCall), which is the next paradigm to be supported for this life saving technology. This Next Generation eCall supports LTE and newer networks, based on IP Communications, and provides a future-proof solution for the regulatory eCall, which was originally designed for voice circuit-switching networks like 2G and 3G. Also, moving to an IP-based solution has extra benefits, i.e. leveraging existing standards such as SIP, and enhancing communication by sending extra data or video feeds. The project was successfully closed in 2018 with the final validation test with the European 112 Services. 5G Automotive Association Ficosa became the first Spanish company to join the 5G Automotive Association (5GAA). The mission of this association is to accelerate development, standardization and marketing of solutions for connected cars and autonomous vehicles and their integration into Smart Cities, as well as laying the groundwork for implementing 5G technology in the automotive sector. 76 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 SECREDAS SECREDAS stands for “Product Security for Cross Domain Reliable Dependable Automated Systems. The SECREDAS consortium comprises 69 partners from 16 European countries. The goal of this project is to build a benchmark architecture for Secure and Safe Automated systems compliant with the new GDPR Regulation. The focus will be on automotive, rail and personal healthcare, all of which demand high security and safety, covering technologies such as radar, lidar, Vehicle-to-Infrastructure and in-vehicle networks. Ficosa will contribute to the project with a full-fledged V2X HW platform with a secured storage and signing environment. These HW mechanisms will prevent cybersecurity attacks involving stealing private keys and damages caused by impersonating a legitimate vehicle. Ficosa’s platform will be capable of integrating SW technologies from third parties, such as V2X Firewall and V2X misbehaviour detection. Ficosa will also provide DSRC High-performance antennas to achieve best platform performance. As part of the same project, Ficosa ADAS will also provide an in-cabin driver monitoring system based on an IR camera plus laser for respiration signal detection and analysis. The main system objective is to continuously analyse the status of the driver and ensure that the driver is in a fit state to drive if the autonomous vehicle decides to return the command to the driver in the event of a cyber-security attack. CARAMEL CARAMEL brings together expertise from eight different European countries to solve cybersecurity issues for future mobility. In order to address cybersecurity for current autonomous and connected vehicles, well-established methodologies developed in the ICT sector will be adopted in order to assess vulnerabilities and potential cyber-attack impacts. Although past initiatives and cybersecurity projects related to the automotive industry have led to security assurance frameworks for networked vehicles, several newly introduced technologies like 5G, autopilots, and smart charging of Electric Vehicles (EVs) reveal gaps in cybersecurity, which have not yet been addressed satisfactorily. Considering the entire supply chain of automotive operations, CARAMEL aims to reach out to commercial anti-hacking IDS/IPS products for the European automotive cybersecurity and demonstrate their value in extensive attack and penetration scenarios. Ficosa will contribute a full-fledge V2X (802.11p) HW platform to the project designed for very robust security which will include enhancements that have not yet been included in other similar developments. PREDICA Cybersecurity is one of the main concerns for OEMs. PREDICA is a project in which an OEM, a security software provider and FICOSA as integrator have set the goal to develop a new cybersecurity mechanism to detect and prevent intruder entry to our telematics units. The cyber-security level achieved, evaluated by an independent company, reached a remarkable score without big penalties on memory or performance. Thanks to this experience, OEMs are considering increasing their level of protection retrofitting already built products. C S R — R E P O R T 77 FLAME (Facility Large-Scale Adaptive Media Experimentation) FLAME is an initiative designed to create a sustainable Future Media Internet (FMI) ecosystem through experimentation, collaboration and innovation. FLAME aims to optimize media content delivery by enabling deep interactions between media service providers and an underlying communications infrastructure using software defined networking and information centric networking techniques. Within this project, FICOSA proposes an experiment to broadcast video content on the V2X network. The experiment will merge Cellular V2X and FLAME networks to provide better, localized information to the driver in a safer way. CarCom The company also offers the CarCom platform, which integrates several connectivity solutions in a modular way. This solution meets the goal of facilitating quick prototyping of a new technology. The modular integration allows the reuse of common parts, introducing just hardware and software for the new technology at hand. This platform already implements hardware and software technologies to provide cellular, V2X, C-V2X, Wi-Fi, localization (GNSS) and HMI capabilities. Some of the future modules on plugable technology are high-precision positioning, digital tuning antenna, as well as cellular 5G new modules. This covers the needs of companies to be able to exploit latest technologies in short time, improving development speed and reutilization. At the same time, CarCom offers a platform that meets OEMs sample-A requirements for a large number of applications and can be deployed worldwide. COLORADO C-DOT This project carried out in collaboration with Panasonic USA and The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) is building a pilot program to begin real-world deployment of the most advanced vehicle-to-everything (V2X) environment in the USA. This collaboration represents the largest shared investment in V2X technology in the United States. During the pilot deployment that was recently completed, it was successfully installed and tested five V2X roadside units and six V2X vehicle on-board units (Ficosa units), and established a Network Operations Centre to manage the overall system. These efforts set the stage for deploying the V2X system in a real-world environment along a major Colorado highway. By creating this connected system—an “internet of roads”—drivers and traffic managers will receive real-time information about road conditions such as traffic delays, icy conditions, and crashes through continuous and automatic communications between individual vehicles and roadside infrastructure. Once deployed, this system has been designed to result in an 81 percent decrease in unimpaired multi-vehicle crashes, as well as more reliable travel times and, eventually, the ability to communicate with self-driving cars. 78 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 What we are offering our customers Vision systems Most aggressive projections estimates that no more than 2,4% of vehicles will be autonomous by 2030, vision will keep being one of the most significant pillars in our business, either through traditional mirrors systems with added functionality or through the emerging smart digital view systems where Ficosa is also taking a leading position (CMS, parking cameras, etc). V2X (VEHICLE-TO-X) UNITS The main purpose of incorporating these units into vehicles is for safety reasons. This technology will be able to reduce the number of accidents. Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) transmissions allow cars to communicate with each other as well as with the infrastructure, pedestrians and others. This communication path provides enough information in the vehicle regarding its surroundings. This fact enables drivers to be alerted on impending dangers in a first phase. In the future, the vehicle will be able to act in response to this knowledge. In addition to the safety aspects, there will also be convenient features such as easing vehicle parking, toll payment, weather, road conditions and information about surrounding commercial facilities. Ficosa has been granted a patent on a V2X high performance antenna for platooning. This fact increases Ficosa’s interest in supplying OEMs with fully integrated system solutions instead of separate parts. Intelligent Rearview Monitor System (IRMS) During 2018, Ficosa has been working on the industrialization phase of the Intelligent Rearview Monitor Display version for LCVs and Vans, where currently drivers have no central rear vision due to the lack of rear windows. In this case, IRMS provides full rear vision to the driver, improving driving safety and providing the same extensive horizontal and vertical fields of vision as passenger cars. This product will start mass production by 2020. C S R — R E P O R T 79 Sensors and Camera Cleaning During 2018 Ficosa started the deployment of the LIDAR Cleaning System, which has now been applied in four different ranges of car for a premium German car manufacturer. Parallel to this, Ficosa is upgrading its product portfolio for Sensor Cleaning devices, expanding its ability to clean all kinds of sensors, specifically up to Level 5 Autonomous cars, ensuring that all detection systems function, and quality and integrity are safe during driving. Driver Monitoring Systems In 2017, the company developed a driver monitoring system in order to estimate the capability of the driver in adverse situations, such as fatigue. Today Ficosa has two different lines of products that detect any unsafe driver behaviour: Somnoalert ® Driver Behaviour The algorithm located in an ECU analyses existing data in CAN bus and data provided by a Lane Recognition System in order to identify inadequate driving states related with driving quality. The system studies the driver’s gradual worsening over a predetermined time period. Somnoalert ® Contactless This system comprises a mono camera recording the upper body of the driver, a laptop, a breathing extraction from video algorithm and a drowsiness detection algorithm. The system analyses respiratory data in real time to estimate the driver’s degree of awareness. 80 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Camera Monitor System (CMS) In 2015, the company developed an electronic mirror composed of cameras and displays which represents an alternative option to the exterior rear-view car mirrors. This pioneering system, also known as CMS, is a true revolution for the automotive industry as well as important progress towards the autonomous car. The electronic mirror offers a new, safer, and more comfortable driving experience through the inclusion in the vision systems of Advanced Systems Driver Assistance (ADAS), such as the traffic detection function, which provides information to the driver about the vehicles around it. Currently, Ficosa is working with an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) on the integration of CMS, customizing it according to their requirements. Vehicle cameras and expertise in vision systems and machine vision Ficosa offers customers wide exterior and interior small size cameras for 360 degree vehicle vision, parking, mirror substitution and driver monitoring. Stand-alone or in-system cameras, with low power dissipation, EMC robustness and cost optimized, covering both entry level and high performance systems and offering state-of-the-art technology for next generation machine vision systems. These vision systems are also provided through exterior and interior mirror substitution, using high performance cameras optimizing video path and image quality, offering the most advanced display and ECU performance for machine vision integration with the most advanced 2D and 3D machine vision software developments. ERA GLONASS SYSTEM FICOSA is manufacturing telematics modules certified for ERA GLONASS. The ERA GLONASS system is the Russian equivalent of the European e-Call system. Safety systems and emergency services are fundamental to saving lives on the road. Getting an immediate alert in the event of an accident and knowing the exact location of the crash site cuts emergency services response times by 50% in rural areas and 40% in urban areas. The emergency system inside the vehicle consists of a telematics unit (In Vehicle Telematic Unit, iVTU) and a user interface module. C S R — R E P O R T 81 Shift-by-wire systems In 2018, FICOSA expanded its product portfolio of Shift-by-Wire systems. FICOSA develops and produces not only e-SHIFTERs, but also Electronic Control Units and actuators, enabling the automation of traditional transmission or the integration of locking requirements to the new developed ones. Current customers are reputed Asian automotive manufacturers. In 2018, this product line was deployed for Internal Combustion Engine, Hybrid Electrical and pure Electrical Vehicles. Besides fuel efficiency enabled by the combination of engine nature and robotized transmissions, Shift-by-Wire technologies enables safety features to be implemented that control transmission to avoid risky conditions by human errors. For this product line, FICOSA is researching and developing to offer a broad portfolio of next generation actuators, with reduced packaging and weight (actuator and electronic control unit below 750 gr), which can be implemented in any vehicle type, resulting in a reduction versus traditional automatic external shifters. COMMUNICATION & CONNECTIVITY The Challenge The automotive industry is undergoing a series of transitions as the industry is moving towards digitalization and connected mobility. While automotive digital technology has traditionally focused on optimizing the vehicle’s internal functions, attention is now focused on developing the car’s ability to connect with the outside world and make the car experience safer, more comfortable and more informed. In this context, Ficosa is working to create a more interconnected world. Collaboration with national and international programs ERTICO ITS Europe The ERTICO Partnership is a public/private partnership comprising over a hundred companies and institutions involved in the production of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS). Together, ERTICO Partners conduct a range of activities to develop and deploy ITS to save lives, protect the environment and sustain mobility in the most cost-effective way. 82 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 What we are offering our customers Telematics units These units connect the vehicle with the internet. The most used technology is cellular using 2G, 3G and LTE for data communications. Our units use embedded antennas, which facilitates integration with many vehicles. These units incorporate services, such as e-call, b-call and lights & horn. Some models also enable in-car Wi-Fi communications. Emergency call Human Machine Interface EMU is an Emergency call Multimedia Unit for vehicles, consisting of a button, some indicators, a microphone and a speaker. The button manually triggers the emergency call, speaker and microphone are used for voice communication with the 112 Services and the indicators show the mobile coverage and e-call status. All these elements are managed by a telematics control unit inside the vehicle. Integrated antennas We design and develop antennas for different services such as radio broadcasting (AM/FM/DAB), telephony (2G , 3G, LTE and 5G), satellite positioning systems (GNSS) covering multiple satellite constellations (GPS, Galileo, Glonass, Beidou), satellite digital radio (SDARS) for the US Market as well as other services like RKE, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and BLE. Antennas for new technologies such as V2X and C-V2X (omnidirectional or directive) and for the latest 5G technologies are also developed and ready to go to market. As the number of antennas inside a car is increasing considerably, the trend is to integrate them on non-visible locations of the vehicle. We have the expertise to integrate antennas for different services in different locations assuring optimal operation and performance with zero or minimal visual impact. Some examples of locations for antenna integration in the car are inside exterior rear-view mirrors, dashboard, windshield, embedded in the vehicle roof, inside plastic parts of the car such as spoilers, etc. Rear-view mirror that incorporates electronic toll function During 2018, Ficosa started to produce an interior rear-view mirror for a major European manufacturer (OEM), which incorporates a Panasonic electronic toll function for the automatic payment of motorway tolls without having to stop the vehicle. This product will be installed in 28 different car models for this OEM group. C S R — R E P O R T 83 EFFICIENCY The Challenge One of the toughest environmental challenges of our time is managing the mobility of people and goods. By 2030, passenger traffic will exceed 80,000 billion passenger-kilometres, a fifty percent increase, and freight volume will grow by 70 percent globally. The number of vehicles on the road is globally expected to double by 2050. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the progress in the decarbonization economy and the expected growth in mobility in the upcoming years highlight the need for efficient and environmentally sustainable vehicle technologies. The widespread electrification of transport through the adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) is one strategy to reduce GHG emissions. Collaboration with national and international programs Electromobility Hub In 2018, the company opened a Technological Electromobility Hub with 120 people and 1200 square metres, dedicated to the company’s different products in Hybrid and Electric vehicles (HEV/ BEV). The e-Mobility Hub is set to become a global benchmark in the development of electric mobility technology, driving Ficosa’s leadership forward in an area that is key for the mobility of the future. In this sense it plays a strategic role, as it will become a driving force in electromobility solutions for the whole group on an international level. The deployment of all these HEV/BEV products form part of the company’s long-term strategy. For this reason, it will be carried out in different phases. During the first phase, Ficosa will focus on three products: --Battery Management Controllers: Devices to control the HV Battery and its energy flow. --HV Junction Box: Safety device that disconnects the HV battery from the rest of the vehicle system. --On board charger: Charger integrated into the vehicle that transforms the alternating current of the electrical grid into a direct current to charge the HV Battery. 84 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 ALISE Consortium Ficosa is participating in the ALISE consortium. ALISE is a pan European collaboration focused on the development and commercial scale-up of new materials and on the understanding of the electrochemical processes involved in the Lithium Sulphur technology. In this collaboration, Ficosa is working on the development of the full Battery Pack, using the LiS modules developed. The Battery will include a Battery Management System (BMS) adapted to the new LiS chemistry developed during the project. 3Ccar Ficosa participates in the European collaborative project 3Ccar founded by the ECSEL Joint Undertaking. The 3CCar solution brings together a consortium of 50 partners from 11 countries covering the complete value chain from the semiconductor supplier up to the vehicle manufacturer. The main goals are to improve the efficiency and reduce the complexity of electric vehicles’ control architecture and its subsystems, with a positive impact on cost, maintenance, monitoring and functionalities update. FICOSA’s roles in 3Ccar project are as follows: --Leader of supply chain 10 “Cost effective On-Board battery charger”: FICOSA proposes a new concept of On-Board-Charger (OBC) to optimize the manufacturing and materials costs, while improving efficiency, volume, weight and reliability. --Partner of supply chain 5 “High speed communication”: FICOSA is contributing to improve the cost and weight of the vehicle by preparing a V2X unit with enhanced connectivity able to be connected to a high speed backbone network in the car. RIS3CAT (Research and Innovation Strategies for Smart Specialization) Through the Notecar project, Ficosa is working on a new concept of OBC (Onboard Battery Charger) for high-voltage electric and hybrid vehicle batteries. The main objective is to minimize the device and simplify its industrialization. The new concept will be offered to manufacturers who are interested in improving the current technology, and will serve as a basis for the development of new devices for different sectors, such as renewable energies. This project is in line with the Greentronics project and the working group called Eco-mobility created through the RIS3CAT R&D Strategy and led by Ficosa. C S R — R E P O R T 85 CAR-NET (Cooperative Automotive Research Network) The Cooperative Automotive Research Network, initiated by SEAT, Volkswagen Group Research and Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC), is an open hub for industrial and academic partners from the areas of automotive and mobility research & innovation. Ficosa is a member of this knowledge hub for automotive science and technology, focused on urban mobility, and based in Barcelona. Its ambition is to become a benchmark in this area, in close alliance with European counterparts. CARNET is a cooperation platform for the mobility industry, local universities and institutional partners that has the following strategic goals: --Organizing urban mobility activities in Barcelona --Contributing to strengthening the automotive sector in Spain, and Catalonia in particular --Recruiting proactively for the automotive industry --Networking to seek international research funding (in cooperation with international partners) What we are offering our customers Battery Management System Ficosa has been developing jointly with main OEMs the new generation of Battery Management System. The focus areas of the e-mobility lay mainly in efficient and reliable high-voltage energy control. On-Board Charger System The company is working on the development of a new integrated concept of On-Board Charger (OBC) together with Panasonic. The OBC is a system that is able to provide energy to charge Electric/Hybrid vehicles batteries, such as cars, buses or motorbikes. The technology under development fits on AC network as well as DC infrastructure. 86 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 8 Area Subject criteria / GRI NFI page ref General Information Business model description (1) Pg 4/8 Market presence GRI 102-6 Pg 8/9 Objectives & Strategies GRI 102-14 Pg 4/8 Reporting Framework Used GRI and internal reporting framework Pg 6 Materiality Analysis GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47, GRI 102-49 Pg 6 Social & Employee Related Matters Management Approach (1) Pg 35 Employment Total number of employees and distribution by country, gender, age and job classification GRI 102-8 Pg 36/37 Employment contracts distribution and annual average distributed by gender, age and job classification GRI 102-8 Pg 37 Total number of dismissals and its distribution by gender, age and job classification GRI 401-1 Pg 36 Policies to allow employees to disconnect from work (1) Pg 44/45 Percentage of employees with disabilities (2), GRI 405-1 Pg 36 Working organization Working hours organization (1) Pg 44/45 Measures to promote work-life balance (1) Pg 44/45 Health & Safety Occupational health and safety conditions GRI 403-1, (1) Pg 47 Accident rates GRI 403-9, (2) Pg 48/49 Labour relations Social dialogue organization (1) Pg 43 Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements, by country GRI 102-41 Pg 39 Results of collective agreements, especially in the field of health and safety GRI 403-4 Pg 47 Training Policies implemented (1) Pg 40/41/42/43 Training indicators GRI-404-1, (2) Pg 42 Universal accessibility of people with disabilities Universal accessibility of people with disabilities (1) Pg 38 Equality Equality GRI 405-1, (1) Pg 36/37/38/39 Environmental Matters Management Approach (1) Pg 51 Environmental Management GRI 102-11, (1) Pg 51/52 Pollution Measures to prevent,reduce of repair pollution GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4, (1) Pg 52/53/54/55 Circular economy and waste prevention and management Measures related to prevention, recycling, reuse and other form of waste recovery and disposal (1), (2) Pg 57/58/59/60 Actions to avoid food waste N/A Sustainable use of resources Water Consumption GRI 303-5 Pg 57/58/59/60 Raw materials consumption (1) Pg 62/63 Direct and indirect energy consumption GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3, (1) Pg 56/57 Measures to improve energy efficiency GRI 302-4, (1) Pg 56/57 Use of renewable energy GRI302-1 Pg 56/57 Climate Change Relevant aspects regarding greenhouse gas emissions GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3 Pg 53/54/55 Measures to adapt to climate change (1) Pg 20/51/52/53 Objective related to GHG reduction GRI 305-4 Pg 53 Biodiversity Biodiversity N/A Pg 7 Respect for Human Rights Management approach (1) Pg 5/24/26 Implementation of human rights due diligence procedures GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17 Pg 17/23/24/25/26/61 Measures to prevent and manage potential human rights abuses GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17 Pg 23 Promotion and compliance with ILO´s provisions (1) Pg 26 Anti-corruption and bribery matters Management Approach (1) Pg 22/23 Measures to prevent corruption and bribery GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17 Pg 22/23/24 Measures to prevent money-laundering GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17 Pg 22/23/24 Contributions to non-for-profit organizations N/A Pg 7 Social commitment Management Approach (1) Pg 65/66/67 Commitment with sustainable development GRI 413-1 Pg 14/65/66/67 Sustainable supply chain management GRI 308-1, GRI 414-1 Pg 61/62/63 Consumer relationship management (1) Pg 29/30/31 N/A Not applicable, non material (1) Internal framework: qualitative description C S R — R E P O R T 87 The policy of integrated management of the company is based on It must be communicated and understood by all the Company and the compromise of Upper Management and the participation and reviewed periodically. It must be of interested parties domain. It must consultation of all the staff, and their representatives where they exist, be appropriate to the nature of our Company (activities, products in order to ensure the continuous improvement of their labour. and services). With this aim, the Direction affirms the compromise and responsibility with the implementation, maintenance and continuous improvement of an integrated system of management, based on: 1. The values and philosophy of operations 5. The development of our Company must be 8. FICOSA has a framework where the estaof the organization, established clearly in guided toward the continual improvement blishment of objectives and goals for octhe MISSION, are the guidelines for each of our work (in occupational health and cupational health and safety, quality and member of FICOSA. safety, quality, environment and energy environment, as well as the availability of efficiency). It is our obligation to improve information, resources, acquisition of effievery day the effectiveness of our Integracient products and services. The review 2. FICOSA permanently believes that each ted System. of these objectives is a high priority funcproduct and project developed for our tion in the development of our Company. customers shall fulfil and exceed their exThese objectives must be based on the pectations of time, quality, safety and cost. 6. The respect for nature and the observanrequirements of the interested parts, estace of the universally declared principles blished in the MISSION. of pollution prevention and control shall 3. The company firmly believes that the exbe kept as a frame of reference for the cellence in each project and product development of our activities. The deve9. The fulfilment of the current legislation and are achieved with the participation of all lopment of our organization can and must regulation regarding occupational health the people that constitutes FICOSA. The walk alongside the preservation of the enand safety, quality, environment and enermaintenance of the daily enthusiasm and vironment and the mitigation and adaptagy for FICOSA. We include in this section the imposition of challenges of permanent tion to climate change, as well as towards any other requirement. improvement are clues for this purpose energy management. and a responsibility for each leader. 7. The environmental questions are a com4. Occupational health and safety is a fundamon problematic, therefore, each of the mental part of our work; Our commitment internal members (workers and collaboin the prevention of accidents and occuparators) and external members (suppliers tional illnes, focuses our efforts on ensuring and subcontractors) have the right and the safe and healthy work environments, priomoral obligation to participate in their imritizing the elimination of hazards and the plantation and to collaborate in their mainminimization of risks. tenance. Ficosa reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this CSR report, Ficosa describes its actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations. Grupo FICOSA Gran Vía Carlos III, 98 08028 Barcelona (Spain) Tel + 34 93 216 34 00 Fax + 34 93 490 10 63 www.ficosa.com
