2018 RESPONSIBILIT Y HIGHLIGHTS REPORT ABOUT AMGEN Amgen discovers, develops, manufactures of a disease first, then selecting the right and delivers life-changing human medicines drug modality, or structural format, best that address unmet medical needs and suited for the target. As a worldwide leader help reduce the social and economic in biologics manufacturing, we’re proud burden of disease in society. Our innovative of our outstanding track record of reliably medicines have reached millions of people delivering high-quality medicines to in the fight against serious illnesses. These patients who need them. medicines typically address diseases for which there are limited treatment options As you’ll read in this report, we are or provide a viable alternative, such as committed to responsible behavior inside F O R M O R E I N F O R M AT I O N , V I S I T A B O U T A M G E N O N high-quality biosimilars, to what is otherwise our company and in our communities. www.amgen.com available. We focus on six therapeutic We are proud to have built an ethical areas: cardiovascular disease, oncology, culture rooted in science and innovation neuroscience, inflammation, nephrology that embraces diversity and inclusion. and bone health. A longstanding commitment to creating positive change in the world drives our “Since Amgen’s founding in 1980, Amgen combines leading-edge research contributions in the community, where our staff have directed their with world-class biomanufacturing we are focused on building a healthier, intelligence and enthusiasm capabilities. Amgen’s approach to stronger, inspired and more toward a simple, yet powerful drug discovery begins with developing sustainable future. mission: to serve patients, a deep understanding of the biology especially those suffering from serious illness.” —ROBERT A. BRADWAY, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 2 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING SPOTLIGHT ON 2018 Included in Amgen’s mission to serve patients is a responsibility to support strong communities where we live and work. Improving patient 100% of staff completed 52% of our global We’ve met our 2020 access to medicines, supporting science Code of Conduct training. workforce is female. carbon and water education for the next generation of innovators, environmental targets ahead of schedule. integrating environmentally sustainable practices throughout our business and giving back through philanthropy and volunteering are just some of the many efforts we are proud to highlight in this report. Amgen Foundation Science Medicines donated through Direct Relief Education programs reach reached more than 7,000 patients in 18 more than 7 million students. lowand middle-income countries. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 3 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT | 7 ENVIRONMENT | 21 Our commitment extends We proactively reduce our CONTENTS beyond making vital medicines. impact on the environment. WORKPLACE | 26 Our 2018 Responsibility A C C E S S TO We create an inclusive, Highlights Report features MEDICINE | 10 safe and healthy work Our mission is to environment. selected accomplishments in serve patients. the many areas where we are making positive contributions REPORTING | 29 We communicate our for patients and beyond. BUSINESS progress in alignment ETHICS | 14 with global standards. We have an unwavering Complete information and commitment to integrity full data can be found on and compliance. www.amgen.com. COMMUNITY | 17 Amgen and the Amgen Foundation contribute to the greater good. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 4 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING LEADERSHIP MESSAGE Thank you for your interest in Amgen and our focus $1 trillion a year. Nearly 18 million people die every As an example, in 2018, we met our 2020 carbon and on building a healthier and more sustainable future year from cardiovascular disease, which costs water conservation targets well ahead of schedule. for people and communities around the world. approximately $600 billion annually in the U.S. alone. One of the innovations that helped us to achieve these targets is our pioneering next-generation Since Amgen’s founding in 1980, our staff have We are making progress in expanding patient access biomanufacturing capability, which uses a fraction of directed their intelligence and enthusiasm toward to our medicines. In 2018, the commercial value of the energy and water of conventional plants. Our first a simple, yet powerful mission: to serve patients, the medicines provided by the Amgen Safety Net next-generation facility, in Singapore, was licensed especially those suffering from serious illness. In Foundation at no cost to patients in the U.S. who by regulators in 2017. In 2018, we broke ground on pursuit of this mission, we have grown over time could not afford them exceeded $1 billion. We also our second such plant in Rhode Island. from a company with a handful of medicines treating donated nearly $100 million worth of Amgen cancer hundreds of thousands of patients largely in the U.S. treatments and supportive care medicines last year We are in a long-cycle business, and much of the to a company with 20 medicines treating millions of for distribution to patients in 18 developing countries at work taking place at Amgen today will be carried patients in approximately 100 countries around the no cost through the nonprofit organization Direct Relief. forward in the future by those who have yet to even world. As we seek to have an even greater impact enter the workforce. We are focused, therefore, on on global health, we invest heavily in research and Even as we work to provide innovative treatment inspiring the scientists of tomorrow by increasing development to find new treatments—nearly $19 options to as many patients as possible, we access to science, technology, engineering and billion in the past five years alone—resulting in the continuously seek opportunities to contribute to the mathematics education. To this end, the Amgen strongest pipeline in our history. greater good in other ways. As you’ll read in this Foundation has invested nearly $150 million in a report, we make many contributions in the areas of range of hands-on and virtual science, technology, Our medicines target diseases that place a environmental sustainability, science education and engineering and mathematics education programs tremendous burden on individuals and society, community assistance. that have reached more than 7 million students including cancer and cardiovascular disease. around the world. It brings us great satisfaction to According to the World Health Organization, see many of these students go on to pursue careers cancer claimed an estimated 9.6 million lives in biopharmaceutical research, pushing the boundaries worldwide in 2018 and costs society well over of innovation on behalf of patients. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 5 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING LEADERSHIP MESSAGE spot on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices World We are committed to being a good neighbor in Index. In early 2019, we were named a Best Place the communities where we work and live around to Work for LGBTQ Equality by the Human Rights the world. In 2018, the community surrounding our Campaign Foundation, earning a perfect score on global headquarters in Southern California faced two the HRC’s Corporate Equality Index for the third year nearly simultaneous crises. Following the tragic mass in a row. shooting at the Borderline Bar and Grill, which killed 12 people, massive wildfires erupted in and around We are grateful to our more than 21,000 staff our community. In addition to financial assistance members and the many partners we work with from the Amgen Foundation, hundreds of Amgen around the world. We value your ideas, questions staff members lent helping hands by volunteering, and comments and ask you to share them through giving blood, donating to relief funds, thanking first responsibility@amgen.com. I hope you will follow our responders and opening their homes to colleagues progress as we continue to advance as a successful, and neighbors who needed to be evacuated. socially responsible enterprise. Our commitment to sustainability and good corporate “Even as we work to provide innovative citizenship is aligned with respected global treatment options to as many patients frameworks, including the UN Global Compact. In as possible, we continuously seek this report, we demonstrate our ongoing commitment opportunities to contribute to the to the UN principles and communicate our progress. greater good in other ways.” We are proud to see our efforts recognized and in 2018, for the fifth consecutive year, Amgen earned a Robert A. Bradway Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 6 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT Corporate responsibility is important to Amgen since of our approach to corporate responsibility. This making a positive difference in the world is at the heart council, chaired by the senior vice president of of what we do—and it goes beyond making Corporate Affairs, is designed to ensure that executive vital medicines. Our approach to corporate management is informed and involved in the responsibility encompasses seven key elements: implementation of corporate responsibility. 1) improving access to our medicines, 2) ensuring we operate with the highest standards of business Engaging With Stakeholders ethics, 3) continuing our corporate philanthropy Amgen strives to continuously align its responsibility with a focus on STEM education, 4) enhancing the programs with the expectations of internal and external diversity and inclusion of our workforce, 5) conducting stakeholders. In particular, we focus on those issues ethical research and development, 6) improving the that are considered to be important priorities for environmental sustainability of our operations and stakeholders and that align with Amgen’s mission, 7) increasing the diversity and sustainability values and strategy. performance of our suppliers. This 2018 report shows how our corporate responsibility efforts align with Amgen uses a variety of ways to gauge stakeholder the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals interests, including direct engagement with stakeholders, (SDGs), a globally recognized platform for advancing periodic stakeholder assessments and guidance sustainability in the public and private sectors. from relevant frameworks. These frameworks include the UN Global Compact, SDGs and Sustainability Responsibility Governance Accounting Standards Board standards, as well as Responsibility at Amgen is governed at the highest external sustainability ratings, such as the Dow Jones levels. Our executive leadership reports our progress Sustainability Index and CDP (formerly known as Carbon to the Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Disclosure Project), since they represent the perspectives Committee (CRCC) of our board of directors. The of key stakeholders. Specific examples of engaging CRCC assists the board in overseeing Amgen’s with external stakeholders, including our second annual activities in the areas of corporate responsibility Stakeholder Summit, can be found throughout this report. and compliance. In 2018, a new, executive-level The results of our most recent stakeholder perspective governance council was established at Amgen to assessment can be found in Reporting and Metrics in oversee the continuing evolution and enhancement Responsibility on www.amgen.com. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 7 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT Our Commitment to Patients Our efforts to increase the value of integrate the perspectives of diverse external Our commitment to patients extends beyond delivering healthcare include: stakeholders into the development and execution innovative medicines to creating healthcare solutions •R evolutionizing the way that biologic medicines of corporate responsibility. for those we serve. It is also reflected in the following can be manufactured through our next-generation areas of focus: biomanufacturing technology, making the process We are dedicated to patient safety. The Global Patient • Helping patients get access to the medicines faster and less expensive and reducing our Safety department serves patients by monitoring they need—see the Access to Medicine environmental footprint the safety of Amgen products (medicine, devices section of this report and combination products) through the science of •B uilding partnerships that share accountability for pharmacovigilance. Pharmacovigilance refers to the • Investing in Research health results within the healthcare system and monitoring, reviewing, evaluating and communicating of • Increasing the Value of Healthcare providing options, such as linking the price of our information on the safety of pharmaceutical products. medicines to their performance • Listening to the Voice of the Patient •C ontinuing to develop “biosimilars”—high-quality, • Ensuring Global Patient Safety more affordable versions of existing biologic medicines—to treat inflammatory disease and Amgen invests heavily in research and development certain types of cancer in search of innovative medicines and tools that may provide breakthrough opportunities for medical needs We continue to listen to the voice of the patient that are currently unmet. We focus on medicines and integrate it into our processes. In October of made using biotechnology, and we aim for medicines this year, Amgen convened a gathering of senior that make a difference in patients’ lives. We are leaders from nearly 50 organizations representing committed to breakthrough medicines and growing our professional societies, patient advocacy organizations, understanding of human genetics, which we believe employer groups, insurance companies and industry can meaningfully aid our ability to discover and deliver in Washington, D.C., for Amgen’s second annual medicine to control hard-to-treat diseases. Stakeholder Summit, Elevating the Patient Voice. These kinds of interactions ensure that we can FOR MORE INFORMATION Visit Amgen’s Commitment to Patients on www.amgen.com. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 8 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT The Community section of this Amgen’s long-term, sustained report highlights how the Amgen progress toward our Environmental Foundation’s numerous educational Sustainability goals demonstrates The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) programs support fulfillment of our support for SDG 12: are a globally recognized framework for advancing SDG 4: Quality Education—Ensure Responsible Consumption and sustainability in the public and private sectors. They Inclusive and Quality Education Production. The Environmental are designed for participation by many different for All and Promote Lifelong Learning. The ongoing Sustainability section of this report describes how we stakeholders, including countries, communities, global expansion of the Amgen Foundation’s innovative have significantly reduced the amount of waste and businesses and organizations, who support the goals educational programs is something of which we are carbon emissions produced from our operations while in a variety of ways to tackle global challenges in particularly proud. simultaneously reducing the amount of energy and economic, social and environmental dimensions. water used. Much of Amgen’s approach to responsibility is aligned with the SDGs and helps support their achievement. Innovation is core to Amgen’s Much of what Amgen Throughout this report, you’ll see SDG icons to signal business, meaning a great deal accomplishes in corporate how our current actions in an area align with the SDG of what we do aligns with SDG responsibility is through framework. We are currently focusing on alignment 9: Industry, Innovation and partnerships that align well with with five SDGs. Infrastructure. In addition to our SDG 17: Partnerships for the innovative medicines, Amgen Goals. In the Access to Medicine applies innovation to our manufacturing, pricing and section of this report, you can read about the wide Amgen’s mission is in alignment partnerships. With regards to manufacturing, in 2018 range of partnerships we utilize to help improve access with SDG 3: Good Health and Amgen broke ground on our second next-generation to our medicines—from the CDC Foundation to the Well-Being. See the Access to manufacturing facility, which employs technology that Union for International Cancer Control. Medicine section of this report to significantly reduces construction time, costs, physical read about how we try to ensure footprint and environmental impacts. that as many patients as possible benefit from our medicines—including a significant donation of medicine that will benefit patients in 18 lowand middle-income countries. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 9 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ACCESS TO MEDICINE Amgen’s medicines can make a profound difference in the lives of patients with serious illnesses—and Pricing and Patient Support Patient Assistance Programs we believe patients should have access to them. We We operate several programs to support patients who Amgen Safety Net Foundation (ASNF) is an have made progress reaching patients in geographies may not otherwise be able to afford our medicines. independent nonprofit patient assistance program that typically have limited access to biologic established in 2001, sponsored by Amgen. ASNF was medicines through our partnerships, donations and Flexible Pricing and Contracting designed to assist patients who have a financial need affordability programs. In 2018, in alignment with our The prices of our medicines reflect their ability to and are uninsured, or the insurance plan excludes the mission to serve patients, we continued to evolve reduce the burden of disease for individuals and Amgen medicine. It has provided nearly $5.5 billion our approach by advancing our local partnerships, society, but we also recognize that affordability can of support to patients in the United States since 2008. enhancing programs that strengthen health systems present challenges to patients accessing our valuable In addition to the ASNF, Amgen supports 12 patient and addressing affordability through innovation. medicines, particularly in lowand middle-income access programs outside the United States, including countries (LMICs). To improve the accessibility and in Egypt, Thailand and China, designed to help affordability of our products, Amgen adopts a flexible clinically and financially eligible patients obtain Our multifaceted Access to Medicine approach approach to pricing to ensure our prices reflect local the drugs they need. encompasses four key areas of activity: socioeconomic conditions and ability to pay while also • Pricing and Patient Support using innovative contracting solutions that tie costs incurred directly to outcomes achieved. • Health System Strengthening • Product Donations • R&D, Manufacturing and Distribution Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 10 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ACCESS TO MEDICINE Health System Strengthening •A n expanded collaboration in 2018 with the Union programs are in place in countries including Brazil, Amgen is dedicated to working with global, for International Cancer Control to support major Colombia, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. In 2018, regional and local stakeholders to improve cities in the design, planning and implementation Amgen partnered with the Hellenic Society of healthcare systems in LMICs. We help strengthen of integrated cancer treatment solutions Hematology to provide air transportation support health systems by creating partnerships and •A n Infarct Code program—a partnership with a for patients living on 17 remote islands in Greece programs, deploying patient support initiatives Mexican state institution to increase diagnosis and to receive treatment at mainland medical centers and supporting science education for the next treatment of patients with cardiovascular disease of excellence. generation of health innovators. following a cardiovascular event Science Education •C ardiovascular Risk Factors Research Partnerships and Programs to Support The Amgen Foundation is dedicated to advancing Partnership—a collaboration with the CDC Healthcare Systems excellence in science education to inspire the Foundation and Oxford University to sponsor Our health system strengthening programs seek next generation of innovators and has donated researchers to conduct observational studies to build healthcare capabilities to enhance the way nearly $150 million to advancing science education on cardiovascular epidemiology in Cuba, India, healthcare can be delivered and improve patient globally. The Amgen Foundation’s initiatives to Mexico and Russia and advance the availability outcomes. Programs include collaborations with improve access to science education globally of a point-of-care testing device to improve lipid providers, diagnostic companies, medical societies, include LabXchange, a partnership with Harvard testing in over 25 countries digital technology companies, academia, payers University, and our collaboration with the Khan and others. Including the progress made in 2018, Academy. See the Community section of this report Patient Programs and Education we are currently implementing programs in 36 for more information on Amgen’s efforts to advance Amgen uses patient support programs to help countries, including Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, science education. patients with their disease journey. Such programs India, Mexico and Thailand. can include patient education on their disease, administration support of and adherence to Example programs include: treatment, managing side effects and navigating •F racture Care Coordination programs to provide reimbursement processes. We also provide the care required to prevent additional fractures transportation assistance outside of the United in patients who recently broke a bone States to medical appointments for mobilityimpaired patients in certain countries. These Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 11 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ACCESS TO MEDICINE Product Donations demonstrating alignment with well-established We believe that donations of medicine can play global health needs. Recognizing the importance a role in meeting an immediate need for patients of regulatory systems to review biosimilar products, in LMICs who cannot currently afford biologic Amgen is working closely with a wide range of medicines. We are therefore committed to finding stakeholders to help middle-income countries opportunities to partner with organizations that can establish regulatory frameworks to evaluate meet the unique challenges of distributing and biosimilars and enable safe use of these potentially delivering donated biologic medicines in parts of cost-saving therapies. the world with limited access to these medicines. Access to Investigational Medicines: We have a R&D, Manufacturing and Distribution process in place to provide access to therapeutics The growing burden of noncommunicable that are still in clinical trials to patients with serious diseases is a pressing global health issue. Amgen diseases for which no alternate therapy exists. PRODUCT DONATIONS TO SUPPORT medicines and drug candidates in research address More information can be found on www.amgen.com. CANCER CARE IN 18 COUNTRIES noncommunicable disease, such as cancer, In 2018, through a corporate donation, Amgen In 2018, Amgen donated US $93 million of NEUPOGEN® cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, migraines contributed $2 million to the Lazarex Cancer (filgrastim), Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim) and Vectibix® and kidney disease with high prevalence in LMICs. Foundation’s IMPACT (IMproving Patient Access (panitumumab) to Direct Relief to serve approximately 7,400 low-income patients. Direct Relief distributes the medicines to Cancer Clinical Trials) program, which is focused through a network of high-quality cancer hospitals and Investment in Biosimilars: Amgen is a leader in on improving patient enrollment, retention, minority clinics across 18 lowand middle-income countries, developing and manufacturing biosimilars that will participation and equitable access in oncology trials. including African countries such as Ethiopia, Ghana, enable us to provide more affordable treatment Malawi, Senegal, Tanzania and Uganda. options for patients around the world suffering “Direct Relief is deeply appreciative to Amgen for from certain types of cancers, inflammatory its leadership and initiative in providing critical treatments conditions or rare genetic disorders. Three of our to underserved cancer patients globally,” said Thomas biosimilar medicines are listed on the World Health TO LEARN MORE Tighe, president and chief executive officer of Direct Relief. about our biosimilars program, visit “Cancer patients who would otherwise not be able to access Organization’s Model List of Essential Medicines, www.amgenbiosimilars.com. many important therapies will be able to receive these advanced biologic medicines.” Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 12 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ACCESS TO MEDICINE Product Distribution Amgen Access to Medicine Programs in Lowand Middle-Income Countries Product distribution can be challenging in LMICs that have less developed infrastructure. To reach patients in such countries, Amgen uses co-marketing agreements and distributors. Amgen is committed to improve mechanisms for distribution to make products available on a worldwide basis for patients suffering from grievous illness. Amgen also partners with nonprofit organizations, such as Direct Relief, to reach patients through product donations, an example being our 2018 donation for products serving cancer care highlighted in this section. When working with these partners, we support them in developing the capabilities needed to ensure that the transport, handling and administration of these biologic medicines will maintain the quality needed for treatment of patients. “Reaching patients around the world who can benefit from our therapies and enabling patient Pricing and Patient Support Product Donations access to our products are integral components China, Egypt, Thailand Armenia, Cambodia, Dominican Republic, Ghana, Honduras, India, Jamaica, Malawi, Nepal, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Senegal, Tanzania, UseUganda of Amgen’s mission and long-term strategy.” 1 Amgen Proprietary—Internal Only —C L A E S H O RNST R AND, V I C E PRE SIDENT, GLOB A L VA LUE, ACCESS A ND POL ICY Health System Strengthening R&D, Manufacturing and Distribution Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, India, Algeria, Brazil, Cambodia, Colombia, Egypt, Jordan, Indonesia, Iran, Lebanon, Mexico, Peru, Romania, Thailand Malaysia, Morocco, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, Tunisia, Vietnam FOR MORE INFORMATION Amgen has numerous programs to help patients access our medicines who otherwise couldn’t afford them. This map specifically on Amgen’s Access to Medicine approach and the many shows Amgen’s programs to improve access to our medicines in certain lowand middle-income countries. ways we serve patients, please see Access to Medicine, Lowand Middle-Income Countries (with no programs) High-Income Countries (programs not mapped) Our Approach to Pricing, Access and Affordability and Amgen’s Commitment to Patients on www.amgen.com. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 13 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING BUSINESS ETHICS Doing the right thing is central to our mission to serve This Compliance Committee oversees the Amgen provides a framework for successful patients. At Amgen, doing the right thing means operations of a Compliance Council and ensures implementation of its compliance program based on more than just following our compliance policies. that compliance performance is part of executive core elements from the OIG Compliance Program It also means truly living the Amgen values, which management reviews. The Compliance Council, Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, such include being ethical, trusting and respecting each chaired by the chief compliance officer, is a as a designated compliance officer and compliance other, ensuring quality and being science-based. It’s cross-functional body that analyzes compliance committee, written policies and procedures and a privilege to work at a company focused on helping obligations and activities, implements program providing effective training and education. We patients with serious diseases, and this is a privilege improvements and provides information to the augment these elements with additional tenets we do not take lightly. Our business is built on an CRCC. The Compliance Council is comprised of we believe to be important, such as elevating unwavering commitment to integrity and compliance, senior level compliance professionals who are compliance leadership to be an integral part which is demonstrated by our staff members every selected by the Compliance Committee to represent of executive performance reviews. day through their words, decisions and actions. each functional area. The chief compliance officer, who reports directly to Amgen’s chairman These tenets are put into action through Amgen’s and chief executive officer and who oversees Code of Conduct and Business Conduct Hotline, Compliance Governance Amgen’s Worldwide Compliance & Business Ethics compliance websites and training courses, Amgen’s Our ethical culture starts at the highest levels Program, oversees the ongoing operations of the compliance policies, guidance from managers of leadership and is integrated at every level of company’s Compliance program and reports on the and dedicated compliance professionals, internal our business. To guide us, Amgen has created a effectiveness of the program to the CRCC. monitoring and auditing and investigating detected tiered compliance governance structure, to ensure problems, undertaking corrective actions and a company-wide commitment to compliance. Supporting and Reinforcing Our Compliance Culture applying disciplinary measures where appropriate. The Corporate Responsibility and Compliance As Bob Bradway, our chairman and chief executive Committee (CRCC) of the board of directors has officer, reminds us, conducting ourselves in ultimate oversight for the company’s compliance principled ways is core to our mission. There are no program. An internal Compliance Committee, shortcuts. The Worldwide Compliance & Business chaired by Amgen’s chairman and chief executive Ethics Program facilitates Amgen’s success by officer and comprised of Amgen’s Operating Team, diligently partnering with functions across our ensures Amgen’s steadfast culture of compliance business to create effective solutions within the FOR MORE INFORMATION Visit Business Ethics on www.amgen.com. and business ethics are the foundation of the framework of regulatory requirements in order to company’s strategy, goals and objectives. provide clear and practical rules and guidelines. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 14 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING BUSINESS ETHICS Promoting Ethical Business Practices • Internal communications on business ethics, “At Amgen, maintaining a culture of integrity At Amgen, we understand that promoting a including an Ethics Quarterly Newsletter, targeted and ethics is critical to the success of our culture of compliance and ethical operations is communications campaign on the topic of business. Our commitment to these values, as a continuous process. So, in addition to our “Speaking Up” and internal Amgen portal on well as our focus on serving patients, ensures Policies, Practices and Disclosures, we Ethical Leadership we make sound decisions that fulfill our implement a wide range of activities and •M  anager trainings on special responsibilities responsibilities.” programs to promote ethical business practices. for promoting and supporting ethical and — C Y N T H I A M . PAT T O N , S E N I O R V I C E P R E S I D E N T A N D C H I E F CO M P L I A N C E O F F I C E R compliant conduct In 2018, highlights of those activities included: •P  eriodic surveys to measure employee •C ode of Conduct training completion by 100% perceptions of the compliance program FOR MORE INFORMATION of staff and ethical culture Visit How We Operate on www.amgen.com. •G lobal Ethics & Compliance Declaration Program, which calls for leaders in selected roles to execute These activities serve to reinforce Amgen’s an ethics and compliance engagement plan and commitment to operating in a compliant and sign an annual declaration ethical manner. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 15 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING BUSINESS ETHICS Supplier Sustainability and Supplier Diversity Amgen also has a Supplier Diversity Program that As part of Amgen’s commitment to sustainability is designed to provide opportunities to small and and diversity, we require our suppliers to conduct diverse businesses. One of the key efforts within our their business in alignment with our mission and Supplier Diversity Program is participation in events values. Amgen’s Supplier Sustainability Program that are designed as a platform for connecting is not only focused on suppliers’ commitment corporations with small and diverse businesses. to quality, cost and reliability but also on a wide Amgen is a corporate member of various national range of sustainability and social responsibility and local organizations that support supplier considerations, such as business ethics, labor diversity, such as the National Minority Supplier and human rights and environmental impacts. Development Council (NMSDC), the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), Amgen, through a third-party service, annually Diversity Alliance for Science (DA4S), Diversity: assesses and monitors sustainability performance IN and National LGBT Chamber of Commerce of key suppliers and continues to expand the (NGLCC). Supplier Diversity professionals at Amgen program, reflecting our global growth. This are actively serving on the board of directors annual assessment provides Amgen insights and various committees of the above-mentioned into our suppliers’ sustainability-related activities organizations. Amgen’s Supplier Diversity Program and facilitates a dialogue with suppliers about leader Jinus Moghbeli Pashai is the current opportunities to further enhance or focus their president of Diversity Alliance for Science and sustainability activities. was recognized as the Spirit of Diversity Award recipient by Southern California Minority Supplier In the area of conflict minerals, Amgen will continue Development Council (SCMSDC) in 2018. to seek to identify, reduce and ultimately eliminate the use of conflict minerals—those that directly or FOR MORE INFORMATION indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the Visit Supplier Sustainability in Responsibility on Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding www.amgen.com. countries—in its products. The identification of potential use of conflict minerals in our supply chain is integrated into our Supplier Sustainability Program. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 16 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMUNITY Amgen is a values-based company, engaged in to scientific education and resources. The following since its inception almost 30 years ago. The program discovering and developing medicines for patients are highlights of existing and new science education empowers teachers to bring biotechnology into their with serious illnesses. By extension, Amgen, along programs for 2018: classrooms by providing hands-on molecular biology with our philanthropic arm the Amgen Foundation, curricula, tools and professional development training. • The Amgen Foundation became the founding sponsor contributes to the greater good in communities of the new LabXchange online platform, awarding • Nearly 200 educators participated in an Amgen around the world. $6.5 million to Harvard University to develop, launch Foundation–sponsored webinar from Khan and grow this platform that increases student Academy. As a Science Partner of Khan Academy, The Amgen Foundation, the main channel for Amgen’s access to online lab-based learning. Amgen the Amgen Foundation has provided $3.7 million in corporate philanthropy efforts, has helped to make scientists will play key advisory roles to enhance the funding to date, contributing to the creation of more the excitement of the sciences, the promise of impact of the platform with a virtual lab that integrates than 300 videos, 123 deep practice exercises and science, technology, engineering and mathematics dynamic experimental simulations with background 243 articles on the topic of biology. The free, online (STEM) education and the provision of essential curriculum and social networking. resource provides access to educational content social services more accessible to members of • The Amgen Scholars Program expanded with in multiple subjects, including biology, to 70 million our communities. To date, the Foundation has a new four-year, $21 million commitment, bringing users across more than 190 countries. contributed more than $300 million to local, regional and international nonprofit organizations that reflect the program to a total of 24 elite institutions across Amgen’s core values and complement the company’s the United States, Europe, Asia and, for the first dedication to positively impacting lives. time, Australia and Canada. Through a 16-year, $74 million commitment from the Amgen Foundation, Amgen Scholars enables young scientists from Support of Science Education across the globe to enage in cutting-edge research The Amgen Foundation is primarily focused on inspiring experiences and learn more about biotechnology and the scientists of tomorrow and advancing scientific drug discovery. For the past two years, 30 percent literacy. The Foundation advances this vision through of Amgen Scholars have self-reported as being Pell a number of hands-on and virtual experiences for Grant recipients. students and teachers. The Foundation is especially • The Amgen Biotech Experience, now available committed to reaching diverse and underserved in 20 regions around the world, has reached nearly populations that might not otherwise have access 700,000 students, 1,500 teachers and 850 schools Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 17 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMUNITY • The Amgen Foundation provided a $100K grant to Supporting Communities Around the World The Amgen Foundation provides programs and advance STEM priorities for Teach For All network In addition to the strategic science education programs resources to empower individual Amgen staff in their partners in Brazil, Colombia and Mexico. Teach For All developed and implemented by the Amgen Foundation, charitable giving. These programs include Amgen is a global network of 48 independent, locally led and Amgen and Amgen staff contribute to a variety of Volunteers, through which volunteering by staff in the governed partner organizations that each work to recruit charitable organizations and efforts throughout the world. United States and Puerto Rico triggers a donation from and develop promising future leaders to teach in their the Amgen Foundation, a Matching Gifts Program, nations’ under-resourced schools and communities. A major highlight of Amgen’s charitable giving in 2018 which provides a 1:1 match for staff donations to • Along with the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the was a joint initiative in which we donated $93 million eligible nonprofit organizations from $50 up to $20,000 Amgen Foundation sponsored a major new National worth of Amgen cancer treatments and supportive care annually per staff member, and Amgen Impact Day, Academies report on how investigation and design can medicines for distribution to patients in 18 developing which gives all fulland part-time regular active staff improve student learning in science and engineering. countries through the nonprofit organization Direct members up to eight hours of paid time off per calendar Relief. This is in addition to the programs Amgen year to volunteer in support of an effort of their choice. Details of these and other Amgen Foundation– provides to support access to our medicines for Staff donations plus matching funds from the Amgen sponsored programs that improve access to clinically and financially eligible patients in the United Foundation totaled $4 million in 2018. Staff volunteered science education around the world can be States (through the Amgen Safety Net Foundation) more than 19,000 recorded hours overall in 2018. found on www.amgeninspires.org. and abroad. See the Access to Medicine section for more information on these efforts. 7 MILLION + STUDENTS reached through compelling hands-on and virtual experiences in science Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 18 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMUNITY As a multifaceted, global company, Amgen’s charitable We were proud to be recognized with the Corporate organizations providing help. The Amgen Foundation giving efforts are numerous and diverse. Some of the many Social Responsibility Program of the Year award for then pledged $500,000 to support victims of the local and varied global charitable efforts in 2018 included: a second year in a row by the Ireland Pharma wildfires in Ventura and Los Angeles counties. Staff • Support by our site in Canada of the Advanced Industry organization. made additional donations through the Amgen Disaster Coronary Treatment Foundation, which has provided Relief program totaling nearly $105,000 of support in free, life-saving CPR and defibrillator skills to 4.2 Responding to Crisis and Recovering From Disasters response to these tragic circumstances, which were million youth at 1,790 high schools across the country 2018 was a year that tested the resolve of many Amgen also matched by the Amgen Foundation’s Disaster staff. The community of our global headquarters, Relief Matching Gifts program. • Collection and donation of aluminum can tabs by staff Thousand Oaks, California, was impacted with a mass at our Singapore manufacturing site to be made into shooting at a local establishment and with fires that prosthetic limbs by the Prostheses Foundation erupted in the surrounding hills and burned for many of H.R.H. the Princess Mother, an NGO that collects days. Amgen’s strong and supportive culture shone and processes these tabs in combination with other through as staff rose in support of the Thousand strong metals to produce prosthetic legs that are Oaks community. provided to amputees of all races and religions free of charge Many staff gave blood to local hospitals and wrote • Nearly 100 percent participation by staff at our hundreds of cards and notes to victims of disaster, manufacturing site in Dun Laoghaire, Ireland, in both within the company and in the community. Some their Helping Hands staff philanthropy program staff, trained in emergency first response, served as • A 500-kilometer bike ride from London to Paris by volunteers in local areas impacted by the fires. 15 dedicated riders from our Dublin, Uxbridge and Cambridge offices over four days in September, After the shooting tragedy, the Amgen Foundation raising more than £25,000 for myeloma research made a direct donation of $250,000 to the Ventura County Community Foundation for the Conejo Valley Victims Fund to support the victims, families and Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 19 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMUNITY Puerto Rico Se Levanta: Puerto Rico Rises The Foundation will continue this strategic process In 2018, Puerto Rico, home to Amgen’s largest to distribute the remaining dedicated funds toward manufacturing facility, continued its slow recovery recovery efforts. from Hurricane Maria, which devastated the island in the fall of 2017. Directly following the disaster, Amgen The hurricane had lasting impacts not only to major committed $3 million in immediate relief, which went institutions in Puerto Rico but also to staff, their families to the International Medical Corps, Direct Relief, and their communities. Staff at our site in Juncos along Americares, the CDC Foundation, the Puerto Rico with Amgen’s Government Affairs team coordinated a Community Foundation and the American Kidney community relief effort in partnership with SOMOS, Inc. Fund. Amgen also committed up to $2 million to and members of the New York State Assembly that support recovery efforts. helped more than 40 families in the La Hormiga sector, an isolated area in Juncos that was severely impacted In 2018, Amgen Foundation representatives met with by the hurricane. Amgen staff and their family members members of the Puerto Rican government to determine made an especially strong showing for the International the most strategic and impactful ways to focus its Coastal Cleanup volunteering event in September. $2 million commitment to recovery and rebuilding in Puerto Rico. Through this coordinated work, “Amgen’s philanthropic efforts have expanded the Foundation directed the first $1 million toward along with the company’s growing presence the reconstruction of educational institutions in around the world. We are proud to bring the Amgen’s hometown of Juncos: the Juana Sánchez promise of science education and numerous Montessori School, Roberto Silva School and community support programs to more Pedro Bosh School. The Foundation also provided a people.” grant to the Mayagüez and Humacao campuses of — E D U A R D O C E T L I N , P R E S I D E N T A M G E N F O U N D AT I O N A N D H E A D O F the University of Puerto Rico to rebuild and improve PHILANTHROPY student science laboratories and academic facilities. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 20 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT At Amgen, we have a strong commitment to Our Targets environmentally sustainable operations and have We set our 2020 environmental targets by establishing met three of our 2020 targets ahead of schedule. reduction quantities based on our 2012 baseline The 2020 targets are our second set of performance. We have created a portfolio of projects environmental targets since 2008. We integrate and initiatives that we implement to achieve the sustainable practices throughout our business in targeted reductions. We track progress toward our alignment with our 2020 Environmental Sustainability targets through verified results from these improvement Plan. Our staff work to reduce Amgen’s environmental projects, without influence from growth or contraction footprint through strategic thinking, technology and in our business. With achievement of all of our 2020 sustainable practices. We have demonstrated that targets on the horizon, in 2018 we began preparing environmentally sustainable operations benefit our for our next set of environmental targets. overall operations. 2020 Target Progress Through 2018 Carbon Reduce 3,000 metric tons (MT) of fleet carbon 20% of 2012 baseline 3,200 MT Carbon Reduce 38,500 metric tons (MT) of facility carbon 10% of 2012 baseline 42,000 MT Waste Reduce 1,490 metric tons (MT) of waste to landfill or incineration 35% of 2012 baseline 1,300 MT Water Reduce 269,000 cubic meters (CM) 10% of 2012 baseline 278,000 CM 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 2012 Baseline 2020 Target Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 21 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Reducing Carbon Through Energy Conservation based projects, we also take steps to reduce carbon • Expansion of our smart and integrated facility Amgen implements a comprehensive carbon reduction output from our business by encouraging alternative monitoring system to six Amgen sites. This awardstrategy that encompasses strategic elimination of methods of commuting to work, such as carpooling winning system has helped our engineers identify energy use, increasing energy efficiency and increasing and providing electric vehicle charging stations at conservation opportunities that reduced 83,000 the proportion of energy used from renewable and some facilities. At the end of 2018, we had exceeded gigajoules (GJ) of energy, reduced 5,400 MT of alternative sources. We complete projects and our 2020 carbon targets for fleet vehicles and facility carbon and saved $1.3 million. incorporate innovations that provide substantial returns operations. We are continuing to work through our • Installation of latest-generation, high-efficiency chillers for both energy savings and carbon reduction across portfolio of identified carbon reduction opportunities at our site in Ireland are conserving 2,700 GJ of our network of facilities around the world. We have for 2019 as we finalize our next generation of energy per year and reducing 315 MT of carbon. realized savings of $30 million in operating costs environmental targets. •O  ptimization of the heating, ventilation and air annually and reduced carbon emissions by 126,000 conditioning system at our laboratories in San Francisco metric tons (MT), or 30 percent, from 2007 through Highlights of our energy and carbon program in resulted in annualized savings of 28,600 GJ of energy 2018, by implementing energy conservation and 2018 include: and 1,300 MT of carbon and saved $418,000. carbon reduction projects. In addition to operations132 19 500 14 8 10 430 1,017 84 84 20 34 42 400 84 84 Scope 1 Sources Natural Gas 84 300 84 84 Diesel Carbon Emissions Propane 200 Carbon Emissions Avoided* 416 385 363 354 369 291 278 263 From 2007 Through 2012 Scope 2 Sources 100 Carbon Emissions 937 Fossil Fuel Avoided* 2013+ Renewables *Value represents year-over-year, 748 Nuclear 0 cumulative and continuing avoidance. 1 Nonspecified 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 Energy Use by Source (1,000 GJ) Carbon Emissions and Carbon Emissions Reduced Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 MT) Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 22 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Conserving a Precious Resource We have reduced annual water usage through projects Highlights of our water conservation program We strive to conserve water—a vital component in the eliminating 964,000 CM, or 29 percent, since 2007. in 2018 include: manufacture of our medicines. We have developed As of the end of 2018, we have exceeded our 2020 • Ongoing use of next-generation biomanufacturing water-saving practices and strategic projects based target for water conservation. We are continuing to technologies that reduce the volume of water required on assessments of our water use and available work through our portfolio of identified water reduction to maintain manufacturing equipment and spaces opportunities for conservation. Our total water use opportunities for 2019 as we finalize our next company-wide in 2018 decreased from 2017. Water • Conservation of approximately 6,000 CM of water per generation of environmental targets. conservation projects implemented in 2018 resulted in year, resulting from a systems cooling tower upgrade an additional 12,300 cubic meters (CM) of annual water reduction to achieve a total reduction in water use of 278,000 CM since establishing our 2020 targets. 4,000 3,500 19 142 36 203 266 278 3,000 686 686 686 686 686 686 2,500 686 Water Intake 2,000 1,500 Water Intake Avoided* From 2007 Through 2012 3,286 2,720 2,725 2,487 2,520 2,351 2,320 2,093 1,000 Water Intake Avoided* 2013+ 500 *Value represents year-over-year, 0 cumulative and continuing avoidance. 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Water Intake and Intake Avoided Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 CM) Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 23 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Increasing Recycling, Reducing Waste annual waste reduction to achieve a total of 1,297 MT them for industrial uses, including benches in use at We strive to recycle and eliminate waste within the since establishing our 2020 targets. We have reduced these sites. constraints of our regulated biopharmaceutical annual waste generation through projects eliminating • In 2018, our use of reusable packaging systems business and availability of municipal services. Our staff 2,400 MT, or 24 percent, since 2007. reduced solid waste by 98 percent compared to have identified and implemented innovative, creative using disposable packaging systems associated with ways to reduce and eliminate waste, including practices Highlights of our waste reduction and recycling our clinical shipments. While this does not directly to increase recycling of plastics used in manufacturing, program for 2018 include: impact Amgen’s waste generation, it does help to changing packaging and shipping systems and • Expansion of our program to recycle plastics reduce waste generated at locations where these increasing composting. Total waste generation used in labs and manufacturing at our Cambridge, medicines are shipped. company-wide decreased slightly in 2018 compared Massachusetts, research facility. Overall, this with 2017. Waste reduction projects implemented in program, in place at three of our sites, diverted 468 2018 resulted in an additional 259 metric tons (MT) of MT of these plastics from the landfill and repurposed 320 441 688 850 1038 1297 100% 1,094 1,094 90% 1,094 1,094 1,094 1,094 Waste Reduced* 3,542 1,094 80% from 2013+ 70% 4,762 4,493 4,501 5,235 5,517 Waste Reduced* from 60% 4,790 4,625 2007 Through 2012 50% Recycled, Composted 40% and Reused 30% 20% 6,604 4,256 4,287 4,429 4,819 4,814 5,067 5,016 Disposed 10% *Value represents year-over-year, cumulative and continuing avoidance. 0 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Routine Waste by Waste Hierarchy (MT) Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 24 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Sustainable by Design A Reusable Shipping Solution for Amgen’s evaluating the feasibility of significantly expanding its In line with our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Plan, Precious Cargo compost program at the Thousand Oaks location. To we’ve integrated environmentally sustainable practices Amgen medicines are precious cargo that require raise awareness about composting among staff, we throughout our complex, global business. specialized packaging to maintain specific temperatures created and installed a demonstration garden and and product quality when they are shipped for compost site where we are composting landscape Data Science Approach to Energy distribution to patients. To create superior temperature waste and coffee grounds from break rooms for use Conservation Evolves controls and to reduce packaging waste from as a soil amendment on adjacent plants and trees. Amgen is a pioneer in our industry in the use of a disposable packaging systems, Amgen implemented a data collection and monitoring system to assess system using reusable packaging cubes. These durable “I am pleased that we have been able to elevate the performance of the utilities that consume the most systems—in use in more than 90 percent of our clinical visibility of sustainability among our Thousand Oaks energy in our buildings. This system, an Association network and in 5 percent of our commercial network staff and also engage with the city to improve services of Energy Engineers 2017 Energy Project of the Year as of the end of 2018—can be reused multiple times, that will help us make greater progress towards our award winner, allows us to collect and scan hundreds which makes them far more environmentally friendly. environmental targets. We continually search for ways of thousands of data points from utilities, such as In 2018, through this innovative approach, Amgen to become a more environmentally friendly company,” heating, ventilation and air conditioning. This form of reduced solid waste that would have formerly been said Margaret Faul, vice president, Drug Product. artificial intelligence helps us spot inefficiencies and generated at locations receiving the medicine. problems with utilities and identify opportunities to make fixes and improvements that lead to large energy, Collaborating With the Community water and financial savings. In implementation since to Expand Composting 2016, the longer we use this system, the more we In 2018, Amgen stepped up its commitment to learn. The opportunities we have identified through the practice of composting at its Thousand Oaks, 2018 have resulted in conservation of 189,000 California, headquarters. Amgen staff worked with the gigajoules of energy and reductions of 12,000 city of Thousand Oaks and the city’s franchise waste metric tons of carbon. hauler to evaluate compost infrastructure and expand composting services in the community. As a result of this collaboration and service expansion, Amgen is Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 25 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING WORKPLACE Amgen aspires to be the world’s best human With the firm belief that an environment of inclusion local chapters at Amgen’s sites around the world. therapeutics company. In support of this goal, we fosters innovation and drives our ability to serve This new structure is meant to amplify the program’s place significant value on fostering and enabling patients, in 2018 we expanded our approach to reach among staff across the globe and allow for growth for staff, both personally and professionally. creating a diverse and inclusive work environment. program consistency and scale. We are committed to providing a safe, healthy, We set new goals and have implemented a strategy innovative and diverse work environment for to leverage our diversity and create a more inclusive In addition to our new D&I structure, we reinforced our staff. workplace. Globally, we have prioritized increasing our D&I program with a number of panels, the percentage of women in management and leadership forums, workshops and small-group executive roles. In the United States, we are also sessions in 2018 aimed at building bridges, Building a Culture of Diversity and Inclusion focused on increasing the percentage of African increasing communication and broadening At Amgen, we have long understood the importance Americans in scientific positions and the percentage perspectives. With topics that included “Race in of creating an environment in which people from of African Americans and Hispanics in executive the Workplace” and “Courageous Conversations,” diverse backgrounds can do great things together. director and above roles. In addition, we are looking these forums were intended to raise awareness Our first product, EPOGEN®, was discovered for ways to increase the participation of disabled of the importance of diversity and an inclusive in 1983 by a team led by a young Taiwanese persons and veterans in our workforce. environment and better integrate diverse people immigrant to the United States named Fu-Kuen and viewpoints at Amgen. Lin. Our first patent was awarded in 1985 to Dr. We have an Executive Diversity & Inclusion Margery Nicolson, a trailblazing female scientist (D&I) Council that is chaired by our CEO, Bob and researcher, helping to pave the way for Bradway, and is composed of his direct reports. NEUPOGEN®, Amgen’s second product. Today, Each member of the Executive D&I Council has a 52 percent of our staff globally are women, and sponsorship role with the company’s nine Employee 35 percent of our staff in the United States Resource Groups (ERGs), in which approximately are minorities. 4,000 staff members participate. In 2018, the ERGs evolved from a site-based to a global program, with Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 26 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING WORKPLACE A Commitment to Diversity Extends Our Culture of Safety Beyond the Workplace We embrace our culture of safety and, in doing so, At our annual Safety Summit, which brings We are also committed to improving equity in protect one of our greatest assets—our staff. We together leaders from Research and Development society, particularly at the intersection of healthcare strive to integrate safety throughout our business (R&D) and Operations, we were proud to host Dr. and diversity. In 2018, through a corporate processes. We are building a culture of reliability Scott Geller, Alumni Distinguished Professor of donation, Amgen contributed $2 million to the and resilience based on a foundation of established Psychology at Virginia Tech. A world-renowned Lazarex Cancer Foundation’s IMPACT (IMproving safety management practices supported by the safety expert, he spoke to our leadership on his Patient Access to Cancer Clinical Trials) program, latest research in behavioral safety. As of 2018, all research involving the concept of “Actively Caring.” which is focused on improving patient enrollment, of our manufacturing sites are using a behaviorLeaders incorporated Dr. Geller’s safety leadership retention, minority participation and equitable based safety approach, focused on reinforcing principles as part of their annual safety plans access in oncology trials. We are also working desired safety behaviors and diminishing for 2019. to bring Science, Technology, Engineering and unsafe behavior through the practice of positive Math (STEM) resources to diverse and low-income reinforcement. We implemented a revitalized “Evolving into a safety culture of resilience student populations in the United States and in campaign to focus on safety behaviors across the requires engagement at all levels so that developing nations in the world through online and organization, looking not only at how we work but looking out for each other is what we in-the-classroom programs. You can learn more also how we get around day to day, such as driving instinctively do.” about these efforts in the Community and Access and walking in parking structures on our campuses. — D AV I D R E E S E , E X E C U T I V E V I C E P R E S I D E N T, R E S E A R C H A N D D E V E LO P M E N T to Medicine sections of this report. In addition to our safety programs and campaigns, “All of us have such an important role to play we also set goals and measure against them. In in shaping a culture that shows trust and 2018, we set a safety goal of 0.27 incidents or less respect for all and demonstrates our true per 100 staff. Though we fell short of meeting that belief in the strength we have in our diversity. goal (with a rate of 0.41), we continue to focus on new and improved ways to promote staff safety. It is through our collective actions, large and We surpassed our goal for contractor safety of small, that we will continue to do our best to 0.7 incidents or less per 100 contractors, ending serve patients.” the year with a rate of 0.42. This was a marked — R O B E R T A . B R A D WAY, C H A I R M A N A N D C H I E F E X E C U T I V E O F F I C E R improvement over our 2017 rate of 0.73. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 27 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING WORKPLACE Wellness and the Work Environment As an extension of our focus on a healthy workplace We empower staff to pursue healthy lifestyles, culture, CEO Robert Bradway is a member of the providing access to health promotion resources American Heart Association (AHA) CEO Roundtable, and facilities, including fitness facilities and a leadership collaborative of more than 35 CEOs memberships, healthy eating options and many dedicated to improving cardiovascular health in wellness-oriented promotions and events their workplaces and in local communities. The CEO throughout the year. Roundtable is helping to scale up evidence-based standards and best practices to support the AHA’s Our science-based healthy eating and movement goal of achieving a 20 percent improvement in the program for staff intersects with our innovative cardiovascular health of all Americans by 2020. In activity-based office and lab design model. In 2018, 2018, Amgen was recognized with the AHA’s Gold we completed the rollout of this design model at Level Workplace Health Achievement award. our Thousand Oaks, California, world headquarters. Globally, renovations and new building construction Workplace Accolades are adopting this design approach. Our activityAmgen earned a number of prestigious recognitions based workspaces contain abundant natural light for workplace culture in 2018, including achieving for all occupants and a choice of flexible work 100 percent on Human Rights Campaign’s areas with ergonomic equipment adapted to the Corporate Equality Index and inclusion in Fortune variety of tasks staff perform throughout the day. magazine’s Most Admired Companies; Forbes This combination of state-of-the-art technology and magazine’s Best Large Employers, Best Employers flexible working environment is intended to foster for Diversity and Best Place for Millennials lists innovation and collaboration with a focus on quick for 2018; Forbes Magazine and Just Capital’s decision-making. “JUST 100” America’s Most Just Companies; and CareerBliss Happiest Companies in America. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 28 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Amgen communicates its progress in environmental sustainability most global of guidelines: the United Nations Global Compact Our environmental data include annual reporting on our overall and social responsibility in a variety of ways. We provide and Sustainable Development Goals. Throughout this report, energy and carbon, water, waste and sales fleet fuel efficiency information on our website, participate in industry conferences there are references to the relevant SDGs, and within this section performance. We include data gathered from 16 manufacturing, and workshops, provide information to external organizations there is a table showing alignment with the Global Compact. research and development and distribution facilities in North and produce annual reports. In addition to this report, we communicate additional information America, South America, Eurasia, Asia and Europe, representing through our corporate website: approximately 88 percent of our operations—based on our facilities’ square footage. The remaining square footage includes In determining what and how we report externally, Amgen •D  onations and grants made by the company and the primarily administrative offices. Recently acquired facilities are considers a wide range of international standards and guidelines, Amgen Foundation outside the scope of our reporting. Our 2018 environmental and including those developed by the Global Reporting Initiative, • Political contributions in the U.S. safety data have undergone limited assurance by Bureau Veritas CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), Sustainability • Disclosures in alignment with the European Federation of North America. Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the United Nations Global Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations codes of practice Compact and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Since • Securities and Exchange Commission—required there is no single, universally accepted standard for reporting, financial reporting Amgen has aligned the communication in this report with the • Responses to CDP climate change and water surveys • Environmental data Selected Company Performance Data Type Unit 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Energy (i) 1,000 GJ 4,341 3,849 3,817 3,706 3,812 3,535 3,709 3,284 Total Carbon From Energy (i) 1,000 MT CO2Eq 416 385 363 354 369 291 278 263 Total Water Withdrawal (i) 1,000 CM 3,286 2,720 2,725 2,487 2,520 2,351 2,320 2,093 Total Routine Waste (i) MT 10,146 9,018 8,780 8,929 10,054 10,330 9,856 9,642 Environmental Notices of Violation (NOVs) (ii) 1 NOV 8 2 2 6 1 1 1 3 Staff Injury and Illness Rate Incidents per 100 workers 0.81 0.56 0.57 0.42 0.37 0.44 0.36 0.41 Staff Lost Day Case Rate Incidents per 100 workers 0.25 0.17 0.11 0.12 0.12 0.14 0.13 0.14 Amgen Staff (FTE) People 17,500 17,900 20,000 17,900 17,900 19,200 20,800 21,500 Net Sales $ Millions 14,311 16,639 18,192 19,327 20,944 21,892 21,795 22,533 Non-GAAP Net Income (iii) $ Millions 4,804 5,119 5,814 6,700 7,954 8,785 9,246 9,573 Non-GAAP R&D Expenses (iii) $ Millions 3,064 3,296 3,929 4,121 3,917 3,755 3,482 3,657 For additional environment, safety and financial performance data, please see www.amgen.com. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 29 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Data Notes i) Please see Responsibility/Environment on www.amgen.com for an Independent Verification Statement for this data. Amgen has included data from 16 facilities covering energy and carbon, water and waste. The facilities represent approximately 88 percent of Amgen’s worldwide facility space based on total square feet. Included facilities are in Thousand Oaks, California, U.S.; West Greenwich, Rhode Island, U.S.; Juncos, Puerto Rico, U.S.; Louisville, Kentucky, U.S.; South San Francisco, California, U.S.; Cambridge and Woburn, Massachusetts, U.S.; Burnaby, Canada; Breda, Netherlands; Dun Laoghaire, Ireland; Uxbridge and Cambridge, United Kingdom; São Paulo, Brazil; Yenibosna and Sekerpinar, Turkey; and Tuas, Singapore. This includes leased buildings where we have operational control over building infrastructure, including utilities. ii) Environmental notices of violation (NOVs) reported that resulted from agency inspections. iii) Amgen Inc. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to non-GAAP Reconciliations (In millions) (Unaudited) Years ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2007 GAAP research and development expenses $ 3,737 $ 3,562 $ 3,840 $ 4,070 $ 4,297 $ 4,083 $ 3,380 $ 3,266 Adjustments to research and development expenses: Acquisition-related expenses (a) (78) (77) (78) (89) (124) (142) (50) (100) Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (b) (2) (3) (7) (64) (49) (12) (19) Stock option expense (3) (12) (22) (83) Total adjustments to research and development expenses (80) (80) (85) (153) (176) (154) (84) (202) Non-GAAP research and development expenses $ 3,657 $ 3,482 $ 3,755 $ 3,917 $ 4,121 $ 3,929 $ 3,296 $ 3,064 GAAP operating income $ 10,263 $ 9,973 $ 9,794 $ 8,470 $ 6,191 $ 5,867 $ 5,577 $ 3,980 Adjustments to operating income: Acquisition-related expenses (a) 1,557 1,594 1,510 1,377 1,546 986 470 1,016 Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (b) 12 88 37 114 596 71 347 739 Expense/(benefit) related to various legal proceedings 105 91 (3) 14 64 34 Stock option expense 16 34 59 181 Expense resulting from clarified guidance on branded prescription drug fee (c) 129 Other 25 3 120 Total adjustments to operating income 1,594 1,685 1,652 1,582 2,284 1,105 940 2,090 Non-GAAP operating income $ 11,857 $ 11,658 $ 11,446 $ 10,052 $ 8,475 $ 6,972 $ 6,517 $ 6,070 GAAP net income $ 8,394 $ 1,979 $ 7,722 $ 6,939 $ 5,158 $ 5,081 $ 4,345 $ 3,078 Adjustments to net income: Adjustments to operating income 1,594 1,685 1,652 1,582 2,284 1,105 940 2,090 Adjustments to other income (d) (68) 34 140 219 Income tax effect of the above adjustments (e) (362) (538) (525) (496) (717) (376) (329) (491) Other income tax adjustments (f) 15 6,120 (64) (71) (25) (30) 23 (92) Total adjustments to net income 1,179 7,267 1,063 1,015 1,542 733 774 1,726 Non-GAAP net income $ 9,573 $ 9,246 $ 8,785 $ 7,954 $ 6,700 $ 5,814 $ 5,119 $ 4,804 (a) The adjustments related primarily to noncash amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the adjustments to operating income also included impairments of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. (b) The adjustments related to headcount charges, such as severance, and to asset charges, such as asset impairments, accelerated depreciation and other charges related to the closure of our facilities. (c) The adjustment related to the recognition of an additional year of the nontax deductible branded prescription drug fee, as required by final regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service. (d) For the year ended December 31, 2018, the adjustment related to the net gain associated with the Kirin-Amgen share acquisition. For years ended December 31, 2012 and 2007, the adjustments related primarily to noncash interest expense associated with our convertible notes. (e) The tax effect of the adjustments between our GAAP and non-GAAP results takes into account the tax treatment and related tax rate(s) that apply to each adjustment in the applicable tax jurisdiction(s). Generally, this results in a tax impact at the U.S. marginal tax rate for certain adjustments, including the majority of amortization of intangible assets, whereas the tax impact of other adjustments, including restructuring expense, depends on whether the amounts are deductible in the respective tax jurisdictions and the applicable tax rate(s) in those jurisdictions. (f) The adjustments related to certain acquisition items and prior-period items excluded from GAAP earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the adjustment related primarily to the impact of U.S. Corporate tax reform, including the repatriation tax on accumulated foreign earnings and the remeasurement of certain net deferred and other tax liabilities. Amgen Inc. Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures The non-GAAP financial measures are derived by excluding certain amounts, expenses or income, from the corresponding financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. The determination of the amounts that are excluded from these non-GAAP financial measures is a matter of management judgment and depend upon, among other factors, the nature of the underlying expense or income amounts recognized in a given period. Historically, management has excluded the following items from these non-GAAP financial measures, and such items may also be excluded in future periods and could be significant: • Expenses related to the acquisition of businesses, including amortization and/or impairment of acquired intangible assets, including in-process research and development, adjustments to contingent consideration, integration costs, severance and retention costs and transaction costs; • Charges associated with restructuring or cost saving initiatives, including but not limited to asset impairments, accelerated depreciation, severance costs and lease abandonment charges; • Legal settlements or awards; • The tax effect of the above items; • Non-routine settlements with tax authorities; and • The impact of the adoption of the U.S. Corporate tax reform. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 30 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING UN Global Compact Communication •A  mgen met its 2020 targets for reducing carbon and sign a Declaration (includes a conflict of interest on Progress emissions and water use two years ahead of certification) annually demonstrating commitment to This 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report serves as schedule. (See the Environment section of this report ethics and compliance by Amgen and its leaders. Amgen’s Communication on Progress for the United for more details.) (See the Business Ethics section of this report for Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The statement from more details.) •T  he Amgen Foundation continued global expansion our chief executive officer at the beginning of the report • Amgen expanded health system strengthening of the Amgen Biotech Experience, which provides reaffirms our commitment to the principles of the UNGC, collaborations with providers, diagnostic companies, hands-on STEM education and to date has reached and much of the content throughout the report highlights medical societies, digital technology companies, nearly 700,000 students, 1,500 teachers and 850 progress in the four key areas of the UNGC: Environment, academia, payers and others. Currently programs are schools around the world. (See the Community section Labor, Human Rights and Anti-Corruption. In addition, this being implemented in 36 countries, such as Bulgaria, of this report for more details.) section includes a summary of our progress in 2018 most Colombia, Cuba, India, Mexico and Thailand. (See relevant to the UNGC, as well as a table that provides •A  mgen donated $93 million of NEUPOGEN®, the Access to Medicine section of this report for a listing of where additional information about relevant Neulasta® and Vectibix® to Direct Relief to provide more details.) programs and policies can be found. access to these medicines to approximately 7,400 patients across 18 lowand middle-income countries, Highlights of Progress such as Ethiopia, Ghana, Haiti, Nepal, Senegal, Many of Amgen’s programs, procedures, policies and Tanzania and Uganda. (See the Access to Medicine reporting are well aligned with the UNGC principles, section of this report for more details.) and we continue to work to enhance our approaches •A  mgen’s Employee Resource Groups evolved from and performance in alignment with those principles. a site-based to a global program, with local chapters Over the last 12 months, some of the progress that has at Amgen’s sites around the world. This new structure been achieved includes the following: is meant to amplify the program’s reach among staff •A mgen contributed $2 million to Lazarex’s IMPACT across the globe and allow for program consistency (IMproving Patient Access to Cancer Clinical Trials) and scale. (See the Workplace section of this report program, which is focused on improving patient for more details.) enrollment, retention, minority participation and •A  mgen implemented a Global Ethics & Compliance equitable access in oncology trials. (See the Access Declaration Program that calls for specific leaders to to Medicine section of this report for more details.) execute an ethics and compliance engagement plan Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 31 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Communication on Progress Summary of Relevant Reporting In addition to this report, Amgen provides extensive reporting on policies and progress aligned with the UNGC on our website. Below is a summary table providing links to existing reporting aligned with the major categories of UNGC principles. UNGC Principles Categories Amgen Policies, Programs and Reporting Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Responsibility Highlights Report Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility Staff Code of Conduct Diversity and Inclusion Access to Medicine Staff Health and Safety Staff Wellness Environment, Health and Safety Policy Non-Discrimination Environmental Sustainability Commitment Environmental Sustainability Performance Amgen Foundation Supplier Sustainability California Supply Chain Transparency Act Conflict Minerals Policy Conflict Minerals Report Supplier Diversity Anti-Corruption and U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Interactions with Healthcare Providers Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 32 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Communication on Progress Summary of Relevant Reporting (continued) UNGC Principles Categories Amgen Policies, Programs and Reporting Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Counterfeit Drugs Global Patient Safety Grants and Giving Antitrust and Unfair Competition Policy Dealing with the Government Policy Compliance Reporting and Non-Retaliation Insider Trading Policy Protection of Personal Information Policy Awards and Accolades Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 33 COMMITMENT ACCESS TO MEDICINE BUSINESS ETHICS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Forward-Looking Statements This communication contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current expectations and beliefs of Amgen. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including estimates of revenues, operating margins, capital expenditures, cash, other financial metrics, expected legal, arbitration, political, regulatory or clinical results or practices, customer and prescriber patterns or practices, reimbursement activities and outcomes and other such estimates and results. Forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and more fully described in the Securities and Exchange Commission reports filed by Amgen, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent periodic reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Unless otherwise noted, Amgen is providing this information as of the date of this communication and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may differ materially from those Amgen project. Amgen’s results may be affected by its ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally, clinical and regulatory developments involving current and future products, sales growth of recently launched products, competition from other products including biosimilars, difficulties or delays in manufacturing its products and global economic conditions. In addition, sales of Amgen’s products are affected by pricing pressure, political and public scrutiny and reimbursement policies imposed by thirdparty payers, including governments, private insurance plans and managed care providers and may be affected by regulatory, clinical and guideline developments and domestic and international trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment. Furthermore, Amgen’s research, testing, pricing, marketing and other operations are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign government regulatory authorities. Amgen or others could identify safety, side effects or manufacturing problems with its products, including its devices, after they are on the market. Amgen’s business may be impacted by government investigations, litigation and product liability claims. In addition, Amgen’s business may be impacted by the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. While Amgen routinely obtains patents for its products and technology, the protection offered by its patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by its competitors, or Amgen may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation. Amgen performs a substantial amount of its commercial manufacturing activities at a few key facilities, including in Puerto Rico, and also depends on third parties for a portion of its manufacturing activities, and limits on supply may constrain sales of certain of its current products and product candidate development. We rely on collaborations with third parties for the development of some of our product candidates and for the commercialization and sales of some of our commercial products. In addition, Amgen competes with other companies with respect to many of its marketed products as well as for the discovery and development of new products. Discovery or identification of new product candidates or development of new indications for existing products cannot be guaranteed and movement from concept to product is uncertain; consequently, there can be no guarantee that any particular product candidate or development of a new indication for an existing product will be successful and become a commercial product. Further, some raw materials, medical devices and component parts for Amgen’s products are supplied by sole third-party suppliers. Certain of Amgen’s distributors, customers and payers have substantial purchasing leverage in their dealings with Amgen. The discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of Amgen’s products that implicate an entire class of products could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on its business and results of operations. Amgen’s efforts to acquire other companies or products and to integrate the operations of companies Amgen has acquired may not be successful. A breakdown, cyberattack or information security breach could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of Amgen’s systems and Amgen’s data. Amgen’s stock price may be volatile and may be affected by a number of events. Amgen’s business performance could affect or limit the ability of the Amgen Board of Directors to declare a dividend or its ability to pay a dividend or repurchase its common stock. Amgen may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to it, or at all. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report 34 Amgen Inc. One Amgen Center Drive Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799 www.amgen.com © 2019 Amgen Inc. All rights reserved. May 2019.
