Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Period of Communication November 2018 to November 2019 we are Singapore Showroom Introduction Stylecraft has been providing furniture of original, contemporary design for over 65 years. First established in Melbourne, Australia in 1953 primarily as a commercial workstation provider, Stylecraft now has 10 showrooms around Australia and Asia, and represents over 20 exclusive European and Australian brands. We prioritise suppliers and manufacturers who are committed to sustainable practices, those with ISO14001 certification and products carrying European and Australian Brisbane Showroom Eco Label accreditation which contributes towards Greenstar, LEED & IWBI WELL certification schemes. Sydney Showroom Perth Showroom + Inhabit + StylecraftHOME Stylecraft value decisions leading to good practice for the Adelaide Showroom environment and the world we live in, and we aim to be Canberra Showroom transparent with reporting our sustainability practices. Melbourne Showroom + StylecraftHOME Our second year as a signatory to the UN Global Compact is now complete, and we would like to take this opportunity to report on our progress. Page 2 · UNGC Document on Progress · Introduction Letter of Commitment to Our Stakeholders To our stakeholders, 06.11.2019 I am pleased to confirm that Stylecraft reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment & Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Anthony Collins Managing Director Page 3 · UNGC Document on Progress · Letter of Committment to our Stakeholders Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation (cont.) Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft respects and supports social justice (Good Environmental Choice Australia) Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 1 and all internationally recognised human and which addresses social, legal and environmental legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should support labour rights. We operate in compliance to compliance for both the manufacturer and to any breaches to Human Rights in the past 12 and respect the protection of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) applicant company. months. internationally proclaimed human Conventions, and work to ensure human rights rights. are implemented within our own company In October 2018, Stylecraft engaged a We have successfully completed Third Party and those we do business with and/or have Sustainability Consultancy to undertake a Environmental certification for several product Principle 2 influence on. Social and Environmental Risk Assessment ranges and work closely with our suppliers and Make sure that they are not Analysis across our company and supply manufacturers, both locally and internationally, complicit in human rights abuses. Stylecraft is committed to providing a safe and chain to ensure compliance with the NSW / to grow the collection of certified product. healthy workplace for all employees, visitors and Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018, The Australian Ecolabel Program is based contractors and recognises the responsibilities and to support Stylecraft in meeting regulatory on the international standard ISO14024; and requirements placed on it by work health requirements and longer-term customer ‘Environmental Labels and Declarations – Targeted SDGs and safety legislation and codes of practice as expectations. Modern Slavery can include Type 1 Environmental Labelling’. set out in our Work Health & Safety Policy. human trafficking, servitude, child labour, sex trafficking, forced marriage, forced labour and The standard has been established to assess Fair working conditions and wages are debt bondage. product environmental criteria and product implemented throughout the company in line function characteristics, and for assessing and with the Fair Work Act 2009. The risk assessment was conducted using a demonstrating social, environmental and legal Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach that compliance. This includes the elimination of analysed the social impact across our suppliers, ingredients, designs, defects or side effects that Implementation their products, materials and countries which we could harm or threaten human life and health Using the Global Compact Risk Assessment procure from. during manufacturing, usage or disposal of Tool, we were able to track our progress from products. The standard contributes towards this time last year and are in the process of The final risk assessment results provided an SDGs 13 (Climate Action), 14 (Life Below developing our Human Rights and Antioverview and prioritisation of risk in our supply Water) and 15 (Life on Land). Corruption policies, as well as a Supplier chain with detailed information on high risk Questionnaire, Code of Conduct and suppliers, materials and countries from which we We remain committed to education and Scorecard. procure. training around Human and Labour Rights and continue to engage with our suppliers both We have successfully completed and continue We will be submitting our first Modern Slavery locally and internationally and use our influence to carry out independent auditing for Third Statement in 2020. where possible to ensure minimum human Party Product Certification through GECA rights are met. Page 4 · UNGC Document on Progress · Human Rights Labour UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft is committed to upholding the rights Using the Global Compact Risk Assessment Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 3 of our employees in relation to freedom of Tool, we were able to track our progress from legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should uphold the association and collective bargaining, forced, this time last year and are in the process of to any breaches to labour, anti-discrimination freedom of association and the compulsory or child labour and understands the developing our Human Rights and Antiand/or safety regulations in the past 12 months. effective recognition of the right to importance of having a diverse workforce. Corruption policies, as well as a Supplier collective bargaining; Questionnaire, Code of Conduct and Stylecraft is proud to employ a diverse We are proud to be an equal opportunity Scorecard. This will set out our expectations workforce, employing staff of various age Principle 4 employer, facilitating an inclusive environment and ensure that minimum human rights are met groups, cultures and ethnic backgrounds. The elimination of all forms of forced for all current and future employees where and monitored. We believe in gender equality, and currently and compulsory labour; diversity is celebrated. We are committed to have 57% women in the workforce, with 66% providing opportunities to the best candidates In October 2018, Stylecraft engaged a of women holding senior management or Principle 5 regardless of race, gender, culture, religion, Sustainability Consultancy to undertake a leadership positions. The abolition of child labour; sexual preference and age. Social and Environmental Risk Assessment Analysis across our company and supply To further show our support of women in our We believe in treating people with respect chain to ensure compliance with the NSW / industry, our National Sustainability Leader Principle 6 and dignity and do not tolerate acts of sexual Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018. hosted a Sustainability Workshop in Brisbane The elimination of discrimination harassment, intimidation or discrimination, Modern Slavery can include human trafficking, for Women in Design & Construction in respect of employment and whether direct or indirect. servitude, child labour, sex trafficking, forced (WIDAC) in June 2019, and gives regular occupation. marriage, forced labour and debt bondage. presentations to clients around the areas of Our expectations and policies for the above Sustainability and Modern Slavery. are set out in our Equal Opportunity and The final risk assessment results provided an Targeted SDGs Anti-Discrimination Policy. We are creating overview and prioritisation of risk in our supply Fair working conditions and wages are a new online handbook for staff on-boarding chain with detailed information on high risk implemented throughout the company in line and continued training, where all employees suppliers, materials and countries from which with the Fair Work Act 2009. We provide will have access to Stylecraft policies and we procure. training and upskilling for employees currently in procedures. our teams. We will be submitting our first Modern Slavery Charity Leave Day Entitlement Statement in 2020. As part of our ongoing commitment to Stylecraft employees are entitled to two improving employee relations at Stylecraft, we days leave annually to support a charity of We are working to develop a social impact and recently conducted an Employee Opinion their choice. Some of the charities we have Indigenous engagement program which will Survey. Results obtained will give our volunteered at include Dementia Australia, Fred be further supported by the development of a organisation valuable feedback on employee Hollows Foundation, and the Asylum Seeker Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). satisfaction and issues in the workplace. Resource Centre. We believe in the community involvement and professional development that Page 5 · UNGC Document on Progress · Labour comes from these initiatives. Environment UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft are committed to being a leader of Stylecraft gives priority to companies with Dedicated National Sustainability Leader Role Principle 7 sustainable practice within the furniture industry. ISO14001 certification, and products carrying In response to the increasing requirement for Businesses should support a We understand our social and environmental independent Eco Label accreditation. Stylecraft uninterrupted focus on the area of sustainability, precautionary approach to responsibilities and are constantly working and a number of our suppliers have successfully in October 2017 Stylecraft created the role of environmental challenges; to develop more sustainable and responsible completed Third Party Environmental National Sustainability Leader. With a focus on production of our products. Our mission certification such as GECA, AFRDI Green Tick, corporate and social responsibility, sustainable Principle 8 and initiatives are set out in the Stylecraft and Ecospecifier Global Green Tag for several procurement and supply chain due diligence, Undertake initiatives to Environmental Policy and include waste product ranges and we continue to work closely the National Sustainability Leader is currently promote greater environmental minimisation and energy management, supplier with our suppliers and manufacturers, both working to support Stylecraft’s sustainable, responsibility; management and product certification. locally and internationally, to grow our collection ethical and environmental commitments to of certified product. third party product certification, the United Principle 9 Nations Global Compact Ten Principles and Encourage the development and The Australian Ecolabel Program is based Global Goals, and more recently to ensure on the international standard ISO14024; they meet their requirements for the NSW / diffusion of environmentally friendly ‘Environmental Labels and Declarations Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018. technologies. – Type 1 Environmental Labelling’ which The role also involves the education of Stylecraft contributes towards SDGs 13 (Climate Action), team members, suppliers and clients within the 14 (Life Below Water) and 15 (Life on Land). design and construction industry on the details Targeted SDGs Third Party Environmental certification includes and importance of these commitments. verified evidence of reduction of emissions, hazardous materials and pollutants, details In June 2019, our Sustainability Leader of product stewardship and end of life, and participated in Climate Reality Leadership ensures social, legal and environmental Corps Training with former US Vice President, compliance for both the manufacturer and Al Gore, and as a Climate Reality Leader, applicant company. Greenstar Associate and WELL AP, is committed to continued education and In addition to the above, we are working to training for staff and clients by giving regular introduce a Sustainable Procurement Policy presentations and workshops around Australia. and Supplier Questionnaire in line with ISO20400 to ensure we continue to maintain sustainable design and production. We continue to seek opportunities to collaborate with suppliers and designers on new product designs using new environmental technologies and innovative materials. Page 6 · UNGC Document on Progress · Environment Environment UN Global Compact Principles Measurement of Outcomes (section continued on next page) Principle 7 Carbon Neutrality Participation in Clean Up Australia Day 54 kg of technology was collected from our Businesses should support a Over the past 12 years we have been neutralising The team at Stylecraft take a sustainable Head Office, with 5.5% reused and remainder precautionary approach to our carbon emissions by purchasing green approach to managing our business in an recycled with up to 98% diversion from landfill. environmental challenges; energy credits through South Pole Group environmentally responsible manner and work to Through the re-marketing of this equipment, (formerly Climate Friendly™). Since 2007 enhance the communities in which we operate Pony Up for Good were able to generate enough Principle 8 Stylecraft has offset a total of 6,256.6 tonnes and influence. Our aim is to ensure that our profit to donate 160 x meals to Second Bite, Undertake initiatives to of CO2e. The carbon finance from the purchase employees, suppliers and clients understand the Australia’s largest fresh food rescue charity promote greater environmental of these credits has supported the protection of importance of incorporating these considerations who redistribute surplus food to vulnerable responsibility; 7,666 hectares of native Tasmanian Forest by into their daily business activities. Australians. providing incentives to avoid logging. Principle 9 For our 2nd year of involvement with Clean Up Participation in Climate Rally 2019 In addition, whilst Stylecraft has grown 85% Australia Day, Stylecraft were proud to become All Stylecraft staff were given the opportunity to Encourage the development and in the past 6 years, we have reduced our a Gold Business Supporter in 2019. This year attend the Climate Strikes on September 27 diffusion of environmentally friendly carbon emissions by an impressive 34% over saw our team participate in the event nationally. 2019 at their own discretion and with full support technologies. the same period. Team members from our Sydney, Melbourne, of Stylecraft management. Adelaide, Canberra, Perth and Brisbane Australian Furniture Design Awards showrooms all embraced the day and collected CitySwitch Green Office Program Targeted SDGs Our long-standing support of Australian rubbish from local parks, waterways and streets. In 2018 Stylecraft became a participant in the designers and Australian manufacturing was Overall we collected 25 bags of recycling and CitySwitch Green Office program, which enhanced in 2014 with the launch of the rubbish over the six states. assists office based businesses become more Australian Furniture Design Award. Previously efficient and sustainable. With the support in partnership with the Jam Factory, the award Additional Waste Streams offered by CitySwitch, we are able to measure is now in its third iteration and is presented by Stylecraft is currently increasing focus on waste our current performance and set our own Stylecraft and the National Gallery of Victoria reduction with the introduction of additional targets for improvement in the areas of energy, (NGV) as part of Melbourne Design Week recycling streams, such as soft plastics and waste, renewable and IEQ. In our first year of 2020. The award is aimed at encouraging e-waste recycling, with plans to also work on participation, Stylecraft won the New Signatory innovation in furniture design and fostering new organics recycling at our Sydney Head Office. of the Year category in the CitySwitch opportunities for furniture manufacturing in Awards. Australia. The winner receives $20,000, an all In June 2019, Stylecraft partnered with Pony Up expenses paid residency at the Jam Factory for Good, a social enterpise providing e-waste In May 2019, Stylecraft joined program members Furniture Studio and the opportunity to design sustainability services and community impact from the City of Sydney’s Sustainable a commercial range with Stylecraft for distribution outcomes across Australia. Destination Partnership, CitySwitch and across Australia and Singapore. Page 7 · UNGC Document on Progress · Environment Environment UN Global Compact Principles Measurement of Outcomes Better Buildings Partnership to pledge their In October 2018, Stylecraft engaged a Principle 7 commitment to reducing single-use items, Sustainability Consultancy to undertake a Social Businesses should support a including plastics. We are currently working to and Environmental Risk Assessment Analysis precautionary approach to eliminate single use plastics from our showrooms across our company and supply chain to ensure environmental challenges; and from our national events. compliance with the NSW / Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018. The risk assessment Principle 8 Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation was conducted using a Life Cycle Assessment Undertake initiatives to In October 2018, Stylecraft became a (LCA) approach that analysed the social and promote greater environmental member of Australian Packaging Covenant environmental impact across our suppliers, their responsibility; Organisation (APCO), a co-regulatory, not-forproducts, materials and countries which we profit organisation that partners with government procure from. Principle 9 and industry to reduce the harmful impact of packaging on the Australian environment. APCO The final risk assessment results provided an Encourage the development and delivers this model of shared responsibility overview and prioritisation of risk in our supply diffusion of environmentally friendly through the promotion of sustainable packaging chain with detailed information on high risk technologies. activities including sustainable design, recycling suppliers, materials and countries from which we initiatives, waste to landfill reduction and procure. circular economy projects. We are committed Targeted SDGs to measuring, tracking and improving our sustainable packaging performance within our business and throughout our supply chain and are required to report annually on our progress. We are currently researching biodegradable or compostable alternatives for our chair and small furniture packaging and continue to work with our manufacturers suppliers around best practice. We have created ongoing partnerships with recyclers for packaging materials that would have traditionally gone to landfill such as PE. We now recycle approx. 80% of our material waste. Social & Environmental Risk Assessment Page 8 · UNGC Document on Progress · Environment Anti–Corruption UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft are committed to ensuring all our Using the Global Compact Risk Assessment Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 10 business activities are conducted ethically Tool, we have been able to highlight areas legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should work against and with integrity, and work to avoid bribery, within our policies and procedures that require to any breaches to anti-corruption in the past corruption in all its forms, including extortion and other forms of corruption. further attention and are taking steps to include 12 months. extortion and bribery. the identification and management of bribery and anti-corruption within our existing policies On 24th October, our National Sustainability and supply chains. Leader took part in the Anti-Corruption Targeted SDG Leadership Group | Risk Assessment In October 2018 we engaged a Sustainability Workshop offered by the Global Compact Consultancy to undertake a Risk Assessment Network Australia (GCNA) to further Analysis across our company and supply understand how to identify bribery and chain to ensure compliance with the NSW / corruption risk, and how to design and Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018, implement risk assessments to manage them. which included impact assessment relevant to Corruption and Bribery. The results will form Further learning has been achieved through the part of our Modern Slavery statement in 2020. 2019 Anti-Bribery & Corruption (ABC) Policy and Compliance Controls webinar in March, and steps have been taken to incorporate the identification and management of Bribery and Anti-Corruption within our existing policies and procedures. Page 9 · UNGC Document on Progress · Anti-Corruption UN Global Goals Stylecraft supports the promotion and participation of the 17 goals outlined by the UN as the Global Goals for Sustainable Development. We have selected to actively support the following 12 goals where we feel we can have the most influence and impact: Overview Overview Overview Overview Economic growth must Ensuring healthy lives Obtaining a quality Gender equality is not be inclusive to provide and promoting the welleducation is the only a fundamental sustainable jobs and being for all at all ages is foundation to human right, but a promote equality. essential to sustainable improving people’s necessary foundation for development. lives and sustainable a peaceful, prosperous development. and sustainable world. Overview Overview Overview Overview Sustainable economic Investments in To reduce inequalities, Promoting resource growth will require infrastructure are crucial policies should be and energy efficiency, societies to create the to achieving sustainable universal in principle, sustainable infrastructure, conditions that allow development. paying attention to the and providing access to people to have quality needs of disadvantaged basic services, green and jobs. and marginalized decent jobs and a better populations. quality of life for all. Overview Overview Overview Overview Climate change is a Careful management Sustainably manage Access to justice for all, global challenge that of this essential global forests, combat and building effective, affects everyone, resource is a key feature desertification, halt accountable institutions everywhere. of a sustainable future. and reverse land at all levels. degradation, halt biodiversity loss Page 10 · UNGC Document on Progress · UN Global Goals Showroom Details Sydney Showroom Melbourne Showroom Perth Showroom Singapore Showroom Level 24, 100 William Street, 145 Flinders Lane Level 1, 342 Murray St Unit #01-01, Genting Centre Woolloomooloo NSW 2011 Melbourne VIC 3000 Perth WA 6000 3 Lim Teck Kim Road PO Box 584 PO Box 18082 PO Box 7797 Singapore 088934 Darlinghurst NSW 1300 Melbourne VIC 3000 Cloisters Square, WA 6850 +65 6511 9328 02 9355 0000 03 9666 4300 08 9466 4066 singapore@stylecraft.asia sydney@stylecraft.com.au melbourne@stylecraft.com.au perth@stylecraft.com.au Sydney StylecraftHOME Showroom Melbourne StylecraftHOME Showroom Canberra Showroom Online Ground Floor, 100 William Street Ground & Lower Floors, 145 Flinders Lane Suite 123, Level 1, Mode 3 stylecraft.com.au Woolloomooloo NSW 2011 Melbourne VIC 3000 24 Lonsdale Street, Braddon ACT 2612 stylecraftHOME.com.au PO Box 584 PO Box 18082 PO Box 106 stylecraft.asia Darlinghurst NSW 1300 Melbourne VIC 3000 Braddon ACT 2612 02 9355 0099 03 9666 4333 02 6225 2900 info@stylecraftHOME.com.au info@stylecraftHOME.com.au canberra@stylecraft.com.au Sydney Inhabit Brisbane Showroom Adelaide Showroom Level 14, 100 William Street Level 1, 50 James Street 11 Waymouth Street Woolloomooloo NSW 2011 Fortitude Valley, Brisbane QLD 4006 Adelaide SA 5000 PO Box 584 PO Box 2035 PO Box 1684 Darlinghurst NSW 1300 New Farm, Brisbane QLD 4005 Adelaide SA 5001 02 9355 0000 07 3244 3000 08 8425 0050 sydney@stylecraft.com.au brisbane@stylecraft.com.au adelaide@stylecraft.com.au Page 11 · UNGC Document on Progress · Contact
