COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS MAY 2019 2 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 3 SUPPORT SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT PRESIDENT & CEO, STAFFAN PEHRSON WE OPTIMIZE TOTAL COST AND REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT WITH INNOVATIVE PACKAGING AND LOGISTICS SOLUTIONS. The UN Global Compact is a global strategic business initiative related to corporate responsibility, SUSTAINABILITY IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR VALUE PROPOSITION TO initiated by the former UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan in 1999. The Global Compact works with businesses to transform our world, aiming to create a sustainable and inclusive global economy that THE MARKET. WORKING WITH SUSTAINABILITY MEANS THAT WE CARE delivers lasting benefits to all people, communities and markets. FOR THE WELFARE OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS WHILE MAINTAINING BALANCE IN THE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND Nefab became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in October 2008. As reflected by our core values and underlined in our code of conduct, we continuously strive to integrate the ten principles of ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS. Global Compact into our business. We want to lead the way towards a sustainable future society. To achieve this, we work with our supply TAKING A STRUCTURED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY HELPS BUILD chain, our own operations and with our value proposition as well, in order to achieve sustainable A FAVOURABLE BUSINESS CLIMATE THAT ATTRACTS SKILLS AND development and manage our stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. A strategic priority for us is STRENGTHENS OUR POSITION IN THE MARKET. SUSTAINABILITY ALSO to support our customers’ ambitions in reducing their environmental impact. We do this in different ways, with one major approach being to analyze their supply chain and propose new packaging and logistics FACILITATES BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT BY ATTRACTING CUSTOMERS solutions. Another is to focus our innovation activities on new green materials and IoT solutions that can THAT SHARE A SIMILAR MINDSET. help our global customer base to further reduce the CO2-footprint throughout their supply chains. We believe that our continuous commitment to the Global Compact Initiative will be beneficial for Nefab OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK IS GOVERNED BY NEFAB’S VISION, CORE and its stakeholders while helping to improve the conditions for the global community at large. VALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT, AS WELL AS OTHER RELEVANT Consequently, I am pleased to confirm Nefab’s continuous support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this Communication POLICIES, LAWS AND REGULATIONS. on Progress (COP) for the year 2018, we express our aim to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Stockholm, May 2019 Staffan Pehrson President & CEO, Nefab Group 4 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 5 VISION AND MISSION Research and development have always been close to CODE OF CONDUCT those of our global customers, as well as our owners. Our vision is to be the preferred global partner for Nefab’s heart and we are proud to be co-owned by FAM, Nefab’s has three core values and three ways of working, and We strive for continuous improvements related to all areas sustainable packaging solutions & logistics optimization. who use a significant part of their profits to fund research these elements combine to guide all of us in everything we covered by the Code of Conduct, and it is therefore Our mission is to optimize total cost and reduce and education. Our owners, Nordgren/Pihl and FAM, do. Our core values are defined as “Respect”, “Empowerment” mandatory for all Nefab companies and employees to comply environmental impact in supply chains, with our innovative continuously challenge us to become more sustainable and and “Simplicity”, and our ways of working as “Customer First”, with the Code of Conduct. We also expect that our Suppliers packaging and logistics solutions. develop environmentally friendly solutions for our customers “Cooperation” and “Communication”. In practice, this means comply with the Code of Conduct, which may request higher across the world. that we respect the environment and those around us while standards than required by applicable law. Owners also putting our customers first. Through our global Nefab is co-owned by the founding family Nordgren/Pihl and Our commitment to sustainable business organization we are empowered to cooperate and Simply put, at Nefab we believe that doing business the right FAM (Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB) which is a Nefab’s sustainability efforts are directed by the executive communicate, as well as to innovate and simplify for our way is the only way. Our Code of Conduct outlines our way part of the Wallenberg sphere. The owners share a long-term management, with the responsibility to monitor progress and customers. of putting this approach into practice, for the benefit of our perspective and have the common priorities of providing the drive improvements. Nefab continuously seeks improvements people, our customers and the world around us. All employees financial stability and strategic endurance to realize the full related to the ten principles of the United Nations Global As reflected in our core values and underlined in our Code of in Nefab are asked to sign that they have read and understood potential of Nefab in a transforming market. Compact. Nefab’s Code of Conduct is an important tool as it Conduct, we continuously strive to live up to our reputation the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct can easily be guides us to always live up to the Global Compact principles. and trusted brand. Our key cornerstones, which are directly accessed on our intranet, quality management system and on The Code of Conduct is given to all new employees, and we aligned with UN Global Compact’s ten principles, are our external webpage. work to ensure that all staff are aware and fully understand it, ethical business behavior, fair treatment of all employees and by including it in our main communication channels, such as all colleagues, health and safety in our workplace, and a clear employee meetings, employee surveys, and various trainings. sustainability focus in all we do. These cornerstones align with 6 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 7 HUMAN RIGHTS It is important for Nefab to offer good working conditions LABOUR form and join unions of their own choosing, to bargain to all employees and we have therefore stipulated rules for collectively and to engage in peaceful assembly, as well as Principle 1: working hours, overtime and disciplinary measures. Principle 3: respect the right of workers to refrain from such activities. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective internationally proclaimed human rights; and Progress recognition of the right to collective bargaining; We want our employees to stay with us for a long time, but all Principle 2: Respecting Human Rights is fundamental to Nefab. To ensure Principle 4: employees have the right to leave their employment as stated Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. that employees are aware and understand the topic, we offer The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; by contract or local law. Furthermore, employees are not an e-learning course regarding Human Rights. In 2018, this Principle 5: obliged to pay any kind of fees for their employment. Our Code of Conduct states that the minimum level is to course was the most popular among all courses in our The effective abolition of child labour; and support and respect the protection of internationally e-learning system. In total, 77 diplomas were issued Principle 6: Child labour is strictly forbidden in any stage of Nefab’s proclaimed human rights and ensure that the company is throughout the year. In addition, to date, 1 965 employees The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and operations. We have established global procurement not complicit in human rights abuses. All companies in the have read and signed our Code of Conduct. occupation. processes to evaluate new and current suppliers alike, to Nefab group are expected to act responsibly and ensure that no children work in any of the stages of Nefab’s understand their human rights risks, not only in the own We made a total of 137 supplier evaluations during 2018 with As a leading global provider within our industry, we want to operations. business, but also in the business they conduct with an approval rate of 88 %. If a supplier is not approved, we set a good example as an employer. Engaged and committed suppliers. Our suppliers are evaluated through the Nefab open a SCAR (Supplier Corrective Action Request), focusing employees are vital for us to be a successful global company. Nefab embraces diversity and equal opportunities for all. We Supplier Evaluation, to ensure that they are compliant. on the areas where the supplier was not compliant. A follow Nefab takes labour rights and fair employment conditions seriare committed to building teams with a variety of up audit is then made within 3 to 6 months. ously, and our Code of Conduct also includes these aspects. backgrounds, perspectives and skills. Our Code of Conduct supports our zero-tolerance approach towards discrimination As reflected in our Code of Conduct, employees are free to of all forms. 8 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 9 ENVIRONMENT Progress During 2018, a lot of work has been allocated to develop Principle 7: packaging solutions made out of straw material. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Straw-based packaging material is fiber-based and can be environmental challenges; recycled as easily as a sheet of paper. Straw-based solutions Principle 8: use residue from crops, which creates opportunity for Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental farmers to sell their residue. responsibility; and Principle 9: Apart from innovations around green materials, we Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally continuously strive to invest in solutions and technologies friendly technologies. that can advance sustainability. As an example, we have continued to invest in our IoTsolutions platform for Our greatest contribution to the environment is by connected packaging, which give customers an increased optimizing custom­ers’ supply chains through our innovative level of transparency and efficiency in their supply chains. sustainable solutions that lower their environmental impact. These solutions have been successfully used in customers’ returnable flows, which have resulted in lower costs and One part of our environmental commitment is the work reduced environmental footprint. we do with our suppliers. We have a guideline regarding restricted materials and encourage all of our suppliers to With our unique tool, Nefab GreenCalc, we can visualize the Nefab, as a manufacturing company, take health and safety ethical and responsible business practices. Other KPIs used comply to our Code of Conduct. We also continuously minimized environmental impact that our solutions provide. seriously. We want to offer safe and healthy workplaces, in in the Employee Survey relate to employee satisfaction and implement supplier evaluations to audit compliance. The Green­Calc tool analyzes the environmental impact from regard to both physical and phycological aspects, in employee loyalty. the raw material, production, logistics, use phase and accordance with international standards and local laws. We strongly believe in developing environmentally friendly end-of-life phases. In 2018, we made 307 GreenCalc Our Code of Conduct covers this and has defined rules for Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) is defined by two questions; technologies and solutions. Driven by our global network of calculations around the world. preventing accidents and injuries, so that all employees are “How satisfied are you with Nefab as an employer?” and “How engineers, we continuously innovate around green materials provided with appropriate workplace health and safety. well does Nefab as an employer meet your expectations?”. to design sustainable multi-material packaging solutions for For Nefab’s own operations, we continuously strive to These questions together give a score from 1 to 100. Nefab’s our customers. Our global presence and customer further minimize our environmental impact. We support We encourage employees to communicate, give feedback and total score in 2018 was 73, which is considered a high score relationships enable us to supply those solutions and environmentally friendly initiatives and technology in our share ideas to both colleagues and management. All according to external benchmarks. logistics services at the locations matching our customers’ own business, such as actively choosing sustainable employees should be able to do this openly without fear of demands. alternatives and minimizing our waste. In 2019, we will discrimination, reprisal, intimidation or harassment. Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) is also used as a KPI. continue discussions regarding the implementation of ISO Employees’ ideas and feedback are essential for us to eNPS is measured based on the following question “How likely 14001:2004, which will support us in advancing our continuously advance our position as a leading global are you to recommend Nefab as an employer to others?”. environmental responsibility. packaging provider and employer. Nefab’s total score in 2018 was 6. To better understand our score, a follow-up question was asked automatically to Progress employees who gave us either a low or high score, where Our employees’ opinions and feedback are important for us they could give additional information to their rating of Nefab. to improve as an employer. Nefab’s annual Employee Survey is Their feedback gave us ideas for how to improve and what offered to all employees across the world. In 2018, 82 % of our to maintain, which we will work on and follow-up in 2019. The employees answered the survey. Our employee survey employee survey is anonymous and performed by a 3rd party consists of around 60 questions, measuring employee provider. satisfaction, engagement and loyalty. Results are analyzed on different organizational levels, and geographies. Based on the result, actions are taken to drive improvements when needed. Two questions in the employee survey covers “a safe place to work” and “physical work conditions”. Both these results increased from 2017 to 2018. Furthermore, we ask questions about sustainability and Nefab’s commitment to it. The total score was 4,3 out of 5 regarding Nefab’s commitment towards 10 Communication on Progress Nefab Communication on Progress Nefab 11 UNGC PRINCIPLES NEFAB CODE OF CONDUCT Human Rights Human Rights ANTI-CORRUPTION Progress 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed huTo further strengthen our employees’ awareness and internationally proclaimed Human Rights man rights and ensure that the company is not complicit in human rights Principle 10: knowledge, we offer an e-learning course about 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in abuses. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including anti-corruption, which was the second most popular course human rights abuses extortion and bribery. in 2018 (72 diplomas issued). Labour Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Freedom of association effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to form or join Nefab has a zero tolerance of corruption and support the In 2018, we launched a new anonymous whistleblower tool, unions and have the right to collective bargaining. 10th principle of UN Global Conduct. This is covered by our available both internally and externally. Our whistleblowing 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Forced and compulsory labour Code of Conduct and clearly describes rules for how to service offers a possibility to alert Nefab about suspicions and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated and all employees prevent corruption. We are inviting our suppliers and of misconduct, in confidence. It is an important tool for have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local colleagues to read and comply with our Code of Conduct. reducing risks and maintaining trust in our operations, by laws. Employees shall not be required to leave deposits of money or identity papers with their employer. enabling us to detect and act on possible misconduct at an 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Child labour early stage. Child labor is not to be used in any stage of Nefab’s operations. The term “child” refers to any person under the age of 15, or under the age for completing compulsory education, or under the minimum age for employment in the country, whichever is greatest. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Workplace respect of employment and occupation. We provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. Appropriate health and safety information and training shall be provided to employees including, but not limited to, safe evacuations of buildings and correct handling and marking of chemicals and machinery. Discrimination Diversity among our employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital status, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, social status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly prohibited, as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Employees with the same qualifications, experience and performance shall receive equal pay for equal work. Environment Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Precautionary approach environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept and finite resources are avoided as often as possible. We also have a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental responsibility environmental responsibility. Innovative developments in products and services that offer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility are promoted and supported by Nefab. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion We support innovative developments in products and services that ofof environ mentally friendly technologies. fer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility. Anti-corruption Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility must be upheld including extortion and bribery. and any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Nefab’s Anti-corruption policy further outlines our responsibility in this area. Consumer interests When dealing with consumers, we act in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. We also ensure that the goods or services we supply meet all agreed and legal standards. We optimize total cost and reduce environmental impact with innovative packaging and logistics solutions. With our global engineering and supply capabilities we serve customers in every corner of the world. N E FA B .CO M
