GYP PROPERTIES Message from our Board Of Directors LIMITED 03 Corporate | 2019 Profile this Report 07REPORT SUSTAINABILITY 05 About Our Approach to Sustainability 09 Sustainability at GYP Properties 13 GRI Standards Content Index 29 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS 03 Message from our Board 13 Sustainability at GYP Properties of Directors Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Material Impact Areas and Indicators Identified 05 Corporate Profile Economic Performance Anti-Corruption Emissions 07 About this Report Environmental Compliance Board Statement Occupational Health and Safety Reporting Scope and Period Diversity and Equal Opportunity Targets Customer Health and Safety Reporting Framework Customer Privacy Access Socioeconomic Compliance Feedback Social Impact 09 Our Approach to Sustainability 29 GRI Standards Content Index Corporate Governance Enterprise Risk Management Sustainability Governance Sustainability Methodology The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact 2 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Message from our Board of Directors GYP Properties Limited (“GYPP”) and our subsidiaries (collectively the “Group”) are pleased to present our 2019 Sustainability Report. As our 2nd standalone annual Sustainability Report, this document includes detailed information about issues material to our business and demonstrates our commitment to continuously improving our sustainability management. Through transparent reporting and communication across environmental, social and governance-related impact areas, we aim to keep our stakeholders including our employees, shareholders, business partners and community members up to date with the Group’s strategy, progress and performance. In 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) were set by the United Nations (“UN”) as a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all with the aim of achieving these by 2030. The SDGs comprise 17 interconnected goals that represent a call to action by all countries. As a real estate company with businesses in property development, investment and management; we aim to do our part in working towards the global goals, particularly around SDG 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions, SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities, and SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth; and we welcome collaborations with like-minded stakeholders. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, we are committed to meeting fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption; and believe that principles and profits go hand in hand. 3 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This year was a milestone year for environmental action, with significantly heightened global awareness about climate change and record breaking activism around the world; in response, our team underwent training to better understand our operating environment, and improve our internal standards and processes. With urgent action needed to decarbonise, the Group has taken immediate action to offset 100% of the operational carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2 energy related emissions) of our buildings with certified carbon credits, making Braddell House and Pakuranga Plaza net zero carbon. Simultaneously, we continue to work towards best practice in social and governance areas. As a public-listed company on the Singapore Exchange, we strive to uphold high standards in corporate governance and continue to maintain our zero tolerance for non-compliance. We are also pleased to announce our “Gift of Home” programme under which for every home GYPP sells, we are partnering Singapore non-profit organisation billionBricks to donate an innovative all-weather shelter to a homeless or displaced family in the region. 64 shelters from FY19 sales of Bellfield Estate are being sent to families affected by the earthquakes in Mindanao, Philippines. As we continue on our journey, we look to adding more value to our stakeholders and using best practice not only for the financial returns of the business, but also for the impact it has on our staff, community and environment. Mah Bow Tan Stanley Tan Poh Leng Chairman Chief Executive Officer Ng Tiong Gee Pang Yoke Min Director Director Andrew Tay Gim Chuan Loo Wen Lieh Lead Independent Director Director 30 November 2019 4 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CORPORATE PROFILE GYP Properties Limited is a real estate company with assets under management of S$174 million as at 30 June 2019. With our mission of being a trusted property company that delivers projects that owners and users value, we focus on driving financial performance and growth for our stakeholders, while at the same time contributing to sustainable development. We aim to do this via a robust and diversified property portfolio in which we combine Singapore’s innovative development experience in multi-layered hubs and community living, with New Zealand’s strong consideration for materials. Headquartered in Singapore, the Group has offices in Singapore and New Zealand, and has a portfolio consisting 303,051 sqm of land, comprising commercial, retail and residential assets. Our key projects in New Zealand include Remarkables Residences in Queenstown, as well as Bellfield Estate and Pakuranga Town Centre in Auckland. The Company was listed on the Singapore Exchange on 9 December 2004 and we continue on our journey as a focused property company with an expectation of launching five projects in the coming three years. For more information about our property portfolio, financial review and shareholder information for the financial year, please refer to our Annual Report. Key figures for the financial year ended 30 June 2019 may be found on the next page. 5 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT S$ REVENUE 9.3M * 2.4M 0.9 M PROFIT S$ AFTER E B I T D A* S$ TAX# 1.33% Return on Equity # PROPERTY PORTFOLIO SIZE S$ 174.0 M 75.9M 37.1M MARKET Group’s Net S$ Assets S$ CAP * Exclude results of discontinued operations. # Inclusive of results of continuing and discontinued operations. Note: Market capitalisation is based on the closing share price on 28 June 2019. Shares in issues (excluding treasury shares) are 275 million as at 30 June 2019. 6 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT BOARD STATEMENT REPORTING SCOPE AND PERIOD This Sustainability Report is set out on a “comply or explain” Published no later than 30 November each year, this report basis in accordance with Rule 711A, 711B and Practice Note covers sustainability performance across the Group, which 7.6 of the Listing Manual of the Singapore Exchange Securities includes our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Singapore and Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”). The key material environmental, New Zealand, and our businesses in property investment, social and governance factors for the Group have been development and management. In-scope properties include identified and reviewed by the Chairman and the CEO. The Remarkables Residences in Queenstown; Bellfield Estate Board of Directors oversees the management and monitoring and Pakuranga Plaza in Auckland; as well as Braddell House of these factors and takes them into consideration in the in Singapore. All entities included in the organisation’s determination of the Group’s strategic direction and policies. consolidated financial statements have been included in this The Board ensures that all material issues are reviewed and report; please refer to pages 152 to 153 of our Annual Report approves the organisation’s Sustainability Report. Sustainability for details of these entities. Although the data and information continues to be a key component of the Company’s wider provided in this report is not externally assured, it has been strategy to create long term sustained value for all our prepared with the requisite due diligence and the Group may stakeholders and the Group is committed to working towards seek external assurance in the future. The reporting period is improving the economic, environmental and social well-being of prepared based on GYPP’s financial year, which covers 1 July the communities we operate in. We support the precautionary 2018 to 30 June 2019. approach to manage risks and reduce our environmental impact, which means that where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty is not used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation. 7 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TARGETS appropriate, we also integrate elements of other frameworks such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals that ensure Where relevant, we utilise SMART goal setting criteria to set we consider the global direction and are working towards the our targets. SMART is an acronym that stands for Specific, same goals, as well as the Sustainability Accounting Standards Measurable, Achievable, Realistic and Timely, allowing us Board that provides industry-specific reporting standards to to organise and improve our sustainability performance allow benchmarking and comparison. year-on-year. To understand our sustainability strategy and performance better, we encourage stakeholders to also refer to our 2018 Sustainability Report, which can be found on our ACCESS company website. As part of our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint, no hard copies of this Sustainability Report have been printed. You may visit the SGX website or our Investor Centre available at REPORTING FRAMEWORK www.gypproperties.com to access our Sustainability Report. This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Standards 2016: Core option. GRI is the most widely adopted global standards FEEDBACK for sustainability reporting and provides businesses If you have any feedback, questions or suggestions, please and organisations worldwide a framework to measure, email sustainability@gypproperties.com. We welcome and understand and communicate critical sustainability issues on value feedback from our stakeholders as this enables us to environmental, economic and social impact to stakeholders. consistently improve our policies, processes and performance, For further information on relevant references, please refer as well as enhance the accuracy, completeness and coverage to the GRI Content Index at the end of this report. Where of our reporting. 8 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE ENTERPRISE RISK GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT The Group firmly believes that good corporate governance The Board has overall responsibility to ensure accurate is critical for establishing long-lasting trust with stakeholders financial and sustainability reporting for the Group, as well and as such, the Board and senior management of GYPP are as effectiveness of internal controls. The latter includes committed to continuously validating our business processes financial, operational, compliance and IT controls, as well and maintaining best practices to ensure sustainability across as risk management policies and systems. The Audit the Group’s operations. We believe that conducting business Committee assists the Board by providing oversight of risk with integrity and commitment at all levels and establishing a management and reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of transparent, accountable and equitable system increases the the Group’s risk management systems and internal controls; value of the Company and its value to our shareholders. For these include financial, operational, compliance, IT controls more information about our corporate governance and Board and environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) of Directors, please refer to our Annual Report as follows: impact areas. Additionally, the Audit Committee is also responsible for reporting its observations to the Board on • Our Board and its Committees, pages 31 to 33, 38; any matters under its purview and making recommendations • Corporate Governance Reports, pages 40 to 52; where appropriate. In GYPP’s Enterprise Risk Management • Our nomination and selection processes, pages 43 to 44; Framework, implementation and maintenance is undertaken by the senior management team who are responsible for • Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and establishing specific objectives, strategies, guidelines and daymanaged, and how they are disclosed, pages 48 to 49; to-day risk management activities. The senior management • Remuneration policies for the Board of Directors and senior team reports to the Audit Committee and provides updates executives, pages 45 to 47; on the risk management activities. Significant risks identified • Performance criteria in remuneration policies for economic, are assessed, managed and monitored within the Company’s environmental and social topics, pages, 45 to 47; and risk management framework. The Group continually reviews • Process for determining remuneration, page 45. its business and operational activities to ensure emerging risks, including ESG impact areas, are being considered for proper assessment, monitoring and reporting as appropriate. Where relevant, suitable measures to control and mitigate these risks are implemented and may include safety, security, internal control measures and taking up appropriate insurance coverage. The Group’s financial risk management programme seeks to minimise and safeguard potential adverse effects of the volatility and unpredictability of financial markets on the company’s financial performance. 9 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE At GYPP, we are committed to continuously challenging business units to implement the corporate strategy, reporting ourselves on our sustainability journey and improving our to the Sustainability and Audit Committees on progress. With business practices and management. In order to strengthen the Board as the organisation’s highest governance body, the Group’s direction and performance, in FY18 our Corporate reports and presentations are periodically submitted and Marketing function was expanded to include responsibility for conducted to develop and enhance their collective knowledge Sustainability (economic, environmental and social issues); of economic, environmental, and social issues. As a Group, we reporting to a Sustainability Committee that was established to believe that sustainability needs to be at the core of what our review and offer recommendations to the Board. The Corporate business does, with all areas of the business buying into it. Marketing & Sustainability function then works with the various GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Board of Directors Audit Committee Sustainability Committee Corporate Property Property Finance, Property Marketing & Management Management HR & IT Development Sustainability SG NZ Figure 1: A Sustainability Committee was established in FY18 to review and offer recommendations to the Board, as well as work with the various corporate functions for execution. 10 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY METHODOLOGY We have employed a systematic internal framework to assess and evaluate our economic, environmental, social and governance practices as we believe that adopting an effective methodology will not only allow us to identify key policies and performances, but also allow consistent and meaningful reporting year-on-year for more reliable tracking and understanding. PLAN AND SCOPE ENGAGE REPORT STAKEHOLDERS COLLECT ASSESS DATA MATERIALITY Figure 2: A systematic framework is used to assess and evaluate our economic, environmental, social and governance practices. 11 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS (“UN”) GLOBAL COMPACT On 14 November 2019, the Group became a signatory of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. By incorporating these principles in our strategies, policies and procedures, we pledge to meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact are listed below and are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United National Convention Against Corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and approach to environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of LABOUR environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and its forms, including extortion and bribery. compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 12 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY AT GYP PROPERTIES MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT A critical starting point in understanding our impact areas as a Group is to identify our stakeholders and material aspects relevant to our business. To do that, we have analysed our value and supply chains, and looked into our various functions and stakeholders involved. OUR VALUE CHAIN PRODUCT PRODUCT ACQUISITION TRANSACTIONS USE DEVELOPMENT DELIVERY Sourcing Research Procurement Marketing After sales Deal structuring Business planning Site development Sales / leasing Property Financing Consultant team Foundations management formation Building construction Design (Installation) Permits / approvals Site restoration Marketing Project management Pre-sales Figure 3: Understanding our value chain allows us to better assess our impact areas as a Group, as well as identify our stakeholders and material aspects relevant to our business. 13 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR SUPPLY CHAIN MATERIAL SALES & TRANSPORTATION BUILDERS CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS MARKETING TRANSPORTATION INSTALLATION Figure 4: Understanding our supply chain allows us to focus upstream on analysing supplier and producer processes. For GYPP, key stakeholders include our customers, suppliers, The Group would also like to note that in addition to traditional shareholders, employees and regulators; and both formal and construction methods employed, we have also incorporated informal channels of communication are used to engage and prebuild installation methods into our supply chain this year consult them on issues important to them and our business. and the relevant supplier is an innovative international company Input and guidance are provided by the Board of Directors, based in Vietnam. In understanding of our value and supply with interests and requirements of other key stakeholders also chains, we take a holistic and systems thinking approach to our taken into account when developing our corporate strategies. organisation and our impact. 14 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER MAPPING & ENGAGEMENT Key Stakeholder Frequency of Means of Communication goal Communication topics Groups communication communication Employees Recruitment and Regularly Staff appraisals, Human resource retention of talent, job survey, meetings, management and satisfaction emails, corporate group operations updates, phone calls, team events, group documents Board of Directors Improve governance Quarterly and as Board meetings, Corporate governance and develop group required informal meetings, and strategy direction emails, board papers Government agencies Align with national As required Meetings, emails, Corporate governance and regulators goals phone calls, Annual and opportunities to Reports, corporate promote collaboration announcements Shareholders Maintain shareholder Annually and as Annual General Group performance satisfaction required Meetings, Extraordinary General Meetings, Annual Reports, corporate announcements, website, emails, social media, survey Customers, tenants Ensure satisfaction As required Meetings, emails, Quality, design, and users with products and campaigns / launches, conditions, safety, services social media, website, amenities and services, posters conserving resources and managing waste Local community Improve wellbeing of As required Meetings, emails, Safety, noise, community campaigns, social development and media, website events Consultants, Foster teamwork and Regularly Meetings, emails, Commercial contractors deepen collaboration phone calls, official opportunities and and suppliers that promotes protocols such as operations learning, innovation tendering processes and improves material and vendor impact areas assessments Banks Financing of the Regularly Meetings, emails, Business and Group’s activities phone calls, corporate development announcements performance Figure 5: Understanding our stakeholders and managing our engagement channels allows us to embed impact areas important to them into our corporate strategies. 15 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIAL IMPACT AREAS & INDICATORS IDENTIFIED Beyond applying the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) relevant and look to align our strategies with the global direction Standards and considering the broader societal expectations of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The resulting impact by a strict observation of regulations and best practice areas obtained from our assessments are summarised below guidelines that apply to each component of our organisation, and reviewed on an annual basis by the Board. we incorporate industry-specific reporting standards where UN Sustainability Development Goals Impact Areas Our Involvement Building effective, • Economic performance We strive to uphold high standards in corporate accountable institutions. governance and business ethics as a public• Anti-corruption listed company on the Singapore Exchange and • Customer privacy target zero non-compliance. We continue to • Socioeconomic compliance strengthen our property portfolio and work towards providing value to our investors; continually assessing and addressing potential market risks. The Group is a signatory of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. Promoting inclusive and • Diversity and equal opportunity We maintain a policy of providing equal sustainable economic opportunities to all our employees and believe growth, employment and that attracting, developing and retaining a decent work for all. diverse workforce is important to operate successfully. GYPP has endorsed the Employers’ Pledge of Fair Employment Practices with tripartite partners the Ministry of Manpower, the National Trades Union Congress and the Singapore National Employers Federation. Making cities inclusive, safe, • Emissions We adhere to environmental regulations and resilient and sustainable; as target zero non-compliance. The Group is well as promoting resource • Environmental compliance committed to reducing our environmental and energy efficiency and a footprint and we encourage responsible better quality of life for all. practices and use of resources among our suppliers and tenants. GYPP is proud to be certified Carbon Friendly with Ekos and we operate net zero carbon buildings (Scope 1 and 2 energy related emissions). Ensuring safe working • Occupational health and safety Health and safety are of utmost importance environments in all to us. GYPP is diligent in following the relevant operations. • Customer health and safety codes and management systems for customer health and safety, and we encourage suppliers to ensure safe working environments for their workers. Addressing the inequalities • Social impact We aim to support local and other vulnerable faced by vulnerable communities through donations, fundraising communities by providing activities, volunteering and gifts in kind. “Gift of increased access to Home” is our keystone programme to show our services and assets. commitment to building a strong, sustainable company with a pronounced social core. Where the impact occurs: • Internal • Internal & External Figure 6: Material impact areas identified after applying reporting and industry guidance, as well as incorporating inputs gathered from stakeholders. 16 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 201 With our transition from media to real estate completed, GYPP to changing market conditions. For more information about is taking the next step to realise our potential as a property our economic performance this year, please refer to the company. The Group’s focus is on driving financial performance following sections: and delivering growth for our stakeholders with an expectation of launching five projects in the coming three years. We seek • Key Figures, page 6 of this report; to continuously bring stakeholders more value with a focus • Financial Review, pages 30 to 31 of our 2019 Annual on best practices and sustainable development, which allows Report; and us to remain attractive to our business community, as well • Financial Statements, pages 66 to 144 of our 2019 as employees, shareholders and customers. As at 30 June Annual Report. 2019, GYPP has assets under management of S$174 million Environmental, social and corporate governance (“ESG”) across a diversified portfolio. In FY19, the Group’s revenue factors are increasingly vital for business continuation, with from operations was S$9.3 million, a decrease of S$1.1 million ESG performance linked to a sustainable return. Aside from or 10.6% compared to S$10.3 million for FY2018 due mainly risk mitigation, addressing sustainability also has commercial to lower rental income and a weaker New Zealand dollar impacts, which can be both strategic and operational. exchange rate. This impact area occurs within the organisation The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) as a direct result of business operations and we continue to recommends physical impacts of climate change as a believe that New Zealand is an attractive and stable market with sustainability issue that is likely to affect the financial condition long-term growth potential. GYPP has a dynamic management of companies within the real estate sector in their SASB team with diverse skills across our Singapore and Auckland Materiality Map®. Physical impacts include higher temperatures, offices, who drive and implement GYPP’s business strategy. rising sea levels, more extreme weather events and change in The management team holds regular business unit meetings rainfall pattern, which will occur in different extents throughout to update on performance and discuss challenges. The Chief this century and beyond. These risks, particularly flood risk Executive Officer bears executive responsibility for the Group’s due to sea level rise, are considered during acquisitions business direction and operational decisions; and quarterly and are managed by the Audit Committee that makes Board Meetings led by the Board Chairman are held to discuss recommendations where appropriate. For more information economic performance. GYPP’s business strategy and about GYPP’s Enterprise Risk Management, please refer property projects are reviewed regularly to allow for responses to page 9. 17 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 205 The Group believes that upholding an ethos of transparency which could potentially lead to a conflict of interest, to report and compliance is critical to being an effective and accountable the matter to the Company. Employees are also encouraged institution, and that business ethics are vital in maintaining a to report concerns about any unethical or unlawful behaviour strong corporate reputation. As an impact that occurs within or any actions that may put the organisation’s integrity at risk. the organisation, GYPP does not tolerate corruption in any Policies on mechanisms for seeking such advice about ethical form; all forms of corruption are prohibited, including extortion and lawful behaviour are detailed in the Group’s Employee and bribery. Handbook with blackout trading periods of GYPP shares also observed before results announcements. To promote At all times, we aim to conduct our business with the highest responsible and secure whistleblowing, the Group has standards of integrity and honesty and we expect all staff to established a Whistleblowing Policy to provide a mechanism maintain the same standards in everything they do. In order to for staff of GYPP to report malpractices in the workplace to the communicate the company’s commitment to anti-corruption, appropriate person and for the necessary follow-up action to be as well as anti-corruption best practice and compliance taken. This mechanism facilitates malpractices being reported requirements, all employees are signatories to a compliance and dealt with in a timely and appropriate manner and protects commitment to educate and broaden awareness throughout genuine whistleblowers from any unfair treatment as a result of the organisation. Our staff are reminded of the importance of their reports. Below is a summary of group mechanisms and upholding the highest standards and are updated by the Group policies in place. with relevant developments in international and local regulations where applicable. In line with best practice, the Group requires employees involved in a conflict of interest situation or in one Governance Anti-Corruption Policy GYPP adopts a zero-tolerance stance towards corruption and bribery. Employees are expected to conduct and carry themselves in a manner consistent with the values of GYPP, and are required to adhere to a Code of Conduct and observe ethical behaviour. Anti-Corruption Compliance Commitment All GYPP employees are signatories to an anti-corruption compliance commitment aimed at protecting the company from corruption risks, as well as educating and broadening awareness throughout the organisation. Policy on Conflict of Interest GYPP details a rigorous set of procedures to address any potential conflict of interest risks. All interested person transactions and situations of conflicted interest are subject to review by the Audit Committee, and all employees and major service providers have to declare any potential conflicts of interest before entering into transactions. Fraud Risk Management Framework GYPP has a framework that sets out the principles and approach in a robust system of controls and procedures to manage fraud risks. The processes established to identify areas exposed to fraud are clearly defined and incorporated in the Risk Profile Register. Internal Code of Securities Dealing GYPP has an internal code which prohibits Directors and executives of the Group from dealing in its shares while in possession of unpublished material or non-public price sensitive information in relation to such securities and during blackout trading periods. Whistleblowing Policy GYPP has a Whistleblowing Policy which aims to ensure that staff are confident that they can raise any matters that cause them concern to their immediate supervisor or in other instances, to the CEO, CFO, Corporate Marketing Director or the Audit Committee; with the knowledge that it would be taken seriously, be dealt with in the highest confidence, and be acted upon; while ensuring protection from possible reprisals and victimisation. Figure 7: Group mechanisms and policies in place to communicate and manage our commitment to anti-corruption. No reported incidents of corruption have been reported and against GYPP in relation to any corruption or governance issue. as a result, no fines, penalties, settlements or sanctions for GYPP targets to maintain zero incidents next year and into non-compliance with laws and regulations have been awarded the future. 18 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMISSIONS GRI 305 With impacts already being felt around the world, climate The table below shows our total greenhouse gas (GHG) change is no longer a distant threat. In 2015, 195 countries emissions in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) around the world signed The Paris Agreement, the world’s first for our corporate office and buildings. The Group has opted to comprehensive binding climate agreement. A key aspect of report building energy emissions under the financial control the Paris Agreement includes a commitment to keeping the approach which includes operations over which we are able rise in global temperature well below 2°C above pre-industrial to direct financial and operating policies; this means that levels, and to strive to limit this to 1.5°C. As such, emissions is emissions from purchased electricity consumed by our tenants a material impact for GYPP and we are committed to reducing have been recorded under Scope 2. our carbon footprint while operating our businesses; the impact occurs both in and outside the organisation. Environmental Performance (metric tons of CO2e) FY2018 FY2019 Scope 1 Vehicle fuel 17.16 8.22 Building generator 0.54 Scope 2 Building energy 1161.78 1126.98 Scope 3 Air travel 54.09 82.99 Total 1,233.57 1,218.19 Figure 8: The Group’s GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2e according to Scope 1, 2, 3. CO2 (carbon dioxide), CH4 (methane) and N20 (nitrous oxide) action needed to decarbonise, GYPP has taken immediate emissions have been recorded in the table above and the action to offset our FY19 operational carbon emissions at global warming potential (GWP) rates from the Fifth Assessment our buildings (Scope 1 and 2), as well as all business Air Travel Report (AR5) have been used. (Scope 3) with certified carbon credits. Carbon offset schemes allow the Company to invest in environmental projects to Scope 1 Includes direct emissions from fuel used by our balance out our carbon footprint by calculating our emissions company-owned vehicle and power generator. As the generator and ‘investing’ the same amount to reduce emissions elsewhere, is only refuelled occasionally, carbon emissions will be recorded thus making emissions ‘carbon neutral’. To do this, the Group in the year it is fuelled, rather than the year of combustion. The works with New Zealand-based Ekos and we are proud to be IPCC Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG Emissions Calculation certified Carbon Friendly. Ekos is a non-profit enterprise that Tool v2.6 and Greenhouse Gas Protocol Emission Factors from grows and protects indigenous forests, delivering sustainable Cross-Sector Tools (March 2017) were used. development outcomes in rural communities in Aotearoa-New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. Their carbon credits come Scope 2 Includes indirect emissions due to purchased from the growth of new forests and the protection of existing electricity consumed at GYPP’s buildings in Singapore and forests from logging, and all credits sold by Ekos are retired New Zealand, and includes the emissions produced by our from the appropriate third-party registry. At the same time, an tenants. It currently excludes our construction sites due to annual emission reduction programme is being set to progress lack of data. The grid emissions factors were derived from towards reducing emissions, particularly building energy Singapore’s Energy Market Authority, updated 11 July 2018; consumption. This reduction plan will be based on individual and New Zealand’s Ministry for the Environment, A Guide for building targets and Building Managers will be responsible for Organisations – 2019; and energy consumption was obtained achieving their individual building targets and programmes. from invoices and reports. Construction materials make up 60-80% of GHG emissions Scope 3 Includes all business air travel, including both associated with the production of a building. As a result, domestic and international flights across the Group. The IPCC GYPP has been exploring alternative materials and methods Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG Emissions Calculation Tool of construction to both reduce the embodied carbon of our v2.6 was used and emissions have been calculated based on buildings, as well as to reduce construction and demolition distance and class travelled. waste. We are working with our consultants and builders to Total carbon emissions in FY2019 was 1.25% lower compared incorporate Homestar rating elements – which include energy, to FY2018, with the largest source of emissions being building health, comfort; water, waste and materials – into our design energy consumption, accounting for 92.5% of the Company’s work and expect to reach between six and nine stars. Homestar total carbon footprint. Local electricity grid emission factors is a comprehensive, independent national rating tool by the have been used in calculations. New Zealand Green Building Council. A ‘6 Homestar’ rating or higher provides assurance that a house will be better quality – To show GYPP’s commitment to reducing our carbon footprint, warmer, driver, healthier and cost less to run – as compared to the Group has made the decision to align our carbon reduction a typical new house built to building code; and a ‘10 Homestar’ goal with the World Green Building Council’s Net Zero Carbon rating denotes a world leading home. To optimise the use of Buildings Commitment. This Commitment challenges our buildings, we select the latest in energy-efficient lighting, companies, cities, states and regions to reach Net Zero heating and appliances. operating emissions in their portfolios by 2030. With urgent 19 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 307 GYPP believes that environmental compliance is not only an We take diligent care in adhering to the RMA standards and important consideration for a strong corporate reputation as a relevant regional standards, and we conduct regular reviews real estate business, but also that ensuring compliance helps of policies and internal checks, as well as environmental to minimise financial and legal issues. The Group carries out impact assessments of our projects prior to construction to environmentally conscious practices and keeps up to date with establish appropriate mitigation measures. As GYPP project best practices relevant to our business. Our property portfolio manages our developments and works with consultant teams is predominantly made up of assets in New Zealand. With to deliver projects, this impact occurs both in and outside New Zealand’s heavy reliance on its natural environment, the the organisation. To ensure compliance, we work closely with government promotes the sustainable management of natural our contractors and hire experts to lead the work in doing so and physical resources, such as land, air and water, via the where necessary. No fines or non-monetary sanctions for Resource Management Act (RMA) 1991. The RMA manages non-compliance with environmental laws/or regulations were the use, development and protection of natural and physical recorded in the reporting period. We target to maintain this resources in a way, or at a rate, which enables people and track record next year and into the future. communities to provide for their social and cultural well-being and for their health and safety, while at the same time: In addition to complying with local regulations, the Group maintains several internal policies related to the environment, • Sustaining the potential of natural and physical resources which we have listed on the next page. (excluding minerals) to meet the reasonably foreseeable needs of future generations; • Safeguarding the life-supporting capacity of air, water, soil and ecosystems; and • Avoiding, remedying or mitigating any adverse effects on the environment. 20 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SEA: BAN ON SHARK PRODUCTS The Group is a signatory of the WWF-Singapore Businesses Against Shark Fin pledge. Sharks are apex predators and play a crucial role in maintaining the health of marine ecosystems. According to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), a quarter of the world’s sharks and rays, and one third of pelagic (open ocean) sharks and rays, are threatened with extinction. Shark populations around the world are in decline due to illegal fishing, shark finning and shark mitigation strategies, with an estimated 100 million sharks killed annually. To do our part to protect sharks, GYPP has in place a companywide ban that prohibits the procurement of shark fin and other shark products at both internal and hosted events. LAND: WASTE MANAGEMENT GYPP is committed to addressing responsible consumption at our properties by decreasing the total amount of waste collected and increasing our recycling rate. We have launched a number of initiatives to help us improve efficiencies. In addition to implementing waste sorting at source, a ban against the corporate procurement of single-use plastic bottles was put in place in FY18. The Group subsequently held its first single-use plastic free Annual General Meeting in 2019 and aims to continue doing so moving forward. To reduce employee consumption of single-use packaging, food containers and cutlery are made available in-office to minimise waste, particularly plastic, generated from takeaway food. The Group voluntarily offers an e-waste collection programme at our headquarters in Singapore that is open to the public to encourage the responsible disposal of electronics. In FY19, we collected a total of 373.24kg of e-waste which was subsequently sent for proper recycling. A similar programme will be launched in New Zealand in 2020. The Group also believes in proactively influencing and engaging key stakeholders in our value chain, particularly our suppliers, to work towards continuously improving the sustainability of our products while balancing performance. 21 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (“OHS”) GRI 403 The Group strongly believes in providing a safe environment our business operations, for example, safety inspections and for our workforce. Across our value chain, there are business evacuation trials. Where relevant, we provide contractors with operations wherein GYPP has control of work and the hazard information and control procedures, and maintain a “stop workplace, and instances where we use suppliers who work work” policy in the event there is reasonable doubt of safety. on the supplier’s premises and use the supplier’s work In order to prevent and mitigate negative impacts, we ensure methods. As such, this impact occurs both in and outside the that we are up to date with industry standards, reports and organisation. Not only is looking after our people the right thing improvements; and that our suppliers adhere to and monitor to do, but maintaining a good track record is also important for OHS procedures. While our main contractor is responsible for our reputation, as well as minimising financial and legal issues. OHS on site during construction, we ensure that they have all applicable procedures and reporting in place, and undertake On sites where we have both control of work and workplace, random checks. Should any significant health and safety our teams have identified potential hazards, put in place incidence occur, management are informed and work-related suitable control measures and standard operating procedures incidents will be investigated to identify the hazards, as well as which ensure that employees are well-equipped and have the to determine corrective actions and improvements needed. relevant training to respond appropriately and safely. Where Where we use suppliers who work at the supplier’s premises contractors are appointed, we ensure they are selected based and use the supplier’s work methods, the Group understands on our assessments and the recommendations of independent that we have a responsibility to prevent and mitigate negative third parties. We comply to the relevant health and safety codes OHS impacts. (Health and Safety at Work Act 2015, Workplace Safety and Health Act) and have appropriate occupational health and Below is a record of our safety performance with data based on safety management systems in place, including ensuring the employee and contractor reports. appropriate certifications and licenses are obtained to conduct Safety Performance FY2018 FY2019 Property Development Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 Number of non-fatal workplace injuries 0 0 Number of minor first-aid injurie 0 13 Number of lost days 0 0 Property Management Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 Number of non-fatal workplace injuries 1 0 Number of minor first-aid injuries 3 1 Figure 9: The Group’s safety performance record. In the financial year ending 30 June 2019, there have been no target to maintain this track record next year and into the future. fines, warnings or breaches in health and safety codes. We 22 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 405 The Group maintains a policy of providing equal opportunities opportunity, we have endorsed the Employers’ Pledge of Fair to all our employees and believes that attracting, developing Employment Practices with tripartite partners the Ministry and retaining a diverse workforce is important to operate of Manpower, the National Trades Union Congress and the successfully. Operating in countries with diverse workforces, it is Singapore National Employers Federation. important that we implement fair and merit-based employment practices not only because it is the right thing to do, but also As of the date of this report, the Group has a total of to increase the chances of finding the best person for the 18 employees. While our corporate office activities, facilities job. As such, our recruitment and performance assessments management and project management are conducted in of employees are based on merit, work attitude, cooperation house by employees, the Group uses external consultants and with other staff, as well as their efficiency and effectiveness builders to deliver development projects. The Group does not of work; and we believe in granting equal opportunities to experience seasonal variations in employee numbers and the every person. This impact occurs within the organisation data covers employees of GYPP only and excludes consultants. and in demonstrating our commitment to diversity and equal GENDER LOCATION AGE NATIONALITY >50 Years <30 years 4 employees 5 employees 22% 28% 67% TOTAL 33% 50% TOTAL 50% TOTAL 61% TOTAL 39% 18 18 18 18 50% Female Male 12 employees 6 employees 100% permanent 100% permanent Singapore New Zealand 91.7% full time 100% full time 9 employees 9 employees 30-50 Years New Zealand Singapore 8.3% part-time 0% part-time 100% permanent 100% permanent 9 employees 11 employees 7 employees We are committed to achieving gender equality through management divided by average basic remuneration of remuneration based on merit and GYPP would like to highlight men not in management); that we have a zero tolerance policy to workplace discrimination, d. Non-Management in New Zealand – 0.98 (For New Zealand violence and harassment. The following data shows the ratio of employees, average basic remuneration of women not in basic salary and remuneration of women to men. management divided by average basic remuneration of men not in management). Ratio of average basic remuneration of women to men for each employee category: Management ratios are not presented as New Zealand only has a. Management – 0.54 (Average basic remuneration of women one female management employee. in management divided by average basic remuneration of men in management); Note: The average basic remuneration is computed based on b. Non-management – 1.11 (Average basic remuneration the total basic remuneration of applicable staff in that category, of women not in management divided by average basic divided by the number of applicable staff in that category. remuneration of men not in management); GYPP operates in two countries, both of which are included in disclosures. Ratio of average basic remuneration of women to men for each significant location of operation: No incidents of discrimination have been reported during the c. Non-management, Singapore – 1.28 (For Singapore period and GYPP targets to maintain zero incidents next year employees, average basic remuneration of women not in and into the future. 23 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 416 The Group is committed to providing a safe and healthy Work Act 2015, Workplace Safety and Health Act). We carry environment at our properties to ensure that users of our assets out regular fire alarm testing and evacuation trials overseen by can enjoy amenities provided. This impact occurs within the relevant parties in New Zealand and Singapore; slip testing of organisation and is a direct result of our business operations floors; regular building safety inspections, as well as obtaining in Singapore and Auckland and as such, we have established our annual Building Warrants of Fitness, where relevant. customer health and safety policies. Our teams have identified Management walkabouts are conducted regularly to provide an potential hazards, put in place mitigating control measures additional perspective within our properties of any issues that and set out standard operating procedures, which ensure that require attention and multiple staff and on-site contract staff employees are well-equipped to respond appropriately and are workplace first aid trained. In the event of a cardiac arrest, a promptly in case of incidents and have the relevant training regularly serviced defibrillator is located in the office. In FY2019, required to do so. We appoint contractors and suppliers that we are pleased to record zero incidents of non-compliance have strong records, and we obtain the necessary licenses concerning customer health and safety on our properties, and and certifications and carry out any necessary work to comply as such, no fines or warnings have been issued. We target to to the relevant health and safety codes (Health and Safety at maintain this track record next year and into the future. CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 418 With increasing concerns around customer privacy, maintaining seek to enforce our IT policies, safeguard the integrity of data protection is important to us to ensure customer computers, networks, data and all IT property interests. In information is respected, as well as to build trust and loyalty. addition, GYPP has internal measures in place around data GYPP’s customers include shoppers at our retail centre, handling that protects personal data information by preventing tenants in our leased spaces and property purchasers of unnecessary exposure through limiting access by personnel, our development projects. As we do not currently conduct guarding against cyber risks for both our internal and external direct property sales, this impact occurs both internal to the stakeholders and complying with the Personal Data Protection organisation, as well as external with purchasers conducting Act Policy. We are pleased to report zero complaints regarding transactions via appointed sales agents. GYPP recognises the data privacy of our customers and zero fines and nonthe increased risk of cyber-attacks and hence the importance monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or of cyber security in the company. We endeavour to maintain, regulations. GYPP targets to maintain zero incidents next year secure and ensure legal and appropriate use of our information and into the future. technology infrastructure and system at all times, and also 24 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE GRI 419 The group believes that our overall compliance record, as well operations and GYPP is committed to conducting our business as compliance with specific laws or regulations in the social and with integrity to safeguard the interest of all our stakeholders, economic area, is critical to being a responsible business. We both internal and external. In order to do this, our employees believe that socioeconomic compliance is also a fundamental keep up-to-date on the latest regulations and proactively requirement for building trust with our stakeholders and engage with the various authorities and experts in the field. maintaining our corporate reputation. This impact occurs Regular checks are practised and we work with experienced, within our organisation and we approach socioeconomic knowledgeable and reputable contractors to ensure works compliance, including accounting and tax fraud, corruption, are compliant. By adhering to laws, regulations, guidelines bribery, competition, the provision of products and services, and specifications relevant to our business, we ensure that labour issues; as well as international declarations, conventions, we build a strong and ethical reputation, and that we attract treaties; and national sub-national, regional and local regulations strong, like-minded partners and employees to work and grow with utmost diligence. Our management team is responsible for with. We are pleased to report that there were no complaints reviewing and monitoring the Group’s policies and practices or incidents of non-compliance in FY2019, and as such, there and any material incidents of non-compliance are reported are no significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for nonto the Board of Directors. The group ensures good corporate compliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and governance by observing best practices in compliance. As a economic area. GYPP targets to maintain zero incidents next listed entity, various regulatory bodies have oversight of our year and into the future. SOCIAL IMPACT GYP Properties strongly believes that “having a soul” is just strengthens relationships. In alignment with the UN Sustainable as important as creating economic value. We are passionate Development Goals “SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities” and “SDG about supporting communities and social causes. Each year, 1: No Poverty”, GYPP looks to address the inequalities faced the Group identifies opportunities to contribute to society by vulnerable communities by providing increased access to through donations, fundraising activities, volunteering and gifts services and assets, and works with like-minded organisations in kind. We believe that encouraging a giving culture nurtures to help achieve these goals. empathy at work and creates trust, engagement, as well as 25 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GIFT OF HOME X BILLIONBRICKS The Group is pleased to launch our keystone “Gift of Home” to a displaced or homeless family in the region. Used most programme in our commitment to building a strong, sustainable commonly as a refugee shelter or after a natural disaster company with a pronounced social core. According to strikes to help end poverty, billionBricks’ weatherHYDE is the The UN Refugee Agency and the Internal Displacement world’s first reversible life-saving shelter that is insulated, which Monitoring Centre, 25 million people lose their home every provides protection from both hot and cold weather and offers year. Unsheltered and exposed, many also lose their lives with women and children privacy and a safe space. For FY19, 64 women and children being among the most vulnerable. With weatherHYDE shelters are being sent to families affected by the provision of homes and places to connect at the heart of the earthquakes in Mindanao, Philippines. the GYPP business, we are redefining our operations to align our economic and societal goals. From this year, GYPP will be contributing towards helping to alleviate homelessness. Our first partnership under “Gift of Home” is with Singapore nonprofit organisation billionBricks. For every home GYPP sells, the Group is donating an innovative weatherHYDE shelter 26 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EKOS GYPP is proud to be Carbon Friendly with Ekos. We work with efforts in Aotearoa-New Zealand and the Pacific Islands that the New Zealand-based non-profit enterprise to offset 100% create measured, reported and verified carbon benefits, which of our operational carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2 energy includes costs of planting and maintaining a forest, as well as related emissions) from our buildings, as well as business lost income from the landowner that would have come from travel (Scope 3). In addition to creating self-sustaining forest farming or logging the same land. carbon projects that are certified, projects are developed to deliver additional environmental and social benefits to communities, such as improving water quality, resilience to erosion, sustainable incomes and gender equality. Carbon credits purchased by the Group fund forest conservation SOUTH CENTRAL COMMUNITY FAMILY SERVICE CENTRE In FY2019, GYPP began a partnership with South Central acts of kindness for people in the community who don’t have Community Family Service Centre (“SCC”), which provides enough. Activities such as picnics, performances and games support to low-income and vulnerable families in the are conducted to bring the community together and promote community. While giving support to families who seek help in sharing. During the year, GYPP offers volunteers for events and financial, social or relationship issues, SCC also encourages provides regular services such as the delivery of donated items community self-help and cooperation. We help sponsor their from donors to beneficiaries. I Wish You Enough event that celebrates and encourages 27 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS Other organisations or events that we supported this at risk, and Plunket in Auckland, a provider of support services year include the Tampines East National Day Dinner 2019, for children under the age of five. Through events at our retail Leukaemia & Blood Cancer NZ and the Project We Care Garden centre in Auckland, we provided support to local community Party. We provide office facilities to the MILK (Mainly I Love organisations below: Kids) Fund in Singapore that addresses the needs of children Community Organisation Activity / Support Arthritis NZ Fundraising collection Blind Foundation NZ Fundraising collection Breast Cancer Foundation Fundraising collection Cancer Society Fundraising collection Chiropractic College Social awareness about spinal health Cystic Fibrosis Fundraising collection Girl Guides Fundraising collection Howick / Pakuranga Community patrols Howick RSA Fundraising collection for Red Poppy Day Little Sister of the Poor Fundraising collection Macleans College Fundraising for Red Cross Pakuranga College Student Market – school based business studies activity where students make, market and sell their products to the general public Parkinsons NZ Charitable Trust Fundraising collection Pest Free Howick Organisation awareness SPCA Fundraising collection Stroke Foundation Fundraising collection The Salvation Army Fundraising collection Totara Hospice Fundraising collection UNICEF Sponsorship drive 28 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page / Responses GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURE GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of organisation Page 5 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Page 5 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 5 102-4 Location of operations Page 5 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 5 102-6 Markets served Page 5 102-7 Scale of the organisation Page 23 102-8 Information on employees and other Page 23 workers 102-9 Supply chain Page 14 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation Page 14 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Page 7 102-12 External initiatives Page 12 102-13 Membership of associations Singapore Business Federation 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 3 to 4 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 16 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of Page 18 behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Page 18 about ethics 102-18 Governance structure Page 10 102-19 Delegating authority Pages 9 and 10 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for Page 10 economic, environmental and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Pages 13 to 15 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Page 9 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Page 9 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Page 9 governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Page 18 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Pages 9 and 10 purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Page 10 governance body 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management Page 9 processes 29 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Standard Disclosure Page / Responses GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURE GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and Pages 9 and 10 social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Page 10 sustainability reporting 102-35 Remuneration policies Page 9 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 9 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 15 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements None 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Page 13 to 15 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 15 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Page 17 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Page 16 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Page16 102-48 Restatement of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI 305 Emissions has been included; GRI 413 Local Communities has been excluded 102-50 Reporting period Page 7 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 30 April 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 7 102-53 Contact point for questions about the Page 8 report 102-54 Claims if reporting in accordance with the Page 8 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index Pages 30 to 31 102-56 External assurance Page 7 MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Page 17 performance distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Page 17 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Not applicable retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from Not applicable government GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Page 18 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about antiPage 18 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Page 18 actions taken GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 19 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Page 19 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Page 19 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 19 GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws Page 20 compliance and regulations 30 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Standard Disclosure Page / Responses GRI 101: Foundation 2016 MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 403: Occupational health 403-1 Occupational health and safety Page 22 and safety management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Page 22 and incident investigation 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Page 22 communication on occupations health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health Page 22 and safety 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Page 22 health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries Page 22 GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Page 23 opportunity employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Page 23 women to men GRI 416: Customer health and 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Page 24 safety impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Page 24 the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Page 24 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socio-economic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Page 25 compliance in the social and economic area 31 GYP PROPERTIES LIMITED | 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GYP Properties Limited Company Reg No. 200304719G 1 Lorong 2 Toa Payoh, Yellow Pages Building, Singapore 319637 | T. +65 6351 1000 I F. +65 6354 3828 I W. www.gypproperties.com 32
