Ipsos The Ipsos Professional Code of Conduct Green Book May 2015 GAME CHANGERS GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 1 20/05/2015 19:38 Table of contents Our Professional Code of Conduct page 03 Our Personal Commitment page 04 Our Policies page 05 Our Professional Obligations page 12 Fraud Prevention and Raising Concerns page 16 02 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 2 20/05/2015 19:38 Our Professional > The “Ipsos Book of Policies and Procedures”, Code of Conduct available on the Ipsos Intranet, which complements the information set forth in this Green book by providing the full details on Ipsos’ policies, procedures, organisation and systems which all our employees and managers must Ipsos This booklet, “The Green Book: the Ipsos respect. It includes the “Ipsos Book of Organisation” Professional Code of Conduct”, outlines the various which provides details about who is in charge of what in the Our Professional policies and procedures that we have in place to ensure Company and which is updated regularly. Code of Conduct compliance not only with laws and the highest industry standards but also with our own values as a leader in market Cluster & Country Managers of each company of the research. The Green Book describes Ipsos’ Professional Group are responsible for promoting and enforcing ethics Our Personal Commitment Code of Conduct and Practices in a way which is designed and protecting Ipsos’ reputation, including overseeing the to be of practical use and assistance to all employees. The implementation of this Professional Code of Conduct in a Green Book is distributed to all Ipsos employees around manner consistent with Ipsos’ policies and with applicable Our Policies the world when they join the company and should also be laws and regulations in their countries. reviewed by all existing employees periodically. This Professional Code of Conduct applies to every Our Professional The Green Book is only a summary of our obligations employee, whether full or part time, and every consultant or Obligations and is not intended to be an exhaustive guide to all our legal, contractor who performs services for Ipsos. We also expect ethical, social, environmental and societal responsibilities. our suppliers to comply with our policies to the extent they Ipsos The Green Book should be read in conjunction with other are applicable. Fraud Prevention and Raising Concerns relevant documents delivered to you or accessible on the If this Professional Code of Conduct does not provide Ipsos Intranet, namely: the guidance you need, please consult your supervisor, > The “Proud to be Ipsos” Charter, which outlines a representative of your HR Department or the Legal our values and guiding principles, our heritage, our Department. expertise and our ambitions; and Ipsos Green Book // 03 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 3 20/05/2015 19:38 Our Personal Commitment Ipsos believes the best way to motivate is to empower of the contract with Ipsos. Misconduct that could result in people. We aim to set the minimum number of rules to disciplinary action includes: Our Professional provide the framework within which our staff can operate Code of Conduct violating or circumventing Ipsos policies or efficiently and flexibly; this framework should motivate procedures; people to reach their full potential and carry out actions in Our Personal the best interests of both our clients and Ipsos. inducing or requesting others to violate Ipsos Commitment policies or procedures; Each employee serves as an ambassador for Ipsos and contributes to our culture and reputation by applying Ipsos failure to raise promptly a known or suspected Our Policies policies and complying with relevant laws and regulations. violation of relevant laws and regulations as provided for herein. This can be done using the Whistle Ipsos managers are expected to encourage ethical Blowing system (see page 17) or sending an e-mail Our Professional conduct, lead by example on compliance, assign proper Obligations to the Group Internal Audit director within 24 hours resources to obtain the right expertise on compliance, and for any significant matter that can adversely effect detect and respond to compliance issues. Ipsos situation. Fraud Prevention and Raising Concerns Violation of this Professional Code of Conduct or of failure to cooperate with an Ipsos internal Ipsos policies and procedures by Ipsos employees and investigation; or managers may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment, and a violation by a retaliation against another employee for reporting a contractor, consultant or supplier may result in termination concern relating to integrity. 04 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 4 20/05/2015 19:38 Our Policies > We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies; and > We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. UN Global Compact For more information on the UN Global Compact, see Ipsos is a party to the UN Global Compact, meaning the website: http://www.unglobalcompact.org. Our Professional that we have undertaken to embrace, support and enact, Code of Conduct within our sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment Equal opportunities policy Our Personal and anti-corruption. Specifically, this means that we adhere We aim to provide a healthy and ethical work Commitment to the following 10 principles: environment for all our employees. We are committed to the > We support and respect the protection of internationally policy of equal treatment of all employees and applicants. Our proclaimed human rights; We expect Ipsos employees (including managers) to treat Policies > We ensure that we are not complicit in human rights one another professionally and with mutual respect, and the abuses; same shall apply when interacting with clients, contractors and the wider society that is affected by our work. Our Professional > We uphold the freedom of association and the effective Obligations recognition of the right to collective bargaining; We do not tolerate discrimination by treating any > We support the elimination of all forms of forced and individual less favourably than others on grounds of gender, Fraud Prevention compulsory labour; colour, race, religion, sexual orientation, ethnic or national and Raising Concerns > We support the effective abolition of child labour; origin, disability, or membership or non-membership of a > We support the elimination of discrimination in respect trade union or other association. Additionally, we do not of employment and occupation; tolerate harassment or other offensive behaviour and > We take a precautionary approach to environmental actions (this includes any behaviour or action that may challenges; interfere with an employee’s performance and/or create a > We undertake initiatives to promote greater environhostile, intimidating or offensive work environment). mental responsibility; Ipsos Green Book // 05 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 5 20/05/2015 19:38 Health and safety policy and entertainment expenses, as well as facilitation payments. Bribes to any person, company or government We are committed to providing and maintaining working official are strictly prohibited. environments that are safe, including arrangements for the welfare of employees while at work. It is the duty of Any direct or indirect benefit granted to Ipsos or Ipsos’ all employees to take reasonable care for the health and employees (or their family members) by a third party is safety of themselves and of others who may be affected by prohibited because it may result in dependency and may Our Professional Code of Conduct their acts or omissions at work. affect the recipient’s decision-making process in performing his or her duty. Our Personal Drug-free work place Commitment Exceptions to this are small gifts of negligible value The use or possession of illegal drugs or unauthorised deemed to be common in the context of relevant standard alcohol while at work or on Ipsos property is strictly business practice, such as occasional courtesy, promotional Our prohibited. Policies gifts or invitations. The value of such benefits has to remain reasonable, and in all cases local laws must be respected. Anti-corruption Our Professional Ipsos strictly prohibits any corrupt practice and will Contract of Employment Obligations not tolerate any violation of relevant laws and regulations relating to anti-corruption, bribery and other similar matters. All Ipsos employees have a written Contract of Fraud Prevention Employment letter that, among other things, specifies the and Raising Concerns Employee must not, either directly or indirectly, including Ipsos company that is their employer. through the Ipsos entity they work for, offer, promise to give or give any payment or other advantage to any person Ipsos employees are of course protected by the outside Ipsos to obtain an improper advantage or induce legislation prevailing in the country in which they are favourable action. employed. In addition, Ipsos personnel have the right to personally appeal to the most senior Ipsos Director in their Unlawful payments include any advantage including country if they have not received satisfaction through the cash, gifts, free samples, payment of non-essential travel normal management channels. 06 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 6 20/05/2015 19:38 Training and Development Grievance and disciplinary procedure Every employee is given internal training and on-theEach Ipsos entity abides by applicable regulations in job development in the skills required for the particular their jurisdiction and follows fair procedures in dealing with job they are to perform. The time devoted to training and disciplinary, dismissal and grievance issues, should these development, and the period of time during which this arise. Please refer to the HR Department of your country for takes place, varies depending on the practices prevailing additional information. Our Professional in different countries, the skill levels required for given jobs Code of Conduct and an individual’s previous experience. Secondary activities In the interest of both our employees and Ipsos, we We define a secondary activity as one whereby a Our Personal are committed to develop our talents, and to offer suitable member of Ipsos staff provides his or her services, with or Commitment opportunities for employees to develop to their full potential without remuneration, outside the working relationship with including, but not limited to, giving employees in one Ipsos. This type of activity is only permissible if it does not Our country the opportunity to gain work experience in Ipsos restrict the work, or diminish the performance capability of Policies companies elsewhere. the person(s) concerned, and if there are no associated conflicts of interest. In all cases, remunerated secondary Our Professional Policies of internal promotion and opportunities for skill activities require the prior agreement of Ipsos. Obligations transfers are actively pursued within all Ipsos companies. This is one of the key responsibilities of Ipsos leaders with Timesheet compliance Fraud Prevention the support of the HR community. All Ipsos employees and managers must record their and Raising Concerns time in the Ipsos Timesheet System (iTime) on a weekly basis and in an accurate manner against jobs they are working on and other tasks they might be pursuing, including declaring their absences and holidays. Ipsos Green Book // 07 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 7 20/05/2015 19:38 Data protection and privacy Computer, email and internet policies Our business is all about the collection and analysis Every employee is responsible for using Ipsos’ computer of information about individuals. Ipsos also needs to system, including, without limitation, its electronic mail collect and use information about people it deals with in (email) system and the internet, properly and in accordance order to operate, for example information about our staff. with Ipsos policies. Ipsos’ computer system policy is Compliance with relevant privacy laws and regulations contained in the Ipsos Book of Policies and Procedures. Our Professional Code of Conduct is therefore essential. Personal information (known as Any questions about these policies should be addressed “personal data” “personally identifiable information” “PII,” to the employee’s immediate supervisor or the Country IT etc.) must be treated as confidential information and Services managers. Employees should be aware of, among Our Personal handled in strict compliance with our local legal obligations. other matters, the following: Commitment It can only be used for the purposes for which it was collected, and must not be disclosed to third parties without // No expectation of privacy Our appropriate authorisation. Subject to local applicable law, Ipsos reserves the right, Policies for any reason and without the permission of any employee, For more information on data protections and privacy to monitor any and all aspects of its computer system, Our Professional obligations, please refer to the Ipsos Information Security including, without limitation, reviewing documents created Obligations Policy (part of the Ipsos Book of Policies and Procedures) and stored on its computer system, deleting any matter that defines all Security Sensitive Information that has to stored in its system, monitoring sites visited by employees be protected (Personally Identifiable Information, Sensitive on the internet, monitoring chat and news groups, Fraud Prevention and Raising Concerns Personal Information, Client Information and Ipsos reviewing material downloaded or uploaded by users Confidential Information). In case of any doubt, please from the internet, and reviewing email sent and received contact the Legal Department. by users. Employees should not have an expectation of privacy in anything they create, store, send or receive on Read further on “Confidentiality” and “Ipsos Intellectual the computer system. Property” on page 12 and 13. 08 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 8 20/05/2015 19:38 // Offensive and inappropriate material; records be retained for specific periods of time. Before illegal activities disposing of documents, employees should consult their Ipsos policies prohibit using the Ipsos computer system managers so that a judgement can be made as to the to send messages or files that are illegal, sexually explicit, likelihood that the documents will be needed. abusive, offensive or profane. Whenever it becomes apparent that documents of any type will be required in connection with a lawsuit or Our Professional // Solicitations government investigation, all possibly relevant documents Code of Conduct Employees may not use Ipsos’ computer system should be preserved, and ordinary disposal or alteration to solicit for religious or political causes, commercial of documents pertaining to the subjects of the litigation Our Personal enterprises, outside organisations, or other activities not or investigation should be immediately suspended. If an Commitment related to an employee’s services to Ipsos. employee is uncertain whether documents under his or her control should be preserved because they might relate to a // Copyrights and trade secrets lawsuit or investigation, he or she should contact the Legal Our Policies Ipsos’ computer system may not be used to send Department. (upload) copyrighted materials, trade secrets, proprietary All documents related to clients’ projects and any other Our Professional financial information or similar materials, unless for business Obligations information which belongs to Ipsos must not be transferred purposes, sufficiently secured and with respect of actual or kept on personal computers and systems and must be ownership. No unlicensed software can be uploaded on stored using the Ipsos internal workflow and document Fraud Prevention Ipsos equipment. management system. Employees must not use personal and Raising Concerns e-mail systems for business purposes. // Document retention The space available for the storage of Ipsos documents, both on paper and electronic, is limited and expensive. Therefore, periodic discarding of documents is necessary. On the other hand, there are legal requirements that certain Ipsos Green Book // 09 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 9 20/05/2015 19:38 // Social media guidelines > Employees must make it clear in their social media Employees should abide by all relevant copyright profile that their tweets/posts are personal and do and other intellectual property rights as well as normal not reflect the views and opinions of Ipsos. acceptable use of computing policies when publishing > Any published content must accurately represent Our Professional content in social media, specifically: Ipsos’ position, strategy or opinion and should be Code of Conduct > Ipsos, client or names, logos or trademarks should reviewed and approved in advance by the relevant not be used without written agreement from the business unit leader. Our Personal relevant intellectual property owner. Employees are > Employees must show proper consideration for Commitment contractually obliged to maintain the confidentiality topics that may be considered objectionable or of client and respondent information as well as the inflammatory, such as politics. Our information of any third parties with whom we have Policies signed non-disclosure agreements. Working in a listed company > In relation with suppliers, Ipsos policy is neither to Each employee must be aware of the particular Our Professional use publicly their names nor to allow them to use Obligations restrictions associated with Ipsos being a listed company the Ipsos name, without their prior written consent (for specific details, see “Insider Trading rules and practices” for Group Legal Department. in the Ipsos Book of Policies and Procedures). Fraud Prevention > Where approval to cite or reference clients or and Raising Concerns partners is granted, employees must ensure the Where employees obtain information concerning the information published is fair, accurate and will not business of Ipsos or its clients which might potentially allow inferences to be drawn which could embarrass affect the price of Ipsos stock, the confidentiality of this or damage the client/partner. information shall be preserved and may not be used or > Where content represents research findings, the passed on. Any use of such information for an employee’s publication of that content must be in line with own purposes or in the interests of third parties is strictly Ipsos’ procedures to publish polls. prohibited. 10 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 10 20/05/2015 19:38 All financial information not included in our annual report This implies proactivity and reactivity. Responding or press releases available on www.ipsos.com is strictly promptly to any request from other colleagues or from confidential. Staff are not authorised to talk outside of Ipsos clients, possibly with 48 hours (at least to indicate when about Ipsos’ strategic and financial affairs. In any instance you will come back with an answer), is a must. where you are asked to provide non-public information to respond to an RFP or other client request, you must refer Approval Limits Our Professional Code of Conduct the request to your country CFO who will then seek the Certain actions taken on behalf of the Company require mandatory Group approval before such information may be the review and approval of designated management released. Our Personal personnel, such as entering into client or vendor contracts, Commitment Trading in Ipsos free shares should not take place two providing clients with financial concessions, entering into weeks before and three days after the announcement real estate transactions, signing employment contracts and Our of quarterly financial information. Trading in other Ipsos HR related commitments, hiring independent contractors, Policies securities should not take place two weeks before and or providing approval for third parties to use the Ipsos three days after the announcement of quarterly financial name, logo or trademark. Our Professional information or the release of information on major events Obligations Only employees with explicit signing authority may (see the Insider Trading section on the Ipsos Intranet for the execute any legal agreement that binds the company, calendar of blackout periods). including non-disclosure agreements, statements of work Fraud Prevention or RFP responses. See the Approval Limit Guidelines in and Raising Concerns Working Collaboratively the Ipsos Book of Policies and Procedures and the specific Working with a team spirit as one Ipsos is a key delegation of powers of your country for details. requirement from all managers and employees. This means sharing and desire to work together across specialisations and markets. Ipsos Green Book // 11 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 11 20/05/2015 19:38 Our Professional Obligations Our Professional Our mission is to deliver information about markets, Integrity of client, supplier, respondent consumers, brands and society to our clients with the 4Ss Code of Conduct in mind: Security, Simplicity, Speed and Substance. and other relationships We also have a duty of fair treatment to our clients, Our Personal suppliers, competitors and any other stakeholders. The Commitment Adherence to the ESOMAR Code of essence of Ipsos’ business is based on the integrity of the Market and Social Research data measurement, work, products and services that we Our We take our professional responsibilities very seriously. sell to our clients. Policies We adhere to the letter and the spirit of conducting relevant business under the terms of the ESOMAR Code Confidentiality Our Professional of Market and Social Research (the “ESOMAR Code”). The Obligations Compliance with confidentiality obligations involving management of Ipsos has entered into an agreement to clients and third parties is fundamental. Employees may be bound by the ESOMAR Code that provides safeguards have access to confidential information relating to Ipsos, Fraud Prevention for the public, for clients and for research agencies. our clients, suppliers, respondents or other stakeholders and Raising Concerns Wherever there are additional national requirements, these (“Confidential Information”). Every employee is committed requirements take precedence when carrying out research to treat such information as confidential with the same within a specific country. (For more details, see the website degree of care as used within the Ipsos organisation to http://www.esomar.org). protect our own confidential information. Confidential Information shall be stored securely and shall be conveyed only to those persons who have a business need to know. 12 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 12 20/05/2015 19:38 In certain situations, Clients contractually require Ipsos Ipsos Intellectual Property to segregate Confidential Information, which will require Ipsos delivers professional services to its clients based collaboration with IT to ensure compliance with such on its wide array of Intellectual Property accumulated over contractual provisions. time. Intellectual Property includes (without being limited Employees may not discuss Confidential Information to): all present and future proprietary rights, licenses, title Our Professional outside work, and are not authorised to share any result and interest in any intellectual property rights including Code of Conduct of their work without authorisation. Employees are not industrial property rights, trademarks (registered or authorised to have access to confidential information unregistered), rights in invention, service marks, patents, Our Personal related to clients or projects they are not working on, nor copyrights, design rights, database rights registered, Commitment should they discuss confidential information with other Ipsos designs and know-how, algorithms, APIs, databases, employees who are not working on matters for the same diagrams, formulae, inventions (whether or not patentable), Our client. They must not try to gain access to any confidential configurations and architectures, processes and workflows, Policies information if it is not related to a specific business need. proprietary information, protocols, specifications, software code programs languages and codes rights (in any form, Any disclosure to a third party (client, vendor or including source code, and executable or object code), Our Professional Obligations otherwise) of Confidential Information cannot be made subroutines, techniques, user interfaces, URLs (whether unless the party to whom the information is disclosed or not embodied in any tangible form and including all signs a Non-Disclosure Agreement. Form non-disclosure tangible embodiments of the foregoing, such as instruction Fraud Prevention and Raising Concerns agreements are available by the Legal Department to manuals, prototypes, notebooks, samples, studies and provide to third parties; when a third party provides its own summaries), proposals to clients, products, questionnaires, non-disclosure agreement template or a third party provides lay-out and design of reports and portals. comments to the Ipsos form NDA, it must be reviewed by the Legal Department, who will lead negotiations to finalize All employees have the duty to make sure that Ipsos the agreement and coordinate the signing process. Intellectual Property is protected and not disclosed without confidentiality agreements properly identifying them. Ipsos Green Book // 13 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 13 20/05/2015 19:38 By contract, Ipsos owns all intellectual property rights The resources and assets of Ipsos or Ipsos stakeholders developed by its employees and contractors related to the shall not be used for private purposes. business of Ipsos, whether developed during or after usual working hours, and whether on or off the premises. The company reserves the right to deduct the expenses owed to the company from your salary. Our Professional Code of Conduct Anti-trust Ipsos will not accept any violation of anti-trust and Conflict of interest competition laws and regulations. Anti-trust and competition Personal and private interests must not interfere in Our Personal Commitment laws and regulations are issued by a national or regional business relationships or decisions, which should be based government or agency and have a national, regional and/ solely on business and ethical considerations. Contracts or global reach. They define acceptable behaviour for shall be awarded strictly on the basis of objective principles. Our This also applies to the selection and assessment of Policies competing in a given territory and aim at promoting fair competition. employees. Our Professional Information obtained by employees during the course Obligations Separation of private and business of their working duties may not be used either for their own expenses purposes or in the interests of third parties. Fraud Prevention Private and business expenses must be strictly and Raising Concerns A conflict of interest is deemed to exist in all cases separated. Private expenses must not be settled through where employees have personal relationships (i.e. family, Ipsos accounts (unless duly authorised and reimbursed friends) or are financially linked to business partners of promptly). In order to be reimbursable, the scope and Ipsos or if they are active in business areas in which Ipsos timing of expenses must be related to the employee’s role is active. Such activities may also include any form of equity within Ipsos. Reimbursement of expenses is subject to prior participation. consent of the line manager and shall be in accordance with your local Travel policy available on your local intranet site, aligned with the Group guidelines. 14 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 14 20/05/2015 19:38 A potential conflict of interest must be addressed by obtaining a mandatory consent from Ipsos, involving the Legal Department. Integrity of project and financial records Our Professional Ipsos requires fair, timely, full and accurate recording Code of Conduct and reporting of project related and financial information. All supporting documents must be maintained and presented Our Personal in accordance with these standards and local applicable Commitment laws and generally accepted accounting principles. Job owners and business unit managers have the Our duty to ensure that all financial information on proposals Policies and projects is kept accurate, complete and updated on a permanent basis. Our Professional Obligations Political Contributions and Government Relations Fraud Prevention and Raising Concerns Due to the nature of the work undertaken by Ipsos (i.e., market and opinion research), it is important that Ipsos always maintains a neutral non-partisan position. No financial contributions to political parties, politicians or related institutions in the name of Ipsos are authorized without the prior approval of the Board of Directors. Ipsos Green Book // 15 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 15 20/05/2015 19:38 Fraud Prevention and Raising Concerns Our Professional Fraud prevention Managers and staff must ensure the security of Ipsos’ Code of Conduct assets within their area of responsibility and should be Fraud is defined as any deceitful practice, wilful alerted to any warning sign that might indicate that fraud may scheme, or intentional distortion of financial statements be taking place such as the following: unusual employee Our Personal or other records, by a person, internal or external to the Commitment behaviour, reluctance to take leave, a cosy relationship with organisation, that is carried out to conceal or induce the contractors/ suppliers, missing documentation, etc. misappropriation of assets or otherwise for improper Our benefit. When an employee suspects fraud, he or she must first Policies report the incident to his or her line manager, who must in The purpose of fraud prevention is to make every turn notify the Group CFO and the Director of Internal Audit Our Professional employee of the Group aware of the risks, the controls to within 24 hours. If for any reason this cannot be done, or if Obligations set up and the actions to take in case fraud is encountered it would not be appropriate to follow this procedure or the in one’s area of responsibility. This applies to any fraud reporter does not feel comfortable doing so (for example, Fraud Prevention or suspected fraud, theft, waste or abuse involving an if the report of fraud concerns the line manager or their and Raising Concerns employee (including management), a consultant, a vendor, supervisor), the fraud should be reported using the whistleor a contractor. blowing system described below. One key element is to focus on prevention. Among A fraud response plan serves the objective to ensure the measures that can be taken to reduce the possibility that timely and effective action can be taken to prevent of fraud or theft are the following: assessing the exposure; losses of funds, reduce adverse impacts on the business implementing adequate internal controls; segregating and prevent fraud in the future. The Anti-Fraud Policy is duties; regular reviews by management; etc. available in the Ipsos Book of Policies and Procedures. 16 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 16 20/05/2015 19:38 Raising a concern through or representatives of staff members. Using the external contractor does not replace or provide a substitute for the the whistle-blowing system need to report illegal incidents to official authorities. To ensure we comply with the standards of this Professional Code of Conduct and the Anti-Fraud Policy, What should be reported? every employee has a duty to report violations. Our Professional The scope of the reporting is restricted to the issues Code of Conduct Ipsos has set up an external alert system managed by listed below: an independent agency that allows any employee to report > Anti-competition practices Our Personal ethical issues, risks or behaviours that can affect Ipsos’ Commitment > Breaches of company policy business in a serious manner or which are of a fraudulent nature (please refer to the Ipsos Whistle-Blowing section on > Health and safety Our the Ipsos Intranet). > Confidentiality issue Policies > Conflicts of interest This system allows an employee to inform the organisation about facts that may breach applicable Group > Corruption Our Professional Obligations rules and local laws and regulations covering fraud, bribery, > Malpractice corruption, anti-competitive practices, questionable > Fraud Fraud Prevention accounting procedures, gross breaches of health and > Money laundering and Raising Concerns safety or environmental legislation, ethical misconduct, or > Partner and third party related issues illegal activity, and the employee making the report may choose to remain anonymous. > Privacy issues > Vandalism and criminal damage. This system provides an alternative way of reporting concerns that one may not be comfortable reporting using This tool is not meant to report human resources the traditional reporting channels such as one’s direct concerns, which should be addressed to the line manager line management, local management, Human Resources or the Human Resources department (local and/or Group). Ipsos Green Book // 17 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 17 20/05/2015 19:38 How to raise a concern Who will access the information Four different methods can be used to report a concern provided? to the independent company: telephone, secure web What outcomes are reported? reporting, dedicated email and post. Cases raised are transmitted to the Group Audit Our Professional department on an anonymous basis unless the employee Code of Conduct > By telephone: using the Freephone numbers shown on the Ipsos Intranet agrees otherwise. Our Personal > By web reporting: www.expolink.co.uk The system is structured to organise a verification of Commitment the data collected on a confidential basis in order to enable > By dedicated email: ialert@expolink.co.uk Ipsos to decide on the measures to be taken to address Our the issue raised. Follow up of all cases will be made in a Policies > By Mail: 1 Greenways Business Park, Bellinger consistent and efficient way and will be reported to the Audit Close, Chippenham, SN15 1BN, UK. committee and any other appropriate person with regard to the specific employee report. Unless the report was made Our Professional Obligations anonymously, and unless otherwise inappropriate, the employee raising the concern will be informed of the status of the report and any remedial measures taken. Fraud Prevention and Raising Concerns 18 // Ipsos Green Book GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 18 20/05/2015 19:38 Ipsos Green Book // 19 GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 19 20/05/2015 19:38 Global Headquarter Services 35 rue de Val de Marne 75013 Paris France +33.1.41.98.90.00 www.ipsos.com GAME CHANGERS GreenBook-IMPRESSION-VA.indd 20 20/05/2015 19:38
