LEDELSEN KOMMENTAR 1 Vi er bagere Kohberg Bakery Group A/S United Nations Global Compact Report 2018 CEO’S COMMENTS – 3 CONTENTS 03 CEO’S COMMENTS 04 ABOUT KOHBERG WE’RE BAKERS – AND THEREFORE 06 CSR STRATEGY AND FOCUS AREAS WE HAVE OBLIGATIONS 08 ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION 12 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS In more or less every household in Denmark, there is Kohberg bread on the table at 18 A GOOD PLACE TO WORK at least one daily meal. Whether it is for breakfast, in a packed lunch, as a sandwich 22 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE at lunchtime or a side dish with a hot meal, bread is one of the Danish consumers’ 26 KPI – DEFINITIONS essential food items. Kohberg is one of Denmark’s best-known food brands. We are a workplace for about 550 people at three locations: Haderslev, Bolderslev and 28 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT AND COMPANY PROFILE Høje Taastrup. For these and many other reasons, we have obligations. In the run-up to this year’s CSR report, we have adopted a new approach to CSR. Like so many other companies around the world, we studied the United Nations 17 Global Goals for sustainable development and decided to make goal no. 12 our ACTIVE 100 % 100 % absolute, strategic goal for CSR. As we continued to work we decided to focus on sustainable four strategic areas that are positive and valuable, especially in the light that we palm oil promise our consumers that ”we’re bakers”. in ”Danmark bread trays made The four areas are Environmentally Sustainable Consumption, Good Food mod Madspild” of recycled plastic ­Prod­ucts, A Good Place to Work and Responsible Corporate Governance. This BRC simply means that we will continue to focus on environmental and human factors. These four areas are those in which we seek to advance even further 0% in future years. Food As a workplace, we have 550 people on loan from their families every day. 100 % of our eggs come Certificate ­Therefore, we have increasing focus on safety at work. As a food producer, we consume water, heat, electricity and many other things. We have launched and from battery hens will continue to launch initiatives to reduce our carbon footprint to a minimum. of the flour and One fine example is “Danmark mod Madspild” (Denmark fights Food Waste) ­ grain we bake – a movement that inspires Danes and the food industry. Kohberg plays a leading Job satisfaction ourselves are grown role. In Denmark, we throw away more than 700,000 tons of food every year. The and loyalty rating The largest without glyphosate and plant growth goal of the movement is to cut food waste by half by 2030. 79 % Danish-owned Good food requires solid knowledge of the value chain. At Kohberg, we know the regulators precise origin of our ingredients, we make stringent demands on our suppliers bakery and we focus generally on ensuring that our bread is baked from scratch and with good quality ingredients. For example, we use flour that is free of plant growth regulators, and we have focus on organic products ­and a great deal more besides. We are dedicated to our cause every single day. Why? Because we’re bakers. 60 % of our products bear the Nordic Keyhole label Kind regards, René Normann Christensen CEO, Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Vi er bagere Published by: This report is not only Kohberg’s annual report on our Kohberg Bakery Group A/S corporate social responsibilities but also a mandatory­ Kernesvinget ­report in pursuance of Article 99a of the Danish DK-6392 Bolderslev ­Financial Statements Act regarding social responsibility. Denmark The same report is filed as our annual (CoP) Communiwww.kohberg.com cation on Progress with regard to the United Nations www.kohberg.dk Global Compact scheme. ABOUT KOHBERG 5 ABOUT KOHBERG Kohberg Bakery Group is the largest Danish-owned bakery. Almost PRODUCTS AND SERVICES every Danish consumer recognises the brand. Danes eat bread At Kohberg, we primarily bake fresh-baked, pre-packed bread and ­throughout the day – at breakfast, lunch and dinner, and as snacks between meals. ­distribute it to retail stores and food service wholesalers. We also KOHBERG AND ITS SURROUNDINGS supply private-label bread to retail chains. We supply frozen bake-off Our 550 employees – of whom 80 are fully qualified bakers – work at products (bread and Danish pastries) to in-store bakeries and food our modern bakeries at Bolderslev, Haderslev and Høje Taastrup in As a food-producing company, Kohberg has an impact on its surroundings. Similarly, a range of factors in our surroundings affects us, e.g. service wholesalers, and fresh bread to in-store bakeries. Denmark and at our Hinnerup warehouse. public authorities and legislation, the employees at our bakeries, our customers and the consumers who enjoy our bread and Danish pastries. As for exports, Kohberg sells under its own brand and under private labels, e.g. to food service wholesalers and retail stores. Revenue MDKK 949 Our range includes the following product categories: EBITDA MDKK 18.9 • Rye & Multigrain Bread Equity MDKK 88 • Lunch & White Bread • Breakfast Rolls 550 employees • Buns • Sandwiches & Burgers • Fast food OWNERSHIP • Danish Pastry Kohberg is part of the ownership structure under KOFF A/S, a ­family-managed holding company. Kohberg Bakery ­Group is KOFF A/S’ • Snacks largest food-producing company. Organic and vegan variants are available in several product categories. This CSR report covers Kohberg Bakery Group A/S, including a Kohberg also offers gluten-free and lactose-free bread. varianter. Owners ­subsidiary, H. C. Andersen Bagergården A/S. varianter. Desuden tilbyder Kohberg også glutenog laktosefri brød. Per Fogtmann Authorities Employees Jesper Fogtmann 100% 100% 50-66.65% 50-66.65% PF HOLDING AABENRAA ApS JF HOLDING AABENRAA ApS Vi er bagere 100% KOFF A/S 100% 90-99.99% Suppliers Customers 90-99.99% 100% FF CAPITAL A/S KOHBERG Crispy Food A/S BAKERY GROUP A/S EASIS A/S 50-66.65% Consumers 100% NAKSKOV MILL FOODS A/S Nisco ApS H.C. ANDERSEN BAGERGÅRDEN A/S CSR STRATEGY AND FOCUS AREAS – 7 CSR STRATEGY AND FOCUS AREAS VALUE CHAIN AND RISK FACTORS We have a consistent, common target: We at Kohberg bake the best bread for the Danish people. We have devised a framework for ourselves Chemical substances Chemical substances CO2 Waste and food waste Food waste Food waste and for our business activities and we have a mission. We are diligent in our work with Corporate Social Responsibility because acting Water consumption Water consumption Waste Waste ­responsibly and encouraging adds value for customers, partners and ourselves. We seek to influence our surroundings to do the same. Waste and food waste Waste Biodiversity CO2 Animal welfare CO2 Food safety Food safety Food safety Food safety Food safety Food product Indigenous people Indigenous people Particulate pollution Particulate pollution safety Vision Traffic safety Traffic safety We aim to be the most attractive baking company for our Child labour Child labour Wages Wages Working conditions customers and we seek to add most value for their and our own sakes. Forced labour Enforced labour Working conditions Working conditions Health Wages Wages Health Health Wages Working conditions Working conditions UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Health Health Bribery Bribery Bribery Bribery Bribery Environmentally Good A Good Place Corruption Corruption Corruption Corruption Corruption Sustainable Consumption Food Products to Work Consumption of resources Food safety Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Energy consumption Healthy food products Tolerant workplace Pollution Sustainable ingredients Vi er bagere Employee development INGREDIENTS PRODUCTION TRANSPORT KOHBERG CUSTOMERS CONSUMERS AND GROWERS Responsible corporate governance VALUE CHAIN AND RISK FACTORS MATERIALITY In connection with our strategic CSR work, we have studied ­Kohberg’s By collecting information and analysing the wishes of our stake­ Supplier management, fairness and transparency value chain, including links of the chain where Kohberg affects holders and the risks at Kohberg and throughout the value chain, our ­surroundings negatively or is at risk of doing. As we aim to act we can ­summarise the situation in a materiality matrix, in which we ­responsibly, we strive consistently to minimise any negative effects plot ­various aspects of CSR work and weight them according to their Mission we may have. ­relative importance for our stakeholders and Kohberg, respectively. We’re bakers. We are passionate about bread and we make it easy for you to buy good tasty fresh bread, no matter where you shop. MATERIALITY Pride and meaning UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Higher Purchase guarantee Reporting Eliminate food additives Food safety Safety at work Traceability Renewable energy and climate GOAL 12 – RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Human rights Reliable delivery Continued economic growth and sustainable development depend on successfully minimising our impact on the natural Taxation Policies Waste and recycling Compliance environment. We can achieve this in many ways, including changing how we consume resources and dispose of waste Organics and pollutant substances. As a commercial enterprise, Kohberg is obliged to examine how we recycle and reduce waste Pollution Sustainable packaging Indigenous people Healthy food products ­volumes. As a food company, we have become active in efforts to reduce global food waste per head by half. We believe this Biodiversity Noise Animal welfare/battery eggs Health at work Importance to society will improve food safety at the international level and help drive the world economy towards a better use of its resources. Particulate emissions Chemicals Child labour Water consumption Forced labour Employment conditions Odours Job creation Data security FOCUS AREAS Anti-corruption Based on recent research, we at Kohberg have decided to build our CSR work on three pillars/focus areas. These are: Fair marketing Wastewater pollution Supplier management Careers and challenges Fair competition Food waste Donations Transparency Optimised use of resources Good corporate governance Local community Palm oil Discrimination and inclusion Gender distribution in management Environmentally Good Food Products A Good Place to Work iljørigtigt MiljørigtigtConsumption forbrug Sustainable forbrug Gode Gode førdevarer førdevarer God arbejdsplads God arbejdsplads Ansvarlig selskabsledelse AnsvarligAnsvarlig selskabsledelse Miljørigtigt forbrug Gode førdevarer God arbejdsplads selskabsledelse And we have added a fourth pillar, Responsible Corporate Governance, as this indirectly affects the other three. Miljørigtigt forbrug Gode førdevarer God arbejdsplads Ansvarlig selskabsledelse High Importance to Kohberg Higher ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION – 9 ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION 100 % RECYCLED Every day at our three bakeries, Kohberg bakes thousands of loaves and Danish ­ BREAD TRAYS pastries that are subsequently distributed to stores, wholesalers and eateries across All bread trays used at Kohberg are produced in 100 % recycled the country. We have a strong focus on our consumption. We strive to incorporate materials. Our bread trays are made of high-density polyethylene eco-friendly and sustainable alternatives into our patterns of consumption throughout (HDPE) that was used originally in Kohberg bread trays. When the value chain – from the crops growing in the fields until the bread is transported these are broken, the polyethylene is recycled with other materials­ to our customers. We also strive to reduce the volume of waste. ­recycled from beer crates, pallet frames, etc. Miljørigtigt forbrug Gode førdevarer God arbejdsplads “Plastic and recycling grab a great deal of attention nowadays. In Ansvarlig selskabsledelse fact, our plastic bread trays have been made of 100 % recycled plastic for more than 20 years. We are very proud of this fact – and we know that others commend it. Our trays are durable. Even so, we repurchase 80,000 each year, partly because a large number of them “disappear” and are used for other purposes. We have taken the first steps towards the next phase, in which we will be testing bread trays made of 50 % recycled polymers and 50 % recycled fishing nets.” KOHBERG FIGHTS CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES Carsten Pedersen, Head of Group Procurement FOOD WASTE BREAD SHOULD BE EATEN UP, NOT THROWN AWAY We bake bread and Danish pastries to be eaten up not to end up in Kohberg plays a key role in the “Danmark mod Madspild” (Denmark the trash. Throughout our organisation, we have focus on reducing fights Food Waste) campaign, a movement among Danes and in the waste. We reduce waste at every phase, from the delivery of Danish food industry that seeks to reduce food waste. In Denmark, we throw away more than 700,000 tons of food every year. The ingredients, via the products’ progress through the bakery until the final goods are sold. We have implemented LEAN and optimised our ENERGY CONSUMPTION goal of the movement is to cut food waste by half by 2030. processes with a view to reducing waste, and we hold weekly waste WE CONTINUE TO REDUCE OUR ENERGY CONSUMPTION meetings to ensure that we maintain consistent focus in this area. Bread production requires a relatively high level of energy “We are proud to have been one of the founders of “Danmark mod Our process waste is shrinking generally. Work continues in 2019, ­consumption. In recent years, we have therefore focused our Madspild”. At Kohberg, we intend to have a conscious and whole­ when we will focus on product discards. Most of Kohberg’s process attention on developing an energy-saving production system. This hearted approach to everything we do at our bakeries and this waste is used in animal feed and recycling. applies to each of our bakeries – at Bolderslev, Høje Taastrup and ­includes our consumption of ingredients. We have taken up the Haderslev. gauntlet and in future years, we will strive to achieve waste-free production.” PACKAGING POLICY UNDER WAY Our goal is to reduce total emissions of C02 per kilogram finished­ The right packaging is important for our fresh, wrapped bread product. To continue this effort in 2019 we will ­investigate variants. In addition to the special food contact regulations, we are whether there is a potential to make further energy savings and René Normann Christensen, CEO, Kohberg Bakery Group. also keen to contribute to sustainable, eco-friendly solutions. We ­opportunities to collect data in this field. are therefore in the process of switching a significant share of our bread bags to bags made in plastic film that is 8 % thinner than the OPTIMISED ROUTES AND NEW film currently used. This is phase 2 of the process of reducing bag FUEL-EFFICIENT DIESEL TRUCKS ­thickness. We have reduced film thickness on a previous occasion. To reduce our consumption of working hours and diesel, we have We are in the process of writing a packaging policy, into which focus on reducing our trucks’ “ports of call”. To avoid travelling ­customers’ input and official waste handling plans will be integrated. excessive kilometres, we have reviewed truck routes, reduced the number of trucks and filled the remaining trucks as much as possible. We do our utmost to bring sales as close as possible to production. Our approach to purchasing is generally based on a subsidiarity principle, and we prefer to be close to our suppliers, not least geographically. If we have local suppliers, we can optimise our fleet. We are also in the process of switching to newer, more fuel-efficient trucks. In 2019, we expect our own trucks to run 3.85 kilometres on a litre of diesel, which will reduce diesel consumption by 8 %. POLLUTION We are proud to be ALL OUR TRUCKS COMPLY WITH one of the founders of STRINGENT EU FUEL ECONOMY REGULATIONS “Danmark mod Madspild” We seek to ensure that all our trucks meet the most stringent ­ EU regulations regarding fuel economy. These standards restrict NOx and particulate emissions from trucks. To achieve this, many vehicles will be replaced in 2019. ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION – 11 CLEANING WITH RESPECT At Kohberg, there is focus on the environment in every corner of the ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION company, including cleaning. ANNUAL RESULTS 2018 In this respect, the bakery at Høje Taastrup has taken an important step and Bolderslev has also come along: We have invested in a Risks Focus Areas Target(s) Action Results cleaning system using steam, high pressure and very hot water. Miljørigtigt forbrug Chemical substances Consumption Process waste LEAN implementation 9.8 % process ­waste This cleaning method is beneficial for the ­machinery, employees of resources 9.0 % process ­waste from ingredients and ­environment. Water consumption from ­ingredients Process optimisation (from source to packed Policy (from source to packed end-product) “Tecnovap steam cleaning produces dry, saturated steam under Waste and food waste Environment Policy end-product) Weekly waste meetings pressure, effectively raising the boiling point of the water. The Biodiversity Climate Policy steam reaches a temperature of 180° C, which means that it Food waste Focus on product 2.0 % end-product food 1.9 % end-product food discards, forecasting waste (from packed ­evaporates and cleaning leaves very little water behind. This Animal welfare waste (from packed and planning end-product to ­cleaning method is gentle, eco-friendly and also very effective. end-product to product product sale) CO2 There is no need to use cleaning agents and chemicals when you sale) clean using steam under high pressure. Finally, we also find that ­we spend less time cleaning. Cleaning processes are ­simplified which is CO2 Energy consumption Diesel consumption New, more fuel-efficient 3.2 km per litre highly beneficial for our employees. 3.2 km per litre trucks diesel consumed by Policy Diesel economy in own trucks Climate Policy own trucks Gitte Bartholomæussen, Cleaning Supervisor Particulate pollution Pollution Particulate emissions We have upgraded All trucks purchased All our own trucks our trucks to meet meet stringent EU fuel Policy ­comply with stringent­ ­stringent EU fuel economy regulations Environment Policy EU fuel economy ­economy ­regulations ­regulations MORE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS GOALS 2019 ON THEIR WAY In future, we will be looking to identify more focus areas that Risks Focus Areas Target(s) Planned Actions ­respect the environment. We have already begun to review Chemical substances Consumption Process waste Process optimisation ­wastewater processing and sorting waste is another area in which of resources 6.9 % process waste from we believe we can improve even more on current performance. Water consumption ­ingredients (from sourcing to packed Weekly waste meetings For example, we wish to examine whether other companies could Policy end-product) use the waste cardboard, paper and plastics generated at Kohberg Waste and food waste Environment Policy so that we can minimise the net volume of waste and protect the Food waste Focus on discards, forecasting and Biodiversity Climate Policy environment. r 1.9 % end-product food waste (from planning. packed end-product to product sale) CO2 CO2 Energy consumption Diesel consumption New, more fuel-efficient trucks 3.85 km per litre consumed by our Policy own trucks (8 % improvement) Climate Policy Particulate pollution Pollution Particulate emissions We will have upgraded our trucks All our own trucks comply with to meet stringent EU fuel economy Policy stringent EU fuel economy ­regulations Environmental Policy ­regulations We’re bakers ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION – 13 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS – 15 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS THE NORDIC KEYHOLE LABEL – A GUIDE TO HEALTHIER FOOD CHOICES SUSTAINABLE INGREDIENTS We bake Kohberg bread and Danish pastries using proud baking traditions. This year By means of the Nordic Keyhole label, Kohberg ORGANIC FOOD – CLOSE TO KOHBERG’S HEART helps consumers to recognise healthier foods. marks the 50th anniversary of the opening of Alfred Kohberg’s first bakery. He soon More Danes are now opting for organic foods and We strive to increase the number of products that have became famous for his delicious rye bread. Even since, we at Kohberg have focused on many professional kitchens have more organic dishes the Keyhole label. The label identifies healthier foods within making good bakery products using good quality ingredients. In addition to a demand for on the menu. Organic food is very close to our heart. a specific product group. tasty bread and Danish pastries, our customers also look for healthier alternatives that Organic baking demands more of us as bakers. It requires solid craftsmanship and that we walk the also meet their expectations regarding food safety and responsibility. M ­ aking good tasty In 2018, most of our own retail brands carried both the Keyhole label extra mile to find the best organic ingredients. products is our most important goal. When we source ­ingredients, we monitor that they and the Whole Grain Logo. 29, i.e. more than 60 %, of our products meet our own standards. For example, every plant-based ­ingredient we use is grown carried the Nordic Keyhole label. Our organic products are labelled to provide consumers with organic without plant growth regulators. alternatives. Moreover, they can rest assured that the bread meets Miljørigtigt forbrug Gode førdevarer God arbejdsplads Ansvarlig selskabsledelse official requirements regarding organic foods. VEGAN – GREEN ALTERNATIVES Since we joined the Danish Vegetarian Association’s The Danish authorities inspect products bearing the Danish Ø-logo labelling scheme in 2018, more than 80 of our bread and the text “statskontrolleret økologisk”. The green EU organic types are “Vegan”. We back sustainability, the logo shows that the product complies with the guidelines in the underlying issue in many Danes’ decision to eat wholly or partially EU ­Organic Regulation. The same rules apply to the Danish Ø-logo. ­vegan. The V-label makes it easier for consumers to identify and Kohberg joined both labelling schemes voluntarily. 13 % of all our ­choose a green alternative. products are organic. FOOD SAFETY HEALTHY FOOD PRODUCTS The Vegan label guarantees that the bread contains no animal ­products, e.g. no milk, egg or honey. NO EGGS FROM BATTERY HENS As a food-producing company, Kohberg believes that animal welfare CERTIFICATES SAFEGUARD BAKED WITHOUT PLANT GROWTH REGULATORS is important. Consequently, we do not use eggs from battery hens in CONSUMER INTERESTS Every type of flour and grain we use in our products is grown without our bread and Danish pastries. We also require our suppliers to avoid All three Kohberg bakeries have British Retail glyphosate (the active ingredient in Roundup herbicides), without plant using eggs from battery hens. All products produced at ­Kohberg Consortium (BRC) certificates. Food-producing growth regulators and on fields that are not fertilised with biosolids. have been 100 % free of eggs from battery hens since 2016. Since companies that export to the UK and the rest of the world use the BRC Global Standard for Food Safety. It requires that they We believe that our policy protects the environment and ensures that BREAD FOR 50,000 then, consumers have become increasingly opposed to eggs from we provide healthy products for our customers and consumers. Of comply with the most stringent requirements regarding ­management, course, all our products comply with Danish and European legislative DANISH CELIAC battery hens and retail has growing focus on this issue. A ­number of retail stores refuses to sell eggs from battery hens and are phasing food safety, hygiene, maintenance and ­employee training. requirements. To ensure that we meet market requirements and transSUFFERERS them out of their products. port the ingredient we use most over the shortest possible distances, The overarching goal of the BRC Food Certificate is to safeguard we buy only Danish rye. At Kohberg, we aim to bake for everyone. We have therefore 100 % SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL consumer health. Via our partnership with BRC, we have reviewed and ­developed gluten-free variants to the benefit of approximately In 2012, Kohberg joined the “Roundtable for described all our procedures and work processes. By means of ongoing 50,000 Danes who suffer from celiac disease and who must there­ Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Today, we use only replacement of equipment and machinery, we hope to optimise even EAT MORE WHOLE GRAINS fore avoid gluten and wheat. further. In 2018, two of our bakeries are BRC certified at Grade B. Our certified segregated palm oil, i.e. palm oil kept As an active partner in the Danish Whole Grain bakery in Haderslev is now classified as a BRC Grade A bakery, the separate from conventional palm oil throughout partnership, Kohberg promotes public health and “Our gluten-free products are produced at a bakery that is 100 % highest possible rating. the supply chain. RSPO certification is the market’s most stringent encourages the Danes to live according to an official gluten-free. We ensure that celiac sufferers have nothing to fear certification scheme. RSPO certification is prestigious. Kohberg dietary recommendation: Eat more whole grains. when they eat our products.” is assured a stable supply of palm oil for production purposes. In response to customer demand, we can of course produce without Kohberg regularly introduces new and healthier bread that carries Britt Hougaard, Marketing and Communication Manager palm oil. Furthermore, we also use only sustainable oil elsewhere in BIG SMILES the Whole Grain Logo to help consumers make healthier choices. The production, e.g. as cutting oils and conveyor belt lubricants. As a food-producing company, it is imperative that logo guarantees that the bread contains more whole grains and has a Gluten-free sandwich bread is labelled with the Danish Celiac we cooperate with the food safety authorities. ­healthy nutritional profile (fats, carbohydrates, salt and fibre). In 2018, Association’s logo and signals to kitchen staff and end-users that Read more about Kohberg and RSPO here: For the sake of our customers, employees and the 21 of our bread and bun products carried the Whole Grain Logo. Every Kohberg takes food safety seriously. company itself, it is crucial that Kohberg is well https://www.rspo.org/members/1904/Kohberg-Bakery-Group-AS time we introduce new bread and bun products, we consider whether organised when it comes to factors such as hygiene and the bread in question could contain a higher percentage of whole self-monitoring. The Danish Veterinary and Food Administration’s ­grains and therefore qualify to carry the Whole Grain Logo. (DVFA) mandatory audits help to ensure that we maintain consistently high standards. In 2018, the DVFA awarded our bakeries at Haderslev On average, Danes consume 63 g of whole grains a day. The official and Høje Taastrup, the warehouse in Hinnerup and the cold store in recommendation is 75 g per day, which corresponds to three slices of ­Haderslev a DVFA “Elite Smiley”. At the end of 2018, the Bolderslev our delicious Herkules rye bread. bakery ­forfeited its Elite Smiley as the DVFA inspection made several remarks. We have of course rectified all the remarks but we cannot regain our Elite Smiley until 12 months after the last remark. GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS – 17 GOOD FOOD PRODUCTS ANNUAL RESULTS 2018 GOALS 2019 Risks Focus Areas Target(s) Miljørigtigt forbrug Action Results Gode førdevarer Risks God arbejdsplads Focus selskabsledelse Target(s) Areas Ansvarlig Planned Actions Food safety BRC certification Third-party certification Grade B at 2 locations Food product safety BRC certification Third-party recertification All three locations have Grade A at 1 location All three locations have Policy a BRC certificate. Policy BRC certificates Food safety Human Rights Policy Food safety Human Rights Policy Elite Smiley Audited by the Danish 4 out of 5 locations are Elite Smiley Focus on food safety 4 out of 5 locations are food product authorities awarded an Elite Smiley 4 out of 5 locations are awarded an awarded an Elite Smiley Elite Smiley Audits Internal audits All 14 planned audits Audits Internal audits 14 internal BRC audits were completed 14 internal BRC audits Healthy food products Glyphosate Supplier requirements 100 % glyphosate-free Audits Select 2 suppliers and perform audits 100 % of flour and grain 2 supplier audits on their premises Healthy food products Policy products purchased are Human Rights Policy glyphosate-free Chemical substances Healthy food products Glyphosate Supplier requirements Plant growth Supplier requirements 100 % free of 100 % of flour and grain products Pollution regulators plant growth regulators Healthy food products Policy purchased are glyphosate-free 100 % of flour and grain Human Rights Policy products purchased are Chemical substances Plant growth regulators Supplier requirements free of plant growth 100 % of flour and grain products regulators Pollution purchased are free of plant growth regulators The Whole Grain Logo Recipe monitoring 44 % of all our products 44 % of all our products bear the Whole Grain bear the Whole Grain Whole grain calculation Logo The Whole Grain Logo Recipe monitoring Logo (21 out of 48 products) 44 % of all our products bear the (21 out of 48 products) Whole Grain Logo Whole grain calculation (21 out of 48 products) The Keyhole label Recipe monitoring 60 % of all our products 66 % of all our products bear the Nordic Keyhole The Keyhole label Recipe monitoring bear The Nordic Keyhole label 60 % of all our products bear the label (29 out of 48 products) Nordic Keyhole label (29 out of 48 products) (29 out of 48 products) Sustainable ingredients Eggs Ingredients 100 % of eggs purchased 100 % of eggs requirements – suppliers (kg) are not from battery Sustainable ingredients Eggs Ingredients requirements – suppliers Biodiversity Policy purchased (kg) are not hens 100 % of eggs purchased (kg) are not Environment Policy from battery hens Biodiversity Policy from battery hens Animal welfare Environment Policy Palm oil Ingredients 100 % of palm oil Animal welfare Palm oil Ingredients requirements – suppliers Child labour 100 % of palm oil requirements – suppliers purchased (kg) is 100 % of palm oil purchased (kg) is purchased (kg) is RSPO-certified Child labour RSPO-certified Forced labour RSPO-certified Forced labour Organic Supplier requirements Working conditions Organic Supplier requirements 13 % of all our Working conditions 13 % of all our products are organic 13 % of all our products are organic (6 out of 48 products) Recipe follow-ups Wages products are organic Recipe follow-ups (6 out of 48 products) (6 out of 48 products) Wages Organic accounting Chemical substances Organic accounting Chemical substances Organic inspection Organic inspection A GOOD PLACE TO WORK – 19 A GOOD PLACE TO WORK EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT REACHING OUT TO THE We employ 550 people at our bakeries, warehouses, and in sales and administration. HAPPY EMPLOYEES LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED We believe it is important that Kohberg is a good, responsible and safe place to work. We need to know how well our employees thrive at their place of A Good Place to Work is therefore also a core focus area for us. work, and whether there are any areas, in which we can take steps At Kohberg, we welcome people in practical work to boost employee satisfaction. Every second year, we conduct a job ­experience all the time. We help them to gain a foothold satisfaction survey. All our employees have an opportunity to take in the employment market. Miljørigtigt forbrug Gode førdevarer God arbejdsplads Ansvarlig part. We measureselskabsledelse two main areas: job satisfaction and loyalty. The survey is an important tool in our work. We are therefore delighted “At present, I guess we have five or six with our company. For some, to note that 83 % of the workforce took part in the latest survey in we open a door to the labour market and for others, we help them 2017. Kohberg scored 79 % on loyalty and 72 % on job satisfaction. to return to employment. Some are on their way back to work Our industry overall scores 65 % on job satisfaction. At Kohberg, we after long-term illness. Others have fallen off the merry-go-round seek to maintain this excellent level in the upcoming survey. for some other reason and need to test precisely how much work they are capable of doing. We also help to integrate newcomers OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH EMPLOYEES CHOOSE EDUCATION to ­Denmark. In essence, we teach them what it is like to work at a ­Danish workplace,” explains Teddy Krogh Jensen, Production AND SAFETY (OHS) We make special efforts to ensure that we send even more of our employees on training courses or further education. Well-trained ­Manager at H.C. Andersen Bagergården (bakery) in Haderslev. employees help Kohberg to meet our strategic goals. However, our FOCUS ON SAFETY AT WORK A HAPPY WORKING ENVIRONMENT A period of practical work experience usually lasts three months. focus on education is also motivated by a desire to give employees As Kohberg is a production company, safety is a priority issue for us. Of course, we meet every legislative requirement Then the client and Kohberg will discuss whether the cooperation the chance to engage in further education. We want our employees We strive to improve the working environment and safety across the regarding the working environment. The Danish will continue or, alternatively, will be brought to an end. Continuato be happy in their work. A well-educated workforce also makes it organisation. This work involves devising specific safety procedu­res for Working Environment Authority often visits to tion depends on both parties. At the end of the period of practical easier for us to recruit in-house. work processes. However, we also invest in new and better solutions Kohberg to evaluate working conditions here. We run an effective work experience, we evaluate whether we can offer a flexijob – or to improve safety, e.g. trucks with headlights that light the floor so that works committee that helps to spotlight this area. In May 2019, four even regular employment if we have a labour shortage. Thanks to the IKUF industrial skills development scheme, all our others are forewarned when a truck is about to turn a corner. out of five Kohberg locations has a green Working Environment Smiley. employees are offered two weeks’ training of their choice every We record every industrial injury and accident and the number of days This shows that we meet work environment regulations regarding e.g. Tomasz Østergaard-Sørensen from Haderslev Jobcenter year. For example, unskilled employees can train to become process of absence such events result in. We also register near misses. In 2018, noise, heavy lifting and the mental work environment. (employment centre) says: “We appreciate Kohberg’s willingness to operators via the IKUF scheme. In 2018, 45 employees completed 28 injuries/accidents involving absence were reported at Kohberg. We cooperate. Kohberg gives our clients a chance to gain practical work an IKUF training course. They received a total of 3,130 hours of aim to reduce this figure by 25 % in 2019. To uncover potential risks, experience. Kohberg helps them to return to work – or to start work tutoring. Kohberg’s salaried employees can take part in a variety of efforts are currently being made to increase reports of near misses at for the first time. The employment centre cannot prepare them for external training courses. In 2018, our salaried staff received the Kohberg. We endeavour to receive more reports as we suspect that a employment. If it wasn’t for these practical work experiences at equivalent of 856 hours of training. large number of near misses are not currently reported. a company, we’d really find it very difficult to get them back into employment. Some would find it difficult even to get a foot inside TOLERANT WORKPLACE the door. This applies to many recent newcomers to Denmark who don’t speak Danish. Some of them have no previous work EMPLOYEES WITH SPECIAL NEEDS ­experience at all. Kohberg really does make a difference.” Kohberg can accommodate – and is indeed very willing to ­accommodate – special needs. We are all different and society must provide more jobs that are adapted to the individual. At Kohberg, we employ a number of people on special conditions of employWE BELIEVE THAT EMPLOYEE ment. Specifically, in 2018, we have seven employees in flexijobs in ­administration, production and supply chain. DEVELOPMENT IS WORTHWHILE Moreover, we at Kohberg have a strong desire to do our bit to Industrial Operator Maria Hammelsvang will soon take the next step up the career ladder. In educate the next generation of qualified employees. The young will July 2019, she will begin studying at EUC Lillebælt in Fredericia to become a qualified process help us in the future so it is important that we help them now. In operator. We met Maria at an education fair in Tønder last autumn. Maria visited the Kohberg 2018, we offered nine apprenticeships in various functions in the stand, and we had a frank chat about her ambition to become a process operator. organisation. Maria qualified as an industrial operator at the Arla dairy in Branderup. However, as Arla does not educate process operators, it was not possible for Maria to pursue her ambition there. WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT By 2022, we aim to have at least one female board member (this At Kohberg, we are anxious to support our employees’ development, personal as well as aim was not yet achieved by end 2018). We aim to achieve an ­professional. Moreover, we are keen to employ more process operators. We seek good results appropriate equal distribution of men and women in ­management. cooperating and making good use of colleagues’ diversity. We believe that process operators Nevertheless, when we hire new employees and appoint leaders, and bakers can work together, share knowledge and actively contribute to achieving our goals. we hire the best candidate regardless of gender. Maria Hammelsvang is looking forward to starting her training in July. At Kohberg, we are At the end of 2018, the executive management team counts five. looking forward to welcoming Maria when she joins our team. Of these five, two are female. We consider the 40:60 ratio between females and males to be satisfactory. A GOOD PLACE TO WORK – 21 A GOOD PLACE TO WORK ANNUAL RESULTS 2018 GOALS 2019 Risks Focus Areas Target(s) Action Results Risks Focus Areas Target(s) Planned Actions Miljørigtigt forbrug Gode førdevarer God arbejdsplads Ansvarlig selskabsledelse Occupational health Fatalities Focus on working 0 fatalities as a Occupational health and Fatalities Focus on working environment and safety 0 fatalities as a result of environment result of industrial safety 0 fatalities as a result of industrial industrial accidents accidents accidents Strengthening the organisation Safety at work Policy Safety at work Policy Employees’ Rights Policy Work-related accidents Focus on working 28 reported Work-related accidents Focus on working environment Health at work (No target) environment work-related­ Health at work Employees’ Rights Policy 21 work-related injuries and ­injuries and accidents with absence reported ­ Strengthening the organisation Strengthening the ­accidents leading (25 % reduction) organisation to absence Absence due to work-related Focus on working environment Absence due to work-related Focus on working 51 days of absence accidents accidents environment due to work-related 38 days of absence due to (No target) accidents per 1,000 work-related accidents per 1,000 days worked days worked (25 % reduction) Near misses Training to improve 89 near misses (No target) reporting (work-related Near misses Training to improve reporting ­injuries and 100 reported in-house near misses ­accidents) (work-related accidents and injuries) reported in-house Working environment smiley Focus on the working environment Working environment smiley Special focus 4 out of 5 All five locations are awarded a green 5 out of 5 locations are awarded on working locations are Working Environment Smiley a green Working ­Environment ­environment ­awarded a Smiley ­green Working Strengthening the ­Environment Tolerant workplace Special positions Encourage all personnel managers to organisation ­Smiley 7 flexijobs create special positions Discrimination Policy 9 apprenticeships Tolerant workplace Special positions Encourage all 7 flexijobs Employees’ Rights Policy (No target) personnel (2 in administration Employment Gender distribution on the Focus on female candidates to the Discrimination ­managers to create and 5 in produc­ conditions board of directors board special positions tion/supply chain) Human Rights Policy 25 % of board members are female Policy Employment Employees’ Rights Policy (1 out of 4) conditions 9 apprenticeships Gender distribution in Unchanged Human Rights Policy executive management Gender distribution on the Focus on female 0 % of board 40 % in executive management is board of directors candidates to the ­members are female (2 out of 5) At present, 25 % of the board board ­female (0 of the 4) is female (1 out of 4) (target by Employee development Job satisfaction Conduct employee satisfaction end 2022) Job satisfaction at least 72 % ­survey (Ennova) Employment Policy Gender distribution in Focus on female ­ 40 % in executive conditions Employees’ Rights Policy Education and training Goals established for executive management candidates to management is Education for salaried and employees’ training 40 % in executive management ­managerial female (2 out of 5) Safety at work ­hourly-paid as needed is female (2 out of 5) ­positions Conduct industrial skills development Health at work (IKUF) training Employee development Job satisfaction Conduct employee 72 % job At least at market level (65 %) satisfaction survey ­satisfaction Launch internal project management Employment (Ennova) (measured end course Policy ­conditions 2017). Target figure Employees’ Rights Policy for the industry in Safety at work the same year was 65 % Health at work Education and training Establish 856 hours of Education for salaried and ­educational goals external training ­hourly-paid staff (as needed) for employees (salaried staff) Industrial skills 3,130 hours of development (IKUF) industrial skills training development (IKUF) training for Launched internal hourly-paid staff project manage(45 employees) ment course RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE – 23 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At Kohberg, we have a strong focus on responsibility and transparency. We do our utmost to act with decency and respect for our stakeholders at all times. We are proud that we are consistently on the right side of the law, e.g. in marketing, competition and combating corruption. Gode førdevarer God arbejdsplads Ansvarlig selskabsledelse Our Code of Conduct is a key document. It matches our corporate values, and functions as a set of ethical rules for managers and employees alike. We oppose any infringement of internationally adopted human rights and we are obliged to meet – and expect our suppliers to ­comply with – local laws and regulations. Furthermore, we comply with all legislative requirements regarding employees’ rights and we ensure that Kohberg and our suppliers act responsibly with regard to the environment and climate. Finally, our suppliers are obliged by our Code of Conduct to desist from corruption in all its forms. We are currently writing and updating a range of policies, which will be completed and approved in 2019. These are an Environment and Climate Policy, Employees’ Rights Policy, Human Rights Policy and Anti-corruption Policy. We will also upgrade our Gender Diversity Policy. At Kohberg, we have SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT a strong focus on responsibility and transparency. We do our RISK ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS Each year, we assess all our ingredients, suppliers of packing and utmost to act with decency wholesale goods and selected service providers. In connection with and respect for our this risk assessment, all the suppliers and providers investigated in 2018 were approved as no breaches were found. Kohberg uses stakeholders. the Safe Food Fraud tool in connection with an annual Food Fraud Self-assessment of all suppliers of ingredients. We select certain suppliers for audits, which will be conducted in 2019. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT All suppliers of ingredients, packaging and ­wholesale goods have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct. ­Signature is imperative. Without a signature, we do not allow the supplier to deliver to our company. In 2018, suppliers who had signed the Supplier Code of Conduct supplied 57 % of external purchases by volume. During 2019, we will examine whether it might be relevant to introduce an obligation for other categories of suppliers to sign our Supplier Code EVERYONE HAS ACCESS of Conduct and conduct annual self-assessment. TO OUR WHISTLE BLOWER SCHEME FAIRNESS Every employee at Kohberg Bakery Group A/S has access to and is DECENT AND HONEST MARKETING PRACTICES entitled to comment on conditions at the company, if they discover Kohberg is a responsible company. We act fairly and respon­ something they believe is objectionable or illegal. Their concern sibly throughout the value chain and this includes marketing the could be related to e.g. food safety, product quality, integrity or Kohberg brand and our bread and Danish pastries. Our marketing legality. An employee who wishes to comment on conditions at campaigns are always decent, honest and truthful. We meet every the company simply sends an email to the HR department, who is legal requirement and we respect the principles of fair competition. obliged to keep the whistle blower’s identity secret when processing In 2018, relevant members of staff were taught competition law and the case. compliance (via e-learning). New employees will attend a similar training course, if relevant. RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE – 25 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL RESULTS 2018 GOALS 2019 Risks Miljørigtigt forbrug Focus Areas Gode førdevarer Target(s) Action God arbejdsplads Resultsselskabsledelse Ansvarlig Risks Focus Areas Target(s) Planned Actions Supplier management Supplier risk assessment All suppliers of 72 % of purchase Supplier management Supplier risk assessment Select suppliers for audit 70 % of purchase volume (DKK) ­ingredients, packaging ­volume (DKK) is ­sourced 72 % of purchase volume (DKK) is Policy is sourced from risk-assessed and wholesale goods, from risk-assessed Policy sourced from risk-assessed suppliers Risk assessment All risks Human Rights Policy suppliers and selected service ­suppliers All risks Human Rights Policy providers have been Signing the Supplier Code of Obtain signatures Employees’ Rights Policy assessed Employees’ Rights Policy ­Conduct 57 % of purchase volume (DKK) is Evaluate if more purchasing Climate Policy Climate Policy Signing the Supplier Code of All suppliers of ­ 57 % of purchase sourced from suppliers who have ­categories shall sign SCoC Conduct ­ingredients, packaging ­volume (DKK) is sourced signed SCoC Environment Policy Environment Policy 50 % of purchase volume (DKK) is and whole­sale goods from suppliers who have sourced from suppliers who have have signed signed the SCoC Anti-corruption Policy Anti-corruption Policy Supplier self-assessment All suppliers of ingredients, signed the SCoC 57 % of purchase volume (DKK) is ­packaging and ­wholesale goods sourced from suppliers who have shall complete a self-assessment Supplier self-assessment All suppliers of and 57 % of purchase completed a self-assessment 50 % of purchase volume (DKK) is ­ingredients, packaging ­volume (DKK) is sourced Evaluate if more purchasing sourced from suppliers who have and wholesale goods from suppliers who have ­categories shall complete a completed a self-assessment have completed a completed a ­self-assessment ­self-­assessment self-assessment Fairness Fair marketing Train relevant employees in Fairness Fair marketing Relevant employees 0 breaches of marketing 0 breaches of marketing legislation ­competitive compliance (e-learning) 0 breaches of marketing have undergone legislation Unfair marketing Policy Unfair marketing Policy ­legislation competitive compliance Anti-corruption Policy Anti-corruption Policy training Anti-corruption Focus on anti-corruption Corruption Corruption 0 breaches of anti-corruption Human Rights Policy Human Rights Policy ­legislation Anti-corruption Focus on 0 breaches of Distortion ­of Distortion of 0 breaches of anti-corruption anti-corruption anti-corruption ­competition ­competition legislation legislation Fair competition Train relevant employees in 0 breaches of competition legislation ­competitive compliance (e-learning) Fair competition Relevant employees 0 breaches of 0 breaches of competition have undergone ­competition legislation Openness CSR Report Collected CSR data and published ­ ­legislation competitive compliance CSR Report 2018 published CSR Report 2018 training All risks Policy Anti-corruption Policy Openness CSR Report Collected CSR data and CSR Report 2017 CSR Report published published CSR Report published Human Rights Policy All risks Policy Anti-corruption Policy Human Rights Policy UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT– 27 KPI – DEFINITIONS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Until this year, we at Kohberg Bakery Group based our programme of CSR activities on the principles of the United Nations ENVIRONMENTALLY ­ The Whole Grain Logo Percentage the total number of products that Gender distribution in executive ­management Global Compact. We focused on two principles: People & Health, and Environment & Climate. SUSTAINABLE bear the Whole Grain logo. Number of women in executive management Every area associated with Human Rights, Employees’ Rights and Anti-corruption was rated as “satisfactory” as these areas are covered by our ­CONSUMPTION The Nordic Keyhole label team at Kohberg Bakery Group A/S. The team comprises CEO, CFO, Sales Director, ProductiCode of Conduct and legislative requirements in “low-risk countries”. We strive to reduce our impact on the environment and climate, and consider Percentage of the total number of products on Director and HR Director. our ­efforts to these ends to be largely “green”. We are aware of our environmental responsibilities and therefore believe that we must continue to CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES that bear the Nordic Keyhole label. focus on them. PROCESS WASTE Process waste from ingredients – from EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT In this report, we address the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact as follows: ­purchase to finished product (as a percentage SUSTAINABLE INGREDIENTS Job satisfaction of total ­production in tons) Total score (percentage) in employee satisEggs faction survey carried out every second year Principle Pages FOOD WASTE Percentage of eggs purchased (kg) that are by Ennova. not from battery hens. 1 The company supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 8-11, 14-15, 22-25 Food waste from finished products – from packing of product for sale compared to total 2 The company makes sure it is not complicit in human rights abuses. 8-11, 14-15, 22-25 Education and training products sold (in tons). Palm oil 3 The company upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 18-21, 22-25 Number of hours training for salaried and Share of RSPO (Roundtable for Sustainable collective bargaining. ­hourly-paid employees. Palm Oil) -certified palm oil. 4 The company supports measures to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 18-21, 22-25 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 5 The company upholds the effective abolition of child labour. 18-21, 22-25 Diesel consumption Organic 6 The company upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 18-21, 22-25 Number of kilometres per litre consumed Percentage of the total number of products that are certified organic products. RESPONSIBLE 7 The company supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 18-21, 22-25 diesel by our own trucks. CORPORATE 8 The company undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 18-21, 22-25 POLLUTION GOVERNANCE 9 The company promotes the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 18-21, 22-25 Particulate emissions A GOOD PLACE SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT 10 The company is opposed to corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 22-25 Percentage of our own trucks that comply TO WORK Supplier risk assessment with most stringent EU fuel economy reguPercentage of purchase ­volume (DKK) sourlations. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH ced from risk-assessed s­ uppliers. AND SAFETY Fatalities Signed Supplier Code of Conduct GOOD FOOD Number of fatalities resulting from work-­ related accidents. Percentage of purchase volume (DKK) ­sourced from suppliers who have signed the PRODUCTS SCoC. Work-related accidents FOOD SAFETY Number of reported work-related accidents Supplier self-assessment and injuries leading to absence. Percentage of purchase volume (DKK) BRC certification Number of locations awarded BRC food ­sourced from suppliers who have completed Absence due to work-related accidents a self-assessment. ­safety certification. Number of days of absence due to work-­ related accidents per 1,000 days worked. Elite Smiley FAIRNESS Number of locations awarded an Elite Smiley (awarded by the Danish Veterinary and Food Near misses Fair marketing COMPANY PROFILE Number of near misses (work-related Number of legal decisions for breach of Administration via third-party audit) ­accidents and injuries) r­ eported in-house. ­marketing legislation reached or caused by Kohberg Bakery Group A/S.. ORGANISATION Audits REPORT Work Environment Smiley Number of internal BRC audits conducted on Number of locations awarded a green Anti-corruption own sites. Company name Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Report period 1/1 2018 – 31/12 2018 ­Working Environment Smiley. Number of legal decisions for breach of Website URL www.kohberg.com Reporting practices This report is drawn up in accordance with ­anti-­corruption legislation reached or caused www.kohberg.dk Articles 99a and 99b of the Danish ­Financial HEALTHY FOOD PRODUCTS by Kohberg Bakery Group A/S. TOLERANT WORKPLACE Headquarters Kernesvinget, 6392 Bolderslev, Denmark Accounting Act. The report comprises Glyphosate Ownership Koff A/S (100 %) information regarding all companies in the Special positions Fair competition Percentage of flour and grain ­­products Number of employees 550 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S. Number of active flexijobs and Number of legal decisions for breach of ­purchased that are ­glyphosate-free. ­apprenticeships ­competition legislation reached or caused GOVERNANCE Plant growth regulators by Kohberg Bakery Group A/S. Gender distribution on the board of The contact person with regard to this report and the person generally Percentage of flour and grain ­products directors purchased that are free of plant growth OPENNESS responsible for CSR is CFO Stine Aare Jensen (staj@kohberg.com) Number of seats held by women in the board regulators. of Kohberg Bakery Group A/S. n/a Kohberg Bakery Group A/S, Kernesvinget, 6392 Bolderslev, Denmark +45 73 64 64 00, kohberg@kohberg.com, kohberg.com, kohberg.dk
