Delivering a first class future Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 This is our seventeenth annual Corporate Responsibility Report About this report FOREWORD | Scope of the report This is our seventeenth annual Corporate Responsibility ABOUT US Report. It details our non-financial (social, environmental and ethical) performance for the financial year 2018–19, which | ended on 31 March 2019. Our last report was published in June 2018 covering the financial year 2017–18. This report is INTEGRITY prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Comprehensive option. Reporting standards | This report has been assured by PwC. We appreciate this CUSTOMERS independent verification of, and opinion on, certain aspects of our reported activity. PwC’s independent assurance statement is available on pages 82–84 of this report. Full definitions of the key performance indicators (KPIs) included within PwC’s assurance are available in our Reporting Criteria, which can | be accessed on our website at www.royalmailgroup.com/ en/responsibility/policies-and-reports. We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We work to meet PEOPLE its principles. This report meets our United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress requirements. | Accessing the report COMMUNITIES We have printed a limited number of hard copies of this report, in order to minimise waste. This report is available to download on our website at www.royalmailgroup.com/ en/responsibility/policies-and-reports. The online | version of this report has been reviewed to ensure that it is accessible to those with disabilities, for example, SUPPLIERS for use with assistive software. For more on Royal Mail Group: • www.royalmailgroup.com • corporateresponsibility@royalmail.com | ENVIRONMENT Delivering a first class future Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 | ASSURANCE 01 About Royal Mail Group About Royal Mail Group We operate in 44 countries and nation states worldwide. In the UK, our Company operates under the Royal Mail and Parcelforce Worldwide brands. Our UK delivery network is unparalleled in size and scope and gives our business a vital role in the economic life of the country. In Europe, GLS is one of the largest ground-based deferred parcel delivery networks. Outside of Europe, GLS operates in North America, in eight states in the Western US and Canada. UK Parcels, GLS International & Letters GLS provides geographical diversification for our earnings through organic and UK Parcels, International & Letters inorganic growth. It operates across (UKPIL), comprises Royal Mail’s UK 41 European countries and nation states business and international parcels and through a combination of wholly owned letters delivery businesses under the companies and partner companies. ‘Royal Mail’ and ‘Parcelforce Worldwide’ GLS also covers eight states in the brands. UKPIL is the UK’s pre-eminent western US, through its acquisitions of delivery company. As the UK’s sole Golden State Overnight (GSO) and Postal designated Universal Service Provider, Express. GLS made its most recent we deliver a ‘one price goes anywhere’ acquisition, Dicom Canada, in August service on a range of letters and parcels 2018. Dicom primarily provides Businessto addresses across the country, sixto-Business parcel services, operating days-a-week1. The Universal Service across Canada, with a major focus on the is vital for economic growth. It is the Eastern Canadian provinces of Ontario physical fulfilment arm of the digital and Quebec. Employing around 19,000 economy. Royal Mail’s network to people, GLS has a replicable and scalable support the collection, sorting and business model and key strengths in delivery of parcels and letters is business-to-business (B2B) and premium unparalleled in the UK in its scale and business-to-consumer (B2C) markets. scope. We estimate that we visit 60 per cent of UK delivery points each day. Parcelforce Worldwide is a leading provider of express parcel delivery services. We employ around 162,000 THIS REPORT MAINLY COVERS OUR UK BUSINESS, UK PARCELS, people across our Group; 143,000 are INTERNATIONAL & LETTERS (UKPIL) in the UK. It employs 88 per cent of Royal Mail Group’s employees and contributes 73 per cent of the Group’s revenue. Where stated, we have also included data and narrative from GLS. GLS represents 12 per cent of our employees and 27 per cent of our revenue2. Throughout this report, we use the terms ‘the Group’ or ‘Royal Mail Group’ to describe the three main brands that form Royal Mail plc – Royal Mail, Parcelforce Worldwide and GLS. We use the term ‘Royal Mail’ to describe activity in Royal Mail and Parcelforce Worldwide. For activity in GLS, we use the term ‘GLS’. 1 Under the Postal Services Act 2011 ('the Act'), Ofcom is the regulator for postal services in the UK. Ofcom's primary regulatory duty for postal services is to secure the provision of the Universal Postal Service. Ofcom has designated Royal Mail as the Universal Service Provider 2 For the financial year 2018–19 02 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Contents FOREWORD | ABOUT US About us 02 | Executive introduction 04 INTEGRITY Our role in society 08 Our strategy 10 Our purpose  12 | Measuring our progress 14 CUSTOMERS Managing our sustainability risks and opportunities  17 Our governance framework 18 Engaging with our stakeholders 20 | Business integrity 22 Our customers 27 PEOPLE Our people 37 | Our communities 51 COMMUNITIES Our suppliers 61 Our environment 71 Assurance statement 82 | SUPPLIERS | ENVIRONMENT | ASSURANCE 03 Executive Introduction Executive introduction Royal Mail is proud to We continue to operate in a To achieve this ambition, our strategy challenging marketplace. As is focused on the delivery of three play a significant role in e-commerce and other societal key priorities: changes profoundly impact how we life in the UK. We remain go about our daily lives, consumer • ‘Turnaround and grow’ in the UK focused on delivering demands and behaviours also • ‘Scale up and grow’ GLS change. Our business must adapt • Enhancing our cross-border sustainable shareholder to continue to meet the needs of the proposition value through our customers we serve. As part of our overall UK strategy, updated Group strategy. In our 2018-19 Annual Report and Royal Mail will invest around Financial Statements, we have £1.8 billion over five years in the UK’s Putting the principles of launched our five-year strategic postal service. This will be made up Corporate Responsibility plan. We are transforming to a of the Company’s existing investment projects and additional expenditure to more parcels-led, balanced, and (CR) at the centre of our diversified international business. fund the UK’s ‘turnaround and grow’ programme. This investment, alongside business strategy is vital the £2.1 billion invested in the UK since to its success. 2013, the year Royal Mail floated on the London Stock Exchange, means almost £4 billion has been committed to the UK since our privatisation. // As part of our overall UK strategy, Royal Mail will invest around £1.8 billion over five years in the UK’s postal service // 04 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD ABOUT US // We are transforming | to a more parcelsled, balanced, INTEGRITY and diversified // Shane O’Riordain, Managing Director, | international Corporate Affairs, Marketing and Regulation // CUSTOMERS business // Responsible for shaping and implementing our CR strategy, including our community investment programme This report reviews our Royal Mail has launched a new What are some of the key | performance in 2018-19. For this corporate strategy. How can CR actions Royal Mail has taken PEOPLE reason, its structure reflects our play a role in delivering it? this year to ensure it remains previous strategic framework, an integral part of the which was based on three strategic Our new corporate strategy is about transforming our business so that communities which it serves? priorities: winning in parcels; we can continue to meet changing | defending letters; and, adding This year we hit an important value and expanding our networks. consumer needs. We must improve milestone in our partnership with COMMUNITIES This is the last year we will our technology and ways of working Action for Children, reaching review our performance against to keep up with the increasing volume £1 million raised since the start this framework. Future reports of parcels we handle – now and in the of our relationship. The money will align with the new strategic future. But the heart of our strategy we raise through the partnership framework and approach. remains the same – to generate provides young people with support shareholder value in a sustainable for mental health through the | Royal Mail is proud to be named and responsible way. This means Blues Programme. I’m delighted global sustainability leader of the SUPPLIERS providing good quality jobs with fair that the programme now runs Transportation industry group employment conditions, building in almost 100 schools across in the Dow Jones Sustainability a workplace where our people can the country. I am consistently Indices once again this year. thrive and using our unique role as a impressed by our people’s Our position places us ahead business to deliver long term benefits enthusiastic approach to | of around 104 companies in to local communities. fundraising. This year, our people marine, logistics and aviation. donated over £3 million to local and ENVIRONMENT This significant achievement national causes that they feel demonstrates our leadership in passionately about. We were corporate responsibility and its thrilled to receive the Platinum place at the heart of our business. Payroll Giving Quality Mark this This year has seen us make year, recognising the strength of our payroll giving programme. | some important steps towards meeting our CR goals. However, ASSURANCE we recognise that there will always be more work to do and we remain // This year we hit an important milestone committed to operating responsibly and reporting transparently. in our partnership with Action for Children, reaching £1 million raised since the start of our relationship // 05 // The safety, health and wellbeing of our people and the communities we operate in is of paramount importance // // Sally Ashford, Chief HR Officer // Responsible for the people strands of our CR strategy, including health and safety Creating a safe and healthy How does Royal Mail create an A key to ensuring our people feel working environment for people inclusive working environment engaged is to create a welcoming and is a top priority. What are some that engages its people? inclusive environment for everyone. of the actions Royal Mail has One example of how we do this is Engagement and culture are strategic through our six diversity steering groups. taken this year to improve its priorities for us. To measure how we safety performance? We celebrated festivals and events from are performing in this area we monitor around the world to raise awareness The safety, health and wellbeing of our employee engagement annually as part throughout the year, these included people and the communities we operate of our employee survey. This year we International Women’s Day, National in is of paramount importance. As such were pleased to see our engagement Carer’s Week, Black History month we invest a lot of time and attention to score improved from 59 to 60. Using and International Day of People ensure our people are provided with the employee feedback from our surveys, with Disabilities. right training and instruction for them we review and update our engagement to complete their tasks safely. We have a plans. A key action we took in 2018 As one of the largest employers in range of measures that we use to engage was to introduce Employee Voice the UK, how does Royal Mail ensure our people with and drive performance forums to give our workforce a voice, continued strong labour standards improvement year on year; one of these enabling the Board to hear first-hand and working conditions in a is to reduce the frequency of road traffic their views on key matters. We also changing working environment? collisions. Over the year we invested appointed Simon Thompson as the Fair working conditions are the in a number of campaigns to promote designated Non-Executive Director foundation of how we do business. We safe driver behaviours. In 2018–19 I was for engagement with the workforce. work closely with our unions, valuing pleased to see we reduced our Road the role they play in representing the Traffic Collision Frequency Rate by interests of our workforce. During 5.3 per cent compared to 2017–18. // A key action we the year we started to discuss our Our award winning five-year mental 'turnaround and grow' plan in the UK health strategy Because Healthy Minds took in 2018 was to with them. We made agreement on pay increases for frontline colleagues Matter remains a key area of attention for us. During the year we saw the introduce Employee up to April 2020, and continue to work further role out of our mental health ambassador programme to support Voice forums to give with CWU to lobby the Government to underpin the retirement plans of colleagues who may be experiencing mental ill-health. our workforce a voice, employees through a CDC scheme with necessary legislative and enabling the Board to regulatory changes. hear first-hand their views on key matters // 06 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 // Stuart Simpson, Chief Finance and Operations Officer // FOREWORD Responsible for financial reporting and core sustainability issues, including procurement and the environment. Stuart sits on the Royal Mail plc Board How is Royal Mail preparing As a large business, how does ABOUT US business for the transition to Royal Mail ensure environmental a low carbon economy? issues are factored into business decisions? We recognise that climate change and environmental performance Our environmental policy sets out | are important, with greater societal how we factor environmental issues INTEGRITY expectations and increasing scrutiny throughout our operations, from how from our stakeholders. Our target our people behave, the technology we to reduce our absolute carbon invest in and the contracts we place emissions by 20 per cent by 2020–21 with suppliers. In 2018–19 we set against our 2004–05 baseline has a target to divert 95 per cent of our | now been achieved. We are therefore waste from landfill, and I am pleased CUSTOMERS reviewing and updating our emissions to say we beat that target to divert 99 target for the business. The majority per cent. We recognise that there is of our emissions are derived from more to do to reduce our overall waste our vehicles and transport, therefore volumes. We are aware of the serious reducing the emissions associated with impact of plastics on the environment our fleet is a key area of attention for and have begun efforts to understand | us. We continue to trial vehicles using how we can move away from single-use PEOPLE low or zero direct emissions technology. plastics. We are working with suppliers Following the success of cargo bikes to trail alternatives such as reusable for GLS in Berlin, we have recently mail bag ties. announced the trial of zero-emission | trikes in three locations in the UK. COMMUNITIES In November we also announced our involvement in the Optimise Prime consortium, the world’s biggest trial of commercial electric vehicles. The trail will provide a true understanding on what the switch to electric vehicles | means for the cables and substations SUPPLIERS that deliver electricity to the community for businesses and for end users. // Our target to | reduce our absolute ENVIRONMENT carbon emissions by 20 per cent has now been achieved // | ASSURANCE 07 About us Our role in society Our vision is to be recognised as the best delivery company across the UK, Europe and everywhere we do business. We are committed to providing a first class service to all the customers and communities that we touch. This can only be achieved by investing in our people and our operations. At the heart of our organisation is a commitment to all our shareholders that we will act as a responsible corporate citizen so that we deliver value to both our shareholders and wider stakeholders. DELIVERING A MODERN, OPTIMISED AND EFFICIENT NETWORK 13bn LETTERS 1.3bn UKPIL PARCELS 634m GLS PARCELS INVESTING IN OUR OPERATIONS IN EVERY COMMUNITY AND AROUND THE WORLD 44 COUNTRIES AND £10.3bn GROSS VALUE ADDED BY NATION STATES ROYAL MAIL'S UKPIL BUSINESS UNIT1 UKPIL GLS 37 MAIL CENTRES 70 NETWORK HUBS 1,200 DELIVERY OFFICES 1,400 DEPOTS 11,000 LOCAL COLLECT LOCATIONS 23,000 PARCEL SHOPS 08 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 SUPPORTING SMES COMMITTED TO OUR AND DRIVING ECONOMIC COMMUNITIES GROWTH FOR ALL £2.3bn 87% SPENT ON GOODS AND SERVICES OF EMPLOYEES ARE SHAREHOLDERS £5.77m DSSI GLOBAL LEADER CONTRIBUTED BY ROYAL MAIL FOREWORD ABOUT US 66,000 £655,000 MATCHED GIVING JOBS SUPPORTED IN THE WIDER ECONOMY1 INTEGRITY 7th 38 | % LARGEST CONTRIBUTION CUSTOMERS OF NEW CONTRACTS OF UK COMPANY TO AWARDED TO SMES THE UK ECONOMY1 | 30m PEOPLE DEDICATED TO OUR PEOPLE | ADDRESSES, SIX-DAYS-A-WEEK 99% £6.9m COMMUNITIES ON PERMANENT INVESTED IN CONTRACTS2 TRAINING DELIVERING A FIRST CLASS SERVICE | SUPPLIERS 48,000 | ENVIRONMENT VEHICLES3 143,000 | ASSURANCE 90,000 UKPIL EMPLOYEES 19,000 FEET ON THE GLS EMPLOYEES STREET 1 Cebr Research, conducted for Royal Mail in May 2019 2 Royal Mail employees 3 Including c.2,600 trailers 09 About us Our strategy Royal Mail Group operates in 44 countries and nation states Integrated responsibility worldwide. Our business model leverages our resources and Our CR strategy is an integral part of relationships to deliver high quality, value for money services realising our core strategic priorities. The objectives at the heart of our for both sending and receiving customers. business and CR strategies are the same – to generate sustainable shareholder value and underpin the Our vision Winning in parcels – We have Universal Service in the UK. Our maintained our pre-eminent position in CR strategy has six key objectives: We aim to generate sustainable the UK by successfully pursuing faster shareholder value and deliver a growing parts of the UK parcels market • Deliver economic and social benefit sustainable Universal Service in and making it easier for consumers, to the communities we serve. the UK. Our ambition is to build a small and medium-sized enterprises • Drive colleague advocacy for the parcels‑led, more balanced and (SMEs) and marketplace sellers to use Group and its community role. diversified international business. Royal Mail services. GLS is scaling • Manage the environmental impacts Our purpose is to connect customers, up and growing – either through new of our business and operations. companies and countries. services or acquisitions – including the • Deliver our transformation western US and Canada. The returns it responsibly. Our corporate strategy generates are typically higher than in our UK business. • Operate with integrity. Royal Mail is the UK’s pre-eminent • Communicate our management Defending letters – Letters are of corporate responsibilities openly delivery company, delivering to over important to our customers. They and transparently. 30 million addresses. Delivering more account for 51 per cent of our UK parcels than all the other carriers revenue. We work with customers and Our CR objectives support the delivery put together, we are well placed to supply chain partners to add value to of our business strategy. We report participate in the continued growth of mail, promote its effectiveness, and progress against them under the areas UK e-commerce and parcel volumes. increase its efficiency. of customer, people, community, We are focused on winning in parcels, environment and suppliers. Our focus is Growing in new areas – We are making principally on the UK. However, we are defending letters and growing in new the most of our existing UK assets. We continually increasing the disclosure areas. We seek to achieve these three are increasing our capability through a of our CR performance overseas, priorities through a strategic focus on range of investments. GLS is a force for particularly in relation to GLS. costs, technology and innovation and an growth for our Company. We are doing engaged and motivated workforce. so through our 'scale up and grow' strategy for GLS. We are also increasing our digital capabilities across the Group, particularly in e-commerce. READER’S NOTE: Following a review of our strategy, // We have a clear vision to be recognised as in May 2019 we announced a refreshed Group strategy to create a more balanced, more diversified, the best delivery company in the UK, across international parcels business that delivers letters in the UK, with a Europe and everywhere we do business // focus on sustainable, shareholder value. We will report against this strategic framework and approach from 2019–20. 10 OUR FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY FOREWORD Following a review of our To achieve this ambition, Our strategy is designed to ensure GLS builds on its strong 30-year strategy, in May 2019 we our strategy is focused track record, making a major announced a refreshed on the delivery of three contribution to the Group's product Group strategy to create key priorities: and geographical diversification. There is specific focus on a more balanced, more Turnaround and grow in the UK improving performance in the ABOUT US diversified, international The turnaround element of our strategy US, France and Spain. Selective encompasses productivity initiatives acquisitions will be combined parcels business that with a continued focus on organic and extending our network. The main delivers letters in the focus of our productivity improvements growth. GLS is well placed to UK, with a focus on will be in delivery and processing. benefit from growing crossOur new Operations organisational border parcels. GLS will enter INTEGRITY sustainable, shareholder structure is designed to support the small parcel market, working value. We will report these productivity gains. We will with Royal Mail International to implement key work tools designed improve its export offering to against this strategic to drive up day-to-day productivity, Europe and North America. framework and approach such as Automated Hours Capture, | Enhancing our from 2019–20. PDA Outdoor Actual and Resource Cross-Border Proposition CUSTOMERS Schedules. We will continue to combine the delivery of letters and small The parcels market is large, We aim to deliver sustainable parcels. Automated parcel hubs will global and growing. Our crossshareholder value in the handle larger parcels, tracked items border strategy focuses on medium‑term and underpin the and later posted items, including deferred and small parcel UK’s Universal Service. shipments, with Royal Mail | separate van deliveries for larger and The five-year plan will enable us to later posted parcels, routed through providing GLS with access to the PEOPLE maximise the benefits, particularly our existing, larger Delivery Offices. lightweight small parcel segment. in delivery and processing, of Following the deployment of the We see significant market joint letter and parcel delivery, enhanced network and, in a major opportunity for Royal Mail and facilitate our transition to increase in delivery frequency for | International to grow its share of become a parcels-led business consumers and SMEs, we will introduce the UK export parcels markets. COMMUNITIES where letters in the UK continue two deliveries a day in most parts Over the next ten years, PWC to be important. As a result, we of the country from 2023 onwards. expects UK export parcels to will be even better placed to Increased parcels automation, grow by over eight per cent a leverage the continued growth of enhanced IT and more flexibility year1. This high growth will be UK e-commerce and handle more in our workforce are key plan enablers. driven by a highly developed and parcels in the process, with an even sophisticated UK e-commerce | greater emphasis on standardised Scale up and grow GLS market, and increased purchasing processes to drive efficiency gains. GLS will be a key driver of our strategic SUPPLIERS by overseas consumers of goods ambition to become a parcels-led, from UK online shopping sites. more balanced and more diversified international business with a strong The strong combined European presence in the UK. network of Royal Mail and GLS is a value add for import customers. | Royal Mail and GLS are targeting ENVIRONMENT growing volumes coming from 1 The Outlook for UK mail volumes to 2028, Asia-Pacific – the fastest growing PWC, April 2019 e-commerce market globally. The GLS and Royal Mail network will also connect Europe with GLS North America to offer | tracked services. ASSURANCE More information about our business model and corporate strategy is available on pages 20–37 in the 2018–19 Annual Report and Financial Statements. From 2019–20 our Corporate Responsibility Report will be aligned with this new strategy. 11 About us Our Purpose Our purpose is to connect customers, companies and countries. Our 2018-19 strategic priorities supported our drive for profitable growth and a secure, sustainable future for our Company: WINNING IN PARCELS DEFENDING LETTERS GROWING IN NEW AREAS 1 2 3 Our corporate responsibility strategy supported the delivery of these priorities through six key corporate responsibility objectives: DELIVERING DRIVING MANAGING THE DELIVERING OUR OPERATING COMMUNICATING ECONOMIC AND COLLEAGUE ENVIRONMENTAL TRANSFORMATION WITH OUR MANAGEMENT SOCIAL BENEFIT TO ADVOCACY OF THE IMPACTS OF RESPONSIBLY INTEGRITY OF CORPORATE THE COMMUNITIES GROUP AND ITS OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY WE SERVE COMMUNITY ROLE OPERATIONS OPENLY AND TRANSPARENTLY This helps us to achieve our corporate vision, to be Achieving this relies on a recognised as the best delivery number of key relationships company in the UK, across and resources: Europe and everywhere we do FINANCIAL CAPITAL business, which in turn creates value for: NATURAL RESOURCES CUSTOMERS • High Quality of Service A STRONG AND SECURE WORKFORCE SOCIETY • New and improved • Good quality jobs products and services THE RIGHT TECHNOLOGY • Stronger, connected • Value for money communities A RELIABLE SUPPLY CHAIN • Social inclusion EFFICIENT TRANSPORT ROYAL MAIL GROUP NETWORK • Increased revenue ECONOMY • More efficient and lower • Value added to UK economy operating costs • Goods and services • Engaged employees facilitating commerce • Loyal customers • Tax revenue • Long-term investors 12 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD World | Firsts ABOUT US INTEGRITY CUSTOMERS | PEOPLE | COMMUNITIES | SUPPLIERS 1st THE PENNY BLACK 1840 WORLD'S FIRST STAMP | In 1840 the world’s first adhesive postal ENVIRONMENT stamp, the Penny Black, is launched. Queen Victoria appears on the stamp and 68 million are used in the first year. As the inventor of the postage stamp, the UK is the only country in the world that doesn’t have its name on its stamps. | The introduction of the Penny Post lead to a great increase in the popularity of ASSURANCE mail. Mail volumes rose from 67 million in 1839 to 242 million by 1844. and more than 1 billion letters a year by 1875. 13 About us Measuring our progress Our CR key performance indicators Our CR-related key performance indicators (KPIs) include relevant metrics from our Corporate Balanced Scorecard (CBS)1 and additional KPIs that are essential for the successful delivery of our business strategy. Integrity KPI AIMS FOR PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE STATUS 2018–19 IN 2018–19 IN 2017–18 Ensure that managers Managers trained on anti‑corruption Achieved target, are appropriately trained 100% 99.9% policies and procedures (%) on anti‑bribery and corruption risks see page 22 Customers KPI AIMS FOR PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE STATUS 2018–19 IN 2018–19 IN 2017–18 Mean business customer Achieved target, 78 78 78 satisfaction (score) see page 31 2 Composite premium parcel Achieved target, 97% 97.3% N/A performance (%) see page 31 Retail First Class Quality Target not met, 93% 91.8% 91.7 of Service (%) see page 35 People KPI AIMS FOR PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE STATUS 2018–19 IN 2018–19 IN 2017–18 Achieved target Employee engagement (score) 59 60 59 see page 40 Lost Time Accident Frequency Reduce amount of time Achieved target, 0.49 0.54 Rate (per 100,000 hours worked) lost to accidents see page 44 Reduce rate of vehicle collisions by Target not met, Reduction in road traffic collisions (%) 5.3% 9% 7% compared to prior year see page 44 Reduce the sickness absence Target not met, Sick absence (%) 5.41% 5.09% among our workforce see page 45 Improve gender balance Achieved target, 3 Gender split (female/male) (%) 19%/81% 18%/82% across the business see page 48 14 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD Community KPI AIMS FOR PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE STATUS 2018–19 IN 2018–19 IN 2017–18 Raise £2 million, including matched On track, ABOUT US Charity partnership fundraising (£) giving, for Action for Children over £845,185 £220,741 see page 56 the three-year partnership Colleague community engagement Increase employee giving to charities Achieved target, £3.1m £2.7m (donations from employees) (£) from previous year see page 56 INTEGRITY Total trained Managers trained on mental Provide mental health training 9,907, 912 8,9954 health (number) to 10,000 managers see page 58 | Suppliers CUSTOMERS KPI AIMS FOR PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE STATUS 2018–19 IN 2018–19 IN 2017–18 New UK suppliers bound by the Achieved target, | 100% 100% 100% Responsible Procurement Code (%) see page 64 Regular monitoring of all UK suppliers Achieved target, PEOPLE 100% 100% 100% against UK Treasury sanctions list (%) see page 67 | New UK Procurement employees Achieved target, 100% 100% 100% undertaking CR induction training (%) see page 69 COMMUNITIES Environment | KPI AIMS FOR PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE STATUS 2018–19 IN 2018–19 IN 2017–18 SUPPLIERS 29% reduction UKPIL total carbon emissions 20% reduction in carbon emissions by to date, 621.0 629.9 (KT CO2e) 2020–21 compared to 2004–05 baseline see page 76 4% reduction in water consumption Target not met, | Water consumption (‘000 m3) 1,818.9 1,576.9 see page 79 compared to prior year ENVIRONMENT Achieved target, Waste diverted from landfill (%) Divert 95% of waste from landfill 99% 99% see page 80 | 1 A full list of our CBS KPIs is available on page 38-39 of the 2018–19 Annual Report and Financial Statements ASSURANCE 2 The composite premium parcel performance measure was introduced in 2018–19. It is the combined on time delivery measurement of our premium Tracked Parcel Products (Special Delivery Guaranteed, Tracked and Tracked Returns) 3 Further gender diversity measures are included on page 48. Across the operation, women make up 32 per cent of senior managers and 18 per cent of our operational grades. In 2018–19 women were hired into 32 per cent of new operational roles 4 2017–18 performance restated from 8,561 to 8,995 as a result of improved data capture during the reporting year 15 About us Driving improvements We are independently rated as a leading responsible business. We use the results of external benchmarks and indices to identify areas for improvement in how we manage and report CR issues. They include information that investors and other stakeholders may be interested to see in our CR report. The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index have named Royal Mail as global sustainability leader of the Transportation and Transportation Infrastructure industry group, which includes around 104 companies in marine, rail, logistics and aviation. We achieved industry-best scores in seven areas of the assessment this year. They include corporate citizenship and philanthropy, stakeholder engagement, human capital development, supply chain management, environmental reporting and operational eco-efficiency. We are proud to have been named industry leader for four of the five years we have been listed in the index. We rank in the top four per cent of companies in our industry in the FTSE4Good Global Index. This index only includes companies that can demonstrate strong environmental, // We rank in the social and governance practices. top four per cent We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) climate change questionnaire each year. This year, we achieved a of companies in score of A-, an improvement on last year’s score and ahead of the sector average score of B-. We also participate in CDP’s our industry in supply chain questionnaire. This questionnaire is not scored, but it allows us to engage with our customers on our carbon the FTSE4Good performance through a structured framework. Global Index // 16 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Managing our sustainability FOREWORD risks and opportunities ABOUT US The size and scope of Royal Mail’s operations creates significant business risks. Mitigating and managing these risks effectively is essential for our sustained INTEGRITY success. Our CR strategy and objectives play a vital role in risk management and create opportunities to develop our competitive advantage. We are seeing a profound cultural shift Conversely, effective sustainability Our governance and CR frameworks | in the way society communicates and management can bring benefits describe key responsibilities, shops – the delivery market is shifting in the form of improved customer committees and processes used to CUSTOMERS towards parcels and away from letters. retention and advocacy, as well identify and manage key CR risks and This is a key imperative for our fiveas reducing costs to our business opportunities through the business. year transformation. As our customers’ through improved efficiency. Effective The Governance section, on pages needs change so must we, ensuring sustainability management benefits 113-114 of the 2018–19 Annual Report we continue to deliver the high quality our employees. It helps to create an and Financial Statements, describes in | of service they expect. Our people are engaged workforce, delivering great detail how the Group manages its risks PEOPLE fundamental to our ability to deliver the customer service. It gives us the ability at Board level, via subcommittees, and standard of service that our customers to attract and develop the right talent. throughout the organisation. expect. We are committed to providing This report sets out our risk them with a safe and respectful working management process across the areas | environment, and ensuring they receive of customers, employees, communities, the right training to do their jobs. As a COMMUNITIES suppliers and the environment. It logistics business, it is also important includes reference to the financial that we manage the risks associated risks and opportunities resulting with climate change, ensuring we from our approach to sustainability. manage our environmental impacts effectively and reduce our resource use. As such, environmental sustainability | was added to our top ten principal risks SUPPLIERS during 2018–19. In addition, we need to keep transforming our business and increase its efficiency in a responsible manner. These issues present both risks and opportunities to our business. | See pages 64–72 of the 2018–19 Annual Report and Financial Statements for ENVIRONMENT more information on our principal risks. Failing to address these issues would create a number of risks: loss of customers; disengaged and demotivated employees; increased | compliance costs; poor reputation; the loss of our social licence to operate, ASSURANCE and the goodwill of the customers and stakeholders on which we depend. Failing to manage our use of resources, such as fuel, would result in increased costs to the business, as would failure to manage our talent effectively. 17 About us Our governance framework Our Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Rico Back, has overall responsibility for CR. Members of his senior leadership team, the Executive Board (EB), take responsibility for each of the major strands of our CR agenda. Our CR governance framework underpins the delivery of our CR strategy through the following key elements: ROYAL MAIL PLC BOARD The Board receives regular updates on CR activities, such as monthly health and safety briefings. There are regular Board updates on our engagement with key stakeholders, such as the UK’s postal industry regulator, Ofcom. Simon Thompson is the designated Non-Executive Director for engagement with the workforce. The Board also reviews and approves our annual Corporate Responsibility Report. EXECUTIVE BOARD Chair: Group CEO Individual members of the EB take responsibility for each of the different strands of CR activity, as follows: • Shane O’Riordain, Managing Director, Corporate Affairs, Marketing and Regulation, is responsible for shaping and implementing our CR strategy, including our community investment programme. • Sally Ashford, Chief HR Officer, is responsible for the people strands of our CR strategy, including health and safety. • Stuart Simpson, in his role as Chief Operations Officer, is responsible for financial reporting and core sustainability issues, including procurement and the environment. Stuart sits on the Royal Mail plc Board. DIVERSITY COUNCIL ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE BOARD Chair: Chief of Staff Chair: Global Director of Safety, Health, Wellbeing and Sustainability The Diversity Council is responsible for progressing and monitoring our diversity performance. Members include The Environment Governance Board drives the our Group Human Resources Director, the Managing environment strategy and takes responsibility for Director of Consumer and Network Access, frontline improving performance. The Environment Governance employees and representatives from our unions. The Board is made up of senior managers accountable for Diversity Council has established additional committees functions with material environmental issues. They to support its work on the various strands of our diversity include fleet, facilities management and customers. strategy. See page 47–50 for more information. See page 74 for more information. GROUP CR TEAM The Group CR team is responsible for managing the implementation of the CR strategy, collecting performance data and reporting on that data in internal and external communications. The team also develops and manages the community investment programme. 18 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD ABOUT US INTEGRITY | CUSTOMERS CR Framework: // We have a We use a range of strategies, tools, published policies and codes to robust framework embed CR objectives across our business: | of corporate Remuneration: The performance of a range of CR related metrics PEOPLE impact on the remuneration of our people, including our Executive responsibility Directors, through the annual bonus plan. For 2018–19, this includes employee engagement, safety, First Class Quality of Service and policies // customer satisfaction. | Continuous Improvement: We use a structured framework to COMMUNITIES guide our internal process improvement. Until 2017, we used the World Class Mail (WCM) framework to drive process change and efficiencies. We have since begun to transition to the Continuous Improvement programme. The programme aims to standardise and remove inefficiencies from processes through focused and effective leadership and encouraging the right working behaviours. | Comprehensive policies: We have a framework of CR policies that SUPPLIERS are designed to cover a full range of issues relevant to Royal Mail. Our CR Policy sets out our strategy, governance and commitments. The Responsible Procurement Code of Conduct requires all suppliers to adhere to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact | and Royal Mail Group’s own social, ethical and environmental standards. Our Environment Policy establishes our commitment to ENVIRONMENT environmental management. Our other policies cover Our Business Standards, Equality and Fairness, Bullying and Harassment and Anti‑bribery and Corruption. Transparency and disclosure: We continuously make improvements in reporting and disclosures. These are informed by the introduction | of new reporting requirements, such as the Non-Financial Reporting Directive, the Modern Slavery Act and the Taskforce on Climate-related ASSURANCE Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 19 About us Engaging with our stakeholders The Group has a range of stakeholders. They include our Determining materiality customers, investors, unions, communities, suppliers and the The Group undertakes materiality Government. We engage with them to obtain their views and assessments to help refresh the CR strategy. Every two years, we understand their needs and expectations. Their support is engage with a representative group of integral to our success and the ongoing sustainability of our stakeholders to gain insight into the areas they deem to be most relevant business. This year, for the first time, we are providing details to us. We then prioritise these issues of how the Board, and the wider business, engage with these within our CR programme and activities. key stakeholder groups on pages 101-104 of the 2018–19 Our most recent materiality assessment Annual Report and Financial Statements. involving external stakeholders took place in 2017–18. We commissioned Corporate Citizenship, an independent Open communication During 2018-19 a specific area of CR and sustainability consultancy, engagement with our stakeholders was to work with us to conduct that We are committed to being as open in response to the shareholder vote on assessment. We engaged stakeholders and transparent as possible about the Directors Remuneration Report representing customers, consumers, our business. We communicate and the re-election of Peter Long at the employees, our unions, shareholders, proactively with our stakeholders. AGM in July 2018. We acted quickly to suppliers and environmental We seek their views about our role and address our stakeholders’ concerns. representatives in the assessment. responsibilities as a key part of the UK’s We commissioned an independent Through surveys, interviews and a economic and social infrastructure. survey of our major shareholders, stakeholder panel, we asked the We also provide a range of channels specifically focusing on remuneration participants to rank a range of social, through which they can engage with strategy and governance. We have taken financial and environmental issues us. We aim to help stakeholders gain a actions to address shareholder concerns in terms of their importance for better understanding of our business, through changes we are proposing to Royal Mail. Our materiality matrix as well as our need to change. our remuneration policy which is subject maps the priorities identified through Our stakeholder engagement policy to shareholder approval at our 2019 this assessment against our business is published on the Royal Mail Group AGM. Please see our 2018–19 Annual priorities. We use this to help structure website at www.royalmailgroup. Report and Financial Statements for our report and ensure that we cover com/responsibility/ourapproachmore information. key issues in a transparent way. stakeholder‑engagement. The UN Sustainable FOREWORD Labour standards Climate Customer Development Goals and human rights strategy service In 2017–18, we expanded our Engagement materiality assessment to include and culture reference to the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals ABOUT US Community (SDGs). We asked participants Business impacts integrity to rank which of the SDGs they IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS thought were most relevant to Health Royal Mail. Our stakeholders and safety Responsible selected the following four SDGs. procurement • Goal 5 Gender equality: achieve INTEGRITY gender equality and empower Energy, waste, Skills and all women and girls. water and development recycling • Goal 3 Good health and wellbeing: ensure healthy lives | Public policy and transparency and promote wellbeing for all at CUSTOMERS all ages. Socio-economic • Goal 8 Decent work and Mail integrity impacts economic growth: promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, | RELEVANCE TO ROYAL MAIL full and productive employment and decent work for all. • Goal 9 Industry, innovation PEOPLE Our materiality assessment identified Our materiality matrix is shown and infrastructure: build five key CR topics for Royal Mail, as above. The full results of the resilient infrastructure, | depicted in the materiality matrix: assessment are described promote inclusive and COMMUNITIES in our 2017–18 Corporate sustainable industrialisation • Customer service: This is the and foster innovation. Responsibility Report, which is foundation that will ensure Royal available at www.royalmailgroup. Many of our existing CR Mail’s continued success in an com/responsibility/cr-reports. programmes and activities increasingly competitive and fragmented marketplace. Over time, the specific already contribute to these goals. prioritisation of issues can change For example, our five-year | • Engagement and culture: due to our success in managing mental health strategy (page 46) Our people are crucial to SUPPLIERS them, or growing public awareness and broader campaign on our success. Issues such as of their importance. But, we regard mental health (pages 58–59) are relations with our unions, all of the issues identified in the aligned to Goal 3 – Good health internal communications and materiality matrix as important for and wellbeing. equal opportunities are central to employee engagement. Royal Mail to address. We cover all | of them in detail in this report. • Climate strategy: Royal Mail has a ENVIRONMENT visible carbon footprint in the form of our fleet. Management of our carbon footprint and preparations for the transition to a low carbon economy are key to sustainable growth. • Labour standards and human // We are committed to being as | rights: Royal Mail's high standards ASSURANCE are seen as a vital component of our reputation for trust and reliability. open and transparent as possible • Community impacts: postmen about our business // and women play an important role in their communities and enhance the Company's reputation locally. 21 Business integrity Business integrity Royal Mail’s role as the Universal Service Provider in the Should any of our business standards be broken by an employee, we deal with UK places our business in a unique position at the heart of them under our conduct policy. Any the nation’s communities. Maintaining the trust of these finding of misconduct could result in action, up to and including dismissal. communities is fundamental to our success. We are committed In 2018–19, 2,473 breaches to business to operating with integrity and engaging with all our standards were recorded and closed, stakeholders responsibly, to protect our valued role in society. covering issues such as the failure to follow workplace practices. In around 28 per cent of cases, the employee concerned was either dismissed or Our overarching business policies All new employees receive a copy of issued a suspended dismissal. set out our approach to responsible the Business Standards, which are business conduct. These include our discussed during employee inductions GLS’s Code of Business Standards company-wide Corporate Responsibility within the first eight weeks of joining. outlines the values and standards Policy, our Business Standards, and They are communicated to all employees of behaviour that it expects from its our Responsible Procurement Code. every three years, or whenever changes employees and subsidiary companies. All our policies are publicly are made. During 2018–19, all our The Code is available in 20 languages available on our corporate website managers completed annual compliance and includes practical guidance for www.royalmailgroup.com/en/ refresher training that included attesting employees. It is made available to responsibility/policies-and-reports. that they maintain our standards. colleagues in hard-copy format and online at https://gls-group.eu/EU/en/ compliance. GLS treats any breach of Our Business Standards its Code as a disciplinary matter. As Our Business Standards are the such, it can result in disciplinary action standards of behaviour we expect to // During 2018–19, in accordance with the applicable local law, up to and including termination see in all our people. They are about doing the right thing, following the law, all our managers of employment, and reporting to the acting honourably and treating others appropriate authorities. with respect. This helps us to do the completed annual best job we can for our customers, keeps our people safe and protects compliance refresher Embedding our our reputation among our customers, suppliers and shareholders. training that Business Standards Engaging our employees around included confirming our Business Standards helps us to develop and maintain a safe, ethical that they maintain and fair workplace. During the year, we launched a video campaign promoting our standards // the importance of maintaining the Business Standards. The videos contain clear guidance on how to incorporate the standards into daily situations and routines at work, focusing on different elements, such as how to live our values and how to raise concerns. They are available to employees on-demand through Royal Mail’s intranet, and were communicated to frontline employees at tailored ‘Listen and Learn’ sessions. WHY BUSINESS INTEGRITY IS IMPORTANT We use our internal communications channels, including WhatsApp and the Our stakeholders rank business integrity as a material issue for our business. They are intranet, to share regular updates and particularly interested in our approach to business ethics, anti-competitive behaviour reminders on our Business Standards and anti-bribery and corruption. For details of our materiality assessment, see page 20. throughout the year. 22 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD | ABOUT US INTEGRITY Our approach to lobbying and political engagement CUSTOMERS Royal Mail Group is a politically neutral organisation. As a matter of policy, we do not make donations to any political party. We engage with politicians and other stakeholders to ensure they understand the value | that our service provides, and the We ensure our employees understand our These training requirements help us relevant issues for our industry. approach through both online and faceto ensure that responsible behaviour PEOPLE More information on our approach to to-face training. The training includes: is embedded throughout the business. responsible political engagement is In 2018–19, 100 per cent of Royal Mail available at www.royalmailgroup.com/ • Annual mandatory compliance managers completed the training and politicalengagement. refresher training for all employees. attested to living and embedding Our | • Compliance e-learning course, which Business Standards. COMMUNITIES includes a module on anti-bribery and All new subsidiaries and joint ventures Anti-bribery corruption for new starters. are subject to a due diligence review • Leading with Integrity training, and corruption supporting managers to identify before they become part of Royal Mail Group. This includes an assessment Royal Mail Group has a strict zeroethical and compliance risks, and of compliance and labour standards. tolerance policy towards bribery and make responsible decisions. In Where necessary, we ensure that | corruption. Our policy, based on the 2018–19, the training was rolled out to policies and compliance controls a wider business audience, including SUPPLIERS UK Bribery Act, sets out the standards are improved to meet our standards. of behaviour we expect to minimise new starters and colleagues on the Where a subsidiary or joint venture the risk of bribery and corruption in Graduate Scheme. does not have appropriate policies and our business and supply chain. This • Support and training for business compliance procedures, we require policy is available to all our employees units identified at higher level of risk that they adopt Royal Mail frameworks. | through our intranet, and publicly (i.e. we identified our procurement at www.royalmailgroup.com/en/ department as higher risk due to We conduct due diligence on any ENVIRONMENT responsibility/policies-and-reports. their interaction with third parties. intermediary from which we procure We deliver specialist, annual services, including sales agents and training to remind them of their insurance brokerage providers. This compliance responsibilities). involves screening suppliers against // Royal Mail Group an intelligence database to verify there are no supplier probity issues. We also | has a strict zerorequire intermediaries to adhere to our Responsible Procurement Code. ASSURANCE tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption // 23 Business integrity Our Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) Human Rights We are committed to helping to prevent regularly reviews our anti-bribery and any incidence of modern slavery corruption controls. All business units, Royal Mail Group is committed to playing throughout our operations. We expect subsidiaries and joint ventures are its part to uphold and protect human the same level of commitment from required to complete a risk assessment rights in our business and across our all our business partners, suppliers each quarter to identify potential risks supply chains. We obey the laws, rules and contractors, and expect them and ensure appropriate mitigating and regulations of every country in to apply the same approach to their actions take place. Senior leaders from which we operate. We are committed respective supply chains. In September each business unit are responsible for to implementing the United Nations 2018, we published our updated managing these risks and attest to (UN) Guiding Principles on Business Modern Slavery Act statement on our our Group CEO that they are doing so, and Human Rights as well as the UN website. This includes an overview of twice a year. Declaration of Human Rights and the our operations and our approach to International Labour Organisation responsible business, the risks we Fundamental Conventions. These cover have identified and the steps we take Data protection freedom of association, the abolition to mitigate them. Our Modern Slavery and privacy of forced labour, equality and the elimination of child labour. Act statement is available online www.royalmailgroup.com/media/10239/ Royal Mail Group is committed royal-mail-group-plc-modern-slaveryto respecting our customers and act-statement-2017-18.pdf employees’ privacy and protecting their personal data. Our privacy notice We strive for continuous improvement explains how we collect and use and therefore will take on board personal data and informs everyone feedback on the content of our about their privacy rights. Royal Mail statement from the Business & Human Group is dedicated to meeting the Rights Resources Centre report – From requirements of the European Union’s Disclosure to Action into account when General Data Protection Regulation we publish our 2018–19 statement in (GDPR) and the data protection and September 2019. privacy laws of every country where we operate. Our privacy notice is available online at www.royalmailgroup.com/ en/site/privacy-notice. // We are committed to helping to prevent any incidence of modern slavery throughout our operations // FOREWORD | ABOUT US INTEGRITY Identifying and mitigating risk We have undertaken several risk CUSTOMERS assessments to better understand our risk profile and inform our approach to mitigating modern slavery and human trafficking risks in our business and supply chain. In 2016, we conducted a | review of our business against the UN // In early 2019, As part of our programme to mitigate PEOPLE Guiding Principles on Business and human rights risks, we conducted Human Rights. This identified our risk of human rights violations as relatively cross-functional workshops to review risk levels for modern slavery in our UK we carried out low. However, we recognise that human rights violations, including forced operation and supply chain in 2017–18. The workshops included scenarios additional compliance | labour and trafficking, can occur in all illustrating modern slavery risks and workshops with our COMMUNITIES sectors and countries. As a responsible provided guidance on how to raise business, we are committed to playing concerns. We put mitigating actions in subsidiaries to review our part to help eliminate them. place for any risks identified through In 2017–18, we worked with external these workshops. Programmes of their risk assessment compliance experts to conduct on-site audits are taking place with 15 sub‑contractors with the results, processes and support | additional risk assessments for Royal Mail and GLS. These enabled including remediation plans and them in mitigating SUPPLIERS evidence of completion, being reported us to customise our risk mitigation strategies. We focused our assessment to Royal Mail via the SEDEX platform or directly through our Supplier compliance risks // on agency, contract and supply chain Management Portal. workers, where the most salient issues | were: forced labour, sub-standard During the year, all managers working conditions, fair wages, completed a customised online ENVIRONMENT discrimination, freedom of association training course focused on how to and collective bargaining, health and spot ‘red flags’ and escalate potential safety, and privacy. We checked our wrongdoing. All UK procurement policies and procedures against these employees received additional training risks to ensure they are adequate and on the Modern Slavery Act and appropriately implemented. associated legal requirements. | In early 2019, we carried out additional Based on a group-wide assessment ASSURANCE compliance workshops with our of modern slavery risks, we have subsidiaries to review their risk developed training for GLS managers assessment processes and support and those working within higher risk them in mitigating compliance risks. roles to raise awareness of supply We provided additional tools to enable chain risks and how to mitigate them subsidiaries to manage risks identified effectively. This training is being rolled in their risk assessment processes. out across all GLS subsidiaries. 25 Business integrity Contract and reduces the risk of exposure to forced Raising concerns labour and trafficking. We run quarterly temporary workers business reviews for suppliers, which Royal Mail’s whistleblowing hotline, cover adherence to vetting standards. ‘Speak Up’ allows all of our people, We employ the vast majority (99 per The results of these audits are shared including contractors, temporary cent) of people who work for Royal with our Mail Integrity Group. workers, suppliers, business partners Mail on permanent contracts, except and their employees, to raise concerns where there is a short-term need. GLS's Code of Business Standards about serious wrongdoing anonymously. Where we do have a requirement for similarly prohibits forced labour, child It is available 24 hours a day, temporary workers, these are provided labour or human trafficking in any part 365 days a year. by seven approved suppliers, all of of its business operations. GLS treats these are based in the UK. These any breach as a disciplinary matter In 2018–19, we launched five compliance suppliers are required to commit to our that can result in disciplinary action in campaigns to encourage our people recruitment standards to ensure that: accordance with the applicable local to raise any concerns relating to law, up to and including termination modern slavery and human trafficking • workers are not charged unnecessary of employment and reporting to within the business or our supply fees, for example, for payroll services appropriate authorities. Whenever chains. All compliance training and or translation services; GLS uses temporary workers, this communications end with the Speak Up • workers’ original identification, hotline number. We have planned must be conducted in line with local including passports, are not held by further campaigns across the Group applicable laws. Any partner companies anyone other than the worker, even for 2019–20. acting on behalf of GLS are required to if done voluntarily; and, act lawfully and reject discrimination, Our whistleblowing policy makes it • resignation by workers is voluntary bribery and corruption. clear that whistle blowers must not and without threat of punishment. suffer any detrimental treatment as a Suppliers are also contractually required to adhere to applicable Supply chain controls result of raising a concern. Detrimental treatment includes dismissal, vetting standards for the workers they Our due diligence and supply chain disciplinary action, threats or other supply. This includes proof of identity, controls aim to ensure that we only unfavourable treatment. proof of right to work, and proof that engage with reputable business appropriate training has been provided, partners and suppliers who share our and various levels of security checks. commitment to playing their part in the In the UK, our HR security services fight against modern slavery and human team tracks and assesses performance trafficking. During the pre-screening against vetting standards through and on-boarding process, all potential the Supplier Management Portal. business partners and suppliers are This helps to ensure that temporary required to confirm their compliance workers are legitimately engaged and with applicable local labour and employment laws, including all antislavery and anti-trafficking legislation, the Modern Slavery Act or equivalent national legislation. See page 67 for more information. // In 2018–19, we launched five compliance campaigns to encourage our people to raise any concerns relating to modern slavery and human trafficking within the business or our supply chains // 26 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD | ABOUT US | INTEGRITY Delivering a CUSTOMERS first class future for our customers PEOPLE | COMMUNITIES | SUPPLIERS | ENVIRONMENT | ASSURANCE We're proud to connect customers, companies and countries, across the UK through Royal Mail and internationally through GLS. 27 Our customers Case study The UK’s first parcel postboxes In August 2018, we announced the trial of 30 new Our parcel postboxes are the first major change parcel postboxes to support small businesses and of use for the British postbox in over 160 years. marketplace sellers who are driving growth in They are a response to the growth of online e-commerce. We trialled 17 of these postboxes in shopping and, in particular, to customer feedback Northampton and a further 13 in Leicester, in the that shows online sellers struggling to balance first trial of its kind in the UK. Small businesses and busy home lives with the demands of running marketplace sellers in these areas can now post a business. The launch of the parcel postboxes pre-paid parcels through purpose-built postboxes, in is also one of the biggest innovations in parcels the same way that they currently post letters. The trial since the launch of the Parcel Post in 1883. boxes are based on existing Royal Mail meter maildrop Following the successful trail, we will introduce boxes. They have a wider aperture and secure design 1,400 parcel postboxes in locations across the for deposits, making the posting of larger prepaid UK including Birmingham, Leeds, Aberdeen items both safe and convenient. and Cardiff. 28 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 At a glance Our vision is to be recognised as the best delivery company in the FOREWORD UK, across Europe and everywhere we do business. This requires us to get customer service right consistently, and satisfy the changing needs of all who depend on our services. We are proud of | the role we play in connecting customers, companies and countries ABOUT US across the UK through Royal Mail and overseas through GLS. | INTEGRITY Retail First Class quality of service (%) Employee engagement (score) C Performance [KPIs] Key facts Retail First Class quality of service (%) Employee engagement (score) C 2 • As the Universal Service Provider, we have the 60 Retail First Class93.2 quality of service (%) Employee capability engagement to deliver (score) to over 30 59 million addresses, 2 C 2 92.6 60 93.2 six-days-a-week. 59 CUSTOMERS 92.6 91.6 91.8 • Royal Mail 57 1.3 billion parcels and 57 handled around 2 2 60 93.2 91.6 91.8 around 13 billion letters in 2018–19. GLS delivered 57 57 59 2 92.6 around 634 million parcels. 2 2 91.6 91.8 57 of business • 79 per cent 57customers rate us as 2 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 ‘easy to with’. do business 2016-17 2015-16 2017-18 2018-19 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 PEOPLE 2 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Mean business customer satisfaction (score) Key highlights Reduction in road traffic collisions (%) | M Mean 2015–16business customer satisfaction (score) Reduction in road traffic collisions (%) M • We introduced ‘Labels to Go’ in Post Office branches 76 N/A 12.3 COMMUNITIES 2015–16business customer satisfaction (score) Mean allowing customers Reduction use their in roadtotraffic mobile phones collisions (%) to print M 2016–17 76 N/A labels. 12.3 free returns 9.0 2015–16 2016–17 78 • We launched a new mobile app to help consumers to track N/Afrom their12.3 9.0 5.3 2017–18 76 78 their items smartphones. 78 9.0 in Poland5.3 2016–17 2017–18 • GLS launched its new InfoCourierService which | 2018–19 78 enables recipients to contact the delivery driver directly. 78 5.3 SUPPLIERS 2017–18 • We launched 2018–19 2015-16 new functionality 2016-17 from2017-18 all Amazon Alexa 2018-19 78 enabled devices, allowing tracking of Royal Mail deliveries 2016-17 2015-16 Alexa with by providing 2017-18 your Royal Mail 2018-19 tracking number. 2018–19 78 • We successfully stopped 1.1 million items of scam mail 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 from reaching our customers, taking the total to over Composite premium parcel performance1 (%) Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate C | 4.3 million since November 2016. (per 100,000 hours worked) ( Composite premium parcel performance1 (%) LostFlexDeliveryService Time Accident Frequency Rate to 21 countries. C ENVIRONMENT • GLS was expanded (per This 100,000 makes 2015–16 hoursfor worked) it easier online shoppers to take delivery ( 2 Composite premium parcel performance1 (%) ofLost goods 2015–16 theyAccident Time Frequency have purchased 0.49 Ratethrough a wide abroad C (per 100,000 hours worked) 2 ( range of 2016–17 delivery options. 0.49 2 2015–16 2016–17 0.49 2 2017–18 0.49 | 2 N/A N/A N/A 97.3% 2016–17 0.54 2017–18 2 2 ASSURANCE N/A 2015-16 N/A 2016-17 N/A 2017-18 97.3% 2018-19 2018–19 0.49 0.54 2 2017–18 0.49 2018–19 2 N/A 2015-16 N/A 2016-17 N/A 2017-18 97.3% 2018-19 0.54 0.49 2018–19 2 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 1 The composite premium parcel performance measure was introduced in 0.49 2018–19. It is the combined on time delivery measurement of our premium SickParcel Tracked absence (%) Products (Special Delivery Guaranteed, Tracked and p27 Tracked Returns) p5 our Customers Sick absence (%) ou p27 p5 2018–19 our Customers Sick absence (%) ou p27 2018–19 5.41 29 p5 our Customers 2017–18 ou 5.41 Our customers Our customers We deliver high-quality, value-for-money services to suit every customer: consumers, sole traders, SMEs and large businesses. As the UK’s sole Universal Service Provider, Royal Mail delivers a ‘one price goes anywhere’ service on a range of letters and parcels to over 30 million addresses six-days-a-week. GLS offers us increasing product and geographical diversification. In Europe, it is one of the largest ground-based deferred parcel networks. Outside of Europe, GLS operates in North America, in eight states in the Western US and Canada.. Our position UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL), is the UK’s // GLS is one of the largest, ground sole designated Universal Service Provider. Royal Mail delivers a significant proportion of the items purchased based deferred parcel networks online in the country. in continental Europe, covering According to research we commissioned by PwC, the number of UK letters will decline by around 26 per cent, from 41 countries and nation states 10.3 billion today to 7.6 billion in 2023. Even though declining, letters remain very important to our business. in Europe and eight states in the GLS is one of the largest, ground based deferred parcel Western US and Canada // networks in continental Europe, covering 41 countries and nation states in Europe and eight states in the Western US and Canada. It has a replicable and scalable business model and Mapping the subscription economy key strengths in business-to-business (B2B) and business-to A key trend in the UK delivery market is the growing popularity consumer (B2C) markets. of subscription box services. Over 50 per cent of 25–34-year olds in the country are already signed up to at least one subscription box service. Our research forecasts that the industry could be WHY CUSTOMER SERVICE IS IMPORTANT worth £1 billion per annum in 2022, which represents forecast growth of 72 per cent. Our stakeholders rank customer service as a material issue for our business. It is the bedrock that will ensure Royal Mail’s Opportunities for subscription boxes span a wide range of continued success in an increasingly competitive environment. market sectors, from food and beauty samples to personal For details of our materiality assessment, see page 20. clothes shopping and weekly children’s craft kits. At Royal Mail, we are ready to help businesses across the UK to succeed in the 30 subscription space whether they already have a subscriber base or are looking to enter the market. million See www.royalmailgroup.com/en/insights-innovation for key market insights, reports and podcasts. ADDRESSES SIX-DAYS-A-WEEK 30 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Our customer strategy Understanding our customers’ needs The delivery market offers a range of choices for customers. There are number of key trends including the growth of in store and third party click and collect options, and extensions FOREWORD We want to be their first choice. Our strategy for achieving this is focused on four priorities: to online order acceptance times for next-day deliveries. Both require adaptation of the networks needed to facilitate • understanding our customers’ needs; these changes. As stated earlier, we expect letter volumes to • being easy to do business with; continue to decline over time. As our mail bag changes, so • maintaining a high Quality of Service; and do the expectations of our customers. We survey around 400 | business customers and 3,000 consumers per month as part • providing value for money to all customers. ABOUT US of our ongoing customer satisfaction research. This research In the UK, we measure our customer service performance tells us that our customers have the following priorities: through three KPIs in our Corporate Balanced Scorecard Consumers’ priorities for Royal Mail: (CBS): First Class Retail Quality of Service, business customer satisfaction and composite premium parcel • Items are delivered on the day/time expected. | performance. The composite premium parcel performance • Items are delivered in good condition. INTEGRITY measure was introduced in 2018–19. It is the combined on • Staff are friendly. time delivery measurement of our premium Tracked Parcel Products (Special Delivery Guaranteed, Tracked 24/48® • Item progress is accessible via tracking data and Tracked Returns®). Our managers’ remuneration is and push notifications. linked to the performance of all KPIs on the CBS. The full Business customers’ priorities for Royal Mail: CBS can be found in our 2018–19 Annual Report and Financial Statements. • We provide a frictionless delivery service – reliable and CUSTOMERS with few/no problems. GLS’s strategy is to grow its share of the B2B and high-end • Where there are issues we are responsive, take B2C market, both organically and through targeted expansion responsibility and reach resolution. and acquisition in new markets. This included the acquisition of Dicom Canada in August 2018. • We are flexible in meeting customer needs – offering options for speed, tracking and visibility of item progress to their end customers. PEOPLE Working with the Post Office We have seen a recent decline in online satisfaction. Royal Mail’s long-term relationship with the Post Office Specific actions to address this include the introduction of a means that we jointly operate the UK’s largest retail network new website platform in 2019–20 to address some customer | for letters and parcels. We work closely with the Post Office issues in relation to their online journey. More customers are to keep our products and services accessible, with growing visiting us on a mobile device. Therefore, an important part of COMMUNITIES numbers of customers choosing to access our services the programme is to improve that experience. at Post Office branches outside of traditional office hours. There are over 11,500 Post Office branches in the UK and Both our business customer and consumer satisfaction 98 per cent of customers live within three miles of a branch. scores have remained stable this year. The mean proportion of business customers rating Royal Mail as being Easy to Do Business With” declined marginally from 80 to 79. | Our people can also tell us how customer focused they SUPPLIERS believe our products and services are. Our annual employee survey asks our employees what they think about the customer experience. This year, we received a customer focus score of 70, the same as the previous year. | ENVIRONMENT // In the UK, we measure our customer service performance through three KPIs in our | Corporate Balanced Scorecard ASSURANCE (CBS): First Class Retail Quality of Service, business customer satisfaction and composite 1 The Outlook for UK mail volumes to 2028, PwC, April 2019 premium parcel performance // 31 Our customers Customer metrics 2018–19 2017–18 2016–17 2015–16 Being easy to do business with Mean business customer 78 78 78 76 With so many options available to consumers, we need to satisfaction (score) make our services simple and flexible to ensure we remain Consumer sending competitive. We are introducing new products and services, 80 80 78 77 satisfaction (score) and improving those currently available to provide a better Business customer customer experience. satisfaction following 92.1 92.5 91.7 90.4 a call to Royal Mail (%) During the year, we launched a number of such initiatives. Consumer satisfaction For consumers: following a call to 84.4 82.8 83.1 83.4 Royal Mail (%) • ‘Labels to Go’ enables customers to use their mobile phones Business customer to print free returns labels in Post Office branches around satisfaction with online 43.7 51.6 52.0 49.8 the country, to return goods at over 12,500 Post Office and experience (score) Royal Mail Customer Service Points across the UK. Consumer satisfaction • A new mobile app was launched to help consumers manage with online experience 47.3 55.1 60.4 59.6 their deliveries more effectively, enabling them to track (score) their items, book redeliveries or to arrange delivery to a Mobile satisfaction with neighbour or local Post Office. 46.3 69.4 68.2 N/A online experience (score) • We launched a new functionality from all Amazon Alexa Ease to Do Business with enabled devices, allowing tracking of Royal Mail deliveries 79 80 80 78 Royal Mail (score) by providing Alexa with your Royal Mail tracking number. • GLS’s InfoCourierService for Poland provides delivery information, enabling recipients to contact the delivery driver directly. On the day of delivery, the recipient receives an SMS with the delivery driver’s number. They can then use this to make changes such as arranging delivery to a neighbour. The driver can also contact the recipient should they have a problem with the delivery. • GLS-ONE, the new online portal from GLS Austria, enables consumers to send parcels quickly and easily by creating and paying for their parcel label in just one minute and then drop their parcel at one of around 630 GLS ParcelShops. • GLS Germany introduced the Letterbox Service, enabling GLS Poland is Logistics Leader 2018 small items to be posted through recipients’ letterboxes, increasing the proportion of first-time deliveries. In January 2019, GLS Poland received Data Group Consulting and Eurologistics Publishing’s prestigious Domestic Express • GLS extended its FlexDeliveryService to include the UK. Service customer satisfaction award, which is based on In total, 21 European countries are now connected by this customer surveys of the scope and quality of logistics services. service. This makes it easier for online shoppers to take GLS Poland received the highest rating out of 29 logistics delivery of goods they have purchased abroad through operators on the Polish market for a range of different services. a wide range of delivery options. Among these were financial services (general), online payments and guaranteed next-day deliveries. This year, GLS Poland For business customers: also came top in the Top 500 ranking of Manually Managed Logistics Companies. • Royal Mail Pro Shipping provides large retailers with complex shipping needs with a range of capabilities. This makes it easier to manage orders and returns across distributed sites. It complements the suite of in-house 12,500 shipping tools already available to customers. • Royal Mail is introducing key enhancements to its tracked services, designed to improve the customer experience for both retailers and online shoppers. They give retailers and their customers more information on the delivery progress of the items they ordered. • GLS Poland expanded its support for e-commerce customers by working with IDEAerp to integrate a cloudPOST OFFICE AND ROYAL MAIL based Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system for CUSTOMER SERVICE POINTS e-commerce companies. The system allows GLS customers ACROSS THE UK to automate the parcel shipment process and enables simple label generation and parcel tracking. 32 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 The importance of Royal Mail to key // We are introducing new customer groups products and services to provide FOREWORD Small and Medium businesses (SMEs) The Universal Service Obligation ensures depth of coverage, a better customer experience // value for money and convenience for SMEs wherever they are based in the UK. SMEs benefit from greater flexibility using our Click & Drop service, plus discounted prices for purchasing Letters | postage online. As a result, it helps them to compete with large businesses, facilitating competition and choice for customers. Letters are an important and powerful communications tool, ABOUT US In the UK, there are around 5.7 million SMEs, generating with many advantages compared to social media and email. 52 per cent of the total turnover of the country1. For example, recent research found that letters have a 35 per cent better recall rate among consumers compared to social Consumers without internet access It is estimated that 10 per cent of UK households do not have media, or 49 per cent better compared to email3. They are access to the internet2. They rely on in-store services to send also a proven driver of sales for businesses. Around one third | parcels. The Post Office network of around 11,500 access of addressed advertising mail generates a commercial action. INTEGRITY points gives these customers the means to buy postage, use drop-off points and send larger, bulkier items. Customers can During the year, we introduced a number of customer also drop off pre-paid items at more than 1,200 Royal Mail initiatives. For marketing mail (around one third of addressed Customer Service Points. mail volumes), we launched a partially addressed product Households in sparsely populated areas for advertisers. A new magazine subscription product, for Royal Mail’s network coverage is vital for households in publishers, provides them with more notice of any price sparsely populated areas. Our service will typically deliver changes. This gives them greater certainty when they set CUSTOMERS their parcels faster, at no additional cost. subscription levels for their customers. Fixing problems Expanding and automating We handle billions of mail items every year, serving our network customers across the UK and the world. While we work hard to get everything right, there are times when problems arise. Parcels Addressing and fixing these issues is an important part of PEOPLE About 12 per cent of our UK parcels are machine sorted. being easy to do business with. Our objective is to increase that to over 80 per cent within We take complaints seriously. We have developed a ‘root | five years. We will install parcel sorting machines in all our cause’ approach to dealing with them. This helps us to Mail Centres in the early years of our transformation plan. resolve customer issues while identifying and addressing the COMMUNITIES In October 2018, we unveiled the Parcelforce Worldwide underlying causes. We focus on First Time Delivery and aim South-East Processing Centre in Hatfield. The new centre to improve our performance. utilises some of the latest parcel handling and processing technology. It will enable Parcelforce Worldwide to handle This year, we received 578,600 complaints. This is a even more parcels, allowing us to drive up our customer 0.1 per cent decrease compared to last year, despite experience and maintain our consistently high end-to-end delivering more parcels and working an additional week | quality nationwide. in the financial year. The reduction was driven by a number SUPPLIERS of factors. They included improved scanning and recipient GLS has made parcel tracking easier on their website. notifications, a focus on key processes and conformance to Five new pictograms showing the status of a parcel has standards in our operation, and consistent management of been introduced so that everything that matters is visible at complaints with an emphasis on the timeliness and quality a glance, including the expected delivery time, for almost all of investigations. | parcels. Senders can also view the signature received by the delivery driver when handing over the parcel. If a parcel is ENVIRONMENT delivered to a Parcel Shop, the opening times and location details are provided. | ASSURANCE 1 House of Commons Briefing Paper on business statistics 2 https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/ householdcharacteristics/homeinternetandsocialmediausage/bulletins/ internetaccesshouseholdsandindividuals/2018, section 3 3 JICMAIL_Kantar TNS, Q2 2017 – Q2 2018 33 Our customers World Firsts 1st TELEGRAPHS UNDER THE POWER OF CAME ROYAL MAIL IN 1870 The ability to send electrical signals along a wire revolutionised communication. The first commercial electrical telegraph was co-developed by Sir William Fothergill Cooke and Charles Wheatstone in May 1837. They system used a number of needles on a board that could be moved to point to letters of the alphabet. Messages sent by telegram were conveyed to their recipient by writing them down or later printing them for delivery. In 1868, The Telegraph Act granted the Postmaster General the right to acquire inland telegraph companies in the United Kingdom. The Telegraph Act 1869 conferred on the Postmaster General a monopoly in telegraphic communication in the UK. Electric telegraphs finally came under the power of Royal Mail on 4 February 1870 and that year nearly 10 million telegrams were sent. You could even post your message in a pillar box, with a stamp, for Royal Mail to send on. The cost for an inland telegram in 1880 was 1 shilling for the first 20 words and 5 old pence for every additional word afterwards. By the 1930s, 65 million telegrams were being delivered per year, mostly by young men on bicycles or motorcycles – the telegram messenger boys carried special pouches. 34 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Maintaining a high Quality of Service The postal industry regulator Ofcom sets the UK’s Quality of Service targets, which are some of the highest of any FOREWORD major European country. Delivering mail on time and in good condition is an essential part of the Universal Service. We are the only UK postal services company to have postcode area targets. We publish our performance against them quarterly. | We are disappointed that our regulatory First Class Quality of Service performance for 2018–19 was 91.5 per cent, below the ABOUT US target to deliver 93 per cent of this mail the next working day1. We met our Second Class Quality of Service target, delivering 98.6 per cent of this mail within three working days, against a target of 98.5 per cent. We take our commitment to delivering | a high-quality service very seriously. We are redoubling our efforts to tackle quality issues where they arise. INTEGRITY In addition to the regulatory targets discussed above, our Corporate Balanced Scorecard includes a KPI on First Class Retail Quality of Service. This is an independent, audited measure of Quality of Service for First Class retail products Scam mail delivered by the next working day. Royal Mail never knowingly delivers scam mail. We urge CUSTOMERS customers to contact us if they are concerned about anything they have received. We offer freepost, telephone and online Retail Quality of Service (%) services for potential victims, or concerned relatives, to bring items to our attention. 2018–19 target 2018–19 2017–18 2016–17 2015–16 We worked with our customers, the print industry, the National Trading Standards Scams Team, and law First Class mail 93.0 91.8 91.7 93.2 92.5 enforcement agencies to tackle scam mail. We championed an industry-wide voluntary Code of Practice and revised Data PEOPLE Second Sharing Agreement on dealing with scam mail which is now 98.5 98.6 98.4 98.9 98.8 Class mail in place. It commits all major UK mail operator signatories | to sharing intelligence that will help to eliminate scam mail from our networks. An alert system has been set up to ensure Dealing fairly and openly COMMUNITIES intelligence is being shared across the industry. Operating transparently strengthens Royal Mail’s brand. We also work with foreign postal authorities and operators Important areas of transparency for our business include to stop scam mail arriving in the UK, to raise awareness our approach to undeliverable mail, delivery exceptions of its impact, and to identify UK-based fraudsters who are and how we work to help identify victims and perpetrators sending scam mail overseas. | of scam mail. Our people play a vital role in detecting scam mail. We actively SUPPLIERS Protecting customer data and treating it with respect is a key encourage them to report any suspicions, and any concerns priority for us. We are undertaking activities across the Group about vulnerable households, to their line managers. We to ensure compliance with GDPR. This includes protecting us stopped over 1.1 million items of scam mail reaching our from loss of data, managing information rights and managing customers in 2018–19 and over 4.3 million items since our marketing permissions correctly. November 2016. | ENVIRONMENT // Protecting customer data and treating it with respect is a key Keep Me Posted priority for us // We founded the Keep Me Posted | campaign in 2013 to give every ASSURANCE consumer the right to choose, without disadvantage, how they receive bills and statements. To date, 40 service providers, including banks, utilities, 1 In March 2019, we noted Ofcom’s provisional decision not to impose a local government and retailers, have financial penalty with respect to its investigation into our Quality of Service performance for 2017–18. Ofcom itself said that Royal Mail’s performance signed up, along with over 125 charities, was disrupted by certain events beyond its control in particular, the severe consumer organisations, trade unions and businesses. weather in February and March 2018 35 Our customers Delivery exceptions Key scam mail initiatives for 2018–19: As a result of difficulties in accessing postboxes or addresses, • We securely destroy blocked scam mail. The proceeds or due to safety concerns, there are a very small number from the sale of the paper pulp were donated to raise of UK addresses and access points that we are unable victim awareness. to deliver or collect from six-days-a-week. These cases • Our Scam Mail Helpdesk investigated over 2,000 scam mail are called ‘Universal Service Exceptions’. We produce a complaints from members of the public. These investigations detailed Exceptions Report each year for our regulator Ofcom. help generate information that informs wider industry A summary of which can be seen here: www.royalmailgroup. activity. This includes direct engagement with scam mail victims by the National Trading Standards Scams Team and com/en/about-us/regulation/regulation-framework. other victim support organisations. Our 2017–18 Exceptions Report showed there were 3,880 UK • Managers were trained on the impact of scam mail on its addresses where it was not possible to deliver mail six-days-avictims. This includes what Royal Mail is doing to tackle week for more than 12 months. This represents 0.01 per cent this issue. of the addresses to which we deliver. In addition, there were • Commercial Managers were trained by the National Trading 1,783 Universal Service collection exceptions and social access Standards Scams Team to identify the signs of scam mail. points where it was not possible to collect mail, six-days-a• Our employee eLearning video was shared with the postal week for more than 12 months. This represents approximately industry to help raise awareness. Scam mail awareness 0.9 per cent of the approximately 201,018 collection points posters were deployed in Delivery Offices and Customer Service Points. across the UK. • We sent a scam mail awareness mailing to 13,000 Parish councils, local authorities and town councils. Providing value for money • Stephen Agar, Royal Mail’s Managing Director of Consumer & Network Access, was named as a National Trading In February 2019, we announced that First and Second Class Standards ‘Scambassador’. He is one of nine business stamp prices would increase from March 2019 to 70p and 61p leaders who will use their influence to raise the profile of respectively. In October 2018, we announced an average nine scams at national level. per cent increase in wholesale business mail pricing. We are making these changes to help ensure the sustainability of the Universal Postal Service. We understand how hard it is for many companies and households in the current economic Returned mail environment. We are committed to providing good value for A small proportion of the items we handle are undeliverable. money and maintaining a high quality of service. This may be because of an incomplete address or a lack of forwarding address for customers that have moved to a new house. Our National Returns Centre in Belfast aims to return all undelivered mail to the sender. During 2018–19, the centre processed around 8.9 million items of mail, out of a total 10.5 billion pieces of addressed mail sent through our network. PRIORITIES FOR 2019–20: • Maintain a high Quality of Service for our customers. • Continue to innovate to deliver improved products and services, including the roll-out of parcel postboxes in the UK, introduction of a return collection service from consumers homes and offer of in-flight redirections for individual parcels. • Continue to increase the levels of automated parcel sorting. 36 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD | ABOUT US | INTEGRITY Delivering a | CUSTOMERS first class future for our people PEOPLE COMMUNITIES | SUPPLIERS | ENVIRONMENT | ASSURANCE We are committed to providing our people with a safe and healthy working environment and opportunities to fulfill their potential. 37 Our people Case study Virtual reality helping to protect our people Our priority as an employer is to ensure the welfare To address the issue of dog attacks, we created a and safety of our people while they provide a valuable virtual reality training module as part of our annual service to our customers. Animal attacks remain a Dog Awareness Week. This investment combines significant hazard, with our people experiencing new technology and some of our traditional guidance more than 2,400 dog attacks in the past year, leaving to deliver the learning experience in a completely some postmen and women with permanent and different way. It involves participants following a new life-changing injuries. postal worker on her round to help her look for signs of dogs and advise her on what to do. 38 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 At a glance Employee engagement (score) Charity partnership fundraising (£)2 N R 2015–16 60 921,889 59 Our people play a key role in achieving our strategic priorities. 2016–17 FOREWORD 945,409 57 57 rely on them to deliver high-quality We 2017–18 customer service, to fulfil our Universal Service Obligation (USO),220,741 and to represent Royal Mail 2018–19 among our customers and communities. 845,185 | 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 ABOUT US Performance [KPIs] Key facts Reduction in road traffic collisions (%) Managers trained on mental health (number)3 | N • Around 143,000 people are employed by Royal Mail u Employee engagement (score) inCharity the UK.partnership fundraising (£) 2 N INTEGRITY N/A 12.3 R 2 • One in every 192 jobs in the UK is provided by 2015–16 9.0 Royal Mail. 921,889 60 2 59 • 992016–17 per cent of Royal Mail employees are on 5.3 permanent contracts. 945,409 | 2 57 57 N/A 2017–18 N/A 8,9954 912 CUSTOMERS 2015-16 220,741 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2018–19 Key highlights 845,185 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 • Our employee engagement score increased one point Employee engagement (score) Charity partnership fundraising (£)2 N Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate 60, our highest toColleague ever engagement community score. engagement R R PEOPLE (per 100,000 hours worked) • We introducedfrom (donations 2015–16 employees) ‘Employee (£) Voice’ forums, opening a a Reduction in road traffic collisions (%) 60 Managers channel trained on mental of communication between health (number) 921,889 our employees 3 and N 2015–16 u 59 2015–16 the Royal Mail plc Board. 2016–17 0.49 3.1m N/A 12.3 • We reduced our Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate 945,409 57 2016–17 57 2016–17 (LTAFR) 2017–18 by 9.2 per cent compared with last year. This 2 0.499.0 per cent reduction in our biggest lost3.1m COMMUNITIES includes a 22220,741 time 2017–18 accident 2017–18 type – slips and trips. 2 0.54 5.3 2018–19 • A further 11,400 employees signed up to our2.7mFeeling 2018–19 845,185 2 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 First Class website, which offers a range 4of health and 2018–19 0.49 N/A N/Atools and resources. wellbeing 8,995 A total of 53,000 912 3.1m employees are now registered on the website. | 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 • We increased our overall gender diversity, with women SUPPLIERS Reduction in road traffic collisions (%) making Managers per centon up 19trained of mental health– (number) our workforce an increase 3 N Sick absence (%) of one per cent compared with 2017–18. u p51 p6 our Community ou N/A Accident12.3 Lost Time Frequency Rate Colleague community engagement 2R 2018–19 (per 100,000 hours worked) (donations from employees) (£) | a 9.0 5.41 2 ENVIRONMENT 2015–16 2017–18 2015–16 0.49 5.09 5.3 3.1m 2016–17 2 2016–17 N/A 2016–17 N/A 8,995 4 912 0.49 4.63 3.1m 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2 2017–18 2015–16 2017–18 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 4.510.54 2.7m | 2018–19 2018–19 0.49 3.1m ASSURANCE Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate Colleague community engagement R (per 100,000 hours worked) (donations from employees) (£) a p37 Sick absence (%) 2015–16 2015–16 our People p51 p6 0.49 3.1m our Community ou 2016–17 2016–17 2018–19 0.49 3.1m 2017–18 5.41 2017–18 39 2017–18 0.54 2.7m 2018–19 5.09 2018–19 Our people Our people We believe that engaging our people within a fair, rewarding and customer-focused culture drives quality. Royal Mail directly employs around 143,0001 people. We are one of the largest employers in the UK, with one in every 192 people in employment working for Royal Mail. GLS employs just over 19,000 people worldwide. Fair working conditions are the foundations of how we do business. We promote strong labour standards in our industry. We seek to enable all our employees to fulfil their potential through a high-performance culture. We work closely with our Engaging our workforce unions to agree changes to our business model to ensure a sustainable future for Royal Mail. Engaged employees, who feel valued by our business, are the foundation of our customer-focused culture. Our ambition is to build an inclusive, supportive culture where all our Our people strategy employees are proud to play their part in delivering a quality service to our customers. Our people strategy supports a more competitive business through: Engagement and culture are strategic priorities for us. One • striving for an incident free working environment where of the KPI’s on our Corporate Balanced Scorecard is the everyone is safe, healthy and secure; employee engagement score, linking the remuneration of our • creating a customer-focused culture; people, including Executive Directors, to our performance in • maintaining good employment standards; this area. Measured through our Employee Survey, we saw an increase in our employee engagement score, from 59 to 60 this • working collaboratively with our unions; year, our highest ever engagement score. Since our flotation in • celebrating diversity and creating an inclusive 2013, our engagement score has increased by 6 points. During working environment; 2018–19, our employee turnover rate was 7.2 per cent, well • giving our people ownership and influence over their below the average UK turnover rate of 23 per cent. working lives; Other key outcomes from the Employee Survey include: • using technology and data to enhance decision making; and • our people are more motivated and have greater overall • investing in people and providing opportunities for all. satisfaction in their roles; • our people are highly loyal, with both pride in the organisation and advocacy for us as an employer; and WHY BEING A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER IS • an increase in trust and feeling supported to deliver a IMPORTANT TO ROYAL MAIL’S PERFORMANCE great service. Our stakeholders have identified engagement and culture as People metrics 2018–19 2017–18 2016–17 2015–16 material issues for our business. How we engage employees, work with our unions and develop our culture directly impacts Employee engagement 60 59 57 57 our competitiveness. Our vision is to be recognised as the best (score) delivery company in the UK, across Europe and everywhere we do business. For details of our materiality assessment, Job satisfaction (score) 73 72 69 68 see page 20. Colleagues who say Royal 61 60 57 56 Mail values diversity (%) Colleagues who say they understand how their 71 71 70 67 roles contribute to the 1 143,000 employees include Royal Mail Property and Facilities Solutions success of Royal Mail (%) (RMPFS) employees 40 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 We used feedback from our 2017–18 Employee Survey to Creating a value based culture build our engagement plan for 2018–19. We discussed the survey findings with our People Panel. This is an internal Royal Mail’s values are: Be Positive, Be Brilliant and Be FOREWORD focus group that includes representatives from across our Part of It. They apply to every employee and represent the business. We also hosted employee engagement focus groups way we do things both as individuals and as a company. to hear the views of frontline staff, and engagement sessions We developed a guide to our values, shared with all line with operational managers. These events give employees an managers in 2017–18, to help improve coaching skills, guide opportunity to share their experiences, and our leadership conversations about employee development and support | an opportunity to hear from our people directly. As a result of ongoing culture change. Our “Leading with Integrity” initiative, this feedback, our engagement plan included the following which helps managers identify ethical and compliance risks ABOUT US actions, which we took during the year: and make responsible decisions, also encourages them to discuss our values with their teams. • We rolled out our People Boards across the operation. They help support our managers in having meaningful conversations with our people and working together on | actions for the team. Postie of the Year, Brian Milner INTEGRITY Postman Brian Milner, of • We piloted a toolkit for managers to share best practice Chester-le-Street Delivery Office, from their peers on how to build trust and collaboration received up the coveted Postie on site, with a view to full roll out in 2019–20. of the Year title at this year’s Chairman’s Awards for Excellence. • We extended our Appreciate site, increasing the number His win came from both the impact | of recognitions our people can receive. he’s had on his Delivery Office team CUSTOMERS and his dedication to charity. Following a successful trial in 2017–18, we created a local action planning board for every site, led by local Brian runs Gateway Wheelers, a charity which helps disabled management teams, focusing on the issues that really people to become mobile though cycling. He has been awarded the British Empire Medal (BEM) for services to charity. matter to our people. As a workplace coach and the fleet lead for the DH postcode During the year, the Board introduced ‘Employee Voice’ area, he’s always keen to add to his skills. forums in addition to the People Panels. These forums aim PEOPLE to give the workforce a voice on key matters, enabling the When asked about winning the Postie of the Year award, Brian said: ‘It feels absolutely fantastic. After winning the BEM for Board to hear first-hand from employees across the Group services to charity, this one feels particularly special to me to consider their views when deliberating Board matters. because it’s what I do at work, and there are a lot of postmen Forums are held in different Mail Centres across the country and women in the land so it’s nice to be recognised. I don’t with around 160–200 colleagues from across the business think the customer always understands what goes into getting invited to attend. The first forum was held in February their post to their door, especially when it’s snowing and COMMUNITIES 2019 in Northampton, UK. In addition, Simon Thompson raining. It is really nice to be recognised for that.’ was appointed the designated Non-Executive Director for Chairman Les Owen, in his speech at the Chairman’s Awards, engagement with the workforce. said: ‘They are very special awards for great work by a lot of great people. Of course a lot of businesses say: “it is all about the people, but in our case it really is.” Signatories of the Armed Forces Covenant | Royal Mail Group is proud to be a signatory of the Armed SUPPLIERS Forces Covenant. This commits us to working jointly with the We use our Culture Index, measured as part of the annual Ministry of Defence (MoD) to support our colleagues who serve Employee Survey, to understand how aligned our colleagues (reservists), or who have served in the Armed Forces, and their are with these values. This year, our Culture Index score families. Our engagement with the Armed Forces stems back remained the same at 53. to 1816, when we sent volunteers to set up communications for | the British forces following the defeat of Napoleon. In 2018–19, we continued to showcase colleagues who Throughout our history colleagues have served in two World deliver outstanding customer service, as part of our ‘We are ENVIRONMENT Wars and in many more recent conflicts. At any one time Royal Mail’ campaign. Our annual Chairman’s Awards for we have 200 individuals who are reservists or cadet forces Excellence celebrates colleagues who have gone over and volunteers across the Armed Forces. We offer practical support through time off for both ongoing training commitments and above the call of duty for customers, the community and longer mobilisation periods. We also encourage applications our people. Award categories include Safety, Health and from those who are veterans, or spouses of those still serving. Wellbeing Champion, Community Champion, Postie of the Year and the Rising Star Award. | ASSURANCE // Our values – Be Positive, Royal Mail values Be Brilliant and Be Part Of It – represent the way we do things in Royal Mail // BE POSITIVE BE BRILLIANT BE PART OF IT 41 Our people Investing in people Royal Mail recognises its responsibility to our people. We offer our people good working conditions and fair pay. At the end of this year, 99 per cent of Royal Mail staff were on permanent contracts, with a competitive salary and benefits such as National Insurance contributions, paid holiday and a good pension. Over the Christmas period, we recruit additional temporary workers to help deal with the increased workload. These temporary workers are eligible for statutory sick and holiday pay. They are not tied to working for Royal Mail exclusively. Investing in our future Royal Mail Group wants to provide employees with a positive Around 87 per cent of our people are Royal Mail shareholders. experience when they have a family, supporting employees Since privatisation, 12 per cent of the Company has been during their pregnancy, maternity leave and during their return awarded to Royal Mail employees through the Royal Mail Share to the workplace by helping them to manage their work-life Incentive Plan. All our eligible full-time employees received balance. We have formal policies in place to cover maternity, a maximum of 913 free shares, regardless of their role in adoption leave, shared parental and parental leave. Specifically, our organisation. our policies for maternity and adoption leave offer our employees up to 26 weeks of fully paid ordinary leave. Investing in our peoples’ learning We support the new rules for parental bereavement leave. and development We continue to engage the Government in relation to better labour standards across the industry. This includes raising the We are committed to investing in people at all levels of Royal issue of labour standards when briefing politicians and civil Mail. We provide our employees with the tools, knowledge and servants. We were pleased to see government bring forward resources to build fulfilling careers and create opportunities consultations in response to the Taylor Review1. We believe for continual development. We believe that our commitment to that better labour standards across the industry leads to better learning and development drives results across the business. service standards for all customers. During 2018–19 we invested nearly £6.9 million in training, delivering the equivalent of around 17,000 training days. // During 2018–19 we invested We rolled out a wide range of learning and development programmes covering technical health and safety, compliance nearly £6.9 million in training, and job-specific training. Our online learning and development tool, Success Factors, offers colleagues a wide variety of delivering the equivalent of around courses. This enables them to take control of their learning 17,000 training days // journeys and pursue their career interests through training. In partnership with Warwick university, we launched a Master’s degree apprenticeship for Aspiring Senior Leaders. Designed Rewarding people fairly to enable managers to make a smooth transition from middle to senior roles, it enables them to tailor their Master’s degree We believe that all our people should be rewarded fairly for to their own career path using the extensive range of education their work. Each year, we conduct a Company-wide review provided across Warwick University. to identify any pay discrepancies between men and women. We were pleased to find that, as in previous years, the average We are sharing the benefits of the Government’s Apprenticeship salaries paid to men and women are broadly the same. On a Levy by extending our apprenticeships to our charity partners mean basis, women are paid 0.6 per cent more than men, due such as North-West Ambulance Service. We have been to a greater proportion of women in senior positions, compared highlighted as a trailblazer for levy partnership working by both to junior and operational roles. On a median basis, men are National Apprenticeship Service and Health Education UK. paid one per cent more than women, due to men selecting We provide Executive Leadership Development to our more work that qualifies for allowances, such as shift work graduates and higher apprentices help them develop crucial during the evening or at night. We pay bonuses equally to men leadership skills and behaviours. Royal Mail currently offer and women on a median basis. On a mean basis, our Bonus graduate programmes in Operations Management, Central Gap is 22.7 per cent in favour of women – compared to 9.1 per Operations, Commercial, Logistics, Human Resources, cent in the previous year. This is due to the higher proportion Finance, Technology, Engineering, International, International of women in our management populations compared to our Operations and Strategy. We welcomed over 60 graduates operational population. onto our programmes in 2018–19. Our full Gender Pay Report is available at the following address: www.royalmailgroup.com/en/responsibility/ our-focus-areas/our-people. 1 The UK government published a review in July 2017 into working practices in the modern economy, led by Matthew Taylor, taking into account wages, employment quality, education and training, working conditions, work life balance, consultative participation, collective representation and a baseline of protection 42 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Managing performance and identifying // We work closely with our unions development opportunities We carry out annual performance reviews with all our to agree changes to our working FOREWORD managers. They make up approximately seven per cent of our total employee population. We have a capability framework practices. We share a common that encourages them to carry out a skills self-assessment goal: to secure the future of our via our online learning platform, Success Factors. The business, so that it can grow and | platform provides them with tailored learning resources to close any gaps that are identified. These voluntary selfremain successful // ABOUT US assessments have the added benefit of helping us to direct our investment in training towards the areas of greatest need. We appraise non-managers using a different process that is Following the agreement reached with the CWU in early better suited to their career development. We assess the skills 2018, we committed to introduce a Collective Defined | of our frontline postmen and women against our standard Contribution (CDC) scheme for all Royal Mail employees, operating procedures, to identify skills gaps and development INTEGRITY subject to the necessary legislative and regulatory changes opportunities. As part of this process, line managers and being made. We also committed to work with the CWU to call workplace coaches develop coaching and action plans to on the Government to introduce the necessary legislation help all of our people improve their performance. to support this. In November 2018, the Government announced its plans to legislate for CDC and published a | consultation on how CDC pensions could be delivered. Nearly Working collaboratively with 80 organisations or individuals made submissions to the CUSTOMERS our unions consultation. On 18 March 2019, the Government published its response, and confirmed its intention to bring forward We provide the best pay and terms and conditions in our CDC legislation as soon as Parliamentary time allows. industry. We work closely with our unions to agree changes This is an important step forward for us. We continue to work to our working practices. We share a common goal: to closely with the CWU to support the Government in its work secure the future of our business, so that it can grow and to enable us to offer a CDC scheme for Royal Mail employees remain successful. PEOPLE as soon as possible. While we seek a CDC scheme, members We recognise two unions: the CWU and Unite/CMA. Around are building up retirement benefits under our transitional 87 per cent of our operational and administrative-grade arrangements. We believe CDC is a progressive option, employees are members of the CWU. Approximately meeting our objectives of providing sustainable, affordable 652 per cent of our managers are members of Unite/CMA. and secure retirement benefits for our people, while In total, around 98 per cent of employees are covered by significantly reducing risk to Royal Mail. COMMUNITIES our agreements with these two unions. We have made agreements with the CWU on pay In 2018–19, we lost 1,397 days to strike action, a decrease increases for frontline colleagues, up to April 2020, and from 1,991 days in 2017–18. This was due to the work on implementing further reductions to the working week, undertaken with the union to actively manage any differences subject to ongoing efficiency and other measures. For Unite/ which occur in line with the industrial stability section of the CMA, we have worked jointly on new processes to help | Agenda for Growth3. standardise and improve ways of working at all operational levels. This includes the full implementation of the SUPPLIERS Cover Manager programme. We have also enhanced our national strategic engagement with Unite/CMA. This includes working jointly on key aspects such as performance management, ways of working and the | delivery of the management reduction programme within ENVIRONMENT non-operational areas. We have already begun preliminary discussions with our unions on the changes required to deliver our renewed Group strategy and five-year ‘turnaround and grow’ plan for the UK business. We understand that CWU is likely to hold a special conference in due course to discuss and debate the main | elements of our transformation programme. As part of our engagement prior to that conference, we will work closely ASSURANCE with a range of senior union representatives across a number of important considerations. 2 Figure based on latest membership numbers provided by Unite/CMA in 2016 3 Our 2013 Agenda for Growth agreement with the CWU includes legally binding terms covering employee pay, protections and industrial stability, as well as a programme of work to help deliver change 43 Our people Health and safety // Our top priority as an Our top priority as an employer is to create a safe and healthy working environment for our people. Our goal is to create a employer is to create a safe and workplace where everyone is free from injury, whether physical or mental. healthy working environment Our integrated Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) for our people // Management System provides the framework for managing risk, achieving continuous improvement in our Our performance safety performance, and maintaining a safe, healthy and This year, we recorded a Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate environmentally responsible workplace. It covers the following (LTAFR) of 0.49 per 100,000 hours worked, compared with 0.54 elements: in 2017–18. This represents a 9.2 per cent improvement in the • standards, procedures and workplace controls for managing past 12 months. This includes a 22 per cent reduction in our specific risks; biggest lost time accident type – slips and trips. • competency and training; Road Traffic Collision Frequency Rate (RTCFR) is a key • occupational road risk; and performance metric we measure and report on annually. • annual audit programmes for measuring compliance with This year, we reduced our RTCFR by 5.3 per cent, compared our SHE Management System, highlighting areas where we with 2017–18. We continue to work hard to reduce this further. need to improve. We invest in driver training and road safety campaigns to We provide instruction and training for employees on how promote safe driver behaviours. In 2018–19, we added a new to complete their tasks safely and on our health and safety module to the Royal Mail Driver Certificate of Professional standards. A SHE Roles and Responsibilities booklet is Competence (DCPC) training to cover Safe Motorway Driving issued and briefed to colleagues so they understand their and Emergency Aid. The training includes first aid principles responsibilities and how to comply with policies. Examples such as how to use a defibrillator, and how to aid other include, working responsibly and in accordance with SHE motorists in trouble. We also launched a video showing standards, identifying hazards and managing risk and driver exercises and seat adjustment, to combat muscular reporting all incidents. During the year, we refreshed our fire skeletal conditions. safety training products. A new e-learning course has been During 2018–19, we introduced the following initiatives to help completed by over 10,800 connected users, with frontline reduce road traffic collisions. We successfully trialled the use employees completing the training in group ‘Work Time of forward-facing cameras in Heavy Good Vehicles. We have Listening and Learning’ sessions. now expanded the trial with a view to national deployment. We As the business identifies new ways of working or introduces created a Rollaways Working Group to consider approaches new technologies, we ensure that the appropriate health and that we can take to eliminate or reduce the risks of vehicles safety considerations are assessed using the SHE Assurance rolling away when parked. The actions we identified include and Concurrence process. Strong, visible leadership and placing an emphasis on secondary controls such as leaving face-to-face coaching conversations play an important role a vehicle in gear, expanding the trial of a handbrake warning in strengthening our safety culture. These conversations are device, and ordering electronic parking brakes to be fitted on particularly helpful for postmen and women who spend long vehicle purchases. periods working alone and may have formed unsafe habits over It is with great regret that we report that seven people time. When senior leaders talk to their wider teams about the tragically lost their lives in connection with our activities in impact of safety performance on our business, it sends a clear the UK in the past year. The fatalities were associated with signal about the importance we attach to this area. road traffic collisions involving our vehicles. We liaise closely with the relevant authorities. We conduct our own detailed investigations to determine the root cause of each accident and identify any lessons that can be learned. We have a Fatal and Serious Accident Protocol that guides our investigations and reports, and the actions we take. We discuss investigations at Board level and communicate outcomes across the Group. We also share any lessons that can be learned with the wider road safety community. 9.2% IMPROVEMENT IN OUR LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS 44 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Improving health and wellbeing of our people Supporting health and wellbeing boosts workplace morale, and it is crucial to our people strategy. Our support for FOREWORD employee wellbeing includes our Feeling First Class website. The site provides employees with a range of health and wellbeing tools and resources, including an online stress tool and fitness programmes. This year, 11,400 employees signed up to use the site, bringing the total number of employees | registered to 53,000. We are also developing a new intranet ABOUT US page to promote musculoskeletal health. Our levels of sickness absence saw a slight increase to 5.41 per cent, compared with 5.09 per cent in the previous year. Flu and flu-like symptoms are a significant cause of short| term absence among our people. In 2018–19, flu jabs were Animal attacks remain a significant hazard for our people. offered to all employees free of charge. Although the uptake INTEGRITY Over 47 postmen and women are still attacked each week was lower than anticipated, at 5.4 per cent of employees, across the UK, some leading to a permanent and disabling there has been a reduction in absence due to flu compared to injury. Unfortunately, animal attacks increased by nine per the previous two years. cent compared to last year. They accounted for 36 per cent of The leading causes of long-term illness among our people | the injuries sustained by our people while at work during the are mental health conditions and musculoskeletal injuries. year. Following an attack, we support our people in securing CUSTOMERS a prosecution and assist with their physical and mental Preventing and tackling rehabilitation. We partner with external organisations, like the CWU and the police, on this issue. We campaign nationally to musculoskeletal injuries reduce the risk of this issue. In addition, we hold an annual Dog Musculoskeletal disorders are problems causing aches and Awareness Week to highlight ways that our people can reduce pains in the muscles and joints such as arthritis, slipped discs, the risk of dog attacks. repetitive strain injuries and a wide range of other conditions. PEOPLE In 2018–19, the GLS Corporate Occupational Health and We developed a musculoskeletal injury action plan in 2017– Safety team developed a Corporate Occupational Health 18, using input from around 1,500 colleagues and a detailed and Safety Directive, and rolled it out across all European analysis of accidents and ill-health statistics. The resulting GLS subsidiaries. The team is currently following up with Stamp Out Aches and Pains campaign was launched in audits to ensure the directive has been implemented. October 2018 to raise awareness of the causes of conditions, COMMUNITIES The audits started in January 2019. They have been how to prevent them from occurring and to manage problems completed in Hungary, Belgium, Denmark and Spain. that do occur. We have launched a wide range of training All remaining audits will be completed by September 2019. materials including: During 2018–19, GLS Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate • Manual handling training for all operational employees; for its own employees increased from 1.5 to 1.6. • eLearning and a risk assessment for employees using | Display Screen Equipment; Safety metrics1, 2 2018–19 2017–18 2016–17 2015–16 • eLearning for managers to manage SUPPLIERS musculoskeletal problems; Reduction in road traffic 5.3 9.0 12.3 N/A • A leaflet distributed to all employees in our in-house collisions (%) Lost Time Accident magazine, encouraging them to take proactive measures Frequency Rate (per 0.49 0.54 0.49 0.49 to look after their own musculoskeletal health; and | 100,000 hours worked) • A musculoskeletal module in the Driver Certificate of Professional Competence training, which includes ENVIRONMENT Total accidents (number) 7,071 7,457 7,298 8,040 stretching exercises and seat adjustment videos Days lost due to accident 25,245 26,208 21,437 23,038 Our ergonomics work contributes to the development (number) of good equipment and working methods to minimise Fatalities (number) 7 4 1 2 musculoskeletal risk. We take ergonomics into account whenever we develop new equipment or working methods. | Sick absence (%) 5.41 5.09 4.63 4.51 Our Health and Wellbeing team worked closely with the Operational Design teams on a wide range of projects to ASSURANCE assess, develop, or improve working methods. They included modifications to delivery pouches and trolleys, vehicle rack systems, and parcel and letter sorting machines. 1 Figures represent UKPIL safety performance 2 Full definitions of our assured KPIs are in our 2018-19 Reporting Criteria, available on our website at www.royalmailgroup.com/en/responsibility/ policies-and-reports 45 Our people Addressing mental health Our five-year mental health strategy has four core objectives: • Increase awareness of mental health conditions in the workplace Our mandatory mental health e-learning module for managers raises awareness of mental health conditions. It highlights the support and resources that are available for our people. We make it available to all employees via our Feeling First Class website. • Reduce the stigma associated with mental health conditions Our Global Director of Safety, Health, Wellbeing and Sustainability published Positive Male Mind, a book focused on men’s mental health and the stigma attached to it. The book aims to support men and those who care about the 52% mental health of men around them (colleague, husband, brother or son), by helping them to understand some of the issues they face day-to-day. Royalties from the sale of the book are being donated to Action for Children and the Rowland Hill Fund. • Provide tools and guidance to our people so that they know how to support themselves, their colleagues and PER CENT OF EMPLOYEES BELIEVE THAT their family members ROYAL MAIL PROVIDES SUPPORT FOR THOSE We continue to provide a wide variety of solutions to WITH MENTAL HEALTH NEEDS support the mental health of our employees, with information about where to seek help and support for mental health conditions. We recognise that stress is a We continue to receive regular external feedback that our leading cause of mental ill-health. Our Stress Guidance ‘Because Healthy Minds Matter’ strategy and plan sets Toolkit, available on our intranet site, helps colleagues to the benchmark and is influencing mental health activity in understand and address the potential causes of the stress other organisations. In September 2018, we won the ‘Mental they experience. Health Initiative of the Year’ award at the Workplace Savings and Benefits Awards. It recognised our ‘courageous’ mental • Ensure our people know where to go in a crisis health strategy. Our Mental Health First Aid training course is available for managers, mental health ambassadors and health Our mental health charity partnerships with Action for and safety representatives. In addition, our mental health Children, Mind and Mental Health UK supports our mental ambassador programme trains employees to provide health work with our employees. More information on our support to colleagues who are experiencing mental illcampaign for mental health is available on page 58. health. Our ambassadors include frontline colleagues, managers and union reps. Ageing workforce We added a question on mental health to our 2018–19 The UK workforce is ageing. The Royal Mail workforce Employee Survey. The survey showed that 52 per cent of reflects this trend with 47 per cent of our people being over employees believe that Royal Mail provides support for the age of 50. Our Health and Wellbeing team led a working those with mental health needs. group drawn from Human Resources, Operational Design, Operations, Safety, Health and Environment, and union representatives, to gain an understanding of the issues, and // In September 2018, we won how to effectively support our colleagues. The working group has made a number of recommendations, and will work with the ‘Mental Health Initiative of relevant stakeholders to implement these changes. the Year’ award at the Workplace Savings and Benefits Awards // 46 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 A diverse and inclusive workforce // We have created programmes Royal Mail believes that diversity involves more than just a to help young people and the FOREWORD workforce with representation from a wide variety of groups, it also involves giving every one of those groups a voice and valuing the contributions from all of our people. As a long‑term unemployed into work // company, we are committed to placing fairness, diversity and respect at the heart of our business and to creating a | welcoming and inclusive environment for everyone. ABOUT US Our Diversity Council oversees our diversity and inclusion strategy and is responsible for driving culture change. Volunteers from our people have also established six diversity steering groups. They are inclusive, open to all employees with an interest in this area and include: | • Women; INTEGRITY • Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) groups; • Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) & Friends; • Disability; • Parents and Carers; and | • Youth & Friends CUSTOMERS We raised awareness of diversity and inclusion throughout Inclusive recruitment the year, to ensure that our colleagues from all backgrounds feel valued at work. We celebrated festivals and events from We are committed to recruiting diverse talent so that our around the world, including International Women’s Day, workforce reflects the diversity of the communities we serve. National Carers’ Week, Black History Month, National Coming We have created programmes to help young people and the Out Day and International Day of People with Disabilities. long-term unemployed into work. PEOPLE We proactively recruit people from under represented and socially excluded groups. In partnership with external // Royal Mail believes that diversity organisations, such as Business in the Community and involves more than just a workforce Vercida (previously Diversity Jobs), we ensure that our employment opportunities are visible and accessible to people with representation from a wide COMMUNITIES from diverse backgrounds. Apprenticeships offer people from different backgrounds a variety of groups, it also involves way to gain the skills, knowledge and experience they need giving every one of those groups a to start or refocus their careers, enabling them to ‘earn while they learn.’ In 2018–19, 705 apprentices joined over voice and valuing the contributions 30 Royal Mail programmes. They included opportunities in | finance, technology, sales, project management, logistics from all of our people // SUPPLIERS management, vehicle technology and engineering. We introduced degree apprenticeships to capture talent at an early stage. In January 2019, we held our annual Inclusion Week. It focused on the power of inclusive workplaces and teams We work with various partners to offer work experience to disadvantaged and minority groups to help them develop | and built on the success of our previous Altogether Different campaign. Our intranet, extranet, in-house magazine Courier valuable workplace skills. These included Groundwork, ENVIRONMENT and newsletters featured employees’ stories about their which provides work experience while creating a greener experiences in the workplace and what being inclusive means environment, and People Plus, which supports people into to them. Employees watched our Being Inclusive video, work and helps them build independence and progress which featured their stories, more than 5,600 times during their careers. Inclusion Week. 705 | We collect employee diversity information during recruitment, provided that our new employees consent to sharing it, ASSURANCE and via our anonymous annual Employee Survey. In our 2018 Employee Survey, we introduced diversity questions on all protected characteristics. This provided us with valuable insight into the experiences and views of diversity APPRENTICES JOINED OVER groups. For the first time, employees were able to disclose 30 ROYAL MAIL PROGRAMMES their gender identity, sexual orientation, childcare and caring responsibilities. 47 Our people Royal Mail female Royal Mail male GLS female GLS male Gender diversity (headcount)1 2018–19 2017–18 2018–19 2017–18 2018–19 2017–18 2018–19 2017–18 Royal Mail plc Board 2 3 5 6 Senior Management2 720 730 1,551 1,619 31 50 203 301 Management 1,495 1,460 5,523 5,445 3,585 3,414 3,260 3,105 Administrative 1,398 1,387 974 970 Operational 22,531 20,967 105,634 105,556 2,100 1,953 10,042 9,132 Gender diversity Our Women’s Steering Group runs a number of initiatives and bi-annual women’s events. In 2018, they rolled out a ‘Vote 100 At year end, 29 per cent of our Board were female. We support Role Models’ campaign, celebrating the achievements and Lord Davies’ recommendation that Boards should have 33 contributions of our female colleagues across the business. In per cent female representation by 2020. Across the operation, addition to the Women’s Steering Group, there are a number of women make up 32 per cent of our senior managers and 18 additional women’s networks across the business. per cent of our operational grades. Career development for women is one of our key diversity We continue to take steps to make our recruitment process priorities. We have a strategy to increase the number of women more inclusive and accessible to women. We have updated the in management by giving internal candidates the confidence to language used in our job advertisements to make them more apply for promotions, and by growing our own talent. attractive to people with childcare and caring responsibilities. We adopted the online personal and professional development Where appropriate, we use balanced shortlisting to help platform Everywoman, designed to empower women to take address the gender balance in our business. In 2018–19, control of their personal and career development. The platform women were hired into 32 per cent of new operational roles. is open to both women and men in the workplace; over 1,200 colleagues have already signed up. It includes webinars, workshops, articles, videos and webcasts. World Firsts 1st (1773–1855) ROBERT WALLACE Scottish politician, Robert Wallace was an agitator for postal service reform. Wallace was chairman of the committee that examined Rowland Hill's penny postage scheme submission; and it was by his casting vote that it was decided to recommend this scheme to parliament. Without him, the postal service as we know today might not exist. 1 Our 2018-19 CR Performance and Data Appendix is available at 2 The overall population of senior management in the GLS business www.royalmailgroup.com/en/policies-and-reports and includes a has reduced by 117 due to a re-evaluations of management positions breakdown of headcount by age and ethnicity following recent acquisitions 48 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Our Springboard confidence building programme provides direct support to help develop female employees in non-managerial roles. 128 delegates completed 11 cohorts FOREWORD of four workshops (44 courses) under the programme. We have earned external recognition for the progress we have made improving gender diversity at Royal Mail. This year, The Times named Royal Mail as one of its Top 50 Employers for Women for the sixth consecutive time. | ABOUT US Ethnic diversity Royal Mail’s ethnic profile is broadly representative of the UK population. 14 per cent of our employees declared themselves to be from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic | (BAME) backgrounds within the 2018–19 Employee Survey. In 2018–19, Royal Mail took part in both London Pride and UK Black Pride. Our LGBT & Friends steering group and local INTEGRITY Our BAME steering group held local events, and celebrated networks hosted a series of Prides across the UK, with over inspiring role models during Black History Month and 300 of our colleagues attending. We commissioned Prideinclusion week. Members also participated in focus groups. themed vans and a postbox in London. The steering group Their aim was to better understand the experiences of our also marked the International Day against Homophobia, BAME colleagues and identify any barriers to progression, Transphobia and Biphobia, Bi-Visibility Day and National | both at Operational and Senior Manager levels. The feedback Coming Out Day. It partnered with Stonewall for a Role CUSTOMERS will be used to inform our Diversity and Inclusion strategy, Models event, which empowered colleagues to engage with and activities to foster BAME talent. peers and promote LGBT+ inclusion in the workplace. Royal Mail is a signatory of the Race at Work Charter. We work with Business in the Community’s (BITC) Gender and Supporting our disabled colleagues Race Equality campaigns to support and follow best practice. We are committed to supporting disabled applicants and We participate in the BITC Mentoring Circles programme. employees at all stages of the employment cycle. They During 2018–19, a further ten Royal Mail colleagues took PEOPLE include offering reasonable adjustments to the workplace the next step in their careers with help and advice from where appropriate. Our Disability Confident Employer status an external BAME mentor. The BAME steering group also was confirmed by the Department for Work and Pensions celebrated the graduation of its first cohort of in-house BAME in August 2018. The Disability Confident scheme, which mentoring circles. It will launch a second cycle of in-house replaced the Disability Two Ticks scheme in 2017, guarantees BAME mentoring circles in 2019–20. an interview for disabled applicants who meet the essential COMMUNITIES We have a separate Spring Forward programme for male and criteria of the job they are applying for. Royal Mail continues female BAME colleagues who have traditionally been underto work with the disability charity Remploy to provide jobs and represented in senior positions. This year, 23 managers work placements for people with disabilities. attended Spring Forward workshops. They focus on personal Royal Mail is a Gold Member of the Business Disability development and aim to give colleagues the skills, knowledge Forum (BDF), the leading employers’ organisation focused on | and confidence to advance their careers. disability. The BDF helps businesses to develop strategies, policies and procedures, and suggests solutions to disability SUPPLIERS Supporting our LGBT+ colleagues concerns, as well as providing commercial expertise in We are proud to be part of Stonewall’s Diversity Champions relation to disabled customers. Information collected through programme. It campaigns for equality for lesbian, gay, our 2018–19 Employee Survey shows that approximately bisexual and transgender+ (LGBT+) people and provides 13 per cent of Royal Mail employees identify themselves | employers with access to guidance and good practice in as having a disability. We make reasonable adjustments to LGBT+ inclusion. the workplace to support employees with disabilities and ENVIRONMENT long-term health conditions. We provide training in assistive In our 2018–19 Employee Survey, one per cent of our technology and software where required. respondents described themselves as transgender and five per cent described themselves as lesbian, gay or bisexual. This year we introduced a mandatory Disability and The LGBT & Friends Steering Group promoted transgender Reasonable Adjustments training for Operational managers. awareness and shared the inspiring stories of our trans This was to ensure they are confidently and effectively | colleagues via our Digital Pride Campaign. The steering supporting disabled colleagues. To date 97, per cent of our group worked with Gendered Intelligence, a not-for-profit Operational managers have completed it. Our Disability ASSURANCE community interest company that works with the trans Helpline provides support to managers who need to source community, to launch a series of transgender awareness assistive equipment or provide a British Sign Language films. They featured Royal Mail transgender employees. interpreter for employees. 49 Our people Supporting our colleagues with childcare and caring responsibilities Our Parents and Carers steering group supports employees caring for others. The steering group worked with Employers for Carers, and contributed to the Business in the Community Equal Lives campaign, to raise awareness of the experiences of people with childcare and caring responsibilities. In our 2018–19 employee survey 28 per cent of our respondents shared that they have childcare responsibilities, nine per cent told us that they have caring responsibilities. We use these insights to guide our approach. After our 2017–18 employee survey showed that employees with caring responsibilities were having less positive experiences than those with childcare responsibilities, the steering group focused on raising awareness of carers’ experiences and the support available to them through our family friendly and flexible working policies. The group also marked National Carers’ Week and the Carers’ Rights Day. They have worked to promote the inspiring stories Ensuring dignity and respect in the workplace of role models with caring responsibilities for older and Royal Mail is committed to creating a workplace where our disabled dependants. colleagues feel respected and able to thrive. We are tackling bullying and harassment in any form. Supporting our youngest colleagues We have a bullying and harassment policy that sets out the Employees under the age of 30 make up around eight per cent formal procedure for resolving issues. We provide clear of our workforce. Our aim is to attract more young people into channels for colleagues to escalate any concerns they have. Royal Mail and support and retain young talent. The Youth & We also provide support for colleagues experiencing any Friends steering group represents employees under the age issues. In 2018–19, we saw an increase of 18.5 per cent in of 30, and is committed to making the business a place where the number of bullying and harassment complaints, this is young people can achieve their potential. compared to a particularly low number of complaints reported in 2017–18. Our managers are trained to address bullying The group developed an action plan focusing on three key and harassment and to conduct thorough investigations. strands: membership, events, and awareness raising. In Where possible, we aim to resolve disputes using in-house August 2018, it hosted an event at the Phoenix Centre in mediation. This year, 91 per cent of mediations resulted in a London to engage with colleagues aged 30 and under, giving successful agreement between the parties involved, compared them the opportunity to share their workplace experiences and suggest ways we can improve them. The feedback helped to 94 per cent in 2017–18. shape the steering group’s activity and informed the wider HR strategy on attracting and retaining young talent. // Royal Mail is committed to PRIORITIES FOR 2019–20: creating a workplace where our • Continue to work with the CWU to deliver the key outputs from the national negotiations aligned to: pensions, the colleagues feel respected and working week, efficiency, our agreements and the future shape of Royal Mail. able to thrive // • Continue to work with Unite/CMA on enhancing and supporting our managers to deliver key outputs and initiatives, and on pay discussions for junior and middle managers. • Achieve our 20 per cent target for women in operational roles by 2020. • Enhance collaboration between our diversity networks to maximise their impact and reach. • Continue to improve compliance to our internal SHE Standards. Raise awareness of, and provide education and support for, mental health and musculoskeletal conditions. 50 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD | ABOUT US | INTEGRITY Delivering a | CUSTOMERS first class future | for our communities PEOPLE COMMUNITIES SUPPLIERS | ENVIRONMENT | ASSURANCE Royal Mail seeks to be an integral, valued and trusted part of every community across the UK, with postmen and women on streets six-days-a-week. 51 Our communities Case study The eyes and ears of the local community Our partnership with Missing People uses the local We enhanced our PDA technology in 2018–19 to presence of our postmen and women to support the send images of high-risk missing people to postmen search for vulnerable, high-risk missing people. and women along with the written description. During 2018–19, we issued 57 alerts, with 54 people For the fourth consecutive year, we provided a found safe and well. donation of £60,000 to fund Missing People’s Child Rescue Alert system. This is specifically for children Jo Youle, Chief Executive, Missing People stated, that have been abducted or who are believed to be “Being able to respond immediately when a vulnerable in immediate danger. The system runs 24 hours a child has gone missing by targeting local communities day, 365 days a year by sending location-specific and Royal Mail workers is vitally important in helping alerts through our network of handheld Postal Digital to ensure the child’s safe return. And, as we have seen Assistants (PDAs) and business television screens. during the past year, Child Rescue Alerts can lead to direct results”. 52 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 At a glance Delivering economic and social benefits to the communities FOREWORD in which we operate is one of Royal Mail’s core corporate responsibility objectives. It reflects our role as the sole provider of the Universal Service and an integral part of life in the UK. | ABOUT US Charity partnership fundraising (£)2 New UK suppliers that are bound by the | U Performance [KPIs] Key facts Procurement Code (%) Responsible 2015–16 INTEGRITY Charity partnership fundraising (£)2 921,889 New UK suppliers that are bound by the U Responsible • £10.3bn Procurement added to Code the UK economy (%) direct and through Charity 2016–17 partnership fundraising (£) 2015–16 2 New UK indirect suppliers1.that are bound by the contributions U 945,409 921,889 Responsible Procurement Code (%) • 7th biggest contribution of any UK company to the 2015–16 2017–18 | 2016–17 UK economy1. 220,741 921,889 945,409 • 66,000 full time equivalent jobs indirectly supported CUSTOMERS 2016–17 2018–19 2017–18 945,409 845,185 100% by Royal wider economy100% Mail in the 100% 1 . 100% 2017–18 220,741 • £5.8m contributed by Royal Mail to good causes and 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2018–19 220,741 schemes for disadvantaged groups. 845,185 100% 100% 100% 100% 2018–19 • £3.1m donated by our UK colleagues to hundreds of 100% 100% 100% 100% | charities and good causes 2015-16 2016-17 this year. 2017-18 2018-19 845,185 Managers trained on mental health (number)3 New2015-16 UK Procurement 2016-17 employees tht have 2018-19 W PEOPLE 2017-18 undertaken CR induction training (%) Managers trained on mental health (number)3 Key New highlights UK Procurement employees tht have 2015–16 W undertaken CR induction training (%) Managers trained on mental health (number)3 New UK Procurement employees tht have 100% W undertaken • Fundraising 2016–17 key charitytraining ourinduction forCR partner (%) Action for Children COMMUNITIES 2015–16 has exceeded £1 million. 100% 100% 2015–16 • This year 1,300 students completed the Royal Mail funded 2017–18 N/A N/A 8,9954 912 2016–17 100% 100% Blues programme . 81 per cent said they had increased 100% 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 confidence, 2016–17 2018–19 75 per cent have improved relationships at N/A N/A 8,9954 912 2017–18 100% school, and 76 per cent have improved self-esteem.100% 100% • Money raised through our payroll giving scheme has 2017–18 N/A 2015-16 N/A 2016-17 8,995 2017-18 4 912 2018-19 2018–19 reached over £62 million since it began in 1989. 100% 100% SUPPLIERS 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 • We sent our 200th high risk Missing People alert out to 2018–19 Colleague community engagement our people.monitoring of all UK suppliers Regular 100% W (donations from employees) (£) against UK Treasury sanctions list (%) Colleague 2015–16 community engagement Regular monitoring of all UK suppliers | W (donations from employees) (£) against UK Treasury sanctions list (%) Colleague community engagement 3.1m Regular monitoring of all UK suppliers W ENVIRONMENT (donations 2016–17 2015–16 from employees) (£) against UK Treasury sanctions list (%) 3.1m 3.1m 2015–16 2017–18 2016–17 2.7m3.1m 3.1m 2016–17 2018–19 N/A1 100% 100% 100% 2017–18 3.1m 1 Cebr Research, conducted for Royal Mail in May 2019 2.7m3.1m | 2 Charity 2015-16 2016-17 partnership fundraising 2017-18 refers to money 2018-19 raised by our employees 2017–18 N/A 1 100% 100% 100% for our charity partner, plus company matching, during the reporting year. ASSURANCE 2018–19 2.7m Funds raised during 2017-18 and 2018-19 were for our current partner, 2018–19 3.1m N/A 2015-16 Action for 1 100% Children. Funds2016-17 100% 2017-18 raised in 2015-16 and 100% 2018-19 2016-17 were for our previous charity partner, The Stroke Association 3.1m 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 KPI in 2017–18. It2018-19 p51 p61 3 Managers trained on mental health was a new reflects p7 our increased focus on mental health through our charity partnerships and our Community our Suppliers wellbeing programme ou p51 p61 performance restated from 8,561 to 8,995 as a result of improved 4 2017–18 p7 data capture during the reporting year our Community our Suppliers ou p51 p61 p7W our Community our Suppliers ou 53 W Our communities Our social and economic impact Royal Mail is proud to provide the CEBR METHODOLOGY Universal Service. It is an integral part Cebr used a combination of national statistics sources and of the digital economy and vital to the data supplied by Royal Mail, relating specifically to UKPIL. We provided the following information from the financial year UK’s economic future. 2018–19 for the study: • taxes on UKPIL products (on a gross and net basis); Royal Mail seeks to be an integral, valued and trusted part • taxes on production (e.g., business rates) and on income of every community that our service reaches. Our main (e.g., National Insurance Contributions, income tax, contribution to communities is our social and economic corporation tax); impact. We make the seventh largest contribution of any • the apprenticeship levy; UK-based company to the UK economy. One in every 192 • employee compensation (taking in basic salaries, bonuses jobs in the UK is provided by Royal Mail. Our employment is and overtime); disproportionately weighted towards areas where there are • profit before tax and depreciation; fewer job opportunities available. This enables us to make • intermediate consumption (supply chain); and a significant contribution to social inclusion. • employment (headcount and number of full-time equivalent employees). Our economic and commercial The full study methodology is published online at www.royalmailgroup.com/en/responsibility/policies-and-reports. contribution We commissioned the Centre for Economics and Business Research (Cebr) to carry out regular impact assessments of our UK business, UKPIL, to quantify our contribution to the // Cebr found that Royal Mail added UK economy. Cebr found that Royal Mail added £10.3 billion to the UK economy in 2018–19, through direct and indirect £10.3 billion to the UK economy contributions. This includes our contribution through the employment we provide, the suppliers we work with and the in 2018–19, through direct and taxes we pay. indirect contributions // The Universal Service is a key part of the UK’s digital economy. The output of the digital economy currently forms more than 30 per cent of the UK’s GDP, and is forecast to increase more than 20 per cent between 2015 and 2022. Amongst comparator countries UK e-commerce spend per person is over double the next highest country16. WHY COMMUNITY IMPACT IS IMPORTANT Our stakeholders rank community impact as one of the most material issues for our business. They noted that Royal Mail’s community footprint is one of the main factors that differentiates us from our competitors. For details of our materiality assessment, see page 20. 16 Ofcom Communications Market Report, 2 August 2018 54 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Socio-Economic FOREWORD impact facts | Cebr calculated the economic contribution of SOCIAL IMPACT ABOUT US Royal Mail’s UK business. The analysis was commissioned by Royal Mail in May 2019 using our 2018–19 financial performance data. 143,000 WE HAVE AROUND 143,000 | INTEGRITY ECONOMIC IMPACT EMPLOYEES ACROSS THE UK17 £10.3bn 66,000 | CUSTOMERS A FURTHER 66,000 JOBS ARE INDIRECTLY SUPPORTED BY ROYAL MAIL IN THE WIDER ECONOMY OF GROSS VALUE ADDED BY ROYAL MAIL’S UKPIL BUSINESS UNIT Further details on the methodology and | the information provided is available at £5.8bn £4.5bn > www.royalmailgroup.com/en/ PEOPLE responsibility/policies-and-reports. DIRECTLY CONTRIBUTED OF GROSS VALUE ADDED TO TO THE UK ECONOMY THE UK ECONOMY THROUGH BY ROYAL MAIL WIDER INDIRECT IMPACTS COMMUNITIES SUPPLIERS | 17 This comprises Royal Mail, £1.9bn Parcelforce Worldwide and ENVIRONMENT Royal Mail Property & Facilities ECONOMIC IMPACT Solutions. 7 18 This includes employer and CONTRIBUTED IN TAXES employee National Insurance TO HM REVENUE AND CUSTOMS18 th contributions, income £2.3bn taxes, business rates, the apprenticeship levy and a range | of indirect taxes paid directly LARGEST CONTRIBUTION and through UKPIL’s suppliers. TO THE UK ECONOMY OF SPENT ON GOODS AND ASSURANCE ALL UK-BASED COMPANIES SERVICES IN THE UK 55 Our communities Strategic community investments We have a presence in every community Our community strategy across the UK, with postmen and women on streets across the country six-days-a-week. Leverage our national scale Our charity partner programme focuses our national scale We are committed to creating long-term around a single cause chosen by our people, to which we can benefits for the communities we serve. make a measurable difference. Alongside our socio-economic impact, we expand our positive Use our local presence impact through strategic community investments. These Our Missing People partnership uses our presence in include charitable initiatives that leverage our national scale communities to help find vulnerable, at-risk people of all ages. and local presence. Our Community Support and payroll giving schemes support In 2018–19, Royal Mail contributed £5.77 million directly to the causes our people feel passionate about. good causes and schemes for disadvantaged groups. This includes our Articles for the Blind service. The service enables Unlock potential through education blind and partially sighted individuals to send items, such as talking books, mobility aids and relief maps, free of charge. Our online magazine, Teacher’s Post, provides classroom Our contribution also includes £655,000 in matched giving resources. Our partnership with The Prince’s Trust enables the and grant schemes to support employees’ fundraising for Trust to support young people with mental health problems. registered charities and good causes. Community metrics 2018–19 2017–18 2016–17 2015–16 Leveraging our national scale Our charity partnership programme harnesses Royal Mail’s Total amount contributed collective size for the benefit of a national cause. We use our £5.77m £7.05m £7.95m £6.72m by Royal Mail workforce, our assets and our fundraising potential, to create Total amount contributed partnerships that make a significant impact in society. £3.06m £2.70m £3.11m £3.12m by employees Total contributions In 2017, following an employee vote for a new charity partner, £8.82m £9.75m £11.06m £9.83m we began a partnership with Action for Children. Our strategic supported by Royal Mail partnership with Action for Children is one of the biggest corporate charity partnerships for mental health in the UK. Our community programme has been recognised again this We aim to raise £2 million to fund the delivery of a new year by the following organisations: nationwide programme of mental health support for young • Dow Jones Sustainability Index awarded Royal Mail top people in schools across the UK. To date our fundraising has score in the Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy section exceeded £1 million. More information can be found on pages in our industry for five consecutive years. 58–59 of this report. • The Platinum Payroll Giving Quality Mark. We measure our employees’ support for our community Helping young people with mental health issues investment programme through our annual Employee Survey. Red Nose Day chose GLS Belgium as its official transport The 2018 survey showed that 56 per cent of employees believe partner for 2018. GLS Belgium was responsible for free Royal Mail does good things in the community. distribution of red noses that were then sold to raise money for schools supporting young people with mental health issues. £8.82m In addition, 57 of GLS’s ParcelShops also sold red noses. All of GLS’s Flemish depots organised fundraising events for the cause. In total, GLS raised €13,755 for Red Nose Day. TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS SUPPORTED BY ROYAL MAIL 56 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Using our local presence Our partnership with Missing People uses our presence FOREWORD in local communities to support the search for vulnerable, high-risk missing people by sending location-specific alerts through our network of handheld PDAs. To date we have issued over 200 alerts to our people. | “I find the ability to use the Royal Mail alerts very useful. It means we are able to reach those who ABOUT US are out on the streets quickly and effectively. As my partner is a Postman I know how he is aware of when National impact through payroll giving something appears out of place, or someone stands Our payroll giving scheme, which holds | out, so I feel this is a very valuable asset for us in the Platinum Payroll Giving Quality Mark, is one of the largest in the UK. helping to find those who are missing.” INTEGRITY Since 1989, it has contributed over Feedback from a police officer following a Royal Mail alert for a missing person. £62 million to around 2,400 charities. Donations made to our charity partner, Action for Children, In November 2018, GLS Germany supported the Federal through payroll giving are matched penny-for-penny by Association of Children's Hospice’s Christmas gift campaign. | Royal Mail. At year-end, over 2,400 colleagues had signed up This campaign provides gift packages for children who are and given over £90,000 a year to Action for Children this way. CUSTOMERS suffering from a life-shortening illness, and their siblings. Several companies donated toys for gift packages and GLS During 2018–19, over 32,000 of our people gave more than employees were among the volunteers who packed parcels. £2.4 million through payroll giving, making a huge difference GLS provided package labels and delivered the finished to 831 national and local charities across the country. parcels free of charge to families throughout Germany. These included: | • County Air Ambulance Empowering our people to support PEOPLE • Action for Children community causes • Barnardo’s We encourage our employees to support causes that are • Cancer Research UK important to them through a range of initiatives: • Hospice UK • Charity partner matched giving: We match money raised COMMUNITIES by colleagues for our main charity partner, up to £2,500 Our people support both national and local charities and per employee per year. their support through this scheme makes a huge difference to communities UK wide. • Community matched giving: We match money raised by colleagues for all other charities and good causes, up to We provide our people with the opportunity to make donations £200 per employee per year. directly from their pay to charities of their choice. Pennies • Grant schemes: This year, we supported around 404 from Pay allows employees to have their pay rounded down to charities through matched giving and fundraising grants. the nearest £1. The difference is matched and donated to our SUPPLIERS We also offer colleagues grants to help cover the cost of charity partner, Action for Children. materials used at volunteering events. In 2018–19, we distributed 179 grants. Helping our people in times of need Our in-house charity, the Rowland Hill Fund, provides support | to current and former Royal Mail employees. During 2018–19, Ops Challenge raises money for the Fund provided 359 grants totalling £470,019. Royal Mail ENVIRONMENT Action for Children contributed £60,100 in in-kind donations to the fund. Our Our Operations Fundraising Challenge pits teams of our employees donated a further £66,293 through payroll giving operational colleagues against one another in a bid to raise this year. We work with the Fund to ensure all employees are the most money for our charity partner in a three-month aware of the support it provides. period. In 2018–19, the Challenge raised over £382,000. Colleagues in Parcelforce Worldwide raised the most money In 2018–19, the Post Office Orphans Benevolent Institution | per head. Parcelforce Worldwide managing director, Gary (POOBI) provided £302,000 in grants to children of Royal Mail Simpson, said “I am so proud of the efforts that everyone at employees. The money for POOBI grants is generated by ASSURANCE Parcelforce has put into raising such a fantastic amount of employee payroll contribution of £19,000 per year, the Civil money for Action for Children. Our people gave up their own Service Insurance Society (CSIS) grants and from investing time to achieve this and we had such diverse fundraising ideas, a fund of around £7 million created by donations from from abseiling to tuck shops.” employees over the last 150 years. POOBI uses these funds to provide support for children directly impacted by hardship or disabilities. It also provides bursaries for university degrees and awards for children with special vocational talent. 57 Our communities Our campaign for mental health Research shows that, every year, The five objectives of our Because Healthy Minds Matter campaign are: one in four of us will develop mental health issues. It is one of the leading Inform and support our colleagues, promoting increased awareness and better mental health causes of long-term illness among our employees and is of great Key initiatives: • Deliver an awareness-raising campaign for colleagues and importance to our business and customers, to improve understanding of mental health. the country. We are committed to • Deliver internal communications showcasing positive mental health case studies and good practice examples. promoting good mental health at • Broadcast thought-provoking films about mental health. work and at home. • Organise for our charity partners to visit our sites, give talks on mental health and encourage positive conversations. In 2017, we launched a multi-year campaign for mental health: ‘Because Healthy Minds Matter’. It focuses on Progress in 2018–19: the actions we can take to make a positive difference to • A further 700 managers, mental health ambassadors and our employees’ mental health, along with supporting health and safety representatives have now completed our the mental health of communities across the UK. Our Mental Health First Aid training course, a total of 1,450 campaign has five objectives underpinned by key initiatives trained to date. that we will deliver with our charity partners: Action for • An additional 80 people signed up to become mental health Children, Mind and Mental Health UK. These objectives ambassadors, totalling 160 to date. These include frontline also contribute to Royal Mail’s five-year mental health colleagues, managers and union representatives. strategy. More information on our health strategy is Our mental health ambassador programme trains available on page 46. employees to provide support to colleagues who are experiencing mental ill-health. • We added a question on mental health to our 2018–19 Employee Survey. The survey showed that 52 per cent of employees believe that Royal Mail provides support for those with mental health needs. • Around 900 managers completed our compulsory mental health e-learning module during the year. This places us just short of our target of 10,000 managers completing the training overall. • On Time to Talk Day, we worked with Mental Health UK to develop an awareness raising poster. This outlined the signs that someone is suffering from mental ill-health and where to get support. 1,450 PEOPLE COMPLETED OUR MENTAL HEALTH FIRST AID TRAINING COURSE 58 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Leverage our business and expertise to support // Our ‘Royal Mail our charity partners and their clients Key initiatives: Proudly Supports FOREWORD • Deliver a mentoring programme, placing our senior leaders Mental Health’ with charity partners to provide pro-bono consulting. • Provide those supported by our charity partners with postmark appeared priority placements for Christmas jobs. on millions of items | • Fund a mental health advisor as part of a long-term of mail for 168 days ABOUT US partnership with The Prince's Trust aimed at supporting young people with mental health issues. during 2018–19 // Progress in 2018–19: | • We provided work placements for our charity partners. • The Prince’s Trust have developed their first mental health INTEGRITY strategy to build networks and relationships within mental health sectors, identifying how they can best support young people with mental health challenges. • 7,030 young people who declared a mental health condition Raise at least £2 million to enable Action for | have been supported by The Prince’s Trust during 2018–19. Children to help young people with, or at risk of mental health conditions CUSTOMERS • We continued to provide pro-bono support for our charity partner, Action for Children, which included: • Our Director of Sales and Channels chairing Action for Key initiatives: Children’s flagship fundraising event, Byte Night, which • Aim to raise £2 million for Action for Children to raised £1,187,242 in 2018; deliver the Blues Programme, a school based | programme providing group work support to young • Our Data Science team supporting a project to improve people aged 13–19 years old who are suffering from, PEOPLE the lifetime value of Action for Children’s supporters and or who are at risk of depression and other mental optimising the supporter journey; health problems. • Our Cost Transformation Team supporting the development of the fostering recruitment process; Progress in 2018–19: • We raised £861,198 through colleague fundraising, • The Marketing team supporting brand tracking payroll giving and matched giving from Royal Mail, COMMUNITIES and audience segmentation, and sharing planning a total of over £1 million to date. tools and templates; and • Since the Blues programme launched in October 2017, • Logistical support for Byte night and Action for it has been rolled out in 91 schools in 10 locations Children’s CEO sleep-out event. across the UK. • During 2018–19, 1,300 students completed the Use our nationwide presence and reach to programme (1,457 since the programme began). 81 drive awareness and reduce stigma around SUPPLIERS per cent said they had increased confidence, 75 per mental health problems cent have improved relationships at school, and 76 per cent have improved self-esteem. 92 per cent gave the Key initiatives: Blues Programme a score of 4 or 5 out of 5. • Share our mental health support and awareness-raising | materials (films, toolkits, etc.) with business customers, Leverage our supply chain to support our particularly SMEs. charity partners, raise awareness of mental ENVIRONMENT • Commission research to understand the prevalence health, and generate additional funds of mental health issues among scam mail victims. Champion cross-stakeholder action to protect these Key initiatives: vulnerable groups. • Share our materials, such as communications, • Use our postmarks to deliver a mental health awareness training kits, films with our suppliers, for use by them | campaign; and support other campaigns and good causes within their organisations and across their networks. using our postmarks. • Leverage our supply chain to generate additional ASSURANCE funds for our charity partner Action for Children. Progress in 2018–19: • Our ‘Royal Mail Proudly Supports Mental Health’ postmark Progress in 2018–19: appeared on millions of items of mail for 168 days • We committed to providing an apprenticeship levy during 2018–19. to external partners with a value of £1.5 million, • We supported a further 41 good causes, such as NHS Blood we continue to work with the charity sector to identify and Organ Donation, through our postmarks. other opportunities. 59 Our communities Supporting national and international causes Our partnership with The Prince’s Trust supports them in finding ways to address the mental health issues experienced We operate a free PO Box at our Mount Pleasant Delivery Office by the young people they work with. Royal Mail funds a to support those wishing to make postal donations to appeals Mental Health Advisor role at The Prince’s Trust, who has from the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC). It brings responsibility for setting strategy and embedding specialist leading UK aid charities together in times of crisis. The PO Box mental health support services at the Trust. In 2018–19, this in central London enables donations to be sorted quickly and role was responsible for launching mental health literacy transferred to the DEC, so that funds can be used as soon as training for The Prince’s Trust Team programme, a UK-wide possible. In 2018–19, the PO Box received donations for two personal development programme for 16–25 year olds. The major appeals: Indonesia Tsunami Appeal and the Cyclone launch of this training marks the biggest change in mental Idai Appeal. More than 40,000 postal donations raised over health and wellbeing related activities in the history of the £3.3 million, highlighting the importance of giving people the Trust. As a result of this training, young people joining the ability to donate by post. Team programme will have an opportunity to talk about the In May 2018, GLS Germany ran its fourth ‘Parcel Day’ initiative. mental health and their challenges, build their own resilience This encourages depots to support local community initiatives and learn about self-care. and undertake volunteering. Among the Parcel Day initiatives in Germany, employees from the depot in Neunkirchen volunteered to build furniture with young people for a nearby youth club, which had been damaged by a fire. Building on the success of previous Parcel Days, employees at GLS PRIORITIES FOR 2019–20: subsidiaries outside Germany also held events. In the US, • Work towards meeting our aim of raising £2 million to fund GLS’s subsidiary GSO worked with Project Night Night to the Action for Children Blues Programme. pack care packages for homeless children. Each package • Expand the Blues Programme further to benefit included a personal message from a volunteer. thousands more young people. • Continue to support our employee's fundraising efforts. Unlocking potential through education We are committed to helping young people reach their full potential. Our online resource library, Teacher’s Post (www.teacherspost.co.uk) offers free classroom resources that we have developed for all Key Stage levels. During 2018–19, Teacher’s Post resources were downloaded 1,570 times, reaching and estimated 78,500 pupils. World Firsts 1st OF INTRODUCTION THE NATIONAL POSTCODE SCHEME Following the introduction of London postal districts in 1857–58, the Postcode system that we know now began to be introduced from 1959. The system was developed following the growth in mail volumes after the Second World War. 60 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD | ABOUT US | INTEGRITY Delivering a | CUSTOMERS first class future | for our suppliers PEOPLE | COMMUNITIES SUPPLIERS ENVIRONMENT | ASSURANCE We are committed to working across our supply chain to have a positive impact on society and the environment. 61 Our suppliers Case study Working with SMEs to support graduate development During the year, we began a new contract with People A key benefit of working with People Create was their Create Limited. This SME provides specialist training links with other SMEs, helping to bring real business and development services for the Royal Mail graduate problems for our graduates to solve in an external programme. We selected this supplier because of consultancy challenge as part of the programme. its track record of innovation and responsiveness to This was beneficial to all parties, raising the profile customer needs. of Royal Mail as an employer, providing the SME business a fresh perspective on their issue, and During 2018–19, People Create delivered modules bringing real issues and impact to the module for to help graduates improve their influencing skills, the graduates. identify change opportunities within Royal Mail, and prepare for moving from graduate placements to permanent roles. 62 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 At a glance We worked with over 4,000 suppliers this year. Their activities have FOREWORD an impact on our stakeholders and can help spread economic opportunities across the communities we operate in. Embedding high standards of social, ethical and environmental conduct across | our supply chain is essential for us to operate responsibly. ABOUT US | Performance [KPIs] Key facts INTEGRITY New UK suppliers that are bound by the UKPIL total carbon emissions (KT CO2e) New UK suppliers Responsible that are Code Procurement by the bound(%) UKPIL total carbon emissions (KT CO2e) Responsible Procurement Code (%) • Around 91 per cent of suppliers to our UK business New UK suppliers that are bound by the UKPIL are total based carbon in the UK. emissions (KT CO2e) 9 Responsible Procurement Code (%) 681.2 9 681.2 | • We spent around £2.3 billion with our UK suppliers in 2018–19. 681.2 648.9 99 648.9 CUSTOMERS 9 629.9 38 per cent 621.0 629.9 • SMEs were successful in bidding for of 648.9 new contracts awarded, a four per cent increase 621.0 9 629.9 compared with 2017–18. 621.0 100% 100% 100% 100% • Our Responsible Procurement Code of Conduct is 100% 100% 100% 100% on the ten principles based2015-16 2017-18 Nations2018-19 2016-17 of the United | 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 100% 2015-16 100% 2016-17 100% 2017-18 100% 2018-19 (UN) Global Compact. PEOPLE 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 New UK Procurement employees tht have Waste diverted from landfill (%) New UK Procurement undertaken employees CR induction tht have training (%) Key highlights Waste diverted from landfill (%) | undertaken CR induction training (%) New UK Procurement employees tht have Waste diverted from landfill (%) COMMUNITIES 2015–16 undertaken CR induction training (%) • We implemented a new supplier intelligence service 2015–16 100% from GAN Integrity to screen suppliers in sectors 100% 2016–17 2015–16 with medium to high risk of corruption, human rights 2016–17 100% abuses, or environmental risks. 100% 2016–17 2017–18 • We screened 100 per cent of our active suppliers for 2017–18 100% 86%compliance. sanctions 91% 99% Suppliers that appeared to99%match 100% 86% the UK, 91% databases EU or US sanctions 99%were investigated 99% SUPPLIERS 2018–19 2017–18 2018–19 100% using2015-16 the GAN Integrity 86% 2015-16 2016-17 91% mass screening 2016-17 2017-18service. 2018-19 99% 2017-18 99% 2018-19 100% • We agreed data protection contract amendments with 2018–19 2015-16 2016-17 100% over 130 suppliers following a risk 2017-18 assessment to2018-19 identify suppliers that process personal information on Regular monitoring of all UK suppliers behalf Waterofconsumption Royal Mail and(’000 its customers. m3) Regular monitoring against UK all UK suppliers Treasuryofsanctions list (%) Water consumption (’000 m3) ENVIRONMENT against UK Treasury sanctions list (%) Regular monitoring of all UK suppliers Water consumption (’000 m3) against UK Treasury sanctions list (%) 1,818.9 1,818.9 1,576.9 1,818.9 1,474.4 1,576.9 1,474.4 1,413.1 1,413.1 1,576.9 | 1,474.4 1,413.1 ASSURANCE N/A1 100% 100% 100% N/A1 100% 100% 100% 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 N/A 1 2015-16 100% 2016-17 100% 2017-18 100% 2018-19 1 KPI formally introduced in 2016–17 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 p61 p71 p61 our Suppliers p71 our Environment our Suppliers our Environment p61 p71 our Suppliers our Environment 63 Waste diverted from landfill (’000 tonnes) Our suppliers Our suppliers The impact of Royal Mail’s business extends Codes and standards beyond our direct operations through our All Royal Mail suppliers are required to comply with our supply chain. Working collaboratively with Responsible Procurement Code of Conduct. This helps us to manage associated risks in our supply chain. The Code our suppliers helps to create economic is based on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, value for our communities and deliver better promoting responsible practices across human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. It sets out the social, experiences for our customers. ethical and environmental standards that we expect. This includes requiring suppliers to adhere to the UN Universal Our approach to responsible Declaration of Human Rights, which is part of our commitment to implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and procurement Human Rights. We require our suppliers to communicate the Code in full to all relevant employees within their Our procurement vision is to deliver value to our business organisations. We review the Code annually and update when and protect it from risk. We are committed to working across necessary. In 2018–19, we revised the Code to make it clear our supply chain to have a positive impact on society and that Royal Mail weights social, environmental, ethical factors the environment. This includes, spreading out our economic as pass/fail elements in the contract award process. impact, demanding high standards of social, environmental and ethical conduct, encouraging workforce diversity, and The Code is available to view at www.royalmailgroup.com/en/ sharing best practices to support suppliers’ corporate responsibility/policies-and-reports. responsibility performance. We have taken action at all stages We have a specific responsibility to protect the integrity and of our procurement process, to ensure that all our suppliers physical security of the mail. As well as the Responsible comply with internationally recognised standards for CR e.g. Procurement Code and the UN Universal Declaration of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact principles. Our KPIs Human Rights, all suppliers transporting or handling mail monitor our performance against annual targets relating to on our behalf must adhere to our Mail Integrity Objectives. social, ethical and environmental practice. The performance This is a condition set out by Ofcom. It requires supplier on page 63 shows our progress in 2018–19. personnel who have responsibility for handling or transporting mail to be vetted to the same standard as our own employees, and to comply with a set of Mail Integrity standards. WHY RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT IS IMPORTANT Our supplier categories Our stakeholders rank responsible procurement as a material issue for our business. They are particularly interested in how We group our suppliers into 10 broad categories, from logistics we manage environmental, social and governance issues in to HR, property to print. Each supplier category has specific our supply chain and how we monitor supplier performance. CR aims and objectives. This allows us to focus on delivering For details of our materiality assessment, see page 20. greater impact across our supply chain, in the areas where we can make the most difference. For example, one of the key objectives for our vehicle category is to engage with manufacturers on alternative fuel vehicles. // As well as the Responsible Procurement Code and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, all suppliers transporting or handling mail on our behalf must adhere to our Mail Integrity Objectives // 64 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Our supplier category spend in 2018–191 FOREWORD Marking, communications and professional services 7% Logistics 11% | IT and automation 17% ABOUT US HR and People 13% | INTEGRITY Vehicles 19% Property 23% | Print and Travel 8% CUSTOMERS Assets and clothing 2% | The CR aims of each of our supplier categories are as follows: • Marketing and communications and professional services: work with suppliers to ensure compliance PEOPLE • IT and automation: improve the efficiency of our business with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) by driving innovation, protect the security of our data and Support and encourage supplier fairness, equality and the data of our customers. Work with suppliers to promote diversity initiatives. re-use and recycling of IT equipment. | • Property (including facilities management, estates • Business travel and events: support our carbon reduction and utilities): reduce the environmental impact of our targets by reducing business travel by air. Include COMMUNITIES properties through the continued roll-out of energy sustainability credentials in the shortlisting criteria for efficiency measures. Ensure supplier compliance with hotels on the preferred list for business stays. our health and safety standards during construction. • Print: improve the sustainability of our printing processes • HR and people: encourage suppliers to consider diversity by reducing waste levels and by using paper from when providing temporary staff for our operations. Make sustainable sources in all printing. greater use of technology to support our learning and • Assets and clothing: work with suppliers to reduce the development programmes. SUPPLIERS risk of human rights violations in the clothing supply • Vehicles: support the Royal Mail’s emissions reduction chain. Encourage suppliers to source raw materials from strategy by engaging with manufacturers on alternative sustainable sources. fuel vehicles. Build this into our future procurement plans. • Logistics: explore more efficient alternatives to transporting mail by air. ENVIRONMENT // We are committed to working across our supply chain to have a positive impact on society | and the environment // ASSURANCE 1 Supplier categories for our UK Parcels, International & Letters business. Around 91 per cent of these suppliers are based in the UK 65 Our suppliers Implementing responsible procurement We pre-screen all potential suppliers before asking them to participate in a tender or awarding them a contract. This ensures that potential suppliers meet the minimum standards we require on a range of CR issues. They include anti-bribery and corruption, money laundering, and safety. We use an electronic system to manage our tendering and contracting process. This allows us to hold contracts securely, run tenders and manage procurement projects. The system is currently handling around 800 active contracts. Around 146 contracts were awarded through it during 2018–19. During the invitation to tender stage of supplier selection, we ask suppliers additional questions about their CR performance. They are tailored to high-risk areas for each category of spend. This includes in-depth questions around labour standards The primary CR risks associated with our supply chain are: for categories with a higher risk of human rights and modern slavery issues. • Reputational risks. They apply to suppliers in the assets, operational equipment and clothing category, particularly This year, we agreed data protection contract amendments manufacturers located in emerging markets. with over 130 suppliers following a risk assessment to identify suppliers that process personal information on behalf of Royal • Probity risks. These relate to the security of information Mail and its customers. and confidentiality when working with IT suppliers and the safety and security of mail. During the tender evaluation process, suppliers are scored • Compliance risks. Related to the need to comply with all according to their responses on a range of relevant questions applicable UN, EU and UK sanctions rules, particularly in covering ethical, social and environmental topics. This our Logistics business, where suppliers may operate in encourages innovation on sustainability and responsibility. regions where sanctions risks are higher. It also drives higher performance across the industry. • Safety risks. These relate to the vehicles we buy from our suppliers and contractors, such as construction companies, Identifying and assessing risk in working on Royal Mail premises. our UK supply chain • Environmental and materials provenance risks. They apply to suppliers in the facilities and property management We focus our risk management efforts on those suppliers category and to the sourcing of items such as furniture. that present the greatest risk to our business. Suppliers are • Discrimination risks. Relate to fair and equal treatment assessed based on their geography, size, business sector and of staff in areas like recruitment, training and the scope of the contract. promotion opportunities. We use the Procurement Risk Register to record and monitor We conduct risk assessments for each new contract that is risks across our supply chain. The register lists the risks that awarded, considering the relevant critical risks for the new are deemed critical to our business. It also considers the risks supplier’s category. We assign suppliers an overall criticality that are most relevant to each of our supplier categories. rating based on several criteria. They include business We regularly review the register to identify new risks and dependency, financial status, technology opportunities and establish opportunities to mitigate against them. reputation, compliance and safety risk. Our procurement team notifies the Company Secretary’s office about any new contract that is considered critical in terms of its risk profile. This is to establish if Board approval is required before the contract is awarded. // During the tender evaluation After a contract is awarded, we put supplier management plans in place to address any further risks that are identified. process, suppliers are scored We require evidence from the supplier that any requested actions have been implemented. Depending on the severity according to their responses on or criticality of the risks, we may commission, or require the supplier to commission, third-party audits of suppliers a range of relevant questions and subcontractors to ensure that appropriate mitigation covering ethical, social and measures are in place. environmental topics. This encourages innovation on sustainability and responsibility // 66 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Although we work extensively to address any risks and Monitoring supplier performance ensure appropriate mitigation measures are in place, there are still occasional instances where suppliers fail to meet We use our Supplier Management Portal to assess FOREWORD the standards we expect from them. When this happens, whether our suppliers are meeting the ethical, social we take decisive action. In previous years, we have removed and environmental requirements in their contracts. This underperforming suppliers from our supply chain in the is in addition to meeting other contractual obligations in footwear and operational equipment categories. During their contract terms and commercial KPIs. All our critical 2018–19, supplier performance complied with the required suppliers provide evidence of performance and compliance by | standards. No contracts or subcontractors have been uploading performance information and accreditations such removed due to CR performance. as environmental certifications, safety standards and ethical ABOUT US audit reports to the portal. Our executive team reviews the In 2018–19, we began to use the GAN Integrity intelligence supplier performance dashboards on a monthly basis. database to screen suppliers in sectors with medium to high risk of corruption, human rights abuses, or environmental We ask any suppliers identified as having a high sustainability risks. This replaces our previous intelligence source and risk to enrol with SEDEX (Suppliers Ethical Data Exchange). | enables more detailed checks and monitoring to be carried This online platform tracks our suppliers’ environment, social and governance performance, and conducts third-party INTEGRITY out on suppliers and bidders. The intelligence database holds information on previous investigations or convictions, audits to ensure accurate reporting. We now have 31 higher adverse press and presence on sanctions lists. We conduct risk suppliers’ active on SEDEX or submitting their CR Audit checks on shortlisted bidders for tenders where we have reports directly into Royal Mail’s Supplier Management identified risks. Suppliers that appeared to match the UK, system. Royal Mail is working with SEDEX to increase this | EU or US sanctions databases were investigated using the figure and out of our contracted suppliers, an additional GAN Integrity mass screening service. The system also 46 have been identified as SEDEX members. They are being CUSTOMERS monitors existing suppliers that we identify as having a high approached to link in to Royal Mail to provide visibility of sustainability risk. Red flag alerts are issued for human their CR performance via the Portal. rights and modern slavery risks, environmental breaches, and bribery, corruption and other probity issues. We select suppliers to be monitored based on information about the sector and industry, the geographical location of the supplier // We are committed to preventing | any form of modern slavery PEOPLE and known issues identified through the on‑boarding due diligence process. Royal Mail does not contract with sanctioned entities. throughout our supply chain // Our standard terms and conditions of contract require | suppliers to operate in accordance with sanctions legislation. Human rights and modern slavery COMMUNITIES Sanctions declarations are also part of the on-boarding process. We check all suppliers against the UK Treasury We are committed to preventing any form of modern slavery sanctions list monthly. During 2018–19, no suppliers were throughout our supply chain. Modern slavery refers to any found to have been in breach of sanctions. activity that impinges human freedom through servitude, forced and compulsory labour, and human trafficking. We publish our full Modern Slavery Act statement on our Responsible procurement in action corporate website. This details all the actions we are taking SUPPLIERS During 2018–19, Royal Mail issued an invitation to tender for to eradicate modern slavery in our supply chain. Royal Mail uniforms and protective clothing. The clothing sector has been identified as higher-risk, particularly for We set out human rights expectations for our suppliers in factory safety standards and human rights, as it often involves our Responsible Procurement Code. This includes adhering manufacturing in lower-cost regions. We assigned a formal to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and risk level to the sourcing project. The Director of Procurement complying with the eight fundamental International Labour formally approved the sourcing strategy before the invitation Organization conventions. ENVIRONMENT to tender was issued. Our tender document included a section covering CR. Bidders were required to demonstrate how they We have undertaken several risk assessments to better would meet the requirements of the Responsible Procurement understand our supplier risk profile and inform our Code. We outlined our expectation that the successful supplier approach to mitigating modern slavery risk in our supply will report on performance via SEDEX (Suppliers’ Ethical Data chain. Although our risk of human rights violations is Exchange) or an equivalent method. The successful bidder will be contractually obliged to maintain an effective system of CR relatively low, we remain committed to playing our part | monitoring. This includes the use of third-party auditors to to help eliminate it. evaluate and report on individual manufacturing sites. ASSURANCE 67 Our suppliers World Firsts 1st THE FIRST EVER HOVERCRAFT MAIL SERVICE, 1962 The first ever Hovercraft mail service in the world travelled from Rhyl on the north coast of Wales to Wallasey on 20 July 1962. The original plan was to make twelve crossings a day, carrying passengers and mail from July to September every year. However, the full twelve-a-day services were only completed on six of the 54 days of intended operation because of strong winds and continued engine failure. Its last trip was on Friday 14 September 1962. 68 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Training for UK procurement employees FOREWORD As part of their induction, all new UK Procurement employees are trained on the principles of our Responsible Procurement Code and how these apply to our suppliers. This includes training on ethics and probity issues such as anti-bribery, competition law and sanctions compliance. All of our | procurement employees complete a compliance refresher ABOUT US training course every year, ensuring they remain up-to-date on these issues. In 2018–19, we ran specific training for contract managers to upskill them on key CR issues, enabling them to have more informed conversations with their suppliers. We also | completed training with our Property and Facilities team INTEGRITY to train them in the CR issues that would be relevant to their roles. Supplier management in GLS GLS works with a range of business partners and suppliers to provide goods and services. This includes parcel transport, Encouraging a diverse supply chain protective equipment, facility services and containers for | trailers. GLS expects the same high standards of ethical Equality and diversity CUSTOMERS practices from partners and suppliers as it follows in its own We expect all our suppliers to support our commitment to business. Every GLS employee involved in selecting business equality, diversity and fairness for all their employees and job partners and suppliers is responsible for ensuring that the applicants. We also expect them to provide an environment in appropriate company-wide processes are followed. which all people can make best use of their skills, free from | discrimination or harassment. GLS Group Supplier Code of Conduct PEOPLE The vast majority of our UK workforce are permanent GLS suppliers are required to comply with its Supplier Code employees. There are, however, times when we recruit of Conduct. This is available to view at https://gls-group. additional resource to support with increased demand. eu/EU/media/downloads/Supplier_Code_of_conduct_EN_ Diversity and inclusion clauses in the contracts with our V2_2018-07-download-55406.pdf | suppliers help ensure temporary staff in our operation are The Code sets out ethical, social and environmental recruited without discrimination. COMMUNITIES standards expected from suppliers. It covers issues such as human rights, health and safety, diversity, anti-bribery Supporting SMEs and corruption, and environment. GLS expects suppliers to Our commitment to diversity in our supply chain includes respect the standards laid out in the Code, implement them supporting small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). using appropriate measures and adhere to them in their In 2018–19, we awarded 38 per cent of our new contracts business activities. They must take appropriate measures to to SMEs. This is a four per cent increase compared to the ensure that the standards are met by their own supply chain. GLS may terminate contracts with a supplier should a serious SUPPLIERS previous year. violation or continuous non-compliance with the Code occur. Where commercially appropriate, we structure our contracts into smaller ‘lots’. This ensures that businesses of all sizes, Every GLS subsidiary also has a whistleblowing hotline. including SMEs, are able to compete. It allows us to expand The business encourages both its employees and its our options, promote competition and increase our ability to contracted partners to report criminal acts and other appoint the best possible supplier. serious offences. They have a dedicated team responsible for investigating allegations of violations. ENVIRONMENT In 2019, we updated our values brochure to detail how we work with SMEs and provide opportunities for them to bid for contracts. The Values Brochure also references our new No Purchase Order – No Pay policy and Royal Mail being a signatory to the Armed Forces Covenant. | ASSURANCE // In 2018–19, we awarded 38 per cent of our new contracts to SMEs // 69 Our suppliers GLS France wins gold at the eCommerce Awards GLS France won first prize in the Logistics Innovation category for its GLSNAVIGO WebApp. This enables drivers to inform recipients that a parcel has arrived with a single click of a button. More than 1,000 delivery drivers will be equipped with smartphones running the app, to help make delivering parcels more convenient for all. GLS partner code In Germany, GLS embeds ethical principles into its business relationships with transport providers through its Partner Code. The Code sets out the responsible business standards with which GLS transport partners must comply. GLS expects its partners to: GLS’s health and safety standards • adhere to all applicable national and international We recognise that road safety incidents do, unfortunately, laws and regulations; occur in logistics businesses. GLS takes its responsibility to • promote a safe working environment, mitigating health and ensure the health and safety of the people it employs, those safety risks and adhering to all road safety regulations; who work on its behalf, and the general public, seriously. GLS • protect the environment and support GLS’s environmental has embedded a structured health and safety system at each sustainability principles and objectives; of its national subsidies. • be respectful and collaborate with GLS and its own GLS expects the transport providers who deliver its parcels upstream partners; to protect their employees’ health and safety in accordance • fulfil GLS’s quality standards; with relevant local law. GLS conducts an ongoing road safety campaign aimed at its transport partners and their delivery • manage their businesses responsibly, ensuring a positive drivers, to reinforce the importance of safe driving behaviours. social and economic impact; • be transparent about their business conduct; and • offer their employees fair remuneration and act in accordance with both the spirit and the letter of UK SUPPLY CHAIN PRIORITIES FOR 2019–2020: labour regulations. • Onboard contracts from Royal Mail Property and Facilities Solutions, as Group Procurement takes on additional contracts previously managed by a separate team. • Continue to use information from GAN Integrity to identify suitable suppliers for management activities including antibribery and sanctions attestations. • Complete the clothing supply tender and contract award. This entails in-depth reviews of bidder CR performance and the creation of a reporting framework for manufacturing locations. • Monitor the 150 highest-risk suppliers through the GAN Integrity system, which provides alerts for key risks, including modern slavery, bribery and sanctions risks. // In Germany, GLS embeds ethical principles into its business relationships with transport providers through its Partner Code // 70 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 FOREWORD | ABOUT US | INTEGRITY Delivering a | CUSTOMERS first class future | for our environment PEOPLE | COMMUNITIES | SUPPLIERS ENVIRONMENT ASSURANCE Environmental considerations are a fundamental part of how Royal Mail does business; in the way that we encourage our people to behave, the technology we invest in, and our contracts with our suppliers. 71 Our environment Case study Greener last-mile deliveries GLS is one of the participants in a pilot project, Following the success of this trial, Royal Mail has called ‘KoMoDo’, which involves several different launched operational trials of zero-emission cargo logistics operators working from five micro depots trikes in Stratford (East London), Cambridge and in Berlin, to trial low-emission deliveries within the Sutton Coldfield. city. Conventional vans deliver packages to the micro depots. They are then distributed by cargo bike within a 5km radius where 800,000 people live. 72 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 At a glance Royal Mail Group is committed to the sustainable management FOREWORD of our natural resources. The scale of our operations means we have a significant environmental impact. Managing this impact is vital to the long-term success of our business. By increasing | our efficiency and reducing our use of resources, we can control ABOUT US our costs, manage the impacts of climate change and support business performance. | INTEGRITY UKPIL total carbon emissions (KT CO2e) Performance [KPIs] Key facts UKPIL total carbon emissions (KT CO2e) 681.2 • We have 48,000 vehicles in UKPIL1. 648.9 UKPIL total carbon emissions (KT CO2e) | 681.2 629.9 • 70 per cent of our CO2e emissions are from vehicle 621.0 fleet and transport2. CUSTOMERS 681.2 648.9 • 28 per cent of our CO2e emissions are from 629.9 621.0 our buildings. 648.9 2015-16 2016-17 629.9 2017-18 621.0 2018-19 | 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Key highlights PEOPLE Waste diverted from 2015-16 landfill (%) 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 • Royal Mail is part of the Optimise Prime consortium3. This is the world’s biggest trial of commercial electric vehicles. | Waste diverted from landfill (%) • We launched an environment e-learning resource for our frontline managers. It is designed to equip them with the COMMUNITIES % core knowledge required to manage their sites in line with Waste diverted from landfill (%) our environment strategy and standards. By the end of the % year, around 54 per cent of our frontline managers had completed this learning. % 86% 91% 99% 99% • GLS increased its fleet of alternative fuel vehicles. | A further 10 LNG-powered vehicles were added in Italy, 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 which are expected to help reduce GLS Italy’s annual CO2e % 86% 91% 99% 99% SUPPLIERS fleet emissions by 15 per cent. % 2015-16 86% 2016-17 91% 2017-18 99% 2018-19 99% 2015-16 Water 2016-17 consumption (’000 m3) 2017-18 2018-19 % Water consumption (’000 m3) ENVIRONMENT 1,818.9 Water consumption (’000 m3) 1,576.9 1,818.9 1,474.4 1,413.1 1,576.9 1,818.9 1,474.4 1,413.1 1,576.9 1 Number of vehicles includes c.2,600 trailers ASSURANCE 1,474.4 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 1,413.1 2 CO2e, or carbon dioxide equivalent, is a standard unit for measuring carbon footprints, enabling a carbon footprint consisting of different greenhouse gases to be expressed as a single number 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 3 Royal Mail announced in November 2018 that it is part of the Optimise Prime consortiumaimed to deliver a comprehensive understanding of the impact 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 that electrification of commercial vehicles will have on the distribution p71 network. See https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/system/files/docs/2018/11/2018_ our Environment nic_decision_document_final.pdf for more information p71 our Environment Waste diverted from landfill (’000 tonnes) 73 p71 our Environment Our environment Our environment Managing Royal Mail’s use of natural Our five-year environment strategy drives continuous improvement in our performance by focusing on the resources is both an environmental and following key objectives: commercial imperative. A clear strategy • embedding internal and external environment standards for reducing our environmental impact is across our operation, like our Safety, Health and a key part of our ongoing transformation. Environment (SHE) Management System standards for energy, carbon, waste and water management. Our (SHE) It helps us control operating costs, engage Management System complies with the requirements of our people, and build a sustainable and International Standard ISO14001 and the British Safety competitive business. Council’s five-star standard; • actively anticipating and responding to emerging environmental issues by working closely with Our environment strategy relevant stakeholders and implementing effective governance controls; We are embedding environmental management throughout • adopting existing and new technologies that help to our organisation. Our environmental policy sets out how reduce our emissions and resource use; we consider the environmental impact of every aspect of our operations. This includes, from how our people behave • building environmental awareness and encouraging to the technology we invest in and our contracts with our behaviour change in our workforce, to drive performance suppliers. We identify and address environmental issues against our carbon, waste and water targets; and that result from our business through our risk management • promoting the benefits of strong environmental process. Our Environment Policy, which we review annually, management with customers and through our supply chain. is available at www.royalmailgroup.com/en/responsibility/ We monitor our performance against our strategy using three policies-and-reports. existing targets: (a) reducing our total carbon emissions, (b) cutting our water consumption and (c) reducing the waste we // We were the first send to landfill. Our Continuous Improvement programme provides a structured framework for driving progress towards delivery business to be awarded these targets. triple certification by the Environmental management Carbon Trust Standard // and governance Our Environment Governance Board (EGB) is made up of senior leaders from business areas with material environmental impacts. The EGB approves our environment strategy, reviews WHY ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IS plans, and drives performance. The EGB also provides support IMPORTANT and guidance to teams working on Royal Mail projects that Our stakeholders ranked climate strategy as one of the top have environmental considerations. five most important issues for our business in our 2017–18 materiality assessment. Our approach to managing energy, Our SHE Management System sets out the standards we waste and water were also seen as important issues. expect our sites to adhere to. It divides them into a number Stakeholders are keen to see Royal Mail continuing to reduce the of different elements. This includes environmental standards environmental impact of its business operations, and offering for carbon and energy, water and waste management, products and services that enable our customers to do the same. and biodiversity. The environmental elements of our SHE For details of our materiality assessment, see page 20. Management System are audited against the requirements of ISO 14001:2015. Within our UK operations (UKPIL) we currently have: • 14 of our largest processing and distribution sites certified within Royal Mail, and • All Parcelforce Worldwide operational sites certified, including their Head Office. 74 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 In addition to the certification of these UK operational sites, Risk Management: In line with the TCFD’s recommendations, all our GLS European sites have also been successfully we consider both physical and transitional risks in the risk certified to ISO 14001:2015. GLS was one of the first assessment process, along other types of risk. During the FOREWORD European parcel companies to transition to the new year, the RMC agreed that climate-related risks be added to standard in 2016–17. the Group Risk Profile as a principal risk. We recognise that climate change presents both risks and opportunities for This year, we launched an environment e-learning resource our Company. As such, we maintain an environmental risk for our frontline managers. It is designed to equip them with and opportunity register. The EGB and other relevant internal the core knowledge required to manage their sites in line | stakeholders, including the Group Risk team, review and with our environment strategy and standards. By the end of update this regularly. ABOUT US the year, around 54 per cent of our frontline managers had completed this learning. The most significant climate and environmental related risks include: We continue to hold the Carbon Trust triple standard for carbon, waste and water for our approach to measuring, • climate change impacts, including severe weather affecting | managing and reducing our environmental impact. Our latest our ability to deliver the Universal Service Obligation (USO); reaccreditation was in 2018–19. We were the first delivery • increased costs of climate change mitigation, and the need INTEGRITY business to be awarded triple certification by the Carbon to move towards Climate Change Adaptation; Trust Standard. • step change in societal expectations around waste management at the same time that rapid changes in Climate change and other recyclate quality requirements are making it harder to | recycle effectively; environmental risks and opportunities CUSTOMERS • increased water scarcity in operational areas and We welcome the recommendations of the Taskforce on increasing water demand within the UK; and Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), an industry-led • reputational risks associated with not effectively addressing taskforce founded by the Financial Stability Board following and managing our environmental impacts. a request from the G20. The TCFD’s recommendations aim to standardise climate-related financial reporting to make it These risks are balanced by opportunities resulting from | easier for investors to assess the impact of climate-related effective environmental management including; PEOPLE risks and opportunities on our business. They encourage • adopting new technology that reduces our companies to make disclosures on governance, risk climate and environmental risk(s) and provides a management, strategy and metrics to support their approach commercial advantage; to addressing the impacts of climate change. Expectations for | • sharing and adopting best practice within the wider reporting in these areas will continue to grow. Royal Mail is Royal Mail Group (e.g. e-trikes); COMMUNITIES committed to implementing the TCFD recommendations. We will continue to enhance our climate-related disclosures • embracing the waste hierarchy and the challenge of as our analysis evolves. embedding circular economy thinking in our business; and • optimisation of return trailer journeys through Governance: Overall accountability for the management commercialisation. of climate-related risks and opportunities sits at Board level, with support from the Risk Management Committee We assign impact levels to identified and emerging climate| (RMC) and Audit and Risk Committee. The management of related risks and implement risk controls and mitigation plans SUPPLIERS climate-related risks and opportunities is integrated into the for high impact risks. Company’s overarching risk management framework. Responding to identified risk: In response to the increase Our Environmental Governance Board's (EGB) key purpose in extreme weather events, we have rolled out a flood alert is to drive the environment strategy for the business. During system in Scotland, England and Wales. It is focused on sites 2018–19, the EGB established a working group to work on which are at a high risk of flooding. The system improves our embedding the TCFD recommendations throughout the ability to forecast and respond to flood warnings. This enables ENVIRONMENT business. In the coming year, the working group will expand managers to take early action and plan for protecting our its work aimed at increasing our understanding of how people, customers, property and equipment and to minimise climate change could impact different areas of our business operational disruption should a flood occur. During 2018–19, e.g. our operations, fleet and property. we received 1,798 alerts and 27 warnings of potential flooding across England, Wales and Scotland. During Storm Callum, Strategy: The RMC reviews business unit risk registers a ‘Be Prepared’ flood warning was raised at Carmarthen on a regular basis. It ensures all risks on the Company’s Delivery Office, which resulted in 50 vehicles being moved consolidated environmental risk register are reflected in to higher ground. ASSURANCE business units’ risk registers, as appropriate. Where climaterelated risks and opportunities are identified, individual business units are required to factor the actual and potential impacts into their strategies and financial planning, then // We recognise that climate develop mitigation plans as necessary. change presents both risks and opportunities for our Company // 75 Our environment We welcome and have responded to consultations issued by the Energy and emissions Department for Transport, Welsh Assembly Government and Royal Mail uses energy to power and heat our buildings, various local authorities into Clean Air Zones during the year. and to transport and deliver the mail. We have developed our plan to meet the Ultra-Low Emission Zone in London and the Low Emission Zones in other cities In the UK, Scope 1 emissions from our operational fleet in the most efficient way possible. 100 per cent of vehicles account for 59 per cent of our carbon footprint. Scope 1 that routinely enter the first phase of the Ultra-Low Emission and 2 emissions from powering our buildings account for Zone will be compliant. We are now focusing our efforts on 28 per cent. Most of our scope 3 emissions result from minimising accidental non-compliance. third-party transportation. These account for 10 per cent of our carbon footprint; business travel accounts for 2 per cent. We are a partner in Optimise Prime, a consortium project testing large scale deployment of electric vehicles. We are This year, our total UK carbon footprint decreased by also looking further ahead, including further deployment of 1 per cent compared with the previous year. It was 29 per cent electric and trialling other alternative fuel vehicles. Information lower than the 2004–05 baseline. On a normalised basis, about Royal Mail’s overarching risk management framework emissions decreased by 2.9 per cent per £1 million of revenue is set out on page 113 of the 2018–19 Annual Report and last year, compared with the previous year. We are pursuing Financial Statements. energy-saving opportunities across our fleet and property portfolio to maintain our performance and continue to meet Metrics and Targets: Our public commitment to reducing our target. These include exploring more efficient ways our carbon emissions relates to the climate-related risks and of balancing the air, rail and road transport that we use opportunities that we have identified. Further work is required to deliver mail items and training our employees in more to quantify the financial risks and opportunities with these energy‑efficient behaviours. climate-related risks and associated adaptation, in line with We are currently in the process of reviewing and updating our the TCFD recommendations. This will form part of the remit of targets, whilst ensuring that we: the working group in 2019–20. • support the international commitments set out within the We have a target to reduce our absolute carbon emissions Paris Climate Change Agreement in 2015 and, by 20 per cent by 2020–21, against our 2004–05 baseline. • consider assessments and recommendations set out within We are proud to have met this target, with a current reduction The International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reports. of 29 per cent against the 2004–05 baseline. As such we are currently reviewing and updating our emissions target. We are a long-standing member of the International Postal Over two-thirds of our carbon emissions are derived from our Corporation (IPC) and their carbon management programme. vehicles and transport. Therefore, a vital part of maintaining Our performance contributes to their delivery efficiency targets our performance against our carbon emissions reduction to reduce emissions per parcel and per letter, which have been target is improving our fleet fuel efficiency. See page 77 for approved by the Science-Based Targets Initiative1. In 2017–18 examples and current trials in this area. Royal Mail achieved the IPC target for parcel emissions with a 56 per cent reduction, and 2.3 per cent reduction on CO2e We will continue to improve our understanding and emissions per letter, against a 2013 baseline. assessment of both climate and financial risks in line with TCFD recommendations. 2018–19 CO2e emissions 2018–19 2017–182 2016–17 2015–16 (’000 tonnes) Total UKPIL GLS Total UKPIL GLS Total UKPIL GLS Total UKPIL GLS Scope 1 474.2 460.0 14.2 462.3 447.8 14.5 458.2 444.9 13.3 473.7 458.4 15.3 Scope 2 100.4 80.1 20.3 118.1 98.3 19.8 134.4 116.3 18.1 152.2 134.1 18.2 Scope 3 80.9 80.9 83.8 83.8 87.7 87.7 88.7 88.7 Total 655.5 621.0 34.5 664.2 629.9 34.3 680.3 648.9 31.4 714.6 681.2 33.4 Tonnes CO2e per £1 million revenue 80.3 82.7 84.7 88.8 Scope 2 (market-based) 29.0 7.1 21.9 38.3 8.5 29.8 40.3 14.3 26.0 40.7 14.1 26.6 1 IPC performance is based on Calendar Year with performance finalised in the August/September post submission (May). 2018 performance will be available August/September 2019 2 2017–18 data has been restated for Scope 1 emissions following the provision of natural gas data which was previously estimated 76 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Air emissions Investing in new vehicles and technologies We report on the air emissions released by our UK operations The size of our commercial vehicle fleet in the UK means into the atmosphere. These include carbon monoxide, that large-scale changes take time. As the demand for FOREWORD nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and sulphur dioxide. parcel deliveries increases, we constantly review the This year, our air emissions reduced across all sources, size and capability of our fleet. We are committed to apart from nitrogen oxides. ensuring that the changes we make deliver sustainable reductions in emissions, ensuring we continue to meet our customers’ expectations. | A full breakdown of our 2018–19 air emissions and energy We used 100 fully electric Peugeot Partner L2 vans for ABOUT US use is available to view in our CR Performance and GRI Data Appendix at www.royalmailgroup.com/en/responsibility/ deliveries and collections from 17 Delivery Offices across the policies-and-reports. UK. The vehicles are charged using charging posts installed at Royal Mail sites. We monitor charging, telemetry and maintenance data through a web-based platform, to help us | improve their performance. Utilising these electric vans has Reducing the environmental impacts saved a total of 54 tonnes CO2e compared to the diesel vans INTEGRITY of our fleet they replaced. Providing the Universal Service requires us to maintain We continue to trial vehicles using low or zero direct a large fleet of vehicles. We recognise our responsibility emissions technology, to see if larger electric vehicles can to reduce emissions associated with our fleet and to help meet the mail collection demands of our biggest sites. | improve air quality in the communities in which we operate. In 2018–19, we trialled an electric LDV van in our Mount We align our fleet strategy to changes in environmental Pleasant Mail Centre. This is a larger vehicle than the CUSTOMERS legislation and the growth in parcels. This ensures that Peugeot Partner L2 vans, and can support a larger volume we use our existing fleet more efficiently, prioritise vehicle of mail within London. Due to the success of the trial and replacements in London and other Clean Air Zones, purchase the recent introduction of ultra-low emission zone streets in the cleanest technology available and use the correct size London, we have purchased three electric LDV vans in order vans, trucks and trailers. to improve air quality for the communities where we operate. | In 2017, Royal Mail partnered with Arrival, a commercial Royal Mail will continue to trial and deploy new approaches PEOPLE vehicle start-up, to develop fully sized electric vehicles in to reduce the environmental impact of our deliveries in three classes: 3.5-tonne, 6-tonne and 7.5-tonne. Each class urban locations. of vehicle will have a range of up to 100 miles. To date, one 6-tonne truck (7.5 tonne payload) has been deployed at Mount Changing driving styles | Pleasant following extensive redesign of the vehicle after an We use an innovative telemetry3 system to track our vehicles, initial trial. We are working with Arrival on the redesign and COMMUNITIES collect performance data and make informed decisions that further trials of additional vehicles in the near future. improve our fleet resource efficiency. We use telemetry data Trailers present another opportunity for environmental in our training to change driver behaviour, and encourage innovation. In 2017–18, we worked with our trailer safer and more fuel-efficient driving styles. The system manufacturer to design and build a new double-deck trailer produces regular reports for our driving coaches, monitoring with an adjustable roof that can be lowered after loading. This acceleration, breaking, turning and excess idling. Using the | new design has enabled us to maximise trailer load capacity findings, we create tailored driver training for each Royal Mail and use routes with restricted height access. The adjustable SUPPLIERS site. The telemetry systems in each vehicle give visible and roof also reduces drag and improves fuel efficiency. During audible warnings whenever our people drive inefficiently. testing we saw a 4 per cent improvement when driving at In total, around 53 per cent of our fleet carries telemetry. This 56mph, compared to a standard trailer. In recent years, we includes100 per cent of our heavy goods vehicles (7.5-tonne have replaced single-deck trailers with double-deck trailers. and above) and 46 per cent of our small vans. This year, using By the end of 2018–19, we had 1,222 double-deck trailers in telemetry saved us approximately 380,000 litres of diesel, our fleet. ENVIRONMENT equating to over 990 tonnes of CO2e. In 2018–19, we retrofitted telemetry into around 5,700 vehicles in 173 locations. All professional drivers undertake the Royal Mail Driver Certificate of Professional Competence (DCPC) training. This consists of seven different modules, can be tailored to different vehicle types and covers the safety of other road users as well as reducing emissions. Each driver will undertake at least one seven-hour module per year for the ASSURANCE life of the five-year programme. 3 Telemetry is the measure of data from a remote source which is transmitted to a monitoring station for analysis – it provides data on the vehicle or drivers performance i.e. speed, acceleration, driving patterns 77 Our environment Making our transport network Optimise Prime more efficient In November 2018, we announced that Royal Mail is part We use cutting-edge routing technology to improve efficiency of the Optimise Prime consortium, the world’s biggest trial for our transport networks. We use a mix of road, rail and air of commercial electric vehicles. The project will deliver a to deliver letters and parcels across the UK. We maximise our comprehensive understanding of the impact that electrification capacity by loading mail items onto aircraft and vehicles as of commercial vehicles will have on power distribution networks. It will explore opportunities to minimise this impact, such as efficiently as possible. optimising network and charging infrastructure, providing We are focused on minimising the use of air transport in network services and testing technical and commercial solutions. As part of the trial, Royal Mail, Centrica and Uber will order to reduce both CO2e emissions and costs. We use purchase up to 3,000 electric vehicles and trial depot, home and airmail to meet First Class, Special Delivery and priority traffic on-the-road charging solutions. The project will deliver an endobligations only. Over the past 5 years, we have successfully to-end overview of what the switch to electric vehicles means reduced mail volumes (tonnes) handled within the air for the cables and substations that deliver electricity to the network by 21 per cent. community, for businesses and for end users. External recognition Over time, we plan to increase the number of alternative Our efforts to manage our emissions gained external recognition fuel or advanced technology vehicles in our fleet. Our this year. We won Fleet of the Year (1,001-plus vehicles) at the longer-term ambition is to transition to a low-carbon fleet Fleet News Awards 2018 and Low Carbon Award and Van Fleet and ensure that we are investing in a fleet that meets future of the Year at the Motor Transport Awards. We also won Private legislation. We have recently purchased a small number of Sector Fleet of the Year at the Commercial Fleet awards where zero-emission cargo trikes for possible use in our UK delivery we were also highly commended as Clean Air Champion. network. These machines work principally through pedal power supported by rechargeable lithium batteries. The batteries are charged using conventional mains power. Business travel This is supplemented by solar panels fitted directly to the Business travel accounts for around 2 per cent of our total bikes and through brake and freewheeling energy recovery. CO2e emissions. We encourage employees to use telephone, Each trike has a carrying capacity of 1.95m3, equivalent to a web and video conferences as an alternative to travelling. small Royal Mail van. We have started operational trials in This led to a 13 per cent reduction in emissions associated with Stratford (East London), Cambridge and Sutton Coldfield. business travel during the year. This year, GLS added a number of alternative fuel vehicles to GLS Finland requires all company cars to comply with the reduce its fleet emissions. In 2018–19, GLS Italy upgraded its Euro 6 standard on vehicle emissions. This standard aims to fleet of LNG-powered vehicles to cover long distances, adding lower levels of harmful exhaust emissions, such as oxides of an additional 10 LNG-powered articulated lorries to the 18 it nitrogen (NOx) and other pollutants. already has. This will help to cut GLS Italy’s annual CO2e fleet emissions by 15 per cent. As vehicles travel about 500km a day, there will be an annual reduction in CO2e emissions of about Buildings emissions 24 tonnes per vehicle, which leads to a reduction of 670 tonnes Reducing energy use in our buildings is a priority for our of emissions per year for the 28 LNG-powered vehicles. environment strategy, given the size of our property portfolio In the city of Oldenburg, GLS Germany operates four zeroand the scale of its energy consumption. Climate change emission eBikes and an eVan. In June 2018, GLS Austria legislation, uncertainty around energy prices and changing became the first parcel service provider in Austria to deliver consumption patterns add to the pressure to minimise our parcels by eScooter when it launched trials in Salzburg, energy use. Linz and Graz. The battery-powered eScooters enable parcels Despite a reduction in total building-related emissions to be delivered to addresses that are otherwise difficult to of 8.4 per cent, our total electricity and gas consumption reach due to construction work, driving bans or narrow streets. increased by 1 per cent (electricity) and 8 per cent (gas). This will continue to be a key focus for us. We take a data-driven approach to reducing our emissions. During the year, we launched a new Energy Bureau to monitor energy use across our UK property estate and highlight sites which are the highest users, or appear to have anomalies in their patterns of consumption. This enables us to understand our energy usage and target both energy and cost savings. For example, we have installed two air source heat pumps in Edinburgh and are monitoring improvements in electricity consumption. In three of our properties, we are trialling a platform that uses self-powered, wireless sensors to transmit data from our energy-using equipment and devices in real-time to a cloud-based analytics platform. 78 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 We are assessing how the intelligence from this data A cross-functional working group has been exploring could help us to optimise performance, deal with what future buildings in the Royal Mail estate will look potential equipment failures before they happen, and like with environmental and biodiversity considerations FOREWORD reduce energy inefficiencies. built-in. Changes to the core specification include greater use of translucent panelling to increase natural light and We are preparing to comply with the second phase of the reducing the risk associated with roof lights, LED lighting UK’s Energy Savings Opportunities Scheme (ESOS), which as standard, and planning for wild-flower areas to improve will be delivered by December 2019. We have commissioned biodiversity value. energy audits at 50 of our sites in order to collect data, | report on their energy performance and understand where ABOUT US improvements could be made. We are collating and analysing Reporting on emissions information from the ESOS Phase one and two audits to feed into our Energy Strategy, and identify cost-effective energyWe report our carbon emissions management against the saving measures that can further improve our performance. CDP framework. We use the benchmark to inform our strategy and identify areas for improvement. During the year, we were | Sourcing low-carbon energy for our building estate also awarded an Ascore, up from a B in 2017. This is ahead of the helps us to reduce our overall carbon footprint. The electricity sector average score of B-. INTEGRITY we buy in the UK is 100 per cent backed by low-carbon generation. This includes nuclear generation, which is considered a low-carbon source of energy compared with fossil fuel equivalents. We are reviewing the potential for a | greater use of renewables in our energy mix. In 2018–19, solar panels at our Chelmsford Mail Centre generated CUSTOMERS 82,101 kWh in 2018–19, saving approximately 23t CO2e. We are working with third parties to assess the potential for installation of solar panels on a further four of our buildings. We predominantly heat our buildings and hot water with gas boilers. We monitor the efficiency of our gas boilers. In 2018– | 19, we replaced 38 boilers with modern and energy-efficient PEOPLE condensing boilers. These recover more heat than traditional boilers and discharge cooler gases to the air. We switched sites with old and inefficient gas-fuelled Combined Heat and Power (CHP) units to using mains electricity instead. We | installed two Air Source Heat Pumps in our Edinburgh Mail Centre, to heat water for the building. These pumps absorb COMMUNITIES heat from the outside air and use this to heat the water. We continue to replace fluorescent lights with high-efficiency LED lighting across our UK operations. This uses less energy to produce more light than the sodium lights we used Water use previously. In 2018–19, all GLS sites in Belgium installed new Our water use predominantly for domestic purposes, such as | LED lighting1. Information on the full-year savings we achieve washroom facilities and keeping our vehicles and equipment through this initiative will be available in 2019–20. clean. We are committed to reducing our water use. It is a SUPPLIERS precious natural resource and a cost-saving opportunity for Royal Mail. Our 2018–19 CR Performance and GRI Data Appendix is available at www.royalmailgroup.com/en/responsibility/ In 2018–19, our target was to reduce our water consumption policies-and-reports, and breaks down our direct and indirect by four per cent compared to the previous year. We missed energy consumption by primary source. our target, increasing our consumption by 15 per cent, or 242 megalitres. This increase was due in part to construction ENVIRONMENT activities at a large site consuming additional water, as well as improved data processes across the business. We have partnered with a new third-party contractor to cover all water purchases in England and Scotland. The partnership // Reducing energy use in will enable a greater understanding of our water usage. It our buildings is a priority for will assist us in identifying issues and developing remedial actions to address them. By switching to a single supplier, ASSURANCE our environment strategy // we have greater visibility and improved data to better monitor our water use. We calculate average daily water usage for each type of Royal Mail site. This enables us to pinpoint the locations where water consumption is higher than average for the site type, investigate the reasons and take 1 Not including rented premises appropriate action. 79 Our environment We train our engineers and cleaning staff to be vigilant for In the Czech Republic, Croatia, and Hungary, GLS has reduced signs of water loss and water damage. We also include a the use of paper-based documents by using electronic number of environmental elements in our unit managers’ signatures on hand scanners. GLS Spain introduced an monthly site inspection checklists, including inspecting awareness campaign on paper consumption. GLS Belgium has water-using equipment for faults. With improvements in data switched to electronic invoices for most customers. In addition, availability and changes to a single water supplier, we shall GLS Belgium monitors the paper consumption of its printers. be concentrating on demonstrable savings in water use in the Printers automatically send reports to the environmental coming year. representative. They can then analyse the data and identify where reductions can be made. Water metric (‘000m3) 2018–19 2017–18 2016–17 2015–16 Cardboard is a major waste stream within the business. We Water consumed 1,818.9 1,576.9 1,413.1 1,474.4 have invested in 3 ‘super balers’ to help increase the amount of cardboard that we recycle, and collect and bale cardboard at a number of hub sites. We also invest in training and GLS Spain plans to install water diffusers in all depots in communication, to increase our people’s focus on cardboard 2019–20, as it aims to reduce its water consumption by 20 recycling. This has led to 70 per cent of our cardboard waste per cent. GLS Czech Republic is using two different methods now being baled, compared to 53 per cent in 2017–18. Our total to collect rainwater: an underground tank that collects water waste recycled has improved from 64 per cent in 2017–18 to from the building’s roof for use in flushing toilets, and an open 66 per cent in 2018–19. retention tank that collects water from paved areas to be used in the event of fire. Minimising plastic waste We are aware of the serious impact that plastics – especially Waste single-use items – have on the environment. We want to play our part in reducing the impact on our landscapes and oceans. We are committed to reducing the amount of waste sent to Work is ongoing to understand how we can move away from landfill by Royal Mail. In 2018–19, our target was to divert single-use plastic items and encourage replacement with 95 per cent of our waste from landfill. In total, we diverted reusable products. We have made efforts to: 99 per cent of waste, achieving our target for the year. • Remove plastic water cups from our sites, encouraging In 2018–19, we generated 35.32 kilotonnes of waste. We use a our people to use their own refillable vessels and providing combination of reuse, recycling and waste-to-energy initiatives paper cones where required. to divert this waste from landfill. We continue our efforts to reduce overall waste volumes by working with customers, • Reduce the use of traditional mail bag ties. Over the last suppliers and our people. 12 months, we have reduced the quantity of ties that we use by 30 per cent through a range of initiatives. We are also We continue to engage with our people, across the business, trialling the use of reusable mail bag ties. to reduce our waste. In January 2019, we launched a waste • Move from 10 litre packs of Ad Blue (used to reduce reduction campaign with our frontline colleagues. This focused emissions of oxides of nitrogen from our vehicles diesel on driving behaviour change and encouraging employees engines), to reusable Intermediate Bulk Containers, or to consider the full waste hierarchy before purchasing and integrally bunded bulk tanks. To date, we have ceased disposing of items. the purchase of smaller containers at three sites. We Royal Mail Property and Facilities Solutions have been continue to review the usage of Ad Blue across our estate investigating chemical-free cleaning for some of the larger and will where possible remove or minimise the usage of buildings in our estate. They have also been organising trials plastic packs. to reduce the amount of chemicals and associated packaging associated with cleaning our buildings. Minimising elastic band waste We have launched trials of concentrated, pre-measured We use elastic bands to keep bundles of mail together. sachets of chemicals, packaged in small recyclable cardboard This year, we used around 306 tonnes of elastic bands, packages for use at our delivery sites. This will help us move 7.1 per cent less than in 2017–18. away from single-use plastic packaging for cleaning chemicals, Littering of elastic bands is a potential threat to wildlife and reduce the amount of storage and distribution space required. the environment, and a cost to our business. We continue It will also reduce chemical waste through pre-measured to actively manage their use. We highlight best practice for doses. The sachets will also make the chemicals safer to use, colleagues in reusing and recycling elastic bands through our by removing the need for 5 litre containers and associated communication channels to avoid unintended littering. These lifting and chemical handling. include posters, regular intranet stories, our weekly RMtv programme and our monthly employee newsletter, Courier. // In total, we diverted 99 per cent of waste from landfill, achieving our target for the year // 80 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Waste metrics 2018–19 2017–18 2016–17 2015–16 Combating the illegal trade in wildlife (‘000 tonnes) Royal Mail is proud to be a member of the United for Wildlife 35.3 Transport Taskforce, which consists of leaders from the FOREWORD Waste generated 42.8 32.9 32.5 global transportation industry. The taskforce identifies Waste to landfill 0.5 0.4 2.9 4.5 opportunities to break the illegal wildlife trade chain between suppliers and consumers. Waste diverted 34.8 42.4 30.0 28.1 from landfill Royal Mail works with enforcement agencies, including the | UK Border Force and the Metropolitan Police and global members of the taskforce, to prevent wildlife trafficking. Customers and suppliers ABOUT US During the year, His Royal Highness The Duke of Cambridge Alongside addressing the direct impacts of our operations, visited International Logistics Centre in Heathrow to see Royal Mail helps our customers and suppliers to minimise how the taskforce members are working together to disrupt their impacts. attempts to traffic illegal wildlife products. His Royal | Highness was also joined by Lord Hague of Richmond, who We set strict environmental and social standards for our leads The United for Wildlife International Taskforce on the INTEGRITY suppliers. They are described in our Suppliers section on Transportation of Illegal Wildlife Products. We also created pages 61–70. In October 2018, we changed our UK paper a commemorative sheet of stamps to mark the work carried supplier in order to source a high-quality recycled paper. out by United for Wildlife ahead of an international conference In addition to the positive impacts on forestry, energy, on the illegal wildlife trade held in London in October 2018. water and CO2e impacts, it saves the company money. | We help our customers to minimise their own impacts CUSTOMERS through the sustainability of the products and services that we provide. We offer our marketing mail customers environmentally focused direct mail and door-drop services. Our Sustainable Advertising Mail product enables customers to send marketing mail at a lower cost than standard | advertising or business mail, if the items they post meet our sustainability requirements. In Germany, customers can send parcels using GLS’s PEOPLE carbon-neutral ThinkGreen service. GLS offsets the emissions associated with this service through supporting | environmental projects in Indonesia and Bolivia, creating sustainable workplaces outside of the palm oil industry. COMMUNITIES In 2018–19, over seven million parcels were shipped using the ThinkGreen service, with the project helping to reforest 8.31 hectares. Biodiversity PRIORITIES FOR 2019–20: | We encourage our sites to be mindful of their impact on SUPPLIERS • Implement new reduction targets for emissions, local flora and fauna. We have a biodiversity survey template waste generation and water consumption. and guidance for our sites to use on a voluntary basis. The • Improve management of waste in accordance with the survey is designed to map surrounding areas and identify the UK waste hierarchy. different species that are present. This can then be shared • Improve water management, with a focus on areas of with colleagues to inform them about local wildlife. The critical / high water scarcity. guidance also covers how employees can look to increase • Increase engagement through additional e-learning ENVIRONMENT biodiversity at their sites, including introducing native species modules covering key environmental risks and and leaving existing green areas to grow wild. In addition, new impact areas. core building specifications include planning for wild-flower areas to improve biodiversity value. ASSURANCE 81 Assurance statement Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Royal Mail plc The Board of Directors of Royal Mail plc (“Royal Mail”) engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in Royal Mail’s Corporate Responsibility Report and the website www.royalmailgroup.com/responsibility/cr-reports for the year ended 31 March 2019 (the “Report”). Our conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the Selected Information Value evidence we have obtained: Customer A) Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to Mean business customer satisfaction score 78 believe that the Selected Information for the year (out of 100) ended 31 March 2019 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Number of customer complaints 578,600 Criteria. People B) Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Total number of fatalities 7 description of Royal Mail’s alignment with AA1000 APS (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Lost time accident frequency 0.49 Responsiveness is not fairly stated. rate (per 100,000 hours worked) This conclusion is to be read in the context of what we say in Year-on-year change in Road Traffic Collision the remainder of our report. Frequency Rate (per 1000 vehicles) -5.3% Employee engagement score (out of 100) 60 Selected Information Customer focus score (out of 100) 70 The scope of our work was limited to assurance over: A) The information for the year ended 31 March Diversity: 2019 which is summarised in the table below (the “Selected Information”). Royal Mail’s internal reporting Gender diversity Royal Mail Royal Mail guidelines for measuring, recording and reporting (headcount) female male the Selected Information (the “Reporting Criteria”) are set out in Royal Mail’s criteria document, Royal Mail plc Board 2 5 2018–19 Reporting criteria available at Senior Management 720 1,551 www.royalmailgroup.com/responsibility/cr-reportsi Management 1,495 5,523 Administrative 1,398 974 Operational 22,531 105,634 Age distribution <30 30–49 50+ (headcount) Royal Mail plc Board – – 7 Senior Management 81 1,269 921 Management 622 3,552 2,844 Administrative 221 1,154 997 Operational 10,791 57,082 60,292 82 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 Ethnicity distribution Asian Black Chinese Mixed Other White (headcount) FOREWORD Royal Mail plc Board – – – – – 7 Senior Management 99 22 4 21 403 1,722 Management 467 226 15 80 599 5,631 | Administrative 137 42 12 18 140 2,023 ABOUT US Operational 8,634 4,269 241 1,111 16,835 97,075 Our Independence and Quality Control | Community We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants in INTEGRITY Total amount contributed by Royal Mail 5,767 England and Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics, which (£’000) includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, Total amount raised by employees 3,057 professional competence and due care, confidentiality and (£’000) professional behaviour. | Environment We apply International Standard on Quality Control (UK) 1 CUSTOMERS Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions 574,628 and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality (tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent) control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Business Scope 3 reported carbon emissions 80,883 standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. (tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent) Our work was carried out by an independent and multi| Direct energy consumption by primary 7,163.3 disciplinary team with experience in sustainability reporting energy source (TJ) PEOPLE and assurance. Indirect energy consumption by primary 1,929.8 energy source (TJ) Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies | Total waste to landfill (ʼ000 tonnes) 0.5 The Selected Information needs to be read and understood COMMUNITIES Total waste diverted from landfill (ʼ000 tonnes) 34.8 together with the Reporting Criteria. The Stakeholder Total water consumption (ʼ000 m3) 1,818.9 Engagement approach is included within the Stakeholder Engagement section of the Report. Royal Mail is solely responsible for selecting and applying the Reporting B) Royal Mail’s description of alignment with the AA1000 Criteria and Stakeholder Engagement approach. The absence APS (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and | of a significant body of established practice on which to draw Responsiveness for the year ended 31 March 2019, to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows SUPPLIERS which is set out in the Stakeholder Engagement section for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and of the Report. can affect comparability between entities and over time. The Reporting Criteria used for the reporting of the Selected Professional standards applied Information are as at 25 March 2018. and level of assurance | We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance ENVIRONMENT with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, and, in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements’ issued by the International Auditing and Assurance ASSURANCE Standards Board, and AA1000APS (Type 1, moderate, which is the equivalent to ISAE 3000 (Revised) limited assurance). A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. 83 Assurance statement Work done Royal Mail’s responsibilities A) We are required to plan and perform our work in order to The Directors of Royal Mail are responsible for: consider the risk of material misstatement of the Selected • designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls Information. In doing so, we: over information relevant to the preparation of the Selected • made enquiries of Royal Mail’s management, including Information that is free from material misstatement, the Corporate Responsibility (CR) team and those with whether due to fraud or error; responsibility for CR management and group CR reporting; • establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing • evaluated the design of the key structures, systems, the Selected Information; processes and controls for managing, recording and • measuring and reporting the Selected Information based reporting the Selected Information. This included visiting on the Reporting Criteria; three sites to understand the key processes and controls for reporting site performance data to the group CR team; • reporting the Stakeholder Engagement description in the Report; and • performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Selected Information to check that data had • the content of the Report. been appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported; and Our responsibilities • considered the disclosure and presentation of the We are responsible for: Selected Information. • planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited B) In respect of Royal Mail’s description of alignment with assurance about whether the Selected Information is free AA1000 APS (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; Responsiveness we performed the following activities: • forming an independent conclusion, based on the • interviewed a selection of Royal Mail’s executives, procedures we have performed and the evidence we have senior managers, and site managers to determine their obtained; and understanding of their stakeholders, the mechanisms used to engage them and key issues that are of interest to each • reporting our conclusion to the Directors of Royal Mail. stakeholder group; This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared • reviewed evidence on a selective basis to support the solely for the Board of Directors of Royal Mail plc in assertions made in these interviews and in the Stakeholder accordance with the agreement between us, to assist the Engagement section within the Report; Directors in reporting Royal Mail plc’s Corporate Responsibility • assessed the outputs from the risk assessment and performance and activities. We permit this report to be materiality process relating to stakeholders and Royal Mail’s disclosed in Royal Mail’s Corporate Responsibility Report engagement; and for the year ended 31 March 2019, to assist the Directors in responding to their governance responsibilities by obtaining an • assessed the disclosure and presentation of the Stakeholder independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Engagement description included within the Report. Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Board of Directors and Royal Mail plc for our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants London 10 May 2019 i The maintenance and integrity of Royal Mail’s website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on Royal Mail’s website. 84 Royal Mail Corporate Responsibility Report 2018–19 For more information: Royal Mail Group 100 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0HQ www.royalmailgroup.com www.gls-group.eu corporateresponsibility@royalmail.com This report is printed on 100 per cent recycled FSC certified paper Royal Mail, the Cruciform, Parcelforce Worldwide and the Parcelforce Worldwide logo are registered trade marks of Royal Mail Group Limited. The GLS arrow logo is a trade mark of General Logistics Systems Germany GmbH & Co. OHG. © Royal Mail Group Limited 2018. All rights reserved. Royal Mail plc, registered in England and Wales, number 08680755, registered office: 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ. Parcelforce Worldwide is a trading name of Royal Mail Group Ltd. Parcelforce Worldwide is a GLS network partner.
