COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 UN GLOBAL COMPACT CONTENTS Our Commitment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5 How We Work. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6 Environment & Climate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Societal Demand & User Needs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Labour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Equality & Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 OUR COMMITMENT With 90 years of award-winning architecture inspired by our Nordic values, C.F. Møller Architects places social, economic and environmental sustainability at the heart of our work. At C.F. Møller, we view sustainability as a In this 2018 Communication on Progress, we holistic practice, fully integrated into our Nordic use the eight Sustainable Development Goals, architectural values. We see architecture as a that are most relevant to our business, to creative process where we interpret our clients’ document our commitment and work with aims to create buildings that work at functionthe UN Global Compact and Corporate Social al, technical and aesthetical levels, whilst also Responsibility. achieving high sustainability goals. The Board of Directors of C.F. Møller A/S With this 2018 Communication on Progress, C.F. Møller Architects again express their continued support for the UN Global Compact. This 2018 Communication on Progress also Klaus Toustrup Julian Weyer contains C.F. Møller’s documentation of Corporate Social Responsibility and Gender Equality as required by the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven), §99a and §99b. Mads Mandrup Lone Wiggers The UN Global Compact’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) focus global efforts on 17 pressing issues. By upholding recognized Michael Kruse Christian Dahle principles on the environment, climate change, labour, human rights and anti-corruption, businesses can use the SDGs to make an essential Mårten Leringe Klavs Hyttel contribution to sustainable development. 5 HOW WE WORK C.F. Møller’s vision is to Improve life for people and planet. We are one of Scandinavia’s leading independent architectural firms, with 90 years of award-winning work in the Nordic region and worldwide. Every day we create architectural quality based on innovation, experience and our Nordic values. This assures sustainable and aesthetic solutions with lasting value for clients, occupants and society. Our design solutions are methodically and holistically created following a rigorous analysis of the local context. We look to set new global standards by fostering a design approach, which uniquely integrates urban planning, landscape, architecture and the design of specific building components. We regard environmental concerns, resource consciousness, healthy project finances, social responsibility and good craftsmanship as essential elements of our work. 6 As consulting architects, C.F. Møller’s business model is closely linked to the extended value chain of the construction sector. As architects, we play a central role in creating needs, whilst also contributing to the long term Environmentally, where buildings are responCulturally, where buildings become part of the societal and economic value for our clients and cultural quality of the built environment. sible for the consumption of large amounts of built environment’s cultural quality and begin for society at large. resources and energy throughout their lifespan. to take on a larger societal value over time. A central aspect of our work as architects reWe interpret our clients aims, and create archilates to fact that the buildings and landscapes Socially, as people spend up to 90% of their Economically, where the high costs of contectural solutions with lasting functional, techwe design now will have longlasting impacts time indoors, and buildings’ functional, experistruction need to be held up against how future nical and aesthetic qualities that meet today’s in the future because of their long lifespan: ential and wellbeing qualities are important. annual running costs can be minimised. Our business Where demand Our value creation How our How our architecture What happens model as part of for our services and design work architecture is is experienced, used at the end of the the value chain comes from as architects produced and transformed lifespan Primary drivers Economic, societal We interpret our clients wishes and create Construction, commisOur buildings’ functionality, quality and Dismantling and and activities and political drivers value through our architectural design work sioning & handover transformation over time reuse of materials Major actors Private & public Other consultants Contractors & Users, residents, administrators & owners Demolition sector and co-operation sector clients sub-contractors Planning & building regulation Creation of cultural & societal value New circular 8 partners Materials production economy actors9 ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE C.F. Møller has for many years had a considerable focus on the role architecture can play in minimising environmental impact. We believe our responsibility as architects reaches out to future generations, since the buildings and landscapes we design today can have lasting impacts, both now through the use of raw materials during construction, and into the future through the need for energy and water to operate the buildings, and construction materials to maintain and update buildings though their lifespan. The issues of climate change also mean that, with more intense rainfall and more heatwaves, our climate is slowly changing. This means there are considerable architectural challenges and opportunities in designing buildings and landscapes today, which can function satisfactorily in markedly different climates COPENHAGEN INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL The new school building for Copenhagen within the next 50 years. International School has a unique facade with 12,000 solar panels that supply more than half of the school’s electricity consumption, and making it the largest building integrated solar power plant in Denmark. 10 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS For new buildings in Denmark, the environmental impact related to materials is now larger than that from space heating over the lifespan of the building. ISSUES & RISKS specification work, with the aim of reducing The successful focus on reducing the operathe environmental impact of materials for the tional energy demand of new buildings has projects we design. had unexpected consequences. As the energy consumption to heating and ventilation has RESULTS FOR 2018 fallen over the last 10 years, the environmental Our first building of cross-laminated timber, impact from the materials has grown larger. the Kajstaden Tower apartments in Västerås, Sweden, will be completed by the end of 2018, Numerous European studies show that for new and will be Sweden’s tallest timber building. buildings, the environmental impact from construction materials over the complete life cycle ACTIVITIES FOR 2019 of the building, including material consumption 1. Since timber has a very low environmental for maintenance, is larger than the environmenimpact and sequestrates CO2 throughout tal impact from space heating and ventilation. the building lifespan, we will continue our innovative work with multi-storey timber With increasing demands to the environmental buildings with cross-laminated timber impact of materials in the markets we operate (CLT) and laminated veneer lumber (LVL). in, C.F. Møller needs to respond proactively. KAJSTADEN TOWER 2. We will develop life cycle analysis tools POLICIES as part of our digital design workflow, so This new 9 storey timber apartment building C.F. Møller will integrate the life cycle analysis that we can start to assess environmental in Västerås is Sweden’s tallest timber building, approach into our architectural design and impact from early in the design process. and is constructed entirely of massive timber. The loadbearing walls, floors, beams, balconies and elevator shaft have all been built with cross-laminated timber. 12 CLIMATE MITIGATION & ADAPTATION Our climate is already changing, so the buildings and landscapes we design today need to be able to deal with changing climatic conditions in the near and distant future. ISSUES & RISKS scale, looking how resilient landscape solutions The effects of higher greenhouse gas concencan create new recreative possibilities. trations in the atmosphere mean our climate is already changing. New buildings and landRESULTS FOR 2018 scapes therefore need to be able to cope with We have designed the urban landscape and changing climatic conditions, where extremes climate adaptation project Stork Meadows. in rainfall, drought and heat waves will become more the norm, rather than the exception. We have started a collaboration with Aarhus These problems are likely to be exacerbated by University to develop iterative design tools to the processes of urbanisation and densification estimate overheating very early in the design that many towns and cities are experiencing. process. This means that we need to design in a differACTIVITIES FOR 2019 ent way, so that as well as reducing greenhouse 1. We will work with developing urban gas emissions, we take account of expected landscape solutions that are able to deal future climate change. with future climate change and increasing amounts of rainfall. POLICIES C.F. Møller will work with climate mitigation STORK MEADOW: CITY TO THE WATER 2. We will work in developing architectural and adaptation, so that our buildings and landdesign approaches that can reduce the “City to the Water” is a far-reaching urban scapes can cope with future climate change. problems with overheating in new builddevelopment project to open up the city This will also include working at the urban ings both today, and in the future. centre of Randers, Denmark, to the recreative qualities of the surrounding nature, whilst also dealing with vast amounts of future urban stormwater. 14 SOCIETAL DEMAND & USER NEEDS C.F. Møller has it’s architectural roots in the Nordic functional tradition, where our architecture responds to the demands of society at large, and to the needs of our buildings’ users. We believe that the architecture we design today plays an important role in society, both creating value for our clients and users, and contributing to the wider cultural value of the built environment, over the coming decades and for future generations. Developments in the countries and markets we operate in reflect wider international trends and society’s changing ideals, and we need to keep our fingers on the pulse of these changes, so we can interpret and translate them into our architectural work. With people spending up to 90% of their time indoors, we aim to create high quality architecture with a focus on functional and healthy environments that create wellbeing and positive AARHUS UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL The AUH is the largest hospital project in experiences for users. Denmark, covering 375,000 m2, with a clear functional structure using spatial hierarchy to enable intuitive way-finding. AUH is designed to flexibly meet future requirements of technology, treatment and working routines. 16 CHANGING SOCIETAL CONDITIONS Shifting social, economic and environmental conditions, and the subsequent changes in demand, mean that we need to be proactive in developing our architectural response. ISSUES & RISKS societal demands, so that we can interpret and As societies develop over time, there are translate them into our architectural work. changes in perception and needs, and this over time affects both the demand for certain RESULTS FOR 2018 building types, and how these buildings are C.F. Møller has played an active role in developdesigned and used. ing the new daylighting rules and the voluntary sustainability class in the Danish Building Examples are changing requirements in school Regulations. design, reflecting the benefits of integrating movement and nature into the curriculum, and C.F. Møller has organised a conference on increased regulatory demands for sustainabilischool design, with the participation of leading ty, where Sweden and Denmark are introducing educationalists and the major municipalities. the environmental assessments of materials. ACTIVITIES FOR 2019 To thrive and maintain our long-term position 1. We will become involved in the developin the market, C.F. Møller must stay at the forement of new legislation and voluntary front and be agile by adapting continuously to codes pertaining to the built environment. changing market and client demands. NEW ISLANDS BRYGGE SCHOOL 2. We will initiate a dialogue with clients and POLICIES partners on the demand side of the value This new school in Copenhagen responds to C.F. Møller will work proactively to be at the chain to understand their thinking and new national educational rules with a focus on forefront of changing client, regulatory and inform our architectural responses. diet and movement. The architecture enables pupils to relate theoretical teaching with physical, sensory and experience-based learning, and stimulates physical activity and play. 18 USER EXPERIENCE & WELL-BEING People spend up to 90% of their time indoors, so buildings must fulfill complex functional demands and create a sense of delight, as well as ensuring healthy indoor environments. ISSUES & RISKS POLICIES Indoor environments play a critical role in the C.F. Møller will work to create architecture with unfolding of people’s daily lives in modern high functional qualities that can stand the society, and with the long lifespan of buildings, test of time, and where a sense of delight and the decisions we make as architects during healthy indoor environments create a sense of the design process are as such of extreme well-being. importance. RESULTS FOR 2018 Poorly designed buildings, which do not meet C.F. Møller has had a collaboration with DTU the changing functional requirements of clients Architectural Engineering to develop a tool for and users, can over time be of great expense estimating daylighting in buildings and masterto society. plans at the very early design stages. With people spending the majority of their ACTIVITIES FOR 2019 time within the built environment, poorly 1. We will work with developing design tools designed buildings can have different negathat support greater functionality during tive impacts on people. Good architecture the early design stages. can create a sense of delight for users. At the same time, it can also play an important role in 2. We will work with developing tools that BESTSELLER OFFICE COMPLEX giving healthy indoor environments with good create healthy indoor environments durThis office complex in Aarhus is a lively town thermal and visual qualities. Both can create a ing the early design stages. within a town, comprising an ensemble of sense of well-being for building users. buildings connected by outdoor courtyards and roof gardens, and with 800 workplaces, showrooms, auditorium, video and film studios and facilities for fashion events. 20 LABOUR C.F. Møller is a knowledge-based organisation, with the combined creativity and knowledge of our employees being the central asset in our ongoing creation of architectural quality. ISSUES & RISKS In the Nordic region, employee rights extend In knowledge-based organisations, where embeyond the ILO Declaration on Fundamental ployees are often the primary production asset, Principles and Rights at Work. All our employin combination with an intensive use of IT, the ees have rights to join employee organisations, creation of an attractive workplace and the partake in collective pay negotiations, and have acquisition and retention of highly qualified paid holidays, sick leave and parental leave. employees can be major challenges. C.F. Møller will therefore continue to create an Similar to other knowledge-based organisaattractive workplace for our employees. tions, C.F. Møller experiences growing challenges in accessing a highly qualified workforce. RESULTS FOR 2018 With our 90 years of award-winning work We have co-operated with students from DTU and focus on creating architectural quality, and Aarhus University in Denmark on the comC.F. Møller is able to attract international canpletion of their final dissertations. didates for both internships and fixed positions. ACTIVITIES FOR 2019 POLICIES 1. We will work on attracting the best new At C.F. Møller, we have a highly qualified and employees by engaging with relevant dedicated workforce. We focus on ensuring architecture schools, universities, etc. that employee competencies follow professional and market demands, offering continued 2. We will continue to offer attractive professional development opportunities and a employment packages, and will not use breadth of challenging projects to work on. unpaid internships. 22 EQUALITY & DIVERSITY At C.F. Møller, with six architectural studios in four Nordic and North European countries, we aim for equality and diversity as cornerstones of an inclusive and creative workplace. ISSUES & RISKS RESULTS FOR 2018 In organisations with poor levels of diversity One of C.F. Møller’s Senior Equity Partner is and equality, there may be a risk of not fully female. We did therefore not reach the goal of understanding market and client demands, and having two female Board members in 2018. not being able to fully reflect wider conditions that exist in society. It can also give problems Our Management Team consists of 30 memin attracting and retaining the best employees, bers, with 12 being female and 18 being male. and in creating a well-balanced workplace. There is gender equality in the Management Team, with 40% being female. C.F. Møller has approximately 300 fulltime employees, with 43% being female and 57% male. ACTIVITIES FOR 2019 We have employees of over 20 nationalities. 1. We will achieve the goal of having two female Board members early in 2019. POLICIES C.F. Møller will continue working to address 2. We will use our Employee Development increasing the share of women in the Board Dialogue and Workplace Risk Assessment of Directors, in the Management Team and to start a dialogue regarding how we can throughout the organisation. create an attractive workplace for ambitious female employees. C.F. Møller’s Board of Directors consists of 8 members, who are also the Senior Equity 3. We will to seek to have at least one Partners. In 2015 we set the goal of having two female candidate among the final three female members of the Board by 2020. candidates for any management position. 24 HUMAN RIGHTS C.F. Møller strive to avoid problems with employee conditions in the global value chain for construction materials and buildings, and with the human rights of building occupants. ISSUES & RISKS The production of materials and the construcWe will work with human rights in relation to tion of buildings are parts of global production the production of building materials and the chains. It can often be difficult for consulting construction of buildings. We will also work to architects to have precise knowledge on where improve human rights in the design of relevant and how materials are produced, or whom is buildings. involved during production and construction, and whether sub-contractors are meeting RESULTS FOR 2018 legally binding national employment rights. At the Tolworth Mental Health Hospital in London we have used evidence-based design to There are also building types, such as psychiatreduce the use of physical restraint on patients. ric hospitals and prisons, where human rights can be central design issues in relation to rehaACTIVITIES FOR 2019 bilitation and the reducing physical force. 1. We will start a dialogue with partners on relevant projects to reduce human rights POLICIES problems, where possible, related to the C.F. Møller’s work with human rights is defined sourcing of materials and employment in relation to the UN Declaration of Human conditions on construction sites. Rights from 1948. We are members of The Danish Association for Responsible Construction TOLWORTH MENTAL HEALTH HOSPITAL 2. We will work with improving the human (Foreningen for Byggeriets Samfundsansvar), rights for building users and occupants The hospital in London was carefully designed which promotes social responsibility in the in the design of relevant buildings types, with evidence-based research and consultaDanish property and construction sector. such as psychiatric hospitals and prisons. tion with users and stakeholders, and used the principles of healing architecture to improve the human rights of patients by reducing the use of physical restraint. 26 ANTI-CORRUPTION At C.F. Møller, we have a zero tolerance policy with regards to corruption, and we have the highest standards of corporate ethics and total integrity in our transactions. ISSUES & RISKS integrity in its transactions. No offer, payment, Corruption is a global problem, and in an consideration or benefit of any kind, which international perspective, the construction constitutes fraud, illegal or corrupt practices, industry’s extensive value chain is seen as one shall be made, neither directly nor indirectly, of the sectors where corruption is widespread. as an inducement or reward in relation to the Corruption can have negative consequences for tendering, award of contracts or execution of society, businesses and individuals. contracts. Although the Nordic countries are amongst the RESULTS FOR 2018 world’s least corrupt, there can be corruption, We have not experienced cases of corruption and there can be situations where our decisions on our projects during 2018. in relation to the value chain can unknowingly support corruption. ACTIVITIES FOR 2019 1. We will start a dialogue with partners POLICIES on relevant projects to avoid corruption, C.F. Møller has a zero tolerance policy to corwhere possible, relating to the supply ruption and fraud, and we actively contribute chain and awarding of sub-contracts. to combating corruption in all of its forms. 2. We will hold a continuous professional C.F. Møller only solicits design and consultSTORSTRØM PRISON development course for project leaders, ing work, and only participates in private or the management team and other senior The Storstrøm Prison is the world’s most public competitive bidding, under the highest employees on anti-corruption, and how it humane and resocialising closed prison, with a standards of corporate ethics, and with total can be dealt with. less institutionalised architecture that supports the inmates’ mental and physical well-being, and ensures a secure and pleasant workplace for employees. 28 CONTACT AARHUS LONDON Europaplads 2, 11. Telephone House, 69-77 Paul Street 8000 Aarhus C, Danmark London EC2A 4NW, United Kingdom T +45 8730 5300 T +44 (0)79 9001 3251 cfmoller@cfmoller.com london@cfmoller.com COPENHAGEN STOCKHOLM Danneskiold-Samsøes Allé 28 Krukmakargatan 21 1434 Copenhagen K, Danmark 118 51 Stockholm, Sverige T +45 3288 7844 T +46 (0)8 5557 6000 kbh@cfmoller.com stockholm@cfmoller.com AALBORG PRESS Strandvejen 17 Head of Communications 9000 Aalborg, Danmark Peter Sikker Rasmussen T +45 9632 9797 T +45 6193 6857 aalborg@cfmoller.com psr@cfmoller.com OSLO Prinsens gate 2, 1.et. cfmollerarchitects 0152 Oslo, Norge cfmoller_architects T +47 2413 3400 oslo@cfmoller.com C.F. Møller Architects #ImproveLifeforPeopleandPlanet 30 www.cfmoller.com
