COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR Holding A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 1 CONTENTS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 4 Letter to our stakeholders 6 What we do 8 Model Company Objective 10 THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS 12 The 10 Principles 18 Sustainable Development Goals 30 Appendices ABOUT THIS REPORT This report is supplementary to VKR Holding’s Annual Report 2018 and constitutes as both VKR Holding’s Communication on Progress for 2018 to UN Global Compact and the VKR Group’s statutory report cf. section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act, also for 2018. The requirements relating to the Communication on Progress are mainly addressed in the sections ‘Letter to our stakeholders’ and ‘The 10 Principles’. The requirements according to the statutory report cf. section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act are mainly addressed in the sections ‘What we do’ and ‘Sustainable Development Goals’. VKR Holding is a holding company with around 40 employees and offices in Denmark. Consequently, the direct risks and impacts related to UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles and Sustainable Development Goals are minor. The business areas, on the other hand, have both an opportunity and an obligation to make a difference. When we refer to “VKR Holding” in this report, we refer exclusively to the legal entity of the holding company. When the business areas are mentioned, we refer to all the companies within Roof windows & skylights, Vertical windows and Large-scale solar thermal energy respectively. Lastly, when we refer to the VKR Group, we refer to both the holding company and the business areas. VELUX flat roof windows in Los Hipotálamos refuge, Argentina. Photo: Federico Cariroli, 2017 Front page: VELUX roof window in family house in Hoeilaart, Belgium. Photo: Jasper Leonard, 2018 2 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 3 LETTER TO OUR Daylight and fresh air with VELUX roof windows. Photo: Jesper Jørgen Fotografi, 2018 STAKEHOLDERS For decades and in accordance with our VKR Holding to next year to ensure that The solar thermal energy business area Model Company Objective, the VKR Group the assessment is conducted thoroughly. is also more relevant than ever as the has developed, produced, and marketed world is challenged by climate change products useful to society while actively In our COP for 2017, we incorporated the and needs solutions for affordable and engaging with our communities. We will SDGs, and for this COP, we have expanded clean energy. The solar thermal energy continue to do so in the future and the the scope to include impact assessments solutions provided by Arcon-Sunmark supUN Global Compact and the Sustainable and due diligence processes. port the transition to renewable energy, Development Goals (SDGs) are an excelthereby contributing directly to SDG 7: lent way of communicating our initiatives The holding company in itself has limited Affordable and Clean Energy. and results to our stakeholders. scope to contribute directly to the SDGs, and similarly, the negative impacts of the The business areas are all committed Therefore, VKR Holding expresses its concompany’s business activities are relatito the UN Global Compact and report tinued support for the UN Global Compact vely small. However, we own and invest in individually on their progress in relation to and we renew our ongoing commitment to businesses that align well with the SDGs, CSR. The VELUX Group will be publishing the initiative, its principles in relation to and consequently, this report highlights their report on March 28 and the other Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and the contributions and impacts made by business areas in the coming months, so Anti-Corruption as well as the SDGs. the business areas, which should all help look forward to more exciting details on us achieve our common mission to bring initiatives and results. The reports will be We believe that the VKR Group’s financial daylight, fresh air and a better environavailable on both the companies’ websites results and progress on Corporate Social ment into people’s lives. and the UN Global Compact website. Responsibility (CSR) initiatives go hand in hand and that reporting on both should be In this context, the products of the two laravailable to our stakeholders at the same gest business areas, windows, have never time which is on the date of our Annual been more relevant. As people spend an General Meeting. Thus, effective from increasing amount of time indoors, the 2019, we have changed the reporting scheimportance of bringing daylight and fresh dule for our Communication on Progress air into people’s homes and work places is (COP) to align with the publication of our only growing. The windows developed by annual financial reporting. the VELUX Group and the DOVISTA Group help ensure a healthy indoor environment, Because of the revised reporting schedule, thereby highly contributing to SDG 3: our COP is publicised five months earlier Good Health and Well-Being and to some than last year. As a result, we have postpoextent to SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and ned our target of conducting a structured Communities. Mads Kann-Rasmussen impact assessment of the principles for CEO, VKR Holding A/S 4 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 5 WHAT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MODEL WE DO MODEL COMPANY OBJECTIVE The VKR Group endeavour to be a Model Company BUSINESS MODEL as illiquid assets such as property, private VKR Holding engages in active ownership as formulated by the founder, Villum Kann Rasmussen, and it VKR Holding is a holding and investment equity and private debt. in relation to the business areas through guides the business activities and business strategies of all companies in company with a primary mission to create the Model Company Objective, group-wide the Group value through financial investments and The Roof windows & skylights and Vertical policies and our governance structure. ownership of companies that bring daywindows business areas have activities Within the given guidelines, the business light, fresh air and a better environment within development, production, and sales areas operate highly autonomously. into people’s everyday lives. of windows and exterior doors in most of the world and Northern Europe, respeOne objective for VKR Holding is to geneIn line with its mission, VKR Holding owns ctively. Roof windows & skylights is the rate a satisfactory risk-adjusted return on ROOF WINDOWS & SKYLIGHTS VERTICAL WINDOWS SOLAR THERMAL ENERGY and manages companies within roof largest business area of the VKR Group. investments. windows & skylights, vertical windows Highlighted targets Highlighted targets Highlighted target and large scale solar thermal energy The large-scale solar thermal energy bu• 5 0% reduction of CO2 emissi•Y  ear-over-year reduction of •S hare of individuals with special solutions. siness area has activities within developFor more information about VKR Holding, ons in 2020 compared to 2007 CO2 emissions per 1,000 units needs of minimum 2% of total ment, sales and consultancy concerning please visit www.vkr-holding.com baseline produced workforce In addition, VKR Holding has a portfolio solar heating plants to the district heating • 25% year-over-year reduction • Maximum of 1 work accident per of financial investments. The portfolio sector and industrial processes around of work accidents per 1 million 1 million work hours consists of listed shares and bonds as well the world. work hours (production only) • Minimum 99.5% certified wood at European factories • Further increase the share of • Vision of zero waste in producticertified wood in production THE VKR GROUP AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 on and end-of-life of products GROUP-WIDE WHISTLE-BLOWER SYSTEM In 2018, a group-wide whistle-blower system was implemented for any stakeholder to report infringement of legislation, regulation and VKR Group policies ROOF WINDOWS & SKYLIGHTS VERTICAL WINDOWS SOLAR THERMAL ENERGY LEGISLATION, REGULATION & INTERNAL GROUP POLICIES The companies of the VKR Group are obligated to comply with external legislation and regulation, and adhere to VKR Group policies Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) commitment is illustraWithin these guidelines, the business areas are given autonomy ted in the model above and elaborated throughout this report. to prioritise and target their CSR efforts appropriately. This is represented by the three business areas of the model where As illustrated in the model, the founder’s Model Company Objectiselected targets of each business area are highlighted. ve is still the vision of the VKR Group and it guides us in everything we do. Furthermore, VKR Holding and the business areas are obligated to comply with legislation and regulation as well as VKR Group policies. 6 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 7 MODEL COMPANY OBJECTIVE Corporate Citizenship has been an integral part of the VKR Group’s business strategy and business activities since the company was established in 1941. THE PURPOSE OF THE VKR GROUP IS TO ESTABLISH A Based on VKR Holding’s mission to own and develop companies THE PURPOSE OF THE VKR GROUP IS that bring daylight, fresh air and a better environment into peopTO ESTABLISH A NUMBER OF MODEL le’s everyday lives, CSR is a natural and important element for all companies in the Group. COMPANIES, WHICH COOPERATE IN AN EXEMPLARY MANNER. Our CSR ambition was formulated in the Model Company Objective in 1965 by the company’s founder, Villum Kann Rasmussen. Since then, this objective has been the cornerstone of the values A MODEL COMPANY WORKS WITH PRODUCTS USEFUL TO SOCIETY AND NUMBER OF MODEL COMPANIES, WHICH that all the companies in the Group are expected to act on. TREATS ITS CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS, EMPLOYEES OF ALL CATEGORIES AND SHAREHOLDERS BETTER THAN MOST COOPERATE IN OTHER COMPANIES. A MODEL COMPANY MAKES A AN EXEMPLARY PROFIT WHICH CAN ALSO FINANCE GROWTH AND MAINTAIN FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE. Villum Kann Rasmussen, 1965 MANNER. Founder of the VKR Group, Villum Kann Rasmussen. Photo: Mogens Carrebye , 1979 8 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 9 THE VELUX Olivia Marie Lombard recieved a donation from the Employee Foundation of the VKR Group in 2018. Photo: Pernille Bering, 2018 ­F OUNDATIONS More than 80% of dividends paid by VKR Holding is returned to society by THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS – VELUX FONDEN and VILLUM FONDEN in Danish. The two foundations support scientific, environmental, social and cultural purposes in Denmark and internationally. VILLUM FONDEN is the majority shareholder of VKR Holding and • 18 Villum Young Investigators, who are young, upcoming SELECTED HIGHLIGHTS IN 2018 operates independently from the companies of the VKR Group. scientists, received a total of DKK 153 million (EUR 20 million) Healthy Habits campaign VILLUM FONDEN was established in 1971 and VELUX FONDEN in • 53 Villum Experimenters, all venturing a ‘moon shot’ in their In 2018, the Employee Foundation launched a proacti1981, and until now, the foundations have granted approximately field of research, received a total of DKK 100 million (EUR 13 ve campaign called ‘Healthy Habits’ in order to put the DKK 11.2 billion (EUR 1.5 billion). million) spotlight on healthy lifestyle. • A Villum Kann Rasmussen professorship to Jens Nørskov, Additionally, the profits of the VKR Group funds the Employee returning to Denmark from Stanford University, USA, repreThe campaign involved communication regarding Foundation. The Employee Foundation supports employees in senting a grant of DKK 28 million (EUR 4 million) healthy habits and life style, for example diet, exerciunfortunate situations, their children’s education and community se and proper sleep. Furthermore, 1,000 grants were projects in proximity to companies of the VKR Group. Research in marine plastic pollution allocated to employees’ purchase of activity trackers, Plastic debris polluting the sea is a growing environmental blood pressure monitors, bicycle helmets or bathroRead more about selected contributions of THE VELUX FOUNDAproblem that calls for efficient and climate-neutral solutions. A om scales to assist in preventing health-related TIONS and the Employee Foundation on the following page. For grant of DKK 20 million (EUR 2.7 million) from VELUX FONDEN problems and thus contribute to improved lifestyle more information about the foundations, please visit will enable the establishment of a new centre, MarinePlastic, for and well-being. www.vkr-holding.com/fonde/ research in marine plastic pollution. CSR Award for VELUX Belgium THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS The Danish centre was officially opened on 1 February 2019, and A community project suggested by VELUX Belgium In 2018, THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS granted over DKK 888 million it will gather researchers across universities and academic disciand supported by Employee Foundation of the VKR (EUR 168 million) in total to 1,015 projects. plines with the aim of developing research-based understanding Group has won the ‘Best inclusive CSR project of the of types of pollution, sources, frequency and the environmental year’ award in Belgium. The scope of the project was SELECTED CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2018 consequences of marine plastic pollution. renovation and expansion of the playground and outResearch in technical and natural science side areas of the children’s home Reine Astrid. Each In 2018, VILLUM FONDEN funded 71 researchers within two of For additional information about THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS, employee of VELUX Belgium spent half a day working the three research programmes: Villum Young Investigators and please visit www.veluxfoundations.dk on the playground or in the garden while also having Villum Experiment. The third, Villum Investigators, is a programsome enjoyable moments together. me running every second year for experienced elite scientists, Employee Foundation of the VKR Group rewarding 11 scientists with a total of DKK 400 million (EUR 54 In 2018, the Employee Foundation donated almost DKK 9 million The project created a very strong bond between the million) in 2017. The common aim of the three programmes is to (EUR 1.2 million) in total to employees, their families, and VELUX company and the organisation, which will promote excellent research. In 2018, the foundation granted more non-profit community projects. surely continue in the future. than DKK 307 million (EUR 41 million) to research in technical and natural science, emphasising: For more information about the Employee Foundation, please visit www.employeefoundation.com 10 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 11 THE VKR HOLDING FULLY COMMITS TO THE TEN ­P RINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 1: PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; human rights; and PRINCIPLE 8: PRINCIPLE 2: undertake initiatives to promote greater make sure that they are not complicit in environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PRINCIPLE 4: VKR Holding is a participant of the UN Global Compact, and we implemented to guide the operations and business activities of all the elimination of all forms of forced and are proud to contribute to its initiatives. We are committed to companies of the VKR Group. compulsory labour; upholding the principles in the four issue areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and we strive to contriIn total, 15 policies and 1 sub-policy has been implemented, PRINCIPLE 5: bute to the realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals in including the Group CSR Policy addressing the Ten Principles dithe effective abolition of child labour; and any feasible way. rectly (see Appendix 1). In 2018, minor revisions were made to the policies and subsequently approved by the Board of VKR Holding PRINCIPLE 6: In general, the direct risks related to the Ten Principles are asses(see Appendix 2). the elimination of discrimination in respect of sed to be low for VKR Holding A/S in itself due to the nature of our employment and occupation. business activities and the geographical location of our office in In addition to the Group policies, the Board of Directors of VKR Denmark. However, through the ownership of companies, indirect Holding has defined a set of CSR intentions in each of the four risks are potentially more severe. Thus, a significant part of VKR issue areas that all companies of the VKR Group are expected to Holding’s commitment to the principles are group-wide policies, observe. 12 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 13 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR IMPACT ASSESSMENT POLICIES IMPACT ASSESSMENT Additionally, the principles of Labour are also indirectly The company VKR Holding A/S only has activities in VKR Holding has implemented the Group CSR Policy that The risk of VKR Holding violating the principles of labour addressed by the group-wide Risk Management Policy and Denmark where human rights are highly protected and indirectly addresses the issue area of human rights. All is assessed to be low, primarily because the company Legal Policy. These policies implemented by VKR Holding fringements are infrequent. Consequently, VKR Holding’s companies of the VKR Group, including VKR Holding, and has employees in Denmark only, where labour rights are stipulate that companies of the VKR Group must take a direct risk of violating the principles of human rights is all business connections are subject to the policy, which highly protected. qualified position on risks and comply with all relevant assessed to be low. instructs the companies to regularly identify, prevent legislation. or mitigate, and provide remedial processes to potential CSR OWNER INTENTIONS adverse impacts. According to the Group CSR Policy, the In respect of the founder’s ambition to treat stakeholders, VKR Holding has published an employee handbook, addresminimum requirement is compliance with the Internatioincluding employees, better than most other companies, sing employees’ responsibilities, rights, compensation, GIVEN OUR ASPIRATION TO nal Bill of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on the Board of VKR Holding has formulated the CSR owner vacation, company policies, etc. Annually, every employee BE A MODEL COMPANY, IT IS Business and Human Rights. intentions listed below: is invited to an annual dialogue with their manager where expectations, results, development, compensation, indiOBVIOUS THAT HUMAN RIGHTS In addition to the Group CSR Policy, VKR Holding has • Companies of the VKR Group should continuously vidual targets, etc., are discussed. VKR Holding provides a MUST ALWAYS BE RESPECTED implemented three policies, the Risk Management Policy, improve occupational health and safety; and comprehensive health insurance to all employees. the Legal Policy and the Crisis Management Policy, that • Provide conditions and opportunities conducive for indirectly addresses human rights. In brief, these policies the personal and professional development of all OUTCOMES IN 2018 require the entire VKR Group to take a qualified position employees; and As a follow-up on the satisfactory employee survey conducCSR OWNER INTENTIONS on risks, comply with all relevant legislation and to ensure • Not tolerate child labour ted in 2017, managers with staff responsibility participated Given our aspiration to be a Model Company, it is obvious adequate crisis management programmes concerning in a two-day training programme, and all employees particithat human rights must always be respected. Therefore, potential serious crises. pated in a half-day feedback training session. Additionally, VKR Holding and its Board of Directors have formulated other initiatives were implemented throughout the year. AS A FOLLOW-UP ON THE the following CSR owner intentions in relation to human TARGET FOR 2019 rights: For 2019, the target is to continue our structured impact SATISFACTORY EMPLOYEE SURVEY Under-represented gender on the Board of Directors assessment of VKR Holding’s business activities in all four CONDUCTED IN 2017, MANAGERS By the end of 2018, VKR Holding’s Board of Directors consi• Zero-tolerance with respect to violations of universal issue areas, including human rights. We do not expect to WITH STAFF RESPONSIBILITY sted of one female and five male representatives and thus rights identify significant negative impacts or risks related to PARTICIPATED IN A TWO-DAY the under-represented gender constituted approximately • When relevant, companies of the VKR Group should the principles of human rights. 17% of the Board. Hence, VKR Holding’s target of minimum TRAINING PROGRAMME, AND ALL operate with a code of conduct, e.g. for suppliers one representative of the under-represented gender was EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATED IN achieved. A HALF-DAY FEEDBACK TRAINING SESSION TARGETS FOR 2019 The target for 2019 is to continue our structured impact assessment of VKR Holding’s business activities in all four POLICIES issue areas, including labour. We do not expect to identify The Group CSR Policy, implemented by VKR Holding, significant negative impacts or risks related to the prinaddresses the labour principles directly. According to ciples of labour. the policy, companies of the VKR Group and all business connections are to comply with the Declaration on FundaIn addition, we will conclude the management training mental Principles and Rights at Work and the legislation programme initiated in 2018 and carry out a new emploon Modern Slavery by regularly identifying, preventing, yee satisfaction survey. Our target is to achieve employee mitigating, and providing remedial processes to potential satisfaction results on par with the very satisfactory adverse impacts. results of the survey conducted in 2017. 14 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 15 ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT cant incident, appropriate authorities must be informed. IMPACT ASSESSMENT The group-wide Anti-Corruption Policy and Competition Due to the nature of the business activities of VKR Holding Business partners, including suppliers, are expected to Also for the principle of anti-corruption, the risk of Law Compliance Policy, both implemented by VKR Holand its relatively low impact on climate and environment, follow the same procedures. infringement is assessed to be low, as VKR Holding mainly ding, also address the principle of anti-corruption directly. the risk of violating the principles of this issue area is operates in Denmark, which ranks highest in TransparenAccording to these policies, Group companies, including assessed to be low. The principles of environment are indirectly addressed in cy International’s newly published Corruption Perception VKR Holding, are required to comply with all relevant the Risk Management Policy and the Legal Policy impleIndex for 2018. international and/or national anti-trust and competition CSR OWNER INTENTIONS mented by VKR Holding. In short, these policies require all laws. Additionally, they contain guidelines for appropriate In relation to the issue area of environment, VKR Holding’s companies of the VKR Group to take a qualified position on CSR OWNER INTENTIONS behavior in different situations that could violate anti-corBoard of Directors has defined the following CSR owner risks and to comply with all relevant legislation. Concerning the issue area of anti-corruption, the CSR ruption legislation and policies. intentions: owner intentions formulated by the Board of VKR Holding simply state: TARGET FOR 2019 • All companies of the VKR Group should evaluate For 2019, the target is to continue our structured impact and, if possible, reduce environmental and climate WE ONLY ACQUIRE COMPANIES • VKR Group companies are to comply with the groupassessment of VKR Holding’s business activities in all four impacts of products using a lifecycle approach; and THAT HAS THE POTENTIAL TO wide Anti-Corruption Policy issue areas, including anti-corruption. We do not expect • Minimise waste of raw materials in production, and BECOME A MODEL COMPANY to identify significant negative impacts or risks related to improve energy and water efficiency to reduce negatiPOLICIES the principle of anti-corruption. ve environmental impacts; and The Group CSR Policy implemented by VKR Holding states • Increase the usage of renewable natural resources in that all companies of the VKR Group and any business new products OUTCOMES IN 2018 partners must regularly identify and prevent or mitigate Employees of VKR Holding assisted the VELUX Group’s potential adverse impacts concerning corruption, money In addition to working with the internal factors mentioned acquisition processes in 2018. We only acquire companies laundering and anti-trust in alignment with the OECD above, the companies of the VKR Group are expected that has the potential to become a Model Company. ConGuidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In case of an to make use of their position and unique knowledge to sequently, issues such as Health, Safety and Environment incident, appropriate authorities must be informed. influence external framework conditions by: are examined as part of our due diligence process when acquiring new companies to the Group. • Endorsing relevant standards and environmental certification systems; and TARGET FOR 2019 • Working systematically on environmental issues in For 2019, the target is to continue our structured impact the construction sector and committing to improving assessment of VKR Holding’s business activities in all four the energy efficiency of buildings; and issue areas, including environment. We do not expect to • Forming strategic partnership which contribute to deidentify significant negative impacts or risks related to veloping new standards in eco-friendly construction the principles of environment. and influence the environmental agenda in general POLICIES Trough the Group CSR Policy implemented by VKR Holding, the VKR Group is committed to acting in accordance with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises by regularly identifying and preventing or mitigating potential adverse environmental impacts. In case of a signifi16 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 17 SUSTAINABLE THE VKR GROUP’S CONTRIBUTION TO AND IMPACT ON THE SDGS DEVELOPMENT GOALS The SDGs are interlinked and contribution to or negative impact on one of them will most likely also extend to another. On Group level, we focus our attention PEACE, JUSTICE AND GOOD HEALTH on the SDGs found below even though other SDGs are affected as well. STRONG INSTITUTIONS AND WELL-BEING 16 SDG TARGET AS DEFINED BY UN 3 • By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being VERY HIGH / HIGH • By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous ­chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination 12 • By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix • By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency 11 7 8 RESPONSIBLE AFFORDABLE AND CONSUMPTION CLEAN ENERGY AND PRODUCTION • Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and DECENT WORK AND human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, SUSTAINABLE CITIES ECONOMIC GROWTH including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms AND COMMUNITIES • Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment Within a company the size of VKR Holding there is limited remaining business areas and VKR Holding will implement similar • By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services and opportunity to contribute directly to the SDGs and similarly, the due diligence procedures. upgrade slums negative impacts are minor. The VKR Group on the other hand, has both an opportunity and an obligation to make a difference, The VELUX Group has formulated and implemented a CSR & SusMODERATE both in terms of positive contributions and mitigating any negatainability Policy concerning the Group’s positive contributions tive impacts. and negative impacts on the SDGs, including climate, environ• By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources ment, labour conditions and anti-corruption. During 2018, VELUX • By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes On the following pages, we present consolidated impact assessmanagement and employees have been working on the new throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and ments, highlight selected actions and results of the business areas Sustainability Strategy 2030 that will be published in 2020. In significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse and describe implemented policies and due diligence processes. preparation of the new strategy, focus areas, targets, policies and impacts on human health and the environment Due to differences in priorities and impacts in relation to the SDGs, activities are evaluated to improve performance and relevancy • By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and results of the business areas going towards 2030. are not consolidated but presented separately. More information • Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms can be found in the business areas’ separate Communications On the following pages when actions, results, etc. of the VELUX on Progress. The VELUX Group will be publishing their report on Group are mentioned, the newly acquired companies (JET Group, March 28 and the other business areas in the coming months. Vitral and Wasco Skylights) are not included yet. Consequently, KPIs such as CO2 emissions and recycling/reuse rates are excludAccording to the CSR Group Policy, all companies of the VKR ing the effect of the newly acquired companies. In 2019, methods Group are obligated to implement due diligence processes in the and data collection procedures will be aligned so the impacts of areas of human rights, environment and anti-corruption. Only the the company can be included in the reporting for 2019. For more information about the SDGs and the targets, please visit https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs VELUX Group has fully implemented due diligence processes. The 18 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 19 SDG 3: CASE STORY: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING SAVE THE INDOOR GENERATION SDG 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES The VELUX Indoor Generation campaign. Photo: Søren Solkær, 2018 IMPACT ASSESSMENT ACTIONS IN 2018 RESULTS IN 2018 The VKR Group has a significant positive To put the spotlight on the facts and conThe VELUX Group has developed apps, 100 impact on good health and well-being sequences relating to an unhealthy indoor handbooks and other tools that help users (SDG 3) and a moderate positive impact on environment, the VELUX Group launched see the benefits of proper daylighting, sustainable cities and communities (SDG the Indoor Generation campaign. The camnatural ventilation and smart automation. 11) through the Roof windows & skylights paign, which is based on years of research In 2018, VELUX ACTIVE with NETATMO million views of and Vertical windows business areas. and 1:1 experiments with healthy homes, and the MyDaylight app were officially Indoor Generation film By bringing fresh air and daylight into was spearheaded by a short film that went launched. In 2018, the VELUX Group took an people’s lives, the general well-being of viral and supported by local campaigns important step to advance the people is improved. In addition, the risks of premature mortality from non-communicable diseases and deaths as well as illnesses linked to household pollution are in four European markets, including TV commercials and informative websites. In 2019, the Indoor Generation campaign VELUX ACTIVE utilises intelligent sensor that measure temperature, CO2 and humidity to automate the operation of VELUX roof windows, blinds, and shutters for a awareness within the general public about the effects of modern living on 2,000+ news articles covered reduced. will continue raising awareness about the healthier and more comfortable indoor health, well-being and productivity and Indoor Generation topics effects of an unhealthy indoor environment environment. how to create healthier homes. and how daylight and fresh air through the IN 2018, VELUX ACTIVE roof can improve health and well-being. With the MyDaylight app, users can simuThe purpose of the campaign was to raise awareness about the WITH NETATMO AND late their home with VELUX products to Today, people in the developed world spend up to 90% of their consequences of the indoor lifestyle, including a call to action THE MYDAYLIGHT Please see the case story on the f­ ollowing see how daylight can be brought into the time indoors according to WHO. But what are the consequences that everybody can do something to alleviate the problems relaAPP WAS OFFICIALLY page or visit the website for more inforhouse through the roof. of the indoor living? In order to qualify this question, the VELUX ted to modern indoor living and create a healthy home. LAUNCHED mation: Group carried out a comprehensive survey among 16,000 responhttps://www.velux.com/indoorgeneration DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES dents in 14 countries across Europe and North America. The campaign was spearheaded by a short, viral film, which had Every year, the VELUX Group publishes the gained more than 100 million views and been covered in more Today, people in the developed part of the In 2018, the DOVISTA Group continued worHealthy Home Barometer in partnership Based on the survey results and decades of research cooperathan 2,000 news articles by the end of 2018. The viral film was world spend most of their time indoors, king on five strategic focus areas, one of with the consultancy agency Ecofys/ tion with leading universities, partnerships with specifiers and succeeded by local Indoor Generation campaigns in four Eurowhich makes it even more important to them being indoor climate. In collaboration Navigant and the Fraunhofer IBP research know-how from more than 30 Active Houses around the world, pean markets with TV commercials and informative campaign improve the indoor environment. Studies between the Group’s two largest companiinstitute. The report takes the pulse of the VELUX Group launched the Indoor Generation campaign in websites. show that indoor air can be 5 times more es, VELFAC and Rational, and the DOVISTA European buildings and provides knowledspring 2018. polluted than outdoor air, and that the risk Innovation Center, ambitious targets have ge about potential building improvements One year into the campaign, which continues in 2019, it is evident of asthma and other respiratory diseases is been set, and implementation has begun. to home owners, legislators and the The Indoor Generation report unveiled that a new 24/7 indoor that the message resounds among people. According to a survey 40% higher if you live in a damp and moulDuring the year, the DOVISTA Group has building community in general. generation is unaware that the air inside our homes and public from Audience Project in late 2018, 10% of people would now dy building. As a direct consequence it is contributed by directing political attention buildings can be more polluted than outside, with the vast put daylight and fresh air on their top three lists if they were to estimated that about 2.2 million people in to problems caused by traffic noise, and majority of people (77%) believing indoor air is just as polluted or renovate their home. Likewise, Audience Project registered a Europe alone are diagnosed with asthma. developed products and solutions that cleaner than that found outside. In fact, it can be up to five times significant increase in the number of people, who are now aware reduce traffic noise in buildings. more polluted. that good indoor environment can help protect their health. 20 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 21 SDG 7: CASE STORY: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY TRANSFORMING A WASTED ­O PPORTUNITY INTO A ­R ENEWABLE ­E NERGY SOURCE IMPACT ASSESSMENT The DOVISTA Group also has an ambition The DOVISTA Group also realised a The VKR Group has a two-fold impact on to minimise the carbon footprint of its satisfactory result in 2018 by reducing CO2 affordable and clean energy (SDG 7). On activities by lowering CO2 emissions per emissions per 1,000 units produced to 15.4 one hand, the Group contributes positively produced unit. In 2018, this ambition was tonnes compared to 20.5 tonnes the year In our joint efforts to improve through the solar thermal energy busisupported by choosing to buy energy from before*. The target is to further reduce the climate, it is important that ness area represented by Arcon-Sunmark. renewable sources in the newly opened CO2 emissions per 1,000 units produced in The company develops and supplies soluproduction facilities in Lithuania. From the coming years. we combine environmentally tions supporting the transition to a higher 1 November 2018, the factory is powered friendly initiatives with solid share of renewable energy in the global solely by green energy delivered by an DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES energy mix that is a must-win battle to independent supplier and even at a lower The VELUX Group apply a Life Cycle solutions that in addition to being solve the planet’s climate challenges and price than standard energy from the main Assessment to measure and document sustainable also create added at the same time satisfy the growing energrid operator. CO2 emissions from sourcing to disposal gy demand. The windows business areas when developing and improving products. value for the local community. also contribute in a positive way through RESULTS IN 2018 The DOVISTA Group companies are conenergy-efficient solutions that reduce the In 2018, the VELUX Group reduced the tinuously working on improving products Arcon-Sunmark’s innovative installation located energy consumption of buildings, especompany’s CO2 emissions for the second and production methods in order to reduon a closed landfill in the Austrian city of Graz is a cially when replacing older windows. year in a row. Compared to the 2007-basece the impact on the environment. textbook example of just that. On this location, a line, CO2 emissions have been lowered by heating plant has been constructed which combines On the other hand, all business areas 42.8% and the business area is therefore Additionally, both business areas contilarge-scale solar heating with gas from the landfill engage in manufacturing. The manufacon track for realising the target of a 50% nuously implement other initiatives to supplying households with heat and hot water. turing process always has an impact on reduction by the end of 2020. reduce emissions, including the examples climate and environment, e.g. emission of mentioned above, and report progress Land is valuable, and unused land without purpose CO2, which the Group continuously strives externally on a yearly basis. is an issue for any society. As an example, land was to reduce. wasted in Graz until Arcon-Sunmark installed a large-scale solar heating plant in the location, supACTIONS IN 2018 FIGURE 1: VELUX GROUP CO2 EMISSIONS (THOUSAND TONNES) plying the local community with stable, CO2-neutral, The VELUX Group has several initiatives to odorless and silent energy. Replacing fossil fuels with reduce CO2 emissions by increasing ener132 139 clean energy from the sun reduces CO2 significantly. 129 127 112 115 gy efficiency and using renewable energy. 106 93 93 97 87 The main components of the award-winning heating 75 In 2018, the VELUX Group continued its plant in Graz are a 2,000 m2 solar collector field toinvestments in bio-boilers fired by waste gether with a 2,500 m3 storage tank which will gather (wood chips) from production to reduce the produced energy and a gas-powered engine fueled CO2 emissions from factories and minimiby gas from the landfill. An expansion of the solar 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 se waste. A new bio-boiler was installed heating production is planned, and if implemented, in Namyslow, Poland, replacing 80% of the collector field will reach a total of 10,000 m2. Adthe fossil fuels used for heating purposes, FIGURE 2: DOVISTA GROUP CO2 EMISSIONS (TONNES) PER 1,000 ditionally, the buffer storage tank can take energy out and the existing bio-boiler in Skærbæk, UNITS PRODUCED of the grid and deliver it back later when needed. This Denmark, was extended, increasing the increases the flexibility of the entire area’s district Arcon-Sunmark’s thermal solar heating facility in Graz, capacity to 70% of the heating demand Austria. Photo: Wolfgang Hummer, 2018 heating supply. Arcon-Sunmark has developed and 19.3 20.5 19.9 from 50% before the extension. built the heating plant as a turnkey solution.. 15.4 * In 2018, CO2 emissions of the DOVISTA Group were positively affected by a higher share of CO2 neutral energy in purchased LARGE-SCALE SOLAR HEATING WITH electricity. GAS FROM THE LANDFILL SUPPLYING 2015 2016 2017 2018 HOUSEHOLDS WITH HEAT AND HOT WATER 22 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 23 SDG 8: CASE STORY: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH COLLABORATION WITH SUPPLIERS LEADS TO IMPROVED WORKING CONDITIONS IMPACT ASSESSMENT RESULTS IN 2018 In Arcon-Sunmark, an inclusive work Concerning decent work and economic In the entire VKR Group, a safe and motivaenvironment is a high priority. Therefore, Production of vertical windows, growth (SDG 8), the most substantial ting work environment is a high priority, the company has implemented a target Photo: DOVISTA, 2014 impacts of the VKR Group are the risk of and in 2018, both the VELUX Group and for the share of individuals with special accidents in the workplace and poor worthe DOVISTA Group conducted employee needs of 2% of the total work force. At the king conditions at suppliers of materials, satisfaction surveys. The results of these end of 2018, employees with special needs components, logistic services and so on. surveys were satisfactory. represented 2% of the workforce and thus Regarding forced labour and human rights the target was fulfilled. in general, only potential risks exist due to Unfortunately, the VELUX Group saw an the VKR Group’s focus on respecting the increase in work accidents per one million DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES fundamental rights of employees internalwork hours from 2.5 in 2017 to 2.7 in 2018. The VELUX Group has implemented a ly as well as at suppliers. As a result, the target of 1 accident per one Supplier Evaluation and Approval Process million work hours was not reached but to ensure compliance with the Code of INITIATIVES IN ADDITION TO GROUP was still about four times lower than the Conduct. In 2018, 40 Supplier Quality POLICIES industry benchmark. The long-term vision Audits were performed. The VELUX Group requires all suppliers to of the VELUX Group continues to be zero sign the VELUX Code of Conduct for supaccidents. In the DOVISTA Group, all work accidents pliers, committing them to respect human and near-misses are reviewed monthly by and labour rights as in the VELUX Group The DOVISTA Group did not fulfil the tarsenior management and the management itself. Among other things, the Code of Conget for work accidents either. The target of the company in which the incident(s) duct prohibits all forms of forced and child for 2018 was a 25% reduction compared happened. In the review, the cause of the labour and safeguards employees’ right to to the 6.6 work accidents per one million incident as well as the severity are deterthe freedom of association and collective work hours (production only) in 2017 but it mined, and corrective actions are identified bargaining. The other business areas have was realised at 8.1 accidents. and implemented to reduce the likelihood implemented similar procedures. of a similar incident in the future. The DOVISTA Group has formulated and FIGURE 3: VELUX GROUP WORK ACCIDENTS PER ONE implemented the “Work Health and SafeMILLION WORK HOURS ty” policy in all subsidiaries. This policy supports the long-term target of zero 2.7 2.5 2.3 work-related accidents. 1.9 ACTIONS IN 2018 In 2018, an updated Code of Conduct for Much is done to provide a safe and instance, DOVISTA China has been working closely with suppliboth employees and suppliers, building on ers over the last 16 years to ensure compliance with the Code of motivational workspace for all the Ten Principles of the UN Global ComConduct. The performance of suppliers is monitored continuously pact, was rolled out in the global VELUX 2015 2016 2017 2018 employees of the VKR Group but and assessed every 6 months, and each supplier is subject to a organisation. that is not enough. bi-monthly audit to ensure an acceptable work environment and FIGURE 4: DOVISTA GROUP WORK ACCIDENTS PER ONE progress on initiatives to improve conditions. In case of non-comIn 2018, the VELUX Group also carried out a MILLION WORK HOURS (PRODUCTION ONLY) pliance with the Code of Conduct and failure to improve, the risk assessment of more than 5,000 workBy engaging in production, the business areas purchase materials supplier is disqualified. places in the supply system and implemenand components from external suppliers, including suppliers loted different measures to reduce the risk 10.1 cated in countries with increased risk of poor working conditions DOVISTA China’s work with its suppliers has been very successful, of incidents in the daily work. The company 8.5 8.1 and infringement of human rights. Consequently, the business and great improvements have been realised. In 2018, one of DOVIplans to implement a company-wide 6.6 areas have implemented Codes of Conduct for suppliers that STA China’s suppliers was awarded a Code of Conduct certificahazard reporting system in 2019. must be followed. tion for their improvements over the years, which include safety measures when operating machinery, training of employees in The DOVISTA Group is working in close collaboration with its safe working procedures, implementation of daily safety checks 2015 2016 2017 2018 suppliers to ensure a healthy and sustainable supply chain. For and so on. 24 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 25 SDG 12: CASE STORY: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION ZERO WASTE IN VELUX PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT RESULTS IN 2018 forests, and in 2019, special focus will be The VKR Group’s greatest risks of negative The VELUX Group achieved a recycling/reon sustainable packaging. The DOVISTA impact on responsible consumption and use rate of 97% in 2018, which is identical Group sourced 88% of wood from certified production (SDG 12) relates to potential to the year before. The vision is zero waste suppliers in 2018, up from 87% in 2017. unsustainable sourcing of raw materials, in production and when disposing of The target is to increase the share in the inefficient usage of raw materials/waste in production, and substances that are hazardous to the environment, employees and consumers. products at the end of their life cycle. To further this agenda, the VELUX Group will initiate a Zero Waste programme at the end of 2019 for roll-out in 2020 as part of coming years. DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES The VELUX Group continuously resear75% of production waste was 2% was sent to landfill the 2030 Sustainable Strategy. ches and develops sustainable materials recycled INITIATIVES IN ADDITION TO GROUP for use in VELUX products and applies POLICIES The DOVISTA Group is also working to the Life Cycle Assessment to measure To mitigate the risks mentioned above, the minimise waste from production, and in and document the impact of the products VELUX Group has implemented additional 2018, the Group realised a recycling/reuse throughout the entire lifespan. 22% 1% policies (the CSR & Sustainability Policy rate of 91% compared to 92% in 2017. and the Environmental Policy) concerning To uphold FSC and PEFC certification, the the efficient and sustainable use of raw Both the VELUX Group and the DOVISTA VELUX Group carries out internal audits materials, water, and energy to mitigate Group source a substantial share of wood and audits of external suppliers, including the effect on the environment. from certified forests. In 2018, 99.5% of the an annual supplier meeting and monthly was used as renewable was categorised as hazardous wood for VELUX products in Europe was performance reviews. In 2018, 65 internal energy waste and treated as such ACTIONS IN 2018 sourced from FSC certified, sustainable audits were performed in total. In 2018, the VELUX Group started development of roof windows made of reclaimed timber from buildings at the end of their life cycle. A test series of 125 windows was produced for the Dutch market to FIGURE 5: VELUX GROUP PRODUCTION WASTE investigate the viability of reclaimed RECYCLING/REUSE RATE timber while maintaining the high-quality For several years, the VELUX Group In 2018, the VELUX pane factories implemented new methods standard of VELUX windows. In 2019, the for cutting glass sheets and eliminated the use of glass cover 98% has pursued a vision of zero waste in concept will enter the product devel97% 97% 97% sheets during transportation in order to reduce glass waste. Also, opment process and be evaluated with production and products. 2018 saw leftover composite fiberglass material used for VELUX Modular larger production volume in view. several initiatives bringing the Group Skylights found new applications in cement production, where it is now used to replace fossil fuels for incineration and sand, The VELUX Group also issued the VELUX closer to realising this vision. limestone and other additives for the final cement mix. Restricted Substance Management 2015 2016 2017 2018 Standard (VRSMS) in 2018. The standard Buildings account for one third of the world’s resource consumpEnd-of-life take-back of products is a growing trend in the buildescribes the materials and substances tion. Three billion tons of raw materials go into the building ding industry. In 2018, VELUX Netherlands launched a take-back not allowed in components and products FIGURE 6: DOVISTA GROUP PRODUCTION industry every year. 40% of solid waste comes from construction service for VELUX roof windows. This means that the VELUX delivered by external suppliers. All supWASTE RECYCLING/REUSE RATE sites or demolition of buildings. windows are dismantled after use and then reused as raw mapliers to VELUX locations in Europe must terials in other products. The pilot project carried out by VELUX comply with the standard. In 2019, it is the In the light of this, the VELUX Group aims to reduce and recycle Netherlands is expected to reduce CO2 emissions significantly ambition of the VELUX Group to prepare waste from production and products. In 2018, optimisation of all over the entire life cycle of the products. a global database containing all chemi96% major materials came under scrutiny. For wood, a study of how cals used in production, laboratories and 94% to make the most of every tree trunk was carried out in coopetesting facilities. Each registered chemical 92% ration with industrial partners. For PU (polyurethane) windows, will be risk-assessed to identify hazardous 91% experiments of reusing recycled material led to development substances for elimination or substitution. of a screwdriver toolkit, which was previously made from virgin 2015 2016 2017 2018 materials. 26 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 27 SDG 16: PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS IMPACT ASSESSMENT ACTIONS IN 2018 The VKR Group’s impact on peace, justice In 2018, the VELUX Group has introduced Lian windows in the world’s tallest timber building and strong institutions (SDG 16) primarily an enhanced programme in its Online Mjos Tower in Brumunddal, Norway. Photo: Per Erik Bjørnback, 2019 relate to the risk of any participation Sales Organisation to secure and docu– also involuntarily – in corruption and ment the internal information barriers, bribery at suppliers. For the VELUX Group preventing exchange of sensitive inforspecifically, there is also a risk concerning mation that could lead to infringement of fair competition due to the company’s leacompetition law. ding market position in the roof window industry. RESULTS IN 2018 In 2018, the European Commission rejecINITIATIVES IN ADDITION TO GROUP ted a complaint against the VKR Group for POLICIES having abused our leading position in the To mitigate the risk of corruption and roof window industry. The comprehensive bribery, suppliers are required to sign a investigation that had been ongoing since Code of Conduct prohibiting any form of 2012 found no breaches of the competition corruption or bribery. rules. DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES In the VELUX Group, a Group General TO MITIGATE THE Counsel is appointed to monitor and idenRISK OF CORRUPTION tify any potential significant competition AND BRIBERY, law issues in relation to the business SUPPLIERS ARE activities of the company. A specialised team, under the supervision of the Group REQUIRED TO SIGN A General Counsel, advises on competition CODE OF CONDUCT law matters and conducts compliance PROHIBITING ANY reviews and training of general manaFORM OF CORRUPTION gers, sales managers, and other relevant OR BRIBERY employees. To ensure fair competition, the VELUX Group has embedded a compliance culture in the entire organisation, and all employees are bound by the VELUX Competition Law Compliance Programme. In practice, this is enforced through several initiatives, including an e-learning programme designed specifically for marketing and sales staff, and on-going training by means of interaction with internal and external competition counsels. 28 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 29 APPENDICES APPENDIX 1: GROUP CSR POLICY This policy describes the approach to be taken in relation to the 2. systematically manage significant adverse environIn VKR Holding and in each Business Area, one or more officers are Involvement of VKR Holding A/S corporate social responsibility (CSR) of the VKR Group based on mental impacts responsible for implementation and for monitoring the compliVKR Holding A/S appoints an employee to be contacted by the the UN Global Compact, which we have signed, and the internatiance in relation to this policy. The officers shall implement due above officers and the management of the individual VKR Group onally agreed minimum standards for responsible business coni.e. adopt a policy commitment to establish and maintain environdiligence processes in relation to compliance with this policy, cf. companies for advice in relation to the requirements of this duct – the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights mental due diligence, where the companies regularly identify, 1-3 above. These elements are part of a continual, ongoing propolicy. (UNGP) and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises prevent or mitigate their potential adverse impacts, and inform cess. The result of the due diligence process can be used to guide (OECD). the appropriate authorities of such significant impacts should the VKR Group’s strategy and execution efforts with continuous Renewal and communication of the Group CSR Policy they occur according to the OECD, and improvement of our general CSR activities within the framework This policy shall be reviewed whenever relevant, and at least The policy applies to VKR Holding A/S and all companies ultimaof the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. every three (3) years. It shall be made public and communicated tely owned or controlled by VKR Holding A/S (the “VKR Group”). 3. systematically manage risks for corruption, money to employees, business connections, and other relevant stakehollaundering and anti-trust practices Other UN goals within this framework, e.g. the Sustainable ders of the VKR Group. It is the purpose of the VKR Group to establish a number of model Development Goals (2015-2030) and the Blueprint for Corporate companies, which co-operate in an exemplary manner. A “model i.e. adopt a policy commitment to establish and maintain Sustainability Leadership, can inspire concrete strategic objecticompany” is a company working with products useful to society, economic due diligence, where the companies regularly identify, ves and actions. which treats its customers, suppliers, employees of all categories prevent or mitigate their potential adverse impacts in relation and shareholders better than most other companies. to corruption, money laundering and anti-trust, and inform the appropriate authorities of such impacts should they occur accorIt is the overall CSR policy that all VKR Group companies, with the ding to the OECD. model company objective and the UN Global Compact principles as framework, live up to this CSR commitment, that all VKR The Group CSR Policy and its relation to other policies APPENDIX 2: LIST OF VKR GROUP POLICIES Group companies, their employees, and their business relatiThis policy shall be embedded in all other policies (including onships, at all times, comply with the UN Guiding Principles for Group policies) and procedures where relevant, and reference is Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multimade to these. national Enterprises in relation to the subject matters covered by In the VKR Group, the below 15 Group Policies, and 1 sub-policy of the Group Tax Policy, apply. These UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles and that they contribute to VKR Holding A/S and each Business Area can issue sub-policies, policies concern areas that are important or critical to the whole VKR Group. The policies apply to all sustainable development in line with their corporate strategy. guidelines, and instructions if these are in conformity with this companies ultimately owned or controlled by VKR Holding A/S. Some of the policies, including the policy. CSR Policy, also extend to any business connection of the VKR Group. At all times, the VKR Group will comply with existing laws and regulations for the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we expect Our expectations to our employees: • Anti-Corruption Policy all our business connections to do the same. Specifically, each We expect all our employees to assist us in meeting our core • Cash Management Policy Business Area in the VKR Group and any business connection of responsibilities and appreciate involvement in activities related • Communication Policy the VKR Group shall: to implementation of this policy. Furthermore, we expect our • Competition Law Compliance Policy employees to react or inform their managers, or any other appro• Crisis Management Policy 1. respect human rights priate functions, if they identify any potential adverse impacts • CSR Policy in relation to the principles included in the UN Global Compact • Dividend Policy i.e. adopt a policy commitment to establish and maintain human framework. Procedures and programs, e.g. whistle-blower pro• Financial Information Policy rights due diligence, where the companies regularly identify, grams, have been set up in this context. • Foreign Currency Exposures Policy prevent or mitigate their potential adverse impacts, and provide • Insurance Policy for access to remedy for actual adverse impacts; at a minimum Who is responsible? The role of the management of the • IPR Policy in relation to the human rights contained in the International Bill VKR Group companies • Legal Policy of Human Rights, that also contains the rights referenced in the Compliance in relation to this policy is the responsibility of the • Risk Management Policy International Labour Organization as reflected in the Declaratimanagement of each company of the VKR Group. Within the over• Tax Policy on on the Fundamental Principles of Rights at Work. It shall be all framework, each business area is responsible for identifying • Transfer Pricing Policy noted that impacts in relation to Modern Slavery and the right its own specific CSR strategic objectives according to which the • Policy on the Prevention of Facilitation of Tax Evasion (sub-policy of the Tax Policy) to safe and healthy working conditions are included in such due individual company shall contribute to sustainable development, diligence, adapted to the company’s organization, geographical presence In late 2018, most policies were revised and approved by the Board of Directors in VKR Holding A/S. and market position. They will subsequently be approved by the boards of the parent company of each business area. The Group Policies support the economic sustainability of the Group as well as the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. 30 VKR HOLDING A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 VKR HOLDING A/S 31 VKR Holding A/S Breeltevej 18 2970 Hørsholm Denmark Telephone: +45 3969 1144 Company reg. no. (CVR): 30 83 04 15 www.vkr-holding.com Published by VKR Holding A/S, Breeltevej 18, 2970 Hørsholm Print file no. 1754-0319 Design BystedFFW
