2018 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Period covered by this Communication on Progress: 2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER November 28, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Nutrien reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Chuck Magro President & CEO Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 1 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Nutrien’s most important assets are our employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. It is critical that we maintain the trust of each. Our Code of Ethics (“Code”) helps us fulfill our responsibilities by: • Committing to the public and our stakeholders our uncompromising integrity in every aspect of our efforts. • Describing our values and principles of business conduct, including our own high standards and our fundamental respect for the rule of law. • Guiding employees how to engage in ethical decision making in all our operations around the world. • Outlining our approach to interacting ethically with stakeholders – employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, governments and communities – and acting in the best interest of shareholders. Each year, employees are asked to complete the Code of Ethics training course. Upon completion of this training, they are asked to reaffirm their commitment to comply with the Code of Ethics. Read more about Nutrien’s actions regarding ethics, integrity and human rights in our 2018 Sustainability Report, pages 40-41 and 58. Nutrien encourages respect for the rights, culture, diversity and dignity of all individuals. Nutrien strives to maintain a work environment that is respectful, professional and free from discrimination and harassment. Nutrien will not tolerate discrimination or harassment directed at any individual or group with respect to, but not limited to, race, gender, gender identity, gender expression, color, religion, national origin, age, qualifying disability, veteran status, marital status, family status, pregnancy, sexual orientation or any activity specifically protected under a Nutrien policy. Jurisdictions in which we do business may include additional protected grounds not mentioned above. Nutrien will comply with all applicable local employment and human rights laws in any jurisdiction where we do business. As described in the Code, if a worker experiences or becomes aware of any act of discrimination or harassment, they have a duty to report it. They will not face retaliation for making a good faith complaint, assisting in an investigation or filing a complaint with any governmental agency under federal, provincial, state or local employment discrimination laws. Read more about Nutrien’s actions regarding diversity and inclusive growth in our 2018 Sustainability Report, pages 30-34 and 55-56. Nutrien expects our Suppliers to act responsibly and ethically and to respect human rights when doing business with or on behalf of Nutrien. Our Supplier Code of Ethics (“Supplier Code”) clarifies Nutrien’s expectations of our Suppliers in the areas of business ethics, sustainability and human rights. Nutrien’s Suppliers must comply with our Supplier Code. Each Supplier must also ensure that their affiliated entities, employees, sub-contractors and their own supply chain will comply with the Supplier Code. The Supplier Code benchmarks the minimum requirements of acceptable conduct. We strongly encourage Suppliers to exceed the minimum requirements of the Supplier Code and to promote best Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 2 practices and continuous improvement throughout their operations. Where local laws impose less restrictive obligations, Nutrien expects the Supplier to adhere to the Supplier Code. Our Supplier Qualification Process identifies providers that can meet Nutrien’s expectations for business performance and behavior. All current and prospective Nutrien suppliers are expected to meet the requirements of our Supplier Qualification process, which includes evaluation of their performance in safety, health, environment, ethics and corporate social responsibility, diversity, quality management and human resource management. Nutrien has a due diligence program developed to evaluate potential suppliers using the criteria outlined in our Supplier Code of Ethics. We use a risk-based approach to define the proportionate level of due diligence required and to identify those suppliers that warrant more detailed reviews. We ensure that suppliers found to be high risk have appropriate language included in contracts and a requirement to adhere to our Supplier Code. Employees working in high-risk supply chain management roles are educated about risks identified through our supply chain due diligence that may include human rights abuses such as slavery or child labor. Read more about Nutrien’s actions regarding responsible supply chain in our 2018 Sustainability Report, pages 42 and 58. Environment Our overriding concerns are safety of people and protection of the environment. At Nutrien, safety is more than just a priority, it is a core value which becomes an inseparable component of all we do at work, at home and as an example to others. Our goals simply stated are: No harm to people and a relentless pursuit of minimizing our environmental impacts. The drive to achieve these goals motivates us every day to find better ways to operate safely, to ensure no harm to our people and to continuously reduce our environmental impact. In all our activities and operations, we will: • Ensure that all our employees, contractors and others are well informed, well trained, engaged, attentive and committed to the SH&E processes. All Nutrien employees and contractors have a responsibility to work safely and protect the environment. • Recognize that safe operations depend not only on technically sound plants and equipment, but also on competent people and a culture of caring, that values safety and the protection of the environment. No activity is so important that it cannot be done safely and without creating undue environmental risk. • Comply fully with all regulatory requirements applicable to our operations. • Strive to minimize our environmental footprint, including waste, emissions and discharges from our operations. • Provide a secure working environment by protecting ourselves, our assets and our operations against risk of injury, loss or damage. • Regularly provide assurance that the safety and environmental protection processes in place are working effectively. • Maintain public confidence in the integrity of our operations. We will actively communicate and consult with people outside Nutrien to improve our understanding of SH&E related issues associated with our operations. Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 3 • Actively participate in hazard identification and safety, health, environmental and security compliance audits, voluntary efforts and reporting of SH&E performance results. • Actively encourage and enable our employees to make healthy lifestyle choices at work and at home. • Continuously seek opportunities to improve safety processes in our contractor relationships, emphasizing product stewardship and the safe transport of our products. Read about Nutrien’s actions regarding our environmental footprint in our 2018 Sustainability Report, pages 24-29 and 52-54. Nutrien’s Supplier Code of Ethics specifies that our suppliers must: • Comply with all applicable health, safety and environmental regulations. • Provide a work environment that promotes the highest standards of health, safety and environmental behavior. • Manage and communicate the health, safety and environmental risks associated with provided goods or services by including such information as Material Safety Data Sheets, operating instructions, personal protective measures and safeguards, etc. as necessary. • Maximize environmental protection through efficient use of energy and natural resources. Labor Nutrien's policies and Code of Ethics outline our employees' rights and obligations for building a respectful and discrimination-free workplace. Our relationship with labor unions is critical to the reliable operation of our facilities, and we successfully renegotiate union contracts regularly. As outlined in the 2018 Annual Information Form, we have entered into 16 collective bargaining agreements with labor organizations representing employees. We believe we have an effective working relationship with our employees, and the unions representing them. According to our Supplier Code of Ethics, Nutrien suppliers must: • Not directly or indirectly participate in any form of forced or compulsory labor. • Not require workers to surrender, as a condition of employment, any government-issued identification, passports, work permits or any other documents necessary for free movement and termination of employment. • Allow workers to leave work and freely terminate their employment (taking into account legal notice period requirements). • Not directly or indirectly participate in any form of human trafficking. • Not employ persons below the minimum age permitted by local law and the core conventions of the ILO including ILO Convention 138. • In no circumstances engage in the “worst forms of child labor” contrary to ILO Convention 182. • Where local laws impose less restrictive obligations, adhere to the applicable ILO Convention. • Ensure that all applicable labor and employment laws are followed, and ensure that all working conditions, including but not limited to wages and hours of work are respected and adhered to at all times. • Uphold employees’ right to freedom of association, and the rights to collective bargaining and to form and join trade unions, in accordance with local laws. • Provide employees with equal pay for equal work, timely pay, and periodic holidays with pay. Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 4 Anti-Corruption Nutrien operates in a wide range of jurisdictions and is vigilant and proactive in preventing and detecting corruption. In 2018, we launched a global Anti-Corruption Policy. This policy requires those who work on behalf of Nutrien to ensure that their own conduct fulfils the corporate commitment to compliance with the laws in each applicable jurisdiction. It applies to Nutrien’s directors, officers, employees, representatives, consultants, and other agents of Nutrien subsidiaries and in every country where we do business. Nutrien maintains an anti-corruption due diligence program that includes: • A global Anti-Corruption Policy which prohibits any form of public sector or commercial bribery. • Identifying high risk third parties, including acquisition targets and potential joint venture partners, and conducting diligence. • Incorporating anti-corruption clauses in contracts or obtaining certifications that include anticorruption language for high risk third parties. • Requiring anti-corruption training and other risk mitigation steps where appropriate, such as annual certification or continued monitoring to identify and address any potential issues. According to our Supplier Code of Ethics, all Nutrien suppliers must abide by all applicable antiCorruption and anti-Bribery laws, and never directly or indirectly practice or tolerate any form of corruption, bribery, kickbacks, money-laundering, fraud, facilitation payments, embezzlement or extortion. Bribery includes bribery of a government official, and commercial bribery of one of our employees or a third party who is engaged to act on Nutrien’s behalf. Read more about Nutrien’s actions regarding ethics, integrity and human rights in our 2018 Sustainability Report, pages 40-42 and 58. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES On January 1, 2018, Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and Agrium completed a merger of equals creating the new company, Nutrien. Please see Nutrien’s 2018 Performance Summary in our 2018 Sustainability Report, pages 62-65. Suite 500, 122 – 1st Avenue South • Saskatoon, SK • S7K 7G3 • Canada nutrien.com 5
