KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Integrated Report Mission We create innovative solutions globally based on our core values of Sustainability, Health and Comfort, striving for the well-being of people, society and our planet Earth. Vision Realize KAITEKI Value Sustainability, Health, Comfort KAITEKI Management Management of Sustainability (MOS) KA Sustainability axis The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) Group IT EK proudly introduces “KAITEKI,” our original concept that denotes Iv al ue “The sustainable well-being of people, society and our planet Earth.” It also represents our intent to contribute to the global environment and the sustainable Time development of society as well as providing solutions of environmental and societal issues. Innovation axis axis Management of Technology Based on the concept of KAITEKI, the MCHC Group implements KAITEKI Management. Ca (MOT) pi ta We work on developing our corporate value — KAITEKI value, keeping an optimal balance lE ffi ci between social and economic values in order to realize KAITEKI. en cy Management of Economics (MOE) 01 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 02 Corporate About Us P01 Value Creation P11 Strategy P17 Management P47 Performance P59 Data / Information P85 01 Mission / Vision 11 Value Creation Approach 17 Update on APTSIS 20 47 Directors 59 Financial Summary 85 Financial Information of the MCHC Group 85 Consolidated Financial Summary 07 Numeric Data for 11 Promoting a Value Creation Cycle Based on 19 Message from the President 49 Corporate Governance 61 Financial Highlights 87 Segment Information the MCHC Group Addressing Social Issues 49 Corporate Governance of MCHC 23 Dialog between 53 Message from the Chairperson 63 Non-Financial Highlights 89 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results 13 The MCHC Group’s Material Issues and of Operations, Financial Position, and Cash Flows 08 History of the MCHC Group the President and an Investor Selection Process of Focus Markets 55 Message from 65 Shareholder Information 93 Business Risks the Outside Director of the Board 09 Transition of Portfolio 27 Message from the CFO 96 Consolidated Statement of Income Transformation 56 Compliance 67 Overview 97 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 29 Innovation 57 Risk Management of Business Domains 98 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 29 Message from the CIO 67 Growth Measures of the Focus Markets and Updates of Actions in the Three 100 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 30 Driving early commercialization of nextgeneration businesses in our focus markets Business Domains 102 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 31 Examples of the MCHC Group Innovation 69 Summary 104 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 71 FY2018 Results by Segment 169 Independent Auditor's Report 35 Sustainability 73 Performance Products Domain 170 Report on Matters Equivalent to Key Audit Matters 35 Message from the CSO 77 Industrial Materials Domain 37 Expanding KAITEKI Value 175 Non-Financial Information 81 Health Care Domain — Realizing a Recycling-oriented Society 175 Environmental Data / Social Data 41 Progress with Sustainability Management 176 Independent Assurance Report 45 KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management, 177 Corporate Data Human Resource Development 45 Message from the CHO 178 Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates 179 Main Businesses 180 Global Network Editorial Policy The MCHC Group publishes the KAITEKI Report as a valueReporting Period FY2018 (April 2018 – March 2019), including some information from FY2019 Assessment Results of Corporate Value Including ESG creation story that captures our progress and outlook of corporate activities Reporting Boundary This report covers information relating to MCHC and the MCHC Group. For aimed at the realization of KAITEKI. This report summarizes financial and nonmatters with a different reporting scope, we clearly specify the covered reporting scope. MSCI financial information from the past, present and projected future based on that Accounting Standards MCHC has adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), effective Dow Jones MSCI Japan ESG Japan Empowering from the first quarter of FY2016, the financial year ended March 31, 2017. In this report, data in Sustainability Indices Select Leaders Index* we have determine to be highly pertinent to our decision-making criteria and Women Index* results of materiality assessments for corporate activities. In preparation of and after FY2016 are based on IFRS, while other figures are based on J-GAAP unless otherwise this report, we referred to the International Integrated Reporting Framework noted. created by the International Integrated Reporting Council. Further information on the topics of this report is available on MCHC’s website. Securities Reports FTSE Blossom Japan Index FTSE4Good Index https://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/ir/library/stock_securities_report.html (As of June 30, 2019) For detailed financial information, please refer to our securities reports Corporate Governance Report filed with the Financial Services Agency. For detailed governance information, https://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/english/pdf/governance.pdf * The inclusion of MCHC in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names on this page do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of MCHC by please refer to our corporate governance report to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. MSCI or any its affiliates. The MSCI Indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. 03 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 04 Innovation Sustainability Realize a recycling-oriented society Capture new market opportunities through creating value based on by accelerating our innovation cycle social expectations P29 P35 Message from the CIO P29 Message from the CSO P35 Driving early P30 Expanding KAITEKI Value P37 commercialization of next-generation — Realizing a Recycling-oriented Society businesses in our focus markets Progress with Sustainability P41 Examples of the MCHC Group P31 Management Innovation KAITEKI Health P45 and Productivity Management, Human Resource Development Message from the CHO P45 05 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 06 Numeric Data for the MCHC Group (As of the end of March 2019) History of the MCHC Group 1998 Mitsubishi Yoshitomi Pharmaceutical Merger Mitsubishi Kasei Green Cross Petrochemical Industries INPUT OUTPUT 1946 1994 2000 Corporate name change Spin-off Merger Tokyo Tanabe Mitsubishi Welfide Chemical 1999 Sales Revenue Spin-off and merger Mitsubishi-Tokyo 2001 Merger Total Assets ¥ 3,923.4billion Pharmaceuticals 5,572.5billion 2007 Merger Tanabe Seiyaku Mitsubishi Pharma* ¥ Core Operating Income* ¥ 317.2billion Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Chemical Tanabe Pharma Amount of Capital Ratio of (functional products business) Mitsubishi October 2007 Expenditures Overseas Revenue Mitsubishi Chemical Chemical* 231.7billion 42.4% Functional Products Mitsubishi Polyester Film October 2005 ¥ Mitsubishi Chemical MKV 2008 Business integration 2017 Integration Mitsubishi Mitsubishi R&D Expenditures ROE Plastics Chemical (Return on equity) OU TCOME April 2008 143.8billion 12.7% April 2017 ¥ Increase KAITEKI value Mitsubishi Plastics Industries Mitsubishi through 1962 Corporate Mitsubishi Rayon Chemical Holdings* name change economic and Nagahama March 2010 October 2005 Number of Employees R&D Index Plastics Industries (consolidated) (New product commercialization rate) social value 1958 72,020 136% Corporate name creation change Life Science Nagahama Mitsubishi Rayon Rubber Industries Institute 1952 Corporate name April 2014 change Shinko Rayon Contribution to the Reduction Group Sites of GHG Emissions through (number of countries & regions) Products 41 74.9million t-CO e 2 Taiyo Nippon Response to climate change Sanso November 2014 Amount of Reused Water Supplied 2004 Merger Energy Consumption (meeting quality standards for both daily and industrial use) 39.1TWh 0.56billion tons Nippon Sanso Efficient use of water Taiyo Toyo Sanso Taiyo Sanso Toyo Sanso Water Withdrawal Employees’ 1995 (excluding seawater) Vitality Index Merger 188.8million m 3 71.1 points Improve creativity and productivity *Core operating income is calculated as operating income (loss) excluding certain gains and expenses attributable to non-recurring factors (gains and losses incurred by business withdrawal and contraction, etc.). We disclose core operating income as unique gains/losses incurred by staged gains/losses, while considering the comparability with the operating income of J-GAAP. * Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation and Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation established a joint holding company, Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation. 07 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 08 Transition of Portfolio Transformation “The Realization of KAITEKI” Achieve our sustainable Step forward to become a corporate growth by driving our group with a high growth and value creation cycle in profitable business structure through Pursuit of business scale through M&A and integrations view of social trends and the Performance Products, Industrial restructuring of unprofitable businesses stakeholders’ requirements Materials and Health Care domains Accelerating transformation to Revenue establish the resilient foundations Operating Income (Core) and realize sustainable growth of the Billions of yen Billions of yen 5,000 4,850.0 500 MCHC Group 4,080.0 3,923.4 4,000 3,724.4 400 Revenue (left axis) 410.0 (IFRS) (Core) Operating Income (right axis) 380.5 (IFRS) 280.0 3,000 300 317.2 307.5 (IFRS) 300.0 226.4 (IFRS) (IFRS) 2,000 200 133.6 128.5 125.0 110.4 90.2 165.6 1,000 130.5 100 8.1 66.3 0 0 Change in Operating 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2030 J-GAAP up to FY2015 Income by Domain (Forecasts) (Medium-term IFRS in and after FY2016 (pie chart) management plan targets) Performance Industrial Health Performance Industrial Health Performance Industrial Health Performance Industrial Health Performance Industrial Health Products Materials Care Products Materials Care Products Materials Care Products Materials Care Products Materials Care 52% 23% 25% 16% 47% 37% 19% 0% 83% 22% 61% 18% 29% 55% 16% *Other -2% *Other -1% Stable revenue due to healthy market Sustainable growth in each domain by Reinforcing the foundations of the Industrial accelerating growth of the Performance conditions in the Industrial Materials Accelerating portfolio Establishment of MCHC Materials domain and investment in future domain and stronger transformation Products domain and the stable profitability growth areas the Health Care domain of the Industrial Materials domain Stabilized profitability of the Industrial Raised the ratio of the pharmaceutical Accelerated growth of Reinforced the foundations of Strengthened Expanded Shifted to a higher value-added Materials domain from conversion of an business and strengthened earnings less performance product groups through fundamental materials and the pharmaceutical business the Performance Products domain business portfolio industrial gas company into affected by economic fluctuations integrations invested in future growth areas a consolidated subsidiary Oct. 2005 Establishment of MCHC Oct. 2007 Establishment of MTPC Apr. 2008 Integrated MPI, Mar. 2010 Conversion of MRC into a Mar. 2014 Production optimization of polyolefin Apr. 2017 Establishment of the New-MCC Apr. 2018 Started commercial operations of MCC’s functional products business, consolidated subsidiary (Mar. 2015) Integration of the three chemical the new MMA plants, The Saudi and three affiliate companies May 2010 Withdrawal from nylon chain Apr. 2014 Establishment of LSII operating companies Methacrylates Company, in the May 2009 Conversion of Mitsubishi Chemical business (MCC, MPI and MRC) Middle East May 2014 Retain a single naphtha cracker at the Advanced Materials Composites Mar. 2011 Withdrawal from PVC chain business Kashima Plant (now Ibaraki Plant) Oct. 2018 Acquired Cleanpart Group GmbH, MCHC: Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation PVC: Polyvinyl chloride AG (Switzerland) in the highWithdrawal from SM chain business Nov. 2014 Conversion of TNSC into a semiconductor-related service performance engineering plastic consolidated subsidiary company in the U.S. and Europe New-MCC: Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (Apr. 2017-) SM: Styrene monomer business into a consolidated Mar. 2013 Conversion of Qualicaps Co., Ltd. MCC: Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation in the business of manufacturing Apr. 2016 Formed a joint venture to operate the Dec. 2018 Expanded the global share in the subsidiary May 2019 industrial gases business by M&A MPI: Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. capsules and pharmaceutical naphtha cracker at the Mizushima equipment into a consolidated Plant (now Okayama Plant) MRC: Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. subsidiary Jul. 2016 Decided on the equity interest LSII: Life Science Institute, Inc. transfer of the terephthalic acid TNSC: Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation business in India and China 09 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 10 Value Creation Value Creation Approach of the MCHC Group Rapid change of industrial Looking structure with development ahead to in Circular Economy the future and digital technology Promoting a Value Creation Cycle Progress in sustainability, 2030 Contribute to an optimized recycling-oriented society development of digital 2030 Based on Addressing Social Issues technologies and social network, and demographic shifts and realize sustainable well-being The starting point of MCHC’s value creation model is to envision an ideal society looking at the future in As a solution provider, Leadership in creating a consideration of people, society and the Earth. We strive to promote our value creation cycle, which starts lead to solve recycling, circulative-oriented with our attention to social issues, while taking into account the rapidly changing global environment and 2020 social issues optimal system aimed at sustainable use of diverse energy stakeholders’ requirements. This model enables us to maintain sustainable growth while contributing to for a sustainable future the sustainable development of the global environment and society. 2020 Contribute to the sustainable growth and resources, and a scheme to enable the sustainable wellfor people, society and the Earth, being of people, society and our and the achievement of the SDGs Establish a foundation as planet Earth. a leading company driving 1. Materiality Assessment the realization of KAITEKI Identify material issues to realize KAITEKI Aiming to remain a high growth / high The MCHC Group’s Material Issues P13 profit-model company through businesses Earth Corporate Governance P49 in the Performance Products, Industrial Consolidated Financial Summary P85 Address climate Materials and Health Care Domains. 1 2. Pursuing a clear vision change and enhance energy efficiency on what we aspire to be as the MCHC Group Realizing KAITEKI by leveraging Focus Markets ental and Social I improved profitability, nm ssu iro innovation capability, and Providing Solutions for Social Issues 5 v es En contribution to sustainability. MOS Mission / Vision P01 Society Sustainability axis Message from the President P19 Live in safety, secure Enhancement of Dialog between the President Social Capital Needs and an Investor P23 and comfort 5.Review Trust / Solutions Message from the CIO P29 Promote Circular Message from the President P19 Corporate Brand 2 Message from the CSO P35 Message from the Chairperson P53 Automobiles, Healthcare Economy Progress with Sustainability Aircraft (Mobility) Management P41 xis Inn M E cy a O s ov MOcien ati T Te 3. Medium-term Corporate Governance P49 on Effi ch ax Overview of Business al Pro is pit Ca no Management Plan Domains; Summary P69 FY2018 Results by Segment fit Business log People ie P71 Formulate and implement a ab Models medium-term management ili Extend healthy-life span re plan every 5 years as part of the IT, Electronics, Environment, ty Enhance job Co KAITEKI Management approach Displays Energy satisfaction, creativity to achieve sustainable growth. 4 Product/ and productivity Technology Update on APTSIS 20 P17 Competitiveness Message from the President P19 Related SDGs Message from the CFO P27 3 Overview of Business Domains; Policies & Key Strategies P75 P79 P83 Medical, Food, Packaging, Labels, Bio Products Films 4. Execute KAITEKI Management Share the values of three axes and realize sustainable growth with stakeholders The MCHC Group’s Material Issues and Innovation P29 Sustainability P35 Overview of Business Domains P67 Selection Process of Focus Markets P13 Financial Information P85 Non-Financial Information P175 Contributing to the resolution of various environmental KAITEKI Management MOS and social issues and creating a better future for the KAITEKI Management is a management method to enhance sustainability of people, society and the Earth. corporate value based on the three axes: sustainability (MOS), innovation (MOT), and capital efficiency (MOE) in Creating innovations that contribute to the enhancement of an integrated manner. Beginning with environmental and MOT economic and social value through the development and differentiation of technologies. social issues, we provide solutions through the utilization of core technologies, and economic value created by business Utilizing a variety of capital resources efficiently, including KAITEKI Vision 30 P36 activities to carry out a sustainable development cycle to MOE human resources, assets, and funds, to enhance economic Expanding KAITEKI Value P37 create new values. value, including profit. 11 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 12 Value Creation Approach of the MCHC Group The MCHC Group’s Material Issues and Identification of Materiality Selection Process of Focus Markets Macro-trends In the preparation of the medium-term Management “Focus Markets” where we should focus our efforts for Plan APTSIS 20, we conducted a materiality assessment providing solutions by leveraging the entire MCHC Group’s Increasing climate change Increasing global population Aging population based on macro-trends analysis, and identified important innovation capabilities. We will reliably implement our Advancing globalization issues (the Materiality) for KAITEKI Management through growth strategy and improve sustainable growth by making Pollution and shortage of and development of Increasing medical costs water resources discussions on the risks and opportunities of the MCHC the maximum use of the strengths of all business segments emerging economies Group. We prioritized these issues by their business while collaborating each other. Digitalization, modularization, Progress of regenerative and ICT introduction in the Expansion of regional medicine and impacts and utilized the Materiality to formulate mediumFurthermore, through initiatives to address the identified industries economic zones personalized medicine term and long-term corporate strategy and individual Materiality of the MCHC Group, we will contribute to the business strategies. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted at the To address those issues with high priorities, we selected United Nations in 2015. Extraction of risks and opportunities for the MCHC Group P15 Identification Process of Materiality PROCESS 1 Sorted corporate activities under APTSIS 20 by analyzing macro trends through discussions on risks and opportunities for the MCHC Group. Reviewed material Identification and prioritization of material management issues of the MCHC Group Set issues to be researched issues identified in the previous assessment (conducted in Materiality Matrix and analyzed 2014) and added new issues. Most important key management issues related to the MCHC Group’s existence Compliance, Process Safety, Corporate Governance PROCESS 2 Ordered and quantitatively assessed the importance of the identified issues based on public sustainability data, Water Energy and resources Climate change Extremely High Assess issues from the questionnaires, and interviews with experts. Human development viewpoint of stakeholders Food and agriculture and training Occupational health Diversity and inclusion and safety Product responsibility PROCESS 3 MCHC management identified relevant material issues Importance for stakeholders for management strategies, policies and activities under the APTSIS 20 and prioritized them (three highest Health and wellness Identify and prioritize material issues priority issues related to MCHC Group’s existence and the MCHC Group needs to address 21 material issues to be addressed). Medical care Very High CSR in supply chain Contribution to communities Human rights awareness Information security and privacy PROCESS 4 Created a materiality matrix based on the importance (the magnitude of effect) for stakeholders and importance for the MCHC Group as the two axes. Create the materiality matrix Biodiversity Smart society Fulfilled living Social infrastructure High Stakeholder engagement Intitiative and leadership PROCESS 5 Discussed and approved the process for materiality assessment and the materiality matrix in the MCHC Information and communicaiton technology Management Committee (currently the Corporate Company approval procedures Executive Officers Committee) and the Board of Directors. High Very High Extremely High Importance for the MCHC Group 13 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 14 Value Creation Approach of the MCHC Group Selection of Focus Markets Classification of the Materiality Targets for MediumTerm Management Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility) Health Care Material issues Key management issues that the MCHC Group should address through its Plan APTSIS 20 Contribute to the efficient use of resources Contribute to people’s lives and health by related to the global corporate activities, innovation, and provision of products and services with the and energy and the mitigation of climate developing ethical pharmaceuticals and environment aim of achieving a sustainable well-being of our planet Earth change by reducing the weight of automobiles regenerative medicines to meet unmet medical and aircraft, promoting electric vehicles, and needs and by offering health managementAPTSIS 20 Key management issues that the MCHC Group should address through its offering environmentally friendly products related services. Material issues related (switching to renewable materials). P17 corporate activities, innovation, and provision of products and services in the to social systems aim of creating a sustainable well-being of society Growth Measures Material issues related of the Focus Markets Key management issues that the MCHC Group should address in its internal to the company and its operations and social relations as a corporate group aiming to realize KAITEKI P67 organizational structure MOT Indices Material Issues Risks for the MCHC Group Opportunities for the MCHC Group P32 •Transformation and diversification of resources and energy supply sources The global environment Energy and •Depletion of natural resources such as fossil resources and IT, Electronics, Displays Environment, Energy rare metals •Practical application of renewable energy and accelerated resources technological development Contribute to a smart society and more Contribute to energy conservation, the effective Sustainability comfortable lifestyles by providing highuse of water resources, improvement of (MOS) Indices •Increasing risk of extreme weather events and natural disasters •Expanding products to mitigate and adapt climate change performance materials for use in next productivity in the agricultural, fishery, and Climate change associated with climate change •Acquiring mediumto long-term support from stakeholders generation displays and semiconductor livestock industries and adaptation to climate P42 •Strengthening regulations caused by climate change materials etc. change by providing lithium-ion battery •Expanding water stress due to higher demand, climate change materials, water treatment-related products, Water and other factors •Expanding businesses such as water purification and recycling plant factories, and disaster prevention and KPIs for KAITEKI •Increasing health risk due to shortages of hygienic water mitigation products, etc. Health and Productivity Food and •Destabilization in society due to imbalance in the demand and supply of food •Increase of factory-production of foods Management agriculture Social systems P46 •Loss of social credibility due to deterioration of quality, safety, Product •Building a relationship of trust with business partners environmental performance responsibility •Customer retention and acquisition, expansion of the business •Interruption of the business •Building trusted relationships by actively engaging in exchanges Contribution to with and contributing to the communities of business operations •Impact on business activities due to decreased reliability communities •Business stabilization through coexistence with the local Social Values communities (Related SDGs) Medical, Food, Bio Products Packaging, Labels, Films •Increasing lifestyle disease and mortality rates Contribute to solving medical issues and Contribute to the safe storage and distribution Health and •Expanding health information service market (shifting from treatment to prevention) promoting health maintenance by providing of food and the reduction of food loss by wellness •Increasing failure risk of health insurance systems medical-related products, pharmaceutical providing high gas barrier films for food and The Company and its organizational structure materials and functional food ingredients, etc. medical packaging. •Manifestation of unmet medical needs •Increasing number of entries into the medical and healthcare Medical care business (increase in competition) •Advancing digitization of medical treatment and health information data through ICT Human •Securing and training of talented human resources development and •Labor shortage, outflow of human resources •Increasing creativity and vitality training •Impact on production due to physical damages and personal •Securement of wellness and safety of employees Occupational injuries, etc., loss of social trust •Enhancement of labor productivity health and safety •Harassment •Long working hours •Enhancement of motivation Human rights •Delay of the business due to human-rights abuse, interruption •Building optimal supply chain management awareness of the business Information •Loss of social trust due to information leakage and falsification, security and interruption of the business •Stabilization of business activities privacy •Interruption of the business by cyber attacks Building the Resilient Foundation of the Group •Securement and trainings of talented human resources Diversity and •Loss of competitiveness from failing to respond to diversifying inclusion needs •Enhancement of value creation process by accepting diversified human resources and values Innovation P29 ESG, Innovation, Health and productivity Sustainability P35 management, Human resources development, etc. Corporate Governance P49 Most important key management issues related to the MCHC Group’s existence: Compliance, Process Safety, Corporate Governance 15 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 16 Strategy Update on APTSIS 20 APTSIS 20 Higher cash-generating capability owing to improved performance and asset reduction Reduction of cross holding shares Working capital reduction Reduction of cashes and deposits Assets sales Net cash flows from operating activities Improvement of profi ts and others Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2016-FY2020) Details of cash generated by asset reduction Changes in net cash ﬂows from operating activities (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 500 500.0 + 500 APTSIS 20 Basic Policy 450.0 80.0 + Aiming to remain a high growth/high profit-model company through businesses 400 80.0 400 in the Performance Products, Industrial Materials and Health Care domains 50.0 Target in APTSIS 20 300 300.0 300 Growt h Efficiency Strengthening Foundations 220.0 100.0 160.0 Financial Promotion of integration and synergies in the MCHC Group Realize a highly productive corporate structure through 200 structure 200 cost-cutting and other measures reforms Accelerate overseas business development and advancing 100.0 100.0 well-integrated management Strengthen the financial position 100 60.0 100 Strengthen portfolio management with awareness of earnings Thorough safety and compliance measures 100.0 100.0 100.0 0 + 0 2016-2020 2016-2018 2016-2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) N u m e r i c a l Ta r g e t s 5-year Plan (Original) Progress 5-year Plan (Review) Forecast Performance Products Industrial Materials Health Care Others Resource Allocation Core operating income FY2018 FY2020 Targets Results (Review) (Billions of yen) 410.0 Performance Products Industrial Materials Health Care Others 400 Others Investment and loans Capital expenditure R&D investment ¥410.0 Billion +56.0 ¥317.2 +6.0 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Core operating income Billion 120.0 320 317.2 +24.0 1,500 1,500 1,500 300.0 +24.0 ROS (Ratio of core operating income) 8.1% 9% 240 68.6 1,200 1,200 1,200 96.0 Net income attributable to owners of the parent ¥169.5 Billion ¥ 220.0 Billion 160 225.0 900 900 900 194.4 ROE Attain ROE of more than 10% to improve capital efficiency 12.7% 13 % 80 201.0 600 600 600 Net D/E ratio 1.26 1.0 0 56.9 10.0 66.0 300 300 300 *Others -2.7 *Others -7.0 *Others -1.0 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 0 0 0 Result Forecast Target 2016-2018 2016-2020 (FY) 2016-2018 2016-2020 (FY) 2016-2018 2016-2020 (FY) Progress 5-year Plan Progress 5-year Plan Progress 5-year Plan Priority Management Measures in APTSIS 20 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Ta r g e t s Performance Products Industrial Materials Health Care As sustainability KPIs, we have introduced the sustainability indices (MOS) Progress of MOS indices Reinforcement and expansion of business foundation by strengthening portfolio management P23-24 that reflect our material issues. The MOS Indices are divided into three (unit: point) (Promoting the growth strategies) • Positioning each business, subsidiary, and affiliate based on domain-specific indicators categories: global environment items; health care items; and corporate • Accelerating resource allocation and portfolio optimization through periodical monitoring responsibility initiative items. We are monitoring the progress of each index 300 • Consideration and acceleration of restructuring businesses equivalent to total sales revenue of ¥300.0 billion on a quantitative basis converted from the original point systems. We aim to (Reconstruction of businesses equivalent to total sales revenue of ¥120.0 billion was carried out in FY2017-FY2018) achieve 300 points in FY2020. Generating synergies from the establishment of the new Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC) P27-28 Major results regarding products and services (The integration of the three chemical operating companies) (We selected indices with large impacts on our operation from MOS Indicies.) 157 • Aiming to achieve synergies from the integration of ¥50.0 billion by FY2020 (Growth through collaboration: ¥35.0 billion + operational efficiency: ¥15.0 billion) KPI FY2018 Result FY2020 Target 152 • Total synergies and growth amounted to approximately ¥13.0 billion in collaboration and ¥14.0 billion in rationalization during the period from FY2016 through FY2018 Provide products and services that contribute to reducing GHG emissions Contribution to the reduction of GHGs emissions 0.75 1.5 Intensifying marketing and access to the global market P75-76 P79-80 P83 (hundreds of millions of tons-CO2 equivalent) • Overseas revenue ratio — FY2018 result: 42% FY2020 target: 50% • MCC established regional headquarters (2017) Provide products and services that help Early commercialization of the seeds of next generation businesses P29-34 to solve water resource problems Total supply of reused water 5.6 17 (R&D, open innovation, digital transformation) (hundreds of millions of tons) Deepening KAITEKI Management, promotion of work style reform P45-46 FY2017 FY2018 FY2020 (FY) Progress with Sustainability Management P41 Result Result Target 17 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 18 Message from the President Further strengthening the management foundation and accelerating transformation for sustainable growth through long-term management that envisions the society in 2050 Hitoshi Ochi Representative Corporate Executive Officer President & CEO Looking back over the previous fiscal year as president of MCHC; Looking ahead to the future In the over a decade since the establishment of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (MCHC) as a pure holding company, we have significantly restructured the business, working toward sustainable growth that balances our Performance Products, Industrial Materials, and Health Care domains. In particular, we have drastically reshaped our business portfolio by exiting commodity petrochemicals and inorganic products businesses, while consolidating Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd., Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation, and pursuing acquisitions. With major structural reforms progressing smoothly, I passed the baton of my concurrent post as president of Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation to focus on my responsibilities at MCHC since April 2018, which allows me to lead further transformation. 19 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 20 Message from the President In regard to strengthening corporate governance, I have better leverage the concept in their own roles. In the been promoting the separation of management supervision second stage, we generated both economic value and Safety and compliance are our management priority and operational execution functions. We established a social value by offering solutions against material issues Corporate Executive Officers Committee to decide on important which we identified based on global macro-trends analysis, The cornerstones of the Group are safety and compliance. management matters for further flexibility, transparency, while restructuring our business portfolio. As a result, we Past disasters and events must not be forgotten. We and independence. In addition, we revised MCHC Group obtained recognition in the form of inclusion in the Dow ensure that thorough maintenance of production facilities Management Regulations in FY2018 to clarify the roles of the Jones Sustainability World Index. Another key achievement are in place, as well as preventative measures using the holding company and the operating companies. Furthermore, was our improved profitability, namely, growing core latest technologies are properly planned and implemented. we have reinforced a monitoring framework that enhances operating income from around ¥100 billion to ¥350 billion. In addition, we will transfer expertise in operations and internal control systems of each operating company for the Now, moving into the third stage, we have redefined maintenance, and provide training on preventative measures purpose of reducing operating risks. KAITEKI as “the sustainable well-being of people, society at our 350 overseas subsidiaries. Regarding compliance, In respond to rapidly evolving technology while addressing and our planet Earth” to express our determination and we will enhance the internal control system by applying increasingly complex social issues, I believe that it is crucial to aspirational vision to attain health and well-being not only in tools such as the “internal control map,” which was newly develop a well-conceived mediumto long-term management our company or society, but also for all of humanity around introduced to help us promptly follow changes of local plan for the Group’s sustainable growth. the world. In order to achieve this vision, we dedicate more laws, regulations, and standards in the countries where we With people, society, and the planet, as well as advancing effort than ever. Each employee must take ownership of operate. Ultimately, what matters most for us is “people”, and technology at its core, our new mediumto long-term basic social issues and come up with ideas, which can become I encourage each employee to take ownership of safety and management policy “KAITEKI Vision 30” demonstrates what proactive action plans and be incorporated into business compliance. we aspire to be in 2030, based on backcasting from 2050. strategies for implementation. In other words: “dedication In accordance with this policy, in the next fiscal year we will from forward looking individuals forges business strategy.” formulate the next medium-term management plan starting from It is each of us, as part of the MCHC Group, who makes Listening to diverse opinions for value creation FY2021. The plan is expected to include a shift to a business the group to create value for the future. portfolio that considers both financial and social risk indices. Our business environment is rapidly changing, and the needs of society have become more diverse. In order to swiftly Developing the people and accurately respond to these changes, we ourselves Solutions for increasingly who can deliver innovation need to evolve. We must listen to a wide range of ideas serious social issues Upraising innovative capacity is indispensable for the Group and opinions, without being caught up in old thinking, and In the midst of globalization and rapid technology to attain sustainable growth and deliver solutions for social leverage diversity to enable value creation. Hearing various advancement in digitalization, biotechnology, robotics and issues. In 2017, we established the Emerging Technology opinions through stakeholder engagement and dialogs is of others, the world is facing the escalating challenges such as and Business Development Office to enhance research great importance to me. With our KAITEKI Management, I pollution, climate change, water and food supplies, as well function at each operating company, spark creativity of am confident in achieving continued developments of both as poverty, income disparities, and educational opportunities. researchers, and promote open innovation. This office plays a social value and economic value. I would like to express my The United Nations declared the need for cooperation to key role in advancing our medium-term innovative capabilities deepest gratitude and appreciation to all stakeholders for achieve the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) in 2015, by accelerating digital transformation, strengthening our their support and look forward to sustainable partnership. encouraging not only governments, but also corporations and business venture capabilities through cooperation with citizens to make a united effort. startups and accelerators, and developing new business The MCHC Group has continued to reflect upon its role models. We will further expand our network of domestic in society as a group that offers various solutions to address and overseas research institutes and universities, primarily a range of social issues, and from FY2011 we have placed through The Global KAITEKI Center*, an allied center KAITEKI Management at our core. KAITEKI Management established within Arizona State University in the U.S., led by enables us to create value by solving social issues while our subsidiary The KAITEKI Institute, Inc. achieving our own sustainable growth, and thus contribute Such a shift requires integration of new technologies to the global environment and sustainable development of and perspectives into our system, which will come from society. This is my ambition to be a continuously growing employing talents from outside of the Group and mobilizing group by addressing social concerns and delivering innovation. diverse internal talents. For this objective, we will also promote work-style reforms under KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management, while accelerating the personnel The third stage of KAITEKI Management: system reforms, revising the traditional seniority-based Leveraging proactive individuals promotion system and the bulk hiring of new graduates. We In the first stage of KAITEKI Management, all employees will embrace true diversity both in Japan and abroad, thereby acquired an understanding of KAITEKI value in order to encouraging our “people” deliver innovation for a new age. *The Global KAITEKI Center: See page 34 21 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 22 Dialog between the President and an Investor Hitoshi Ochi Akitsugu Era Representative Corporate Executive Officer Director, Head of Investment Stewardship President & CEO BlackRock Japan Co., Ltd. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation reducing our assets with high revenue volatility as much as world’s top market share and stable profits by developing Aiming for stable growth through continuous possible. In the methyl methacrylate (MMA) business, highly cost-competitive products using proprietary which boasts the world’s top market share, we secured production methods. In the industrial gas business, the structural reforms, and new businesses that stable earnings while allowing for a certain level of volatility. In the first half of FY2018, we faced a tightening supplyeffect of the acquisition in Europe and the U.S. in FY2018 has being contributed to the full-year earnigs from FY2019 incorporate digital technologies and diversity demand balance for MMA, which caused the record high market prices. The market was stabilized later of the year, onwards. Therefore, we expect to further stabilize and expand earnings in the future. but even amid declining market prices, we maintained the development of product candidates with market potential in the Reasons behind the revised targets of U.S. and other overseas markets while taking into consideration APTSIS 20 Strengthening Portfolio Management patent cliffs. With these goals in mind, we have enhanced Era: Under the current medium-term management plan, portfolio management driven by financial indices such as ROS Indicators Positioning each business, Actions APTSIS 20, it seems like the MCHC Group has experienced and ROIC, that are set by business, and used the indices to subsidiary, and affiliate based on Growth Potential accelerated growth, due partly to acquisitions of industrial restructure the businesses to ensure growth. Implementation of the PDCA cycle through periodical monitoring domain-specific indicators (Sales growth rate) Resource allocation plans gas businesses in Europe and the U.S. What was the As a result of these actions, our core operating income is 4%/year Portfolio decisions rationality behind the upward revisions to the FY2020 reaching ¥350 billion, a level we consider stable for earnings. Accelerating resource allocation (including the reduction, withdrawal and sale of a business) (Projected global economic growth rate: 3.5%*1) targets you made in December 2018? There remain considerable uncertainties in the operating and portfolio optimization through periodical monitoring Profitability environment, such as U.S.-China trade frictions, but we (ROS) Ochi: The most critical point in APTSIS 20 is to steadily grow will continue to strive towards realizing ¥410 billion in core Next-generation Growth businesses businesses Performance Products 8% our businesses to be as profitable as possible following the operating income, a target set in APTSIS 20, by strengthening •R&D •R&D Growth Industrial Materials 5% previously made structural reforms, including the period of our business foundation while accelerating reforms aimed at strategies •Synergy •Open innovations •M&A the previous medium-term management plan. For us to be achieving additional growth. Health Care 14% able to achieve this goal, APTSIS 20 sets out key strategies Capital Efficiency (ROIC) that include achieving growth in the performance products Era: I understand that you have been working to establish Businesses to be Cash-generating Performance Products 8% and industrial materials businesses through new business a solid business foundation while limiting volatility to ensure Withdrawal restructured businesses and product development founded on the integration of the steady profit growth. Please explain the results of these efforts. Sale Industrial Materials 5% Establishment of Growth •Synergy three chemical operating companies and the expansion of the a joint venture •Restructuring strategies •M&A Health Care 8%*2 industrial gas business through acquisitions. Additionally, for Ochi: For example, in the petrochemical business, which the pharmaceuticals business, key success criteria is the rapid is a part of the Industrial Materials domain, we have been *1. Average annual growth forecast from 2016 to 2020 by IMF *2. Calculated by excluding cash and deposits 23 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 24 Dialog between the President and an Investor As a leading company, focus on both social issues and business operations Ochi: That’s correct. Amid accelerating digitalization, consider them as relevant issues to their own lives. Not materials informatics,* which enables the discovery of new 1 only investors but also the general public are assessing substances using AI, is growing in popularity. However, the AI companies’ efforts on social issues. For a while now, does not automatically derive applications of the discovered we at the MCHC Group have believed that our KAITEKI substances. We believe that materials informatics can be Management helps us to enhance corporate value through more widely applied by combining it with the production a value creation cycle that also prioritizes social issues technology, expertise accumulated to date within the MCHC in addition to economic efficiency. We have actively Group, thus integrating materials sicence with IT. implemented initiatives to create corporate value alongside measures to solve global environmental challenges such Leveraging open innovation as climate change and ocean plastic. In October 2018, we Era: In addition to leveraging in-house expertise, what decided to support the recommendations made by the Task initiatives have you been promoting to obtain a wide range of Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and expertise from outside the company? we will increase corporate value by pushing forward with related activities under the TCFD and disclosing relevant Ochi: I believe a technology platform is a key element to information. We are now formulating the “KAITEKI Vision 30” creating a new business, or to put it in other words, a good to indicate the direction of our business activities towards technology platform shows the strength of a company. 2030. As KAITEKI Management has now become embedded Capitalizing on open innovation is essential to our success in our company, we can now take the next steps and offer but it also depends on the extent of our technology platform concrete solutions for social issues through our businesses. and what areas we open up for collaboration with the external We will continue to clearly communicate these initiatives to organizations. In order to keep up with new technological our stakeholders. development accelerated by advanced digitalization, we are proactively hiring outside talent, particularly in the area Era: In particular, you anticipate an involvement in the circular of advanced technology and digital transformation, as well economy. Could you tell me about your approach? as strengthening our alliances with external organizations. Absorbing cutting-edge and diverse knowledge from outside Ochi: I believe that a circular economy is needed to ensure Creating new businesses using internal sources stimulates the existing platform thus enabling us to that resources enter a regenerative cycle. It is impossible the large-scale acquisitions, we expect to set the annual and external expertise accelerate our development speed and expand our capability to create new ecosystems unless we consider the entire dividend for FY2019 at ¥40 per share. While considering Era: I have the impression that your performance product to create new solutions. supply chain and divide up the responsibilities while working an appropriate balance between improving our financial lineup is quite interesting due to its diversity. Based on my together. For instance, we need to deliberate on how to position and investing in growth, we will endeavor to enhance understanding, the same performance product can be used design plastic products with added functionalities so that shareholder returns by continuing stable dividends while in various solutions. Initiatives for social issues present the they can be easily collected and recycled. However, such aiming at a medium-term consolidated payout ratio of 30%. perfect opportunity to demonstrate the design features must also consider consumer preferences to strengths of the MCHC Group Ochi: Performance products are used in a wide range be accepted in the market. This is our real challenge towards of applications, and their versatility forms the basis of Era: Recently, ESG* , including international initiatives such 2 circular economy, and we recognize that now is the perfect our capability to provide a variety of solutions. Because as TCFD*3, has been drawing more attention. You have been opportunity to demonstrate our strengths with advantageous performance products can be expanded into multiple proactive to define a management approach that strikes of the Group. markets, such as mobility and electronic displays, we can an appropriate balance between financial and non-financial provide the diversified solutions needed in society. The elements, thereby, positioning the MCHC Group as a performance product lineup represents a collection of leading company in this area. In particular, on environmental Shareholder returns technologies, and we are actively taking steps to further matters, you are addressing a wide range of issues such Era: Although in FY2018 there was outflow of cash due to develop them. as mitigating negative environmental impacts of business large-scale acquisitions of industrial gas businesses, stable activities and promoting energy conservations as well as cash flow is expected due to factors such as stabilized Era: Is it correct to state that the source of the MCHC expanding products that contribute to reducing greenhouse earnings and higher profits. Please tell us about your policy Group’s profitability is the numerous applications of its gas emissions. Could you tell me how the Group balances its for future shareholder returns. *1 Materials Informatics: AI-based method to design new materials and explore alternative materials rapidly and efficiently. products and that a combination of accumulated data and business operations with environmental and social initiatives? *2 ESG: Acronym of Environment, Social, and Governance. Each element is considered necessary for corporate management and growth. past experience form the foundation for generating added Ochi: The various social issues you mention have been Ochi: Although we had a temporary deterioration in finances *3 TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Established in 2015 as the first international initiative for discussing climate change issues in view of financial value? attracting considerable attention and many stakeholders in FY2018 due to the increase in liabilities arising from stability. 25 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 26 Message from the CFO parent. We will strive to improve earnings as well as stabilize Capital cost reduction that bolsters the financial position with the aim of making improvements as KAITEKI value soon as possible. We started focusing on achieving significant progress in the Although the business environment is expected to remain Message from the CFO context of KAITEKI Management in FY2011, and now, based uncertain in FY2019, we aim to improve financial performance Building a strong on our efforts to increase KAITEKI value as a corporate group, we can present the results through means such as integrated to meet the target of net D/E ratio of 1.0 or below at the end of FY2020, the final year of APTSIS 20, expecting free cash flow financial foundation report. We are glad that MCHC’s efforts have been positively to be ¥190 billion, ROS 7%, ROE 12% and a net D/E ratio and improving capital acknowledged, for instance, we were selected as a constituent of Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, a globally prominent 1.21. Policy on shareholder returns efficiency to maximize socially responsible investment (SRI) index, for the second consecutive year. In the future, we continue our dialog with our MCHC is striving to improve shareholder’s value by increasing our corporate value — stakeholders to communicate our story guided by our ESGour corporate value — KAITEKI value. With regard to KAITEKI value focused approach for KAITEKI value creation. In terms to Investor Relations information distribution, we shareholder returns, we plan to achieve a consolidated dividend payout ratio of 30% based on the financial have improved with our stakeholders service for international performance over a medium-term time horizon, while Hidefumi Date investors and analysts by introducing online streaming audio of maintaining an appropriate balance between investments in Managing Corporate Executive Officer financial result presentations for English-language speakers in growing businesses and efforts to strengthen the financial Chief Financial Officer FY2018. As part of investor engagements, we are committed structure. We will also implement dividend payments in to support in-depth discussions on our business developments consideration of stability. Concerning dividends per share for by organizing an IR Day event, and to offer interactive FY2018, we paid an interim dividend of ¥20 per share and a communication including individual dialogs to institutional year-end of ¥20 per share, or a full year of ¥40 per share, up investors over the world. I am confident in the outcome of our ¥8 year on year. We expect to maintain the dividend for 2019 initiatives that contribute to reducing corporate risks and capital at the same level. Under the current phase of our medium-term management plan, APTSIS 20, we recognize the challenges we costs, and will ultimately improve corporate value. face as acceleration of growth, improvement of profitability and strengthening of our financial foundation. Shareholder Returns Since embarking on APTSIS 20 in FY2016, right after completing significant structural reforms, we have seen Results for FY2018 and outlook for (Yen) (Yen) stabilization of return on equity of 10% or above. Our next steps are to maintain these strong performance and FY2019 150 EPS (Left axis) Cash dividends per share (Right axis) 50 reduce capital costs as well, with a view to enhance our corporate value. In FY2018, although the markets were favorable in the first half 147.1 119.2 118.3 120 40 of the year, supply and demand for goods slowed down due to generated by the businesses under the reshaped portfolio, 106.7 Maintain ROE of 10% or above which includes both withdrawals from and newly established a lower demand in the latter half. However, while the business 90 30 environment was generally harsh, MCHC achieved record In April 2017, three of MCHC Group’s chemical operating alliances with other companies, amounted to approximately sales revenue as well as its second highest core operating companies were integrated into one company, Mitsubishi ¥120 billion through FY2017 and FY2018 in aggregate. We are 60 20 income and net income attributable to owners of the parent Chemical Corporation. With the purpose of measuring making steady progress towards increasing profitability. 41.4 31.7 since FY2017. We implemented large-scale acquisitions in the positive effects from this integration, we set targets for Efforts for increased efficiency in strategic asset allocation 30 10 Europe and the U.S. in the Industrial Gases segment and achieving ¥35 billion from the synergy created between the are also progressing. Our approaches are: shortened our cash faced temporary deterioration in the net D/E ratio and a 13 15 20 32 40 40 businesses and ¥15 billion from operational efficiency, both of conversion cycle (CCC), establishment of a cash management 0 0 decrease in the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the which we passed in two years. We attained approximately ¥13 system (CMS) in four regions (Europe, North America, Japan, and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) (Forecasts) billion against the former target, and ¥14 billion for the latter. Asia), and divestitures of assets that do not meet certain threshold While we completed large-scale acquisitions of industrial levels. Consequently, we attained ¥450 billion in terms of asset gas businesses in Europe and the U.S. in FY2018, we are efficiency in the first three years since the 2016 start of APTSIS 20, Changes in Consolidated Financial Indicators continually reviewing our business portfolio. Our total revenue outperforming the initial five-year target of ¥300 billion. Targets for FY2020 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (Left axis) (%) ROE (Left axis) Net D/E ratio (Right axis) Ratio of equity Efforts for Asset Efficiency 30.0 3.0 attributable to owners of the parent 29 27.4 Shorten the cash Shortening the CCC CMS establishment in four regions conversion cycle (CCC) 10% 22.6 22.9 23.0 24.5 24.7 % 89 improvement 20.0 2.0 ROE Establish a cash 13 17.8 management system 4% days 15.1 (CMS) in four regions improvement % 95 12.7 (Europe, North 1.25 Japan 1.10 1.17 America, Japan and 10.0 1.06 1.26 1.0 days Net D/E ratio 1.0 Asia) North America Europe 6.4 0.89 About Asia Sell assets with 99 days 4.8 5.2 lowered ownership value by regularly 0 J-GAAP IFRS 0 verifying their value FY2016 FY2018 Target for FY2020 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 27 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 28 Innovation Innovation Driving early commercialization of next-generation businesses in our focus markets Message from the CIO Focus IT, Electronics, Automobiles, Environment, Packaging, Labels, Medical, Food, Bio Markets Displays Aircraft (Mobility) Energy Films Health Care Innovation, with global High-definition, thin, Connected, automatic Electric vehicles High-performance gas Preventive medicine perspective and a sense of speed, barriers Market Trends ﬂexible operation Regenerative Renewable energy Multi-functional films is the engine of our Highly integrated, miniaturized, advanced Sharing, electric Reduced medicine Biocompatible vehicles Micro-plastic issue sustainable business growth thermal properties environmental impact materials Next-generation Power semiconductor Next-generation Composite materials Examples of Next-generation pharmaceuticals materials energy for 3D printers & diagnostics Next-generation Heat management Disease prevention Businesses Biodegradable polymers display materials materials (VLP vaccine) Larry Meixner Managing Corporate Executive Officer Next-generation battery Regenerative medicineMulti-materials materials related materials Chief Innovation Officer MCHC Group Core Technologies Social and technological changes are occurring more These new platform capabilities established by rapidly than ever before. This environment presents ETBDO also have a critical role in creating the next both challenges and tremendous opportunities for the major jump in shareholder value, by enabling MCHC Group. Innovation is the essential element to expansion beyond our current technology and enhance our growth and profitability, but we cannot business areas. We established a new corporate be successful using only the approaches of the past. venture capital fund and Silicon Valley-based We must accelerate our innovation cycle and subsidiary, Diamond Edge Ventures, Inc., in July 2018. Catalyst aggressively expand our perspective beyond the Our first investments are opening doors to new Cryogenic / Freezing Inorganic Synthesis Medicinal Chemistry Cell Culture Unique chemical industry and beyond Japan. We must exploit markets for our current businesses, while acting as Absorptive Separation Polymerization Drug Discovery API Synthesis High-pressure Gas Control Fiber & Film Processing Pharma Process Chemistry Capsule Design new developments globally, wherever and whenever strategic entry points for disruptive innovation. We are Technologies Oxygen Combustion Molding Biologics Capsule Production they occur. creating new concepts for digital transformation of our Coatings & Surfaces To achieve early commercialization of nextsupply chain and for emerging market platforms that generation businesses in our focus markets, the could become dominant over the next 10 years. Organic Synthesis MCHC Group takes a multi-dimensional approach to We are also creating a compelling long-term innovation. For current and adjacent technology and vision for the MCHC Group. The KAITEKI Institute, Inc. Biochemical Technology business areas, the wide-ranging R&D efforts of our is central to this effort. We are partnering with the Composite & Formulation Technology four main Business Companies take the lead. We World Economic Forum to develop policy frameworks Common Core Technologies Pharmacological Efficacy & Safety Evaluation increasingly leverage synergies between multiple in key areas such as 3D printing and healthcare data MCHC Group companies to create value. In addition, systems. And as the first foreign executive member of Large-scale Process Technology my team in MCHC’s Emerging Technology and the Council on Competitiveness Nippon (COCN), I Separation Technology Business Development Office (ETBDO) is introducing continue to promote deeper sharing of perspectives Mechanical Design & Control Engineering new platform capabilities across the MCHC Group, between Japanese businesses and the global notably in digital transformation, global venture community. Product Evaluation engagement, and new market development. For Now in my third year as Chief Innovation Officer, I Analytical Technology example, digital initiatives to improve operational have never been more excited about the future of our Computational Science & Simulation excellence are starting to impact our bottom line, and company. We are building the framework for growth venture collaborations focused on near-term business and transformation now, with relentless focus on Safety & Environmental growth are expanding rapidly. shareholder value. It all starts here... with innovation! 29 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 30 Innovation Taiyo Nippon Sanso Examples of MCHC Group Innovation Metal 3D Printing While the MCHC Group has long been engaged in 3D printing using polymer materials, Taiyo Nippon Sanso The wide-ranging R&D efforts of our four operating companies Corporation entered the metal 3D printing business in 2016. take the lead to create value. This technology is used to manufacture fully dense metallic parts with high accuracy for a variety of industries particularly aerospace and medical. The quality of 3D printed parts depends significantly on gas atmosphere, and is therefore closely related to the welding technology we have developed over many years. We are collaborating with five business partners, Mitsubishi Chemical including Sintavia, LLC. Our strategy is to deliver total solutions including printers, metal powder, and prototyping Materials Informatics* Machine services in addition to our core gas products. Taiyo learning Nippon Sanso aims to launch its new proprietary products Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation actively encourages by the end of FY2019 and commercialize additive open innovation. For example, in the digital fi eld, we are Model objects made by metal 3D printing manufacturing within a few years. developing materials informatics (MI) technology for polymeric materials jointly with three other chemical companies and the National Institute for Materials Data Calculation and refinement of Life Science Institute Science. Furthermore, we have established a joint a large number of candidates research division at The Institute of Statistical Development of Enteric Capsules Mathematics (one of the institute of the Research Organization of Information and Systems) to strengthen Qualicaps Co., Ltd., one of the Life Science Institute the basis of MI technology. We will continue to enhance Group companies, is developing enteric capsules by such initiatives as part of MCHC Group’s digital New Enteric drug applying the materials technology of MCHC Group. transformation. materials Enteric capsules protect their contents from gastric acid Oral administration so that medicines can be released effi ciently and directly * Materials Informatics: AI-based method to design new materials and explore alternative materials rapidly and efficiently into the small intestine. While enteric tablets and granules are usually produced by the coating method, Qualicaps Stomach (low pH) Insoluble applies enteric materials to the capsule. The development of enteric capsules shortens the Small intestine formulation development period compared with other Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma (Neutral pH) Soluble enteric formulations, enabling new medicines to be delivered to patients sooner. Development of Plant-derived VLP Vaccines Medicago Inc., a consolidated subsidiary of Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, has developed proprietary technology for producing vaccines using plant-derived virus-like particles (VLPs). Results of the MOT Indices (Management of Technology) Performance of MOT Indices in VLPs have the same external structure as viruses, FY2018 vs. FY2020 Target and are attracting interest as a highly safe vaccine As part of our KAITEKI Management (see page 11), MCHC measures its (%) Structure of VLP 120 technology that confers strong immunity. In addition to progress toward developing powerful and sustainable technology platforms 105.4 enabling short-term and low-cost mass production, using Management of Technology (MOT) indices. The latest MOT indices are 100 FY2020 Target 90.1 plant-derived VLP technology may overcome the summarized using three main index groups (12 indices): R&D effi ciency (R&D 80 85.5 reduction of effectiveness exhibited by vaccines grown in Index), technology superiority (Intellectual Property Index), and integration of 60 chicken eggs. cutting-edge technology and digital transformation (Advanced Technology Medicago intends to apply for approval in the U.S. Index). Our FY2018 results show good progress toward achieving the 40 by the end of FY2019 and is continuing development to FY2020 targets. We continue to use the feedback from our MOT indices to 20 launch the vaccine in time for the 2021-2022 infl uenza strengthen our Group-wide technological competitiveness. 0 season. R&D Index Intellectual Advanced Structure of inﬂuenza virus Property Technology Index Index 31 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 32 Innovation Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings The KAITEKI Institute The Emerging Technology and Business Development Office, established in 2017, The KAITEKI Institute, Inc. (TKI) was established in 2009 to serve as a think-tank creates new opportunities for expansion beyond the perspective of our current and to conduct research to realize a KAITEKI society, as envisaged business. by the MCHC Group, with an eye to the future in 20 to 30 years. TKI proposes solutions to future social issues by collaborating with academic experts globally. Digital Transformation Establishment of The Global KAITEKI Center Vision In order to realize digital transformation, we leverage Through digital technology and way of thinking, we bring new On April 1, 2019, The Global KAITEKI Center was jointly trends to companies, industries and society, and innovate the both digital technology and “digital way of thinking” to businesses and corporate culture of MCHC. established with its host institution, Arizona State solve problems relevant to our business. University (ASU). ASU has one of the world’s largest and From the viewpoint of operational excellence, we most accomplished institutes specializing in concepts exploit machine learning, text mining, and optimization and technologies associated with sustainability. As a New Digital techniques in order to improve plant stability, optimize Operational New Digital result, the university has been named the most innovative Business energy usage, and improve product quality. We Excellence Paradigm university in the U.S. Our goals for the Center are: to Model continuously introduce these capabilities to the operating identify the challenges in realizing a sustainable society Creation of new services Take in and make To optimize every kind of groups of MCHC. business operation and business models effective use of innovative Arizona State University by effectively using the knowledge of ASU; to establish that bring change and technologies In addition, we publish a “Digital Playbook” as a From data to knowledge innovation to supply the concepts and develop the technologies required to Restructure organizations, and wisdom chains means to create new business models and optimize systems and mechanisms solve those challenges; and to share our KAITEKI global business operations. And we actively develop new concept with the rest of the world. We will focus our Common infrastructure platform efforts on social scientific issues as well as the chemical methods in key areas including materials informatics and MCHC methods (Group-wide development) quantum computing, ensuring that we remain current industry and circular economy. with emerging digital paradigms. Human resource development; changing to “Digital Native” organization and culture Development Team for Sport Prosthetic Foot Blades The Team KAITEKI Project brings together experts from Corporate Venture Activity various fields, such as researchers in industry, We provide new growth opportunities across the entire government, academia, physical therapists, coaches and MCHC Group through strategic partnership with athletes. To contribute to people, society and the world promising startup companies worldwide. In July 2018, at large, the project has the following three goals: we established Diamond Edge Ventures, a new subsidiary company based in Silicon Valley (U.S.). We To improve the performance of top 1 emphasize close collaboration between our Silicon Valley para-athletes by developing prosthetic and Japan teams. foot blades We invested in DigiLens Inc., a startup developing To broadly apply the developed 2 key materials and processes to enable Augmented technologies to walking assistance Reality (AR) devices. We also initiated investment in To ultimately eliminate the term areas ranging from industrial process control to 3D 3 “disability” printing. We continuously introduced startups to MCHC business groups, leading to several promising joint Our vision of society in the future is one in which use projects. These initiatives allow us to create new of a prosthetic foot or walking-assistance tool is not business opportunities, build our global networks, and viewed as a “disability”. We have developed prosthetic add an important dimension to our innovation processes foot blades by bringing together technologies based on across the MCHC Group. biomechanics, computational engineering, and materials Ms. Kaede Maegawa science, and by cooperating with Ms. Kaede Maegawa, a para-track and field athlete whom we sponsor. The foot Top athlete in women’s 100-meter sprint and long jump, and silver medalist in women’s long jump (T42) at the blades were launched as a business in April 2019. World Para Athletics Championships (2017, London) 33 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 34 Sustainability “KAITEKI Vision 30”, the mediumto long-term Sustainability basic management policy Our core management policy targeting FY2030 is being formulated KAITEKI Vision 30 < Innovation & Solutions > Addressing climate changes and improving resource/energy efficiency Environmental/Social Issues the Reducing GHG emissions The Ideal Sustainable Society Earth • Reducing emissions in production • Accelerating climate • Reducing environmental impact throughout the value chain • An optimized recyclingMessage from the CSO change Contributing to effective use of water, etc. oriented society • Water stress and • Sustainable well-being pollution Promoting an optimal circular economy Aligning our business • Ocean plastic • Increasing population and Society Promoting reuse/reduce/recycle/renewable Implementing digital transformation, etc. Backcasting approach aging society strategy more closely • Globalization and widening disparity Enabling fulfilling work, improving creativity and productivity People with our sustainability • Expansion of regional economic zones Improving employee diversity and talent, as well as personnel systems • Increasing medical strategy to promote expenses Looking Ahead to Solutions 2050 continuous growth Projecting to the Next Medium-term Management Plan Yoshihiro Ikegawa 2030 Waves of Drastic Changes Managing Corporate Executive Officer toward 2050 2025 Chief Sustainability Officer [Globalization] Irreversible trend toward 2018 Trends in Regulatory Reinforcement globalization [Degitalization] • Paris Agreement: GHG zero emissions in the second half of this Transcending barriers of time century differences/national borders/ • Strengthening fuel efficiency standards of automobile in each country languages • Europe’s 2030 circular economy target: Package waste recycling rate Fusion of real and the virtual of 75% worlds In recent years, amid growing concern over global reflected in the next medium-term management plan. • 2018: Ocean Plastics Charter announced (G7) [Social networks] • Trend of introducing carbon taxes Decentralization/Networking environmental and social issues, there has been an • Strengthening “soft” laws relating to human rights, etc. The era of always “connected” upward trend toward pursuing sustainability around the Realizing an optimized world following the adoption of the UN Sustainable recycling-oriented society Development Goals (SDGs) and the enforcement of the With respect to climate change, the Group has made chain participate in (see page 40). Paris Agreement. Accordingly, we recognize that In order to address pressing issues including climate a concerted effort to reduce GHG emissions from its expectations for the private sector has been growing, change and ocean plastic, we recognize the need to be production activities of the Group, while developing Truly putting our corporate philosophy and this is suggested by the expansion of ESG proactive by transforming business models and innovation. products that will help reduce GHG emissions of our into practice investments. customers. In October 2018, we announced support for The MCHC Group’s Structure for Promoting KAITEKI the recommendations of the Task Force on ClimateTo ensure further adoption of KAITEKI globally, we are MCHC Envisioning our ideal future related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In a similar manner, further strengthening KAITEKI approach to penetrate our Board of Directors we will enhance our climate-related disclosure, and corporate philosophy in the Group. For each employee to Reporting With an objective toward sustainable growth among disruptive recognize what society expects from us through take ownership of social issues and to address social Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Officer, changes in digital technology that are transforming the Officers Committee President and CEO dialogues with investors and other stakeholders while issues through business activities, increased awareness structure of the industry, companies must envision the ideal Proposal of priority matters for deliberation*1 Consultation Reporting working to spark innovation in product development. of social issues is required from both organizations and future with a long-term mindset and therefore take prompt KAITEKI Promotion Committee As a key element for realizing KAITEKI, one of our individuals. Founded on this, we have held workshops for actions for that future, instead of conventional approaches ambitious initiatives is the enterprise-wide promotion of division managers and general managers to discuss the of growth strategies that are simply an extension of existing Enhancement of Enhancement of circular economy, which will drastically change social concept of KAITEKI since FY2018. With these workshops businesses. We have visualized what the MCHC Group corporate value from a corporate value from a mechanisms and industrial structures. In May 2019, we as a starting point, we will promote the adoption of financial perspective non-financial perspective should look like in 2030 considering the Earth, society, and 2 established the Circular Economy Promotion Committee KAITEKI in each workplace, empowering our employees Bottom line ESG* people by backcasting from our vision of society in 2050. We Capital efficiency Innovation*3 and are considering specific development themes that to drive change and strive to put KAITEKI truly into Portfolio management Health management are formulating a mediumto long-term basic management can create both social and economic value (see page practice. policy, “KAITEKI Vision 30” (see the upper figure on page The Circular Economy 38). However, we cannot build a circular economy on our Sustainability is our priority focus we will strive to Promotion Committee 36), the framework of the strategy to realize what we should own; the entire value chain must be involved. Therefore, achieve the sustainability targets of APTSIS 20, and ensure Each division (each office) / operating company be in 2030. We will set clear targets for 2030, such as we will build business models and collaborate with the continued growth by promoting further alignment between *1 Where necessary *2 Governance issues are mainly addressed by committees such greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, which will be as the Nominating Committee *3 Determination of the direction of technologies, etc. initiatives that companies and organizations in our value the business strategy and the sustainability strategy. 35 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 36 0 205 Sustainability I Value EK KAIT nding 2 030 Exp a Circular Challenges to Achieving Economy the Recycling-oriented Society Realizing a Recycling-oriented Society The Circular Economy Promotion Committee was established in May 2019 The MCHC Group positions the circular economy as a as a crossover between social value and economic value, to promote our critical strategy for comprehensively resolving environmental group-wide shift to a circular economy. issues such as climate change, resources and energy. In order to achieve the recycling-oriented society, we strive to efficiently use resources throughout the entire life cycle from The Group’s Policy on the Circular Economy manufacturing process to treatment after product use. In our vision to realize KAITEKI we will serve a recycling-oriented society through our innovation and business model transformation. We will create new value with innovative products and through an efficient utilization of resources, materials and energy. Our Vision of Circulation Use and circulation of carbon as a resource Circular Economy (CE) Promotion Committee Examples of themes (including carbon dioxide and plastic waste) Organization Structure Efficient use of water resources CE Promotion Committee chairperson Development of recyclable materials and recycle End of wastes technologies CE promotion Recycling of packaging and industrial materials Secretariat leader Development of mechanical recycling and chemical recycling technologies Procurement of MCHC Individual operating The KAITEKI Enhancement of biotechnology-related business raw materials companies Institute Business expansion of biodegradable polymers and • Use of sustainable resources Mission plant-derived polymers and development of Manufacturing Thinking about CE from a business point of view, biocatalysts, etc. utilizing the initiatives and promoting effectively Implementation of a c-LCA system and • Efficient production activity recommendations for reforming business portfolios • Use of renewable energy Recycling • Products designed with 4R 4R: Reuse, Reduce, Recycle, Renewable • Chemical recycling • Reuse of wastes and • Mechanical recycling byproducts generated in Business portfolio Wastes production processes The growth potential, business model and • Organic recycling*1 reforms innovation, in response to global agendas such Growth Potential (Sales growth rate) • Purification and reuse of as reducing GHG emissions and actions towards Profitability (ROS) waste water Reflecting the cross-over of social the circular economy are considered new factors value and economic value in portfolio in reforming the business portfolio, in addition to Capital Efficiency (ROIC) the conventional factors of profitability. reform Next-generation M&A Growth businesses businesses Alliance LCA*2 Use Growth Businesses to be Cash-generating Withdrawal Evaluating total impacts • Provide products that contribute to saving energy restructured businesses on environment and resources throughout the products • Provide long-life products life cycle • Appropriate treatment of products after use Profitability and capital efficiency *1 Organic recycling: technology to produce valuable products through composting and methane fermentation. *2 LCA: life cycle analysis 37 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 38 0 205 Sustainability I Value EK KAIT nding 2 030 a Exp Report in line with the recommendations Addressing the Plastic Waste Issues of the Task Force on Climate-related Plastics are widely used and indispensable in daily life, Major Initiatives in Which the MCHC Group Participates Financial Disclosures (TCFD*) reflecting their ease-of-use. Global production of plastics has risen 20-fold*1 over the past 50 years, and yet their recycling Joined in Initiative rate remains as low as around 10%,*2 resulting in serious September 2018 Japan Initiative for Marine Environment In October 2018, MCHC announced its support for the final recommendations prepared by the Task Force on Climate(Founding member) related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), established by the Financial Stability Board. marine plastic pollution cause by a lack of proper waste The MCHC Group has worked to reduce environmental impact, promote energy-saving activities, increase the use treatment. As countermeasures against the plastic waste are Japan Clean Ocean Material Alliance January 2019 (Chairperson of Engineering Committee) of renewable energy, and expand product groups that contribute to the reduction of GHG emissions. Based on the required on a global scale, the MCHC Group, as a plastic TCFD’s final recommendations, the Group will enhance these initiatives, progressively expanding its disclosure of related materials provider, is also working to reduce the plastic waste Alliance to End Plastic Waste January 2019 (Founding member / Executive Committee information as it strives to increase corporate value. generated throughout the value chain while also addressing member) the challenge through its products and technologies, including Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s * In June 2017, TCFD announced the final recommendations concerning disclosure of information to encourage companies to voluntarily disclose to investors the impacts of climate change-related risks and business opportunities on corporate finances. by developing recycling-friendly materials and technologies, March 2019 Circular Economy 100 (The first Japanese chemical company to join the CE100) and promoting its biodegradable polymer business. Governance Furthermore, in collaboration with international initiatives, we *1 Reference: World Economic Forum (2016) MCHC identified climate change as a material management issue by conducting the materiality assessment (see will work to build a recycling-oriented society throughout the *2 Reference: OECD, Improving Markets for Recycled Plastic (2018), R. Geyer, J. Jambeck and K. Law, “Production, use, and fate of all plastics ever page 13) under APTSIS 20, and have conducted appropriate measures. Several metrics are applied to the climatevalue chain. made,” Science Advances, Vol. 3 (2017) related issues to evaluate the progress of measures taken (see “Metrics and Targets” below). We monitor the progress against the target set for each operating company under the KAITEKI Initiative Structure (see page 35) centering on the KAITEKI Promotion Committee, an advisory body to the president of MCHC. Structure Roles Activities in FY2018 • Formulation of the basic management policy • Supervision through the execution reports of Board of Directors executive officers • Supervision of overall management • Provision to outside directors of important information on Outside Director Liaison management • Exchange of views on “KAITEKI Vision 30” Committee (see page 36) (November) • Frank exchange of views on management issues KAITEKI Promotion Committee • Deliberations on basic policy, etc. concerning the KAITEKI • Deliberations on “KAITEKI Vision 30”: Concept on reduction of [Structure] •President, MCHC •Corporate Executive Officers, MCHC •CSO* of each operating company initiatives • Monitoring through the activity reports of operating GHG emissions (February) • Monitoring based on the management indices (MOS indices) (July Building a resource-saving and carbon-circulating society: •Members of the Audit Committee, etc., MCHC companies • Overseeing the progress of KAITEKI initiatives by the CSO and February) Biodegradable Polymer, BioPBS of each company • Reporting the progress of MOS indices, etc. at the Operating Companies KAITEKI Promotion Committee (July and February) Expectations for the use of bioplastics to help in build a recycling-oriented society are increasing. BioPBS • Reporting the progress of KAITEKI initiatives and MOS indices, etc. is a plant-derived biodegradable polymer developed by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation and manufactured * CSO: Chief Sustainability Offi cer by PTT MCC Biochem Company Limited, a joint venture established in Thailand with PTT Global Chemical Strategy and Risk Management Public Company Limited (Thailand). Microorganisms in the environment decompose BioPBS into water 2020 2025 2030 2050 Timeline of KAITEKI Management (see page 11) and carbon dioxide, thus causing only a small environmental load. In addition, thanks to its plant origin, Medium-term Management Plan Aiming at next 5 to 20 years the product is carbon neutral as the carbon dioxide released by its incineration is fully absorbed by APTSIS 20 plants. Paper cups made using this material were first released in October 2018, and since then we have Aiming at next 3 to 7 years MCHC: Setting the future direction of the Group, building (FY2016 – FY2020) the creation of basic strategic framework Operating companies: Plan and implementation Considering methods to realize innovation accelerated the development of its applications for food-related products that include such items as coffee • Identify “Responses to climate change” as a material issues through materiality assessment, capsules, cutlery and straws as well as covering materials used in agriculture such as mulch films. • We are formulating “KAITEKI Vision 30,” the basic management and report the risks and opportunities that are recognized as well as core measures underway. Strategy P13-16 P41 policy toward 2030. The development of new materials through public-private-academic partnerships is important to Concept of responses to climate change (carbon management) • Initiatives in R&D promote the plastic resource circulation strategy, and for this reason, the development and demonstration Innovation & solutions (business opportunities) • Management of major risks according to the risk management system: Reporting on large-scale of applications are being implemented with the government’s support. Thus, the MCHC Group is Risk natural disasters as physical risks. P58 Business risks Management • Responses to emerging risks: Promoting products that contribute to responding to climate change. P40 Setting long-term targets contributing to the circulation of global resources with Japanese technologies by setting up cutting-edge material businesses not only in Japan but also in key locations abroad. Metrics and Targets Decomposition into water and carbon Category Report of FY2018 Related Page dioxide progresses even at ordinary Among the management indices that assess the improvement of sustainability (MOS indices), we have set the temperatures by microorganisms Metrics and Remaining weight rate reduction of burdens on the atmospheric environment such as in terms of greenhouse gases and the degree of in nature. targets to contribution to the reduction of GHGs by providing products and services that contribute to reducing GHG emissions. Sustainability (MOS) indices P42 assess risks and Based on these, we set targets for the final year of the medium-term management plan (for FY2020), and assess the opportunities degree of achievement every year. For the progress in FY2018, please see page 42. Non-financial highlights P63 Scope 1 to 3 Please see GHG emissions on page 63 for the performance in FY2018. Environmental data/Independent GHG emissions Assurance Report P95-96 (month) The performance-based evaluation of the remuneration of corporate executive officers and executive officers is Time underground Corporate determined based on the degree of achievement of the targets for each fiscal year. The evaluation is determined by Corporate governance, Analytical test in soils executive using indices including those associated with the improvement of sustainability in addition to economic and capital remuneration P52 200µm thick sheet, 30°C/50%RH remuneration efficiencies, such as indices associated with climate change through the promotion of energy-saving activities. For details, please refer to the Securities Report. Carbon cycle of BioPBS Biodegradability of BioPBS Coffee capsules Growth Strategy for Advanced Polymers P75 39 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 40 Sustainability Progress with Sustainability Management Sustainability (MOS) Indices Materiality matrix Based on the materiality (important issues; see page 13) Since FY2011, the MCHC Group has been using the Integrated Reporting Framework of the International Importance for stakeholders identified in the medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, Management of Sustainability (MOS) Indices to quantify Integrated Reporting Council. and visualize its contribution to sustainability as its own For details of these achievements, please visit the following the MCHC Group has set the core measures and targets for management indicator for promoting sustainability. This website: sustainability. We will take action based on the results of report describes MOS Indices-related achievements (table this materiality assessment, to help solve social issues and below) and efforts (pages 43–44 and 46) in an easy-toWebsite (Sustainability) increase our corporate value. understand manner with reference to the International https://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/english/sustainability/ Importance for the MCHC Group Sustainability (MOS) Indices Assessment Criteria FY2018 FY2018 FY2020 Related SDGs Materiality Core Measures (Data elements) (Units) Plan Result Target Reduce burden on the atmospheric environment Per-unit impact on the environment 540 499.0 548.7 Address the depletion of natural resources and energy saving by switching to renewable raw (GHG, SOx and NOx emissions) (LIME / ¥100 million) Energy and materials, curbing the use of rare metals, reducing raw fuel consumption and promoting 3R Per-unit impact on the resources Reduce burden on the water environment 6.5 5.5 6.1 Material issues related to and zero emissions. environment The global environment (Total phosphorous, total nitrogen in wastewater and COD emissions) (LIME / ¥100 million) Reduce burden on the soil environment Per-unit impact on the Reduce GHG emissions, promote LCA and utilize low-carbon resources and energy, (total landfill) environment 4.4 5.5 5.1 (LIME / ¥100 million) Climate change while creating and expanding business opportunities that mitigate or adapt to Volume of renewable the global environment climate change. Promote use of renewable energy energy generated and 56.0 55.6 50.0 supplied (MW) Provide products and services that contribute to Contribution to the reduction Use water resources efficiently and clean wastewater while helping to solve water resource reducing GHG emissions of GHG emissions (hundreds of 0.81 0.75 1.5 Water millions of tons-CO2 equivalent) issues by providing safe and clean water through our products and services. Volume of reused water Provide products and services that help solve water resource problems supplied 5.6 5.6 17 (hundreds of millions of tons) Provide products and services that Growth in sales of related Food and Develop solutions to food and agricultural issues by preserving food resources, resolving help solve food problems products and services (%) 11.3 12.3 30 agriculture maldistribution and providing products and services that improve agricultural productivity. Provide products and services that contribute to a Growth rate in the comfort 14.7 8.8 40 Material issues related comfortable society and better lifestyles value provision index (%) Social systems To ensure that customers can use products and services without concern, pursue initiatives Customer satisfaction index Product (Results of customer satisfaction survey) Points 27 22 47 to ensure the quality and safety of products throughout their lifecycle and minimize adverse responsibility effects on the environment. to social systems Improvement index in the number of complaints % 40 20.0 50 Improvement index in communication Contribution to Broadly contribute to society through business activities while deepening understanding of with business partners (Regarding CSR procurement, communities various communities and continually responding to their requests and expectations. status of initiatives such as distribution of guidelines, checklists, Points 77.8 86.8 100 monitoring of the situation, interviews/visits/audits) Promote the use of health information and disease prevention by improving lifestyle habits Health and wellness through self-medication and expanding healthcare products and services, and contribute to Contribution index for pharmaceuticals provision the improvement of people’s health. (Contribution to treatment, increased effectiveness) Points 11.4 11.8 15 Improve patient QOL and help people’s lives and health by developing pharmaceuticals that Medical care meet unmet medical needs and improving medical care through regenerative medicine and Material issues related to the Company and remote medicine technologies. Company and its organizational structure Human Vaccine provision index Points 7.7 7.8 14 Offer equal opportunities in hiring, placement, promotion and skills development, while acquiring development and and developing human resources for the medium to long term. Raise employee awareness of training the Corporate Philosophy and increase corporate value by implementing the philosophy. Occupational health Implement safety management in accordance with national and regional laws and regulations Improvement index in awareness of compliance and make workplaces safe while maintaining and improving the physical and mental health of Points 21.0 15.8 21 its organizational structure and safety employees. (Results of awareness survey) Human rights Respect the dignity and rights of all people in corporate activities and require that business awareness partners refrain from violating human rights or engaging in inappropriate discrimination. Reduction rate of environmental incidents % 100 20 100 Information Recognize the importance and responsibilities associated with protecting information assets and manage information properly to prevent leakage of confidential information of customers, security and privacy business partners, MCHC or other parties. Employee wellness index Incorporate a diverse range of human resources and views without regard to nationality, age (Employee satisfaction, rate of taking paid leave, Diversity and rate of number of days of sick leave, percentage of Points 11.7 11.3 16 or belief, and promote diversity and inclusion through our corporate activities, thus enhancing inclusion corporate value. female managers) 41 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 42 Sustainability MCHC’s Materiality Case Studies of addressing the Materiality Water Management at the MCHC Group Water Of all the water resource on Earth, the available amount of freshwater is only about 0.01%. The water crisis is worsening because of the increase in water consumption due to population growth and economic development and the expansion of areas suffering from water shortages caused by climate change. In response, global companies Oxygen burner to save energy in the production process must play a greater role in the effective use of water and improvement of water quality through their operations. MCHC’s Materiality Approach to Conserving Water Resources Energy and resources Climate change The Group is working to preserve water resources mainly by reducing its business activities’ impact on water Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation developed the Innova-Jet F.H. oxygen Reduction of Fuel Consumption Rate resources and contributing to solving water supply-and-demand issue through its products. burner to achieve significant energy savings in the forehearth in the glass Innova-Jet Item Unit Conventional Water Risk Assessment and On-site Surveys manufacturing process. This burner is designed to change the direction F.H. of flames periodically to ensure uniform heating of a wider area with Oxidant Air Oxygen The MCHC Group is conducting risk assessments surveys we evaluated the level of water management and fewer burners. In fact, the temperature distribution measured at the Furnace temp. ºC 1,100 1,100 through on-site interview surveys and other means to the water use reduction measures implemented by the plants bottom of the test furnace shows that the uniform temperature Fuel consumption* 100 35 sites deemed to have high water risks. We identified the considering the social needs, such as contribution to distribution can be obtained even if the number of burners is reduced to Reduction rate % 65 plants with potential high water risks by using the Global local communities and prevention of water pollution. less than half of the existing air burners. It was also confirmed that fuel * The amount used in the air burner is set to 100. Water Tool provided by the World Business Council for Today, as a result of taking appropriate risk control consumption can be reduced by 65% compared with using air burners. Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and assessing the measures, none of our plants have water risks that could The company is working to apply this technology in the steel, glass and possibility of high water stress at the plants. In FY2017 adversely affect our activities, even those where drought ceramic industries to save energy and reduce CO2 emissions. we conducted on-site surveys at 11 locations in Japan and other water issues used to pose a risk. We will and three abroad and have been expanding the scope of continue to conduct on-site surveys to reduce water risks Joint research on a new treatment for malaria the survey since FY2018. Through on-site interview and conserve water resources. initiative to improve access to medicines in developing countries Examples of Countermeasures for Water-related Risks MCHC’s Materiality Measures to Prevent Water Pollution Mitsubishi Chemical’s Okayama Plant Medical care The plant constantly monitors water quality by using a continuous analyzer installed at the end of the drain. Plant operators also conduct Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation provides support for institution focused on the treatment of malaria, via the GHIT regular on-site patrols, visually inspecting water and checking for the development of new drugs to treat infectious diseases Fund. Through the joint research, the company obtained equipment and system defects. The plant also has a system to such as malaria, tuberculosis and neglected tropical diseases two lead compounds derived from one of promising three hit automatically shut the downstream water gate in case the analyzer in developing countries by investing in the Global Health compounds as candidates for new anti-malarial drugs. shows an abnormal value. Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund), established as a This joint research moved into the next stage in April Water gate public-private-civil sector partnership, specialized in research 2019 and the company has been running two-year program and development of global health care. to create candidates for new anti-malarial drugs using a grant Effectively Reusing Water Mitsubishi Chemical’s Ibaraki Plant The company also provided its pharmaceutical compound from the GHIT Fund. library to Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV), a research The plant uses large amounts of cooling water in the chemicals manufacturing process. In order to reduce the amount of freshwater Brand Book withdrawn from local water resources, the plant reuses the cooling Spreading and implementing water several dozen times. the corporate philosophy MCHC’s Materiality Human development Cooling tower and training Ex At the MCHC Group, it is individual employees who are the targeting divisional and departmental managers who are pa nd Securing Safe Water ing driving force behind value creation. We are working to nurture a supervising individual workplaces. (In FY2018 we held the KA The water treatment and supply system of Mitsubishi Chemical Aqua Solution ITE corporate culture that encourages all employees to regard workshop eight times with the participation of 160 managers.) KI Co., Ltd. supplies safe drinking water by advanced membrane filtration of groundwater. Va social issues as their own and to strive to achieve KAITEKI in Through these measures lue The decentralized water system enables the dual supply of water in addition to the their workplaces and companies based on a shared we are instilling the public water supply system, thus ensuring the water supply in the event of disaster. understanding of the Group’s vision. To this end, we have philosophy of KAITEKI It increases the disaster response capabilities of facilities where water supply is conveyed the views of our top executives through the in-house and implementing prioritized, such as disaster base hospitals and core manufacturing facilities. magazine and have distributed copies of the Brand Book to specific initiatives across Membrane filtration system for groundwater employees. Moreover, since FY2018, we have been holding a our workplaces via their workshop to revitalize human resources and organizations, leaders. KAITEKI workshop 43 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 44 Sustainability Approach to KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management Three Core KPIs for KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management, Creativity and Productivity Description FY2018 Result FY2020 Target Human Resource Development Vitality Index + 15pt Index for employees’ job 71.1pt The MCHC Group believes that “people” are the driving force behind the sustainable KPI Vitality Index satisfaction, enthusiasm, (+ 8.1 y/y) Increase positive choices by 15 point or more in the health survey*1. Effect trust and growth growth of society and the company. People are also a key management resource. We are promoting KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management* to help each employee realize their potential to the fullest. * “Kenkokeiei,” which means Health and Productivity Management in Japanese, is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee, an Workstyle Index Index for levels of workstyle 70.6pt + 10pt NPO. In terms of using “KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management,” the trademark is authorized to be used by the NPO. Result KPI Wellness Index KPI Workstyle Index Increase positive choices by 10pt awareness, behavior and (+2.8 y/y) initiatives or more in the health survey. Message from the CHO Activity Health Support Workstyle Reform Wellness Index Index for health checkup 47.6pt + 10pt For the 10 health criteria items, increase items, lifestyle quality and (+2.2 y/y) the number of items met by each employee level of life satisfaction Devoted to be by one item (= 10 points) or more. *1 We conduct the health survey to assess each employee’s awareness and approach to a company where Plan Management Leadership Health and Productivity Management, in combination with the conventional employee awareness survey. creative and diverse individuals can thrive Case Studies of addressing the Materiality Ken Fujiwara Managing Corporate Executive Officer 1 Empowerment of Diverse 2 Achieving a Balance between 3 Chief Compliance Officer Health Promotion Chief Health Officer Human Resources Life Events and Work Mitsubishi Chemical Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Life Science Institute Implementing the “Experience Helping employees on childcare Holding a health measurement JAPAN” training program leave to continue active careers event Initiatives for KAITEKI Health For sustainable growth, companies need The MCHC Group helps employees to work Employees cannot work with vigor and infrastructure system, and are enabling flexible workand Productivity Management a corporate culture that encourages flexibly according to their stage of life. satisfaction unless they are physically and styles, such as telework, to boost productivity and diverse employees to fulfill their potential Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation mentally healthy. The MCHC Group promotes KAITEKI Health and creativity. In addition, we have been exploring what and collabolate each other. has introduced a program to help those on Life Science Institute, Inc. holds a Productivity Management to boost creativity and individuals and the organization should be thorough To foster multicultural communication, childcare leave return to work and continue special health measurement event which productivity of diverse people who contribute to a discussions to formulate the mediumto long-term basic Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation has an active career. Under the program, involves measurements that are different a program to help local employees employees are given opportunities to study to a regular health checkup. In the event, realization of KAITEKI through improving health and management policy “KAITEKI Vision 30” (see page 36). working at overseas bases understand MBA subjects and languages online during the cognitive functions of employees reforming work-styles. Using a PDCA (plan, do, check We are also planning to reinforce efforts to develop Japanese business customs through OJT, their leave, as well as financial support are assessed to learn how they are and act) cycle and based on three core KPIs (see page employees with digital skills and leverage external experience cultural differences and build to employ babysitters after returning using their brains while also having their 46), we are pushing forward initiatives related to human resources as part of our shift to a data-driven business a network to work. The company thus supports capillaries visually examined. This helps resource development, promoting diversity, supporting model. A diverse workplace that fosters vitality is the with fellow time-constrained employees to be more make participants more aware of their employees successful at workplace. health, and each participant receives the flexible work-styles, and improving health conditions. foundation of an organization with a culture of openworking in results and advice individually. We developed and introduced a proprietary system, mindedness and high levels of trust. We will foster a Japan. i Healthcare, to support employees’ health more than 2 corporate culture that sparks creativity in each employee 4 a year ago. As a result, many of our employees now and promotes the drive to create new value. use wearable devices to monitor their sleep quality, ICT-based Health Support System exercise, heart rate, and other indicators in real time, Development of Human Resources in charge of On-site Safety raising their health awareness and improving self-care. “i2 Healthcare” A proprietary system that enables each employee to see Taiyo Nippon Sanso personal health data on their devices, integrating health data collected daily via wearable devices, health checkup results, Established the “Technical Academy” to help employees improve technical skills and safety The ideal state of individuals and work-style related information. and the organization For workplace safety, the MCHC Group believes it is important to improve the work environment and urge individual employees to be more aware of risks. For the MCHC Group to achieve sustainable growth Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation opened the Technical Academy in June 2018 as a technical training facility. The Academy is equipped with different types of in the face of accelerating changes in the business simulators, including those using virtual reality (VR), to enable employees to virtually environment, the Group must have systems in place to experience typical on-site incidents, including getting caught in machinery and falls, maximize the potential of individuals and organizations. as well as incidents involving high-pressure gas, such as cylinders overbalancing As part of strategic investments in human resources, and gas leaks. These simulators help employees to be aware of risks at work. My page we have introduced an ICT-based communication VR simulator for falls 45 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 46 Management Directors Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Chairperson Corporate Executive Officer, Managing Corporate Executive Officer, Managing Corporate Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Compliance Officer Yoshimitsu Kobayashi Hitoshi Ochi Hidefumi Date Ken Fujiwara Chairperson of the Nominating Committee Dec. 1974 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd. Apr. 1977 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd. Apr. 1982 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd. Apr. 1984 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd. Jun. 2003 Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2007 Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2013 Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2015) Apr. 2015 Executive Officer, MCHC Member of the Nominating Committee Apr. 2005 Managing Executive Officer, MCC Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2010) Apr. 2015 Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2017 Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2018) Chairperson of the Audit Committee Jun. 2006 Director of the Board, MCHC Apr. 2009 Director of the Board, MPI (until Mar. 2011) Apr. 2018 Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2018 Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Feb. 2007 Director of the Board, Member of the Audit Committee Jun. 2009 Director of the Board, Jun. 2019 Director of the Board, Jun. 2018 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCC Executive Officer, MCHC Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC (current) Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC (current) Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Apr. 2007 Director of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2010 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Director of the Board, TNSC (current) Member of the Compensation Committee Director of the Board, Director of the Board, MRC (until Jun. 2011) President and Chief Executive Officer, MCC Apr. 2011 Director of the Board, MCHC (until Jun. 2011) Apr. 2012 Director of the Board, Chairperson, Director of the Board, MCC (until Mar. 2017) Managing Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2012) Apr. 2015 Director of the Board, Chairperson, MCHC (current) Apr. 2012 Director of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, MRC (until Mar. 2018) Jun. 2012 Director of the Board, MCHC Apr. 2015 Director of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2015 Director of the Board, Corporate Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC (current) Director of the Board Director of the Board Director of the Board Glenn H. Fredrickson Hisao Urata Shigeru Kobayashi Directors Jan. 1990 Associate Professor, Departments of Chemical Engineering and Materials, Jan. 1991 Joined Mitsubishi Kasei Corporation Jun. 2011 Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. Apr. 1980 2013 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd. Executive Officer, MPI (As of June 25, 2019) University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2014) Apr. 2015 Director of the Board, Executive Officer, MPI Jul. 1991 Distinguished Professor, Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2016 Director of the Board, Departments of Chemical Engineering and Materials, Jun. 2015 Managing Corporate Executive Officer, Managing Executive Officer, MPI UCSB (current) MCHC (until Mar. 2016) Apr. 2017 Managing Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2019) May 1998 Chairperson, Department of Chemical Engineering, Jun. 2016 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Jun. 2019 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) UCSB (until Jul. 2001) Corporate Auditor, MPI (until Mar. 2017) Corporate Auditor, LSII (current) Mar. 2001 Director, Mitsubishi Chemical Center for Advanced Apr. 2017 Corporate Auditor, LSII (until Jun. 2019) Materials at UCSB (current) Jun. 2019 Corporate Auditor, MCC (current) Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2014 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2015 Director of the Board, Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2017 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Taigi Ito Hideko Kunii Takayuki Hashimoto Chikatomo Hodo Kiyomi Kikuchi Jan. 1970 Joined Tsuji Audit Corporation May 1982 Joined Ricoh Co., Ltd. Apr. 1978 Joined IBM Japan, Ltd. Sep. 1982 Joined Accenture Japan Ltd Apr. 1986 Joined The Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, Ltd. May 1973 Registered as a Certified Public Accountant Jun. 2005 Corporate Senior Deputy CEO, Apr. 2000 Director of the Board, IBM Japan, Ltd. Sep. 2005 Representative Director, Accenture Japan Ltd (currently Mizuho Bank, Ltd.) (until Dec. 1990) Feb. 1989 Representative Partner, MISUZU Audit Corporation Ricoh Co., Ltd. (until Mar. 2008) Apr. 2003 Managing Executive Officer, IBM Japan, Ltd. Apr. 2006 Representative Director and President, Apr. 1999 Registered as a lawyer Jul. 2004 Deputy Chairperson, Apr. 2008 Chairperson, Ricoh Software Co., Ltd. Jan. 2007 Senior Managing Executive Officer, IBM Japan, Ltd. Accenture Japan Ltd Asahi Law Offices the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA) (currently Ricoh IT Solutions Co., Ltd.) Apr. 2008 Director of the Board, Senior Managing Officer, Sep. 2015 Director and Chairperson, Accenture Japan Ltd Sep. 2002 Allen & Overy LLP (London) (until Jun. 2007) Apr. 2009 Associate Director, Ricoh Co., Ltd. (until Mar. 2013) IBM Japan, Ltd. Sep. 2017 Director and Senior Corporate Advisor, May 2003 Admitted to the bar of the State of New York May 2006 Executive Board Member, Jul. 2009 Chairperson, Ricoh IT Solutions Co., Ltd. (until Mar. 2013) Jan. 2009 Director of the Board, President, IBM Japan, Ltd. Accenture Japan Ltd Oct. 2003 Asahi Law Offices MISUZU Audit Corporation (until Jul. 2007) Apr. 2012 Professor, Graduate School of Engineering Management, May 2012 Director of the Board, Chairperson, IBM Japan, Ltd. Jul. 2018 Senior Corporate Advisor, Accenture Japan Ltd Sep. 2004 Taiyo Law Office Apr. 2009 Professor, Graduate School of Accounting, Waseda Shibaura Institute of Technology Apr. 2014 Chairperson, IBM Japan, Ltd. (current) (currently Paul Hastings LLP/Gaikokuho Kyodo Jigyo) University (until Mar. 2013) Apr. 2013 Deputy President, Jan. 2015 Vice Chairperson, IBM Japan, Ltd. Jun. 2019 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Sep. 2006 JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., Ltd. Jan. 2012 Chairperson, Shibaura Institute of Technology (until Mar. 2018) Jun. 2016 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Apr. 2008 TMI Associates (current) Disciplinary Committee of JICPA (until Aug. 2016) Oct. 2013 Head of the Office of the Gender Equality Promotion Jun. 2019 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) May 2017 Honorary Executive Advisor, IBM Japan, Ltd. (current) Jun. 2014 Outside Corporate Auditor, MCHC (until Jun. 2015) Center, Shibaura Institute of Technology (until Mar. Corporate Auditor, MCC (until Mar. 2017) 2018) Jun. 2015 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Jun. 2015 Outside Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Apr. 2018 Visiting Professor, Graduate School of Engineering Management, Shibaura Institute of Technology (until Mar. 2019) Apr. 2019 Visiting Professor, Shibaura Institute of Technology (current) 47 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 48 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance of MCHC Roles of the Board of Directors MCHC aims to contribute to the sustainable development of people, society, and the Earth, in addition to The Board of Directors determines basic management policies, such as medium-term business strategies and annual budgets. solving environmental and social issues through corporate activities for realizing KAITEKI. As a general rule, corporate executive officers are entrusted with the responsibility of executing operations in accordance with With eyes on these objectives, we are focusing on establishing a better corporate governance structure by these basic policies, excluding matters that must be legally resolved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors primarily supervises the execution of duties by the corporate executive officers. improving management transparency through proper disclosure and dialog with stakeholders, while enhancing both soundness and efficiency of management. Framework and Roles of the Committees (As of June 25, 2019) Corporate Governance Structure for Sound Management and Greater Efficiency Nominating Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee (As of June 25, 2019) Chairperson Outside director Internal director (full-time) Outside director MCHC is a company with a nominating committee, etc., that is enhancing its supervision functions and speedy decision-making for greater management agility with the aim of improving its management transparency and fairness. Under this governance Composition Outside directors 4 Outside directors 3 Outside directors 3 system, the Board of Directors and the three Committees (Nominating, Audit and Compensation Committees) oversee business (including chairperson) Internal director 1 Internal directors (full-time) 2 Internal directors -2 management while the corporate executive officers are responsible for making decisions and operating our business. The Nominating Committee The Audit Committee audits the The Compensation Committee nominates candidates for execution of duties by corporate determines the amount of director and corporate executive executive officers and directors remuneration to be paid Outside Director General Meeting of Shareholders officer as well as potential and reviews the Group’s internal to individual directors and Internal Director Purpose successor for the presidents control systems, etc. corporate executive officers as of the major directly owned well as to the presidents of the subsidiaries that are not listed major directly owned subsidiaries Board of Directors companies (MCC and LSII). that are not listed companies (MCC and LSII). Delegation of decision The Committee met six The Committee met 13 times The Committee met seven on business execution times in total to discuss the in total. The areas of focus times in total to discuss the and supervision of appointment of executives, for the previous year were the standard remuneration to be business execution roles expected of directors, etc. adequacy and effectiveness of paid to the executives and to Audit Nominating Committee Compensation Committee the internal control system and review the performance-based Audit Committee the progress with the mediumremuneration. term management plan, APTSIS Activities in FY2018 20. Based on the audit plan, the Committee carried out audits Audit MCHC’s execution Committee on the execution of duties by Chief Compliance Corporate Executive Decisions on important departments directors and corporate executive Secretariat Officer Officers Committee matters are made at Corporate Executive Officers officers, conducted inspections President Audit Committee on the directly owned subsidiaries and exchanged opinions with the accounting auditor. Corporate Executive Officers Corporate Executive officers in charge Financial of the Internal Control Division Internal Audit Accounting Internal Audit audit Auditor Office Corporate Executive Officers Audit System (Trilateral Audits) Supervision of Internal Control Division Departments operational status (Internal Control Office) The corporate executive officers decide the operational The Audit Committee cooperates with the internal audit Cooperation execution based on basic management policies including departments and the accounting auditor to enhance the medium-term business strategies, annual budgets and others. trilateral audits (by the Audit Committee, accounting audit Management administration, internal controls, auditing, etc. Regarding important matters in the management of and the internal audit departments). Investigation MCHC subsidiaries the MCHC Group, deliberations are made at the Corporate The Committee has prior discussions with the Internal Executive Officers Committee, which is the council by the Audit Office on the internal audit plans made by the office corporate executive officers. In addition to determining the and has a regular meeting with the office to exchange division of duties of each corporate executive officer for other opinions and receive information about the results of internal Corporate Governance History matters, we make it appropriate and efficient decision-making audits and other issues. by clarifying the decision-making authority of the corporate The Committee also cooperates closely with the June 2013 June 2014 June 2015 June 2016 June 2019 executive officer in charge. accounting auditor. It receives reports about the audit Appointment and inauguration of a process, plans, progress status on audit work, and the Appointment and Appointment and female director Increase the number Increase the number Corporate Executive Officers Committee results, and exchanges information and opinions with the Initiatives inauguration of an inauguration of a Transition to a company with a of outside directors of female directors The Corporate Executive Officers Committee is composed auditor. outside director foreign director Nominating Committee, etc. of all corporate executive officers, deliberates and decides Increase diversity of the Board of on important matters concerning the management of MCHC Mediumto long-term Directors Strengthen Strengthen targets Increase diversity of Increase diversity of and the MCHC Group, and also monitors the Group’s management management (including those the Board of Directors Improve management transparency the Board of Directors already achieved) supervision functions and fairness as well as management supervision functions business based on basic management policies. supervision functions 49 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 50 Corporate Governance Diversity of Directors FY2018 Assessment of the Board’s Effectiveness The Board of Directors decides on the MCHC Group’s basic management policies and supervises the execution of business in The annual evaluation exercise was facilitated by questionnaires which all the Board member participated in, and its outcomes an appropriate manner. The Board of Directors consists of diverse directors with a high expertise. were discussed at the Board meeting. Based on the discussion, the chairperson evaluated the effectiveness of the Board. Management Finance and Science technology, Business strategies Laws and Globality and Questionnaire The Result of the Assessment Next Steps for Further Improvements Risk management experience accounting IT and production and marketing regulations, etc. diversity Yoshimitsu Kobayashi Period: Questionnaire survey conducted • Confirmed that the composition of the Board Based on the action items below, we are starting at March through April, 2019 of Directors is diverse in terms of knowledge, committed to continuously increasing the Hitoshi Ochi Target: All the 12 members of the Board of specialty, experience, and other aspects. Board’s effectiveness through activities such as Directors • Recognized the proportion of outside • Scrutinize topics that need the Board’s Hidefumi Date Method: The questionnaire asked the directors and non-executive directors as focus, and hold an ad-hoc Board meeting to respondents to give an assessment on a scale generally appropriate. discuss those matters where appropriate Ken Fujiwara of one to four and provide comments on: • Found the ad-hoc Board meeting focused on • Enhance reports and review matters for • Structure of the Board of Directors the mediumto long-term strategies, such resolution by utilizing ICT Glenn H. Fredrickson • Discussions held at the Board of Directors as portfolio management, created in-depth • Seek to augment the appropriate meeting discussion. information-sharing process with outside Hisao Urata directors of the pure holding company (KAITEKI Management, portfolio management, risk management, and • Establish a Committee composed either Shigeru Kobayashi corporate governance) solely of the outside directors or mainly of the • Roles and evaluation of individual directors outside directors Taigi Ito Adequate level of Board effectiveness confirmed (only comments were to be provided) Hideko Kunii Takayuki Hashimoto Director Remuneration Chikatomo Hodo Policy on Deciding Remuneration for Directors and Corporate Executive Officers Aggregate Amount of Remuneration of Company’s Officers Kiyomi Kikuchi The remuneration system for directors, and that for corporate executive officers shall be different. Amount of Remuneration, etc. Paid (in million yen) * Each director is expected to hold up to three fields of expertise as set the above Remuneration is determined by the Compensation Committee based on the following concepts. Category No. of Persons Basic Performance * In order to enhance supervisory function, a majority of the Board of Directors are non-executive directors. ( Directors are in an executive function) Remuneration Remuneration Total Directors Directors (inside) 6 223 52 275 Policies on the Nomination of Director Main Agenda Items Discussed at the Board Remuneration for Directors Basic remuneration (fixed) Directors (outside) 5 71 71 Candidates of Directors Meeting During FY2018 • Remuneration for directors shall consist only of basic remuneration (fixed remuneration). Corporate Executive 7 304 144 448 Officers The Nominating Committee shall appoint potential directors • Basic remuneration shall be based on title and classification such as full-time or part-time. Reports on major items discussed at the Corporate Executive Officers • The amount of remuneration shall be determined such that it would be at a level Sum Total 18 598 196 794 who meet the following criteria: necessary for securing personnel suitable for carrying out the responsibilities of a director Committee of a company with a nominating committee, etc., while also taking into consideration the (Notes) 1. TThe total amount of remuneration, etc. MCHC and its subsidiaries paid to officers is shown as the • Has high expertise, profound insights into relevant fields and can make levels of other companies. amount of remuneration, etc. paid above. Acquisition of treasury stock 2. The amount of remuneration, etc. MCHC paid is ¥343 million to eleven Directors (of which, ¥71 million decisions independently and fairly, which required to fulfill their duty as a * When a director concurrently serves as a Corporate Executive Officer, remuneration as a to five Outside Directors) and ¥430 million to seven Corporate Executive Officers. Corporate Executive Officer shall be applied. Deliberation on large-scale M&A executions at the operating company 3. MCHC remunerates Directors who concurrently serve as Corporate Executive Officers for their services director of a company with a nominating committee, etc. as Corporate Executive Officers as Policy on Deciding Remuneration for Directors and Corporate Business monitoring Corporate Executive Officers Executive Officers. • Has high ethical standards and a law-abiding spirit. 4. Performance remuneration to Directors (inside) is cash bonus and stock options paid to the director Portfolio strategy in midto long-term perspective • Is healthy enough to fulfill the responsibilities of a director. Basic remuneration (fixed) who concurrently served as Corporate Executive Officer in the previous fiscal year as performance Outcomes of the engagement activities with institutional investors Remuneration for Corporate remuneration at the time of standing as a Corporate Executive Officers. • For outside directors, meet the independence criteria set separately and Executive Officers Performance remuneration 5. Performance remuneration to Corporate Executive Officers is remuneration paid by MCHC based on are able to devote sufficient time to fulfill their duties. In addition, the Effectiveness of internal control system (variable) cash bonus and stock options, and cash bonus paid by subsidiaries of MCHC. 6. At the June 6, 2018 meeting of the Compensation Committee, MCHC decided to introduce a new Committee shall ensure diversity among outside directors. Budgeting and planning of investment for the next fiscal year • Remuneration for Corporate Executive Officers shall consist of basic remuneration (fixed stock remuneration plan with a board incentive plan (BIP) trust. With the introduction of the plan, stock remuneration) and performance remuneration (variable remuneration). remuneration-type stock options will no longer be issued from fiscal 2019 (15th Term) onward. • Basic remuneration shall be based on title and duties such as having the right of representation. • The amount of remuneration shall be determined such that it would be at a level Standards for Independence of Outside Directors necessary for securing good management personnel and improving the Company’s Board Incentive Plan (BIP) Trust competitiveness, while also taking into consideration the levels of other companies. The Company shall elect those as Outside Directors who do not fall under any of the following and are capable of overseeing the • Performance remuneration shall utilize cash bonus and performance-linked stock The newly introduced performance-linked stock compensation system is based on remuneration plan* in order to improve continuously medium-to long-term corporate a BIP Trust. Under this incentive plan set for five consecutive fiscal years (including Company’s management from a fair and neutral standpoint, free of a conflict of interest with general shareholders. the three years from FY2018 to FY2020) corresponding to the period of MCHC’s value as well as to create incentive for sharing shareholder value. While a base amount 1. Related party of the Company 6. Donation and the number of shares shall be variable between 0 and 200% depending on the medium-term management plan, MCHC’s corporate executive officers and executive (1) Person engaged in execution of operation of the Company Group (executive director, A person who receives a donation or financial assistance of 10 million yen or more degree of attainment of performance goals, the ratio of performance remuneration to officers as well as MCC’s president and representative director, directors who also corporate executive officer, executive officer, manager, employee, partner, etc. The per year from any of MCHC and Group Operating Companies or a person engaged total remuneration shall be higher for executive officers. serve as executive officers, and executive officers (excluding residents outside same shall apply hereafter.) in execution of operation of a company that receives a donation or financial *The performance-linked stock remuneration plan uses a board incentive plan (BIP) as the Japan; hereinafter collectively referred to as “executive officers”) will be given points means to deliver shares of the Company to the Company’s officers. according to their titles and achievement level for the fiscal year targets and the (2) Person who was engaged in execution of operation of the Company Group over the assistance of 10 million yen or more per year from any of MCHC and Group Operating Basic remuneration (fixed) Performance remuneration (variable) targets set in the medium-term management plan. Then, in proportion to the number last 10 years Companies Cash bonus Performance-linked stock of points gained, the officers will receive MCHC shares and dividends paid for the 2. Major shareholder 7. Reciprocal assumption of the position of Director Basic remuneration (70%) (15%) remuneration (15%) trust’s shares after their resignation from their position. A person who directly or indirectly holds 10% or more of the Company’s total voting A person engaged in execution of operation of a company that has elected any of the rights or a person engaged in execution of operation of a company that directly or Directors and employees of the MCHC Group as its Director *In the case of President Overview of the BIP Trust indirectly holds 10% or more of the Company’s total voting rights 8. Close relatives, etc. Performance remuneration (variable remuneration) is decided at the Compensation Committee based on the following formula. Truster: MCHC Beneficiaries: Executive 3. Major business partner (1) Close relatives, etc. of a person engaged in execution of important operations of officers of the targeted (1) A person engaged in execution of operation of a company*1 whose major business the MCHC Group (spouse, relatives within the second degree of relationship or any Performance Base amount and number of Coefficient based on evaluation* Targeted companies: MCHC and MCC companies partner includes the Company and Group Operating Companies (Mitsubishi Chemical person who shares the same livelihood. The same shall apply hereafter.) remuneration (variable) shares by title for performance remuneration Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Life Science Institute, Inc., and (2) Close relatives, etc. of any person who meets the definition of items 3 through 7 * Evaluation for performance remuneration is decided at the Corporate Executive Officers Committee meetings Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation. The same shall apply hereafter.) above based on the degree of attainment of annual goals, and its validity is verified at the Compensation Committee. – The evaluation for cash bonus is determined by adding a qualitative evaluation for the status of initiatives that Establishment MCHC’s Payment for the (2) A person engaged in execution of operation of a major business partner*2 of the (3) A person who met the definition of items 3 through 7 above over the last three years 1 2 2 tackle the management’s key issues to the aggregate evaluation from the three axes of MOE indicator, MOT of the trust shares shares Provision of 3 Company and Group Operating Companies indicator and MOS indicator. MCHC’s shares 4. Accounting Auditor *1 If the said business partner receives from MCHC and Group Operating Companies an amount equivalent to – The evaluation for the performance-linked, stock remuneration plan is determined by using the MOE indicator, 2% or more of its annual consolidated net sales in the latest fiscal year, this company shall be considered MOT indicator and MOS indicator. Accounting Auditor of the MCHC Group or an employee thereof as the one whose major business partner includes MCHC. MOE indicator: Indicator for core operating income, ROE, ROIC, free cash flow, and asset compression 5. Transaction as an individual *2 If MCHC and Group Operating Companies receives from the said business partner an amount equivalent to MOT indicator: Indicator for efficiency of research and development, superiority of technologies, and Trustee: Mitsubishi UFJ Trust A person who receives money and other financial benefits of 10 million yen or more 2% or more of MCHC’s annual consolidated net sales in the latest fiscal year or the said business partner consistency with social needs Banking Corporation loans to the MCHC Group an amount equivalent to 2% or more of MCHC’s total consolidated assets, the MOS indicator: Indicator determined as significant in terms of contribution of MCHC in resolving per year from any of MCHC and Group Operating Companies said business partner shall be considered as a major business partner of MCHC. environmental and social issues 51 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 52 Corporate Governance Outside Directors’ Major Activities and Attendance at Board of Directors and Committee Meetings Attendance at Board of Directors Message from the Chairperson Name Status of Activities and Other Meetings (FY2018) Creating new value During the Board of Directors meetings, he provided input on such matters as risks Board of in the industrial materials domain and the portfolio management, drawing on his 11 / 11 100% profound insight on company management from a view of the business history as Directors to contribute Takeo well as his experience as an energy industry expert. At the Nominating Committee, he led meetings as its chair with respect to Nominating to a sustainable Kikkawa major agenda items such as senior management turnover and roles expected of Directors, and otherwise fulfilled his assigned duties in part by reporting outcomes Committee 5 / 6 83% society of discussions to the Board of Directors. As a member of the Compensation Committee, he provided appropriate input to the committee with respect to major Compensation agenda items such as compensation levels of senior management and revision of 7 / 7 100% the performance-based compensation system. Committee Yoshimitsu Kobayashi During the Board of Directors meetings, he provided input on such matters as finance and accounting as well as the risk management, drawing on his experience Board of Chairperson 11 / 11 100% and profound insight as a certified public accountant. Directors At the Audit Committee, he appropriately fulfilled his assigned duties as an outside member of the Audit Committee in terms of conducting audits based on audit plans, focusing on matters such as the development and operations of Audit Taigi Ito 13 / 13 100% the internal control system, and intensive auditing regarding the progress of the Committee APTSIS 20 medium-term management plan during the fiscal year under review. At the Compensation Committee, he led meetings as its chair with respect to major agenda items such as compensation levels of senior management and revision of Compensation the performance-based compensation system, and otherwise fulfilled his assigned 7 / 7 100% Committee duties in part by reporting outcomes of discussions to the Board of Directors. During the Board of Directors meetings, he provided input on such matters as Board of the internal control and the compliance, drawing on his experience and profound 11 / 11 100% insight as a prosecutor and lawyer. Directors At the Audit Committee, he appropriately fulfilled his assigned duties as an outside Kazuhiro member of the Audit Committee in terms of conducting audits based on audit plans, Audit focusing on matters such as the development and operations of the internal control 13 / 13 100% Looking back at the Board meetings internal or open source. This will enable us to proactively Watanabe system, and intensive auditing regarding the progress of the APTSIS 20 mediumCommittee held in FY2018 collaborate with other companies, venture firms, term management plan during the fiscal year under review. At the Compensation Committee, he provided appropriate input to the committee with respect to major In FY2018, the Board of Directors met 11 times to universities, and public organizations in Japan and abroad Compensation agenda items such as compensation levels of senior management and revision of 7 / 7 100% the performance-based compensation system. Committee monitor the progress of the medium-term management to create new value. plan and discuss the investment in future growth, During the Board of Directors meetings, she provided input on matters such as among other themes. One of the meetings focused on Toward realizing KAITEKI woman’s empowerment promotion, science technology, and IT, drawing on her Board of 11 / 11 100% profound insight in diversity promotion as well as her extensive experience in Directors the MCHC Group’s mediumto long-term strategies, Currently, under the leadership of President Ochi, company management and her expertise in the information processing domain. featuring in-depth discussions about the Group’s portfolio management is creating an action plan for 2030 by At the Nominating Committee, she provided appropriate input to the Hideko committee with respect to major agenda items such as senior management Nominating management, proposed by Director Fredrickson. backcasting from our vision of society in the year 2050. 6 / 6 100% Kunii turnover and roles expected of Directors. At the Audit Committee, she appropriately Committee This is one of priorities that will be discussed by the Board fulfilled her assigned duties as an outside member of the Audit Committee in The environment surrounding of Directors. terms of conducting audits based on audit plans, focusing on matters such as the development and operations of the internal control system, and intensive auditing Audit the MCHC Group In FY2019, Chikatomo Hodo, who served as regarding the progress of the APTSIS 20 medium-term management plan during 13 / 13 100% Committee Recently, the environment issues such as climate change, president and chairperson of Accenture Japan Ltd, and the fiscal year under review. depletion of natural resources, plastic waste, aging society, Kiyomi Kikuchi, a lawyer with international experience, During Board of Directors meetings, he provided input mainly in relation to global Board of those are affecting people, society and the Earth are joined the Board as outside directors. In my capacity as management, business strategy, and portfolio management, drawing on his 11 / 11 100% extensive experience in company management and profound insights into digital Directors growing more serious. In the future, I believe the dominant chairperson of the Board of Directors, I will ensure that our Takayuki business. business model will be providing solutions for a range of discussions encompass various viewpoints and involve Hashimoto At the Nominating Committee, he provided appropriate input to the committee Nominating environmental and health issues using a combination of active participation of outside directors to improve Board with respect to major agenda items such as senior management turnover and roles 6 / 6 100% expected of Directors. Committee goods and services, backed by technological innovation. effectiveness. For the realization of KAITEKI, the Board will Various businesses are developing services using data, support the management team in making bold business such as “mobility as a service*1,” and as digital platform decisions to achieve higher corporate and shareholder Outside Director Liaison Committee Training providers such as GAFA* create new business models, the 2 value. Apart from the Board of Directors meetings, the Outside Outside directors are constantly briefed on the MCHC line between the “manufacturing” and “services” industries Director Liaison Committee holds a monthly meeting, Group’s business details and organizations and are is becoming blurred. which is attended by outside directors, the chairperson of regularly given the opportunity to visit the Group’s bases For the sustainable development of people, society the Board of Directors and the president of the company, in Japan and abroad and to discuss with the management and the Earth, the MCHC Group has been channeling its to share important management information and exchange team. Internal directors are also given opportunities to innovation capacity on products and services that help *1 A new concept of transportation where all modes of transportation except private frank opinions on management issues. The meeting develop the qualities required of directors through training solve social issues. Going forward, we plan to strategically vehicles are connected on the cloud to enable the provision of seamless mobility solutions. provides outside directors with opportunities to utilize sessions on compliance/internal control and a range of categorize the Group’s technologies and data as either *2 GAFA stands for the four tech giants, Google, Apple, Facebook, and Amazon. their talents and provide expert considered advice on the seminars held by external organizations. topics. 53 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 54 Corporate Governance Message from the Outside Director of the Board Compliance For the MCHC Group, the word “compliance” is a broad term covering corporate ethics and Aligned with an ambition general social norms, not only basic adherence to laws. for the realization of KAITEKI, We regard compliance as one of the most important managerial issues to ensure that we I expect MCHC will deliver continue to exist as a company and be trusted by the public. Accordingly, we take various measures to instill a culture of compliance in the entire Group. its strong leadership in society for the future ahead Compliance Promotion Structure Hotline Systems The Group’s Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) is appointed Hotline systems are managed and operated with the Hideko Kunii by the Board of Directors, and the Internal Control Office Group, operating companies’ Internal Control Departments, Outside Director of the Board supports the CCO, acting as a secretariat for compliance and external lawyers serving as contact points. In FY2018, matters. 194 cases were reported via the hotline systems. We As part of its responsibilities, the secretariat prepares respond to reported issues through our investigation Q1. This is your fifth year as outside director. What standard training tools, organizes training courses, and has teams, which are headed by the managers of the Internal is your view on the present corporate established hotlines and educational system for overseas Control Departments. Corrective measures are taken governance system of MCHC? Group companies. It seeks to ensure compliance in promptly in line with the relevant regulations under the MCHC was one of the first Japanese companies to transfer accordance with local conditions through Regional CCO’s direction. a company with a nominating committee, etc. and this has Headquarters (RHQ) established in the U.S., Europe, and improved the transparency and efficiency of the China. Each operating company has its own Compliance Measures and Results in FY2018 governance system of the company. The Board of Directors Promotion Committee as well as an Internal Control In FY2018, we commissioned an external agency to survey encourages us to speak frankly, and the appropriate Department that serves as secretariat. They operate hotline employees’ awareness of compliance within the Group in division of roles among the three committees has made systems and implement training courses and seminars, Japan in order to continuously monitor the spread of governance more effective. The management policy is to business audits and compliance awareness surveys based compliance awareness. The results are fed back to the accelerate the realization of KAITEKI. on the MCHC Group Compliance Promotion Rules. operating companies and help raise awareness of If an actual or potential compliance violation is found, it compliance. Awareness surveys, training, and hotlines are Q2. Please explain your role as an outside director. must be reported to and discussed with the relevant installed and operated overseas as well. We have identified Amid this so-called “Fourth Industrial Revolution,” company’s Internal Control Department and the MCHC that our employees’ compliance awareness has been destructive innovation by ICT is the key to realizing Internal Control Office, so that corrective actions and increasing year by year. KAITEKI. I believe my background of studying computer measures to prevent recurrence shall be taken. We will continue sharing information between Japan, science and my experience of starting up the software the U.S., Europe, China, and other parts of Asia, and will company and office solution business help me contribute promote compliance as a Group through this network. to the discussions. Regarding R&D, I monitor the acceleration of open innovation, and the enhancement of various viewpoints such as whether an exclusive men’s materials informatics and bioinformatics. Recently, deepsociety exists, and whether you would encourage your own learning technology has been applied in many industries daughter to apply to our company. based on big data. With our accumulated technologies, the MCHC Group has not only the data, but also the Q3. What are your expectations for the MCHC Case Studies of addressing the Materiality knowledge to establish a tailored model that meets Group? Compliance Training customer needs. I believe the Group will create new value I applaud the MCHC Group for aiming to realize KAITEKI as In the Group, we conducted compliance training in Japan and overseas for all officers and employees by by applying them. One of the characteristics of the Fourth its policy. Today, the concept of the SDGs has spread hierarchy. To enhance the effectiveness of the training, we provide a variety of learning settings, including Industrial Revolution is the speed of evolution, and I intend globally, and the MCHC Group has been working on this lecture-style training for large groups and discussion-style training for small groups. to help change the corporate culture from this perspective. initiative for many years with great success. I expect the Regarding encouraging the participation of women, MCHC Group to take the lead in social reform with the aim the MCHC Group companies, with the exception of of realizing KAITEKI, and to demonstrate stronger Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, are yet to obtain corporate leadership in society in the future. the “Eruboshi (L-star)” certification* from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. We must actively work to achieve the high-level goals of KAITEKI Management. We must carefully analyze whether the working environment is * “Eruboshi” certification: This certification system started on April 1, 2016. Under it, the truly “KAITEKI” for women, and whether working women Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare certifies companies that have made excellent face disadvantages in practice, including unconscious progress with initiatives for the active participation of women in the workplace from among those companies that submit action plans for such participation to their discrimination. I intend to discuss specific details from prefectural labor bureau. Compliance training for managers (Japan) Compliance training for compliance promotion staff (China) 55 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 56 Corporate Governance Risk Management Risk Management Process The MCHC Group defines risks as “potential events that could, during the course of 1 Identification of Risks 2 Risk Assessment and Measures 3 Detailed Examination of Risk Measures 4 Auditing corporate activities, undermine public trust in or the corporate value of the MCHC Group.” All operating companies of the Each operating company prioritizes the identified Risk measures are To ensure the proper Group regularly identify both risks with unified system, based on impact and periodically scrutinized. administration of these risk We recognize, analyze, and evaluate risks and prevent materialization of significant risks. internal risks associated with frequency. Senior managers specify risks with Countermeasures against the management systems, business types and models, and significant impacts on the Group management major risks, in particular, are the Internal Audit Office We take measures to minimize the personal, economic, and social damage arising in case of external risks such as country (the major risks). The relevant departments then reported to each Chief Risk periodically conducts audits specific risks and economical risks. implement appropriate risk mitigation measures, as Management Officer at the and reports to the Chief materialization. instructed. operating company. Risk Management Officers. Measures against Major Risks The MCHC Group has categorized the following risks as high priority. Having identified the major risks below, we try the best Charter of Corporate Behavior Risk Management endeavors either to avoid such occurrences and to minimize damages. The MCHC Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, The MCHC Group is engaged in corporate activities with Compliance Information Security consisting of thirteen chapters, explicitly declares that we the objective of improving corporate value. These activities act with sound ethics and good common sense in every are related to social conditions, the global environment, In order to entrench compliance within the Group, we have taken MCHC has developed the Group Information Security Policy, in comprehensive necessary actions such as preparing the Group order to protect information assets and to maintain corporate aspect of our corporate activities. and various other externalities, and they involve potential Charter of Corporate Behavior and rules and standards, value as a whole. Also, we continuously reinforce information It also stipulates that we share the fundamental risks. distributing compliance guidebook, providing trainings and security capability at our global business sites. behavioral principles for sustainable development, our seminars, implementing regular audits, as well as operating and We are also promoting awareness of strict follow-up of the approach to major issues for contributing to the realization Risk Management System maintaining a compliance hotline. We also strengthen compliance Group Information Security Policy among all employees by at oversea operations, by adjusting codes of conduct in providing special trainings, including practical drills against of KAITEKI, and the basic ideas on and initiatives for the The MCHC Group has in place a risk management system accordance with corresponding national rules and regulations e-mails attack with virus or other trainings via e-learning system. realization of KAITEKI, with our business partners and whereby the MCHC President is responsible for the entire and social norms. others. risk management across the Group, in accordance with the Accidents, work injuries, MCHC Group Risk Management Basic Rules. The status of and large-scale natural disasters Overseas Business Development significant risks management and risk management policy As a safety measure to prevent any accidents at each operating While actively expand our business in overseas, we are minimizing MCHC Group Charter of Corporate Behavior that affect the entire Group are deliberated and decided by site, we enhance quality of trainings to operators for keeping risks to violate corresponding national rules and regulations. We appropriate operation and maintaining facilities. In the event of have collected and disseminated cases of significant accidents the MCHC’s Risk Management Committee. Those 01 Awareness and Responsibility 08 Fair Business Practices accidents, we would analyze the cause, plan countermeasures and violation of laws in each country to raise awareness of those deliberations and decisions are reported to the Board of and verify those effectiveness. Also, we try to prevent similar risks at overseas Group companies. In addition, we established a 02 Accountability and Transparency 09 Customer Satisfaction Directors, as needed. accidents by sharing technical and operational measures among special communication system between regional headquarter Group companies. and MCHC for sharing information related to social turmoils in the Legal Compliance and Fairness, The presidents of operating companies are responsible 03 10 Information Management Regarding the preparation for large-scale natural disasters, relevant country in timely manner. Moreover, regarding the Equitability, and Integrity for establishing each company’s risk management system we take special trainings customized for each operating governance of subsidiaries, we clarify responsibilities of corporate 04 Valuing Stakeholders 11 Science and Technology and conducting management through each Risk company’s condition to minimize damages and to secure organizations and improve systematic approach to reduce overall business continuity under such event. group risks. Management Committees. Underlining the fostering the 05 Respecting Human Rights 12 Community Involvement risk control awareness among executives and employees, 06 Employment and Labor 13 Shared Standards all individuals are expected to be involved in risk management from their own standpoints. 07 Environment and Safety Risk Management System Each Operating Company’s Training for a large-scale natural disaster Conceptual Diagram MCHC’s Board of Directors Board of Directors (Left: Head office, Mitsubishi Chemical; Right: Factory, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Group) Reporting Supervising Reporting Supervising MCHC Risk Management Committee Each Operating Company Each company’s Measures against Future Risks Risk Management Participating Committee The MCHC Group is also tackling to future risks by planning the mediumto long-term strategy. Risk Management Committee Chairperson: Risk Management Committee Chairperson: President Each company’s President (Chief Risk Management Officer) (Chief Risk Management Operating Officer) Climate Change Digital Technology While the chemical industry is one of the high GHGs emitting Digital technologies represented by AI and IoT show potential to Instructing industries, it is also the mitigation solution providing industry create dramatic changes in the chemical industry. The Group could Vice-Chairperson Vice-Chairperson through its products. face to a risk of losing of competitive advantage in the market, The Group could face to a risk of losing future earnings, if we without properly adjusting to a new digital era. In respond to this, Reporting Secretariat Secretariat could not meet the new demand to reduce GHGs emissions from we establish the “Advanced Technology & Business Development (Internal Control Office) clients highly conscious with environmental compliances or energy Office.” Under the new structure, we practically apply AI and IoT intensity of products. For this reason, the Group has set into process control, product quality inspection, automation of Committee members Committee members quantitative targets for providing products and services attributable analysis, and development of new materials and medicines, for to GHGs emission reductions, and has been putting endeavors on keeping our competitive position in the market. new product development to mitigate climate change impacts. 57 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 58 Performance Financial Summary Financial Summary J-GAAP (FY2008 – FY2015) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS FY2015 FY2018) Increase or 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 2017 2018 decrease (%) 2018 Thousands of For the Year Millions of yen For the Year Millions of yen U.S. dollars Net sales 2,909,030 2,515,079 3,166,771 3,208,168 3,088,577 3,498,834 3,656,278 3,823,098 Sales revenue 3,543,352 3,376,057 3,724,406 3,923,444 5.3% 35,314,527 Operating income 8,178 66,342 226,493 130,579 90,241 110,460 165,681 280,026 Core operating income 300,410 307,522 380,489 317,187 (16.6%) 2,854,968 Income (loss) before income taxes and (44,002) 43,311 169,552 127,474 82,900 116,594 165,621 198,248 Income before taxes 252,791 258,343 344,077 288,056 (16.3%) 2,592,763 minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries Net income (loss) attributable to owners of (67,178) 12,833 83,581 35,486 18,596 32,248 60,859 46,444 Net income attributable to owners of the parent 51,358 156,259 211,788 169,530 (20.0%) 1,525,923 the parent Total comprehensive income — 37,513 86,742 64,199 94,900 134,016 173,692 7,695 Total comprehensive income 34,302 226,493 297,476 205,898 (30.8%) 1,853,267 Capital expenditures 139,011 119,025 117,806 116,145 132,221 133,339 165,057 176,508 Capital expenditures 213,134 206,482 225,189 231,742 2.9% 2,085,887 Depreciation and amortization 119,230 129,574 148,697 145,695 129,549 131,571 151,253 180,374 Depreciation and amortization 182,656 174,040 178,895 199,332 11.4% 1,794,167 R&D expenditures 127,802 136,863 130,825 138,545 134,723 134,260 132,217 138,364 R&D expenditures 126,782 126,290 138,833 143,836 3.6% 1,294,653 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 76,149 116,073 288,853 217,954 206,504 177,027 329,776 388,663 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 299,612 396,643 397,940 415,575 — 3,740,549 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (189,233) (327,006) (101,064) (63,404) (169,758) (159,789) (277,223) (202,796) Net cash provided by (used in) investment activities (234,078) (289,056) (335,933) (895,068) — (8,056,418) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 179,526 94,437 (149,493) (164,146) (26,250) (8,307) (2,061) (156,957) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (40,945) 1,411 (150,592) 519,062 — 4,672,025 At Year-end At Year-end Total assets 2,740,876 3,355,097 3,294,014 3,173,970 3,307,758 3,479,359 4,323,038 4,061,572 Total assets 4,223,774 4,463,547 4,701,415 5,572,508 18.5% 50,157,588 Property, plant and equipment 834,046 1,167,073 1,088,369 1,032,738 1,061,551 1,118,050 1,498,146 1,390,727 Property, plant and equipment 1,403,437 1,431,681 1,433,509 1,683,354 17.4% 15,151,701 Short-term and long-term debt 1,033,239 1,454,126 1,304,589 1,164,128 1,198,799 1,258,186 1,603,595 1,465,752 Interest-bearing debt 1,579,575 1,693,742 1,606,123 2,246,751 39.9% 20,222,781 Total net assets 940,114 1,032,865 1,114,003 1,144,954 1,203,316 1,314,870 1,588,601 1,554,528 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 972,197 1,091,398 1,285,750 1,377,947 7.2% 12,402,763 Per Share Yen Per Share Yen U.S. Dollars Net income (loss) basic (48.81) 9.32 58.72 24.06 12.61 21.89 41.40 31.70 Basic earnings 35.06 106.73 147.14 119.22 (19.0%) 1.1 Net assets 486.09 490.99 514.30 522.77 553.54 611.95 669.77 636.43 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 663.71 758.30 893.26 970.46 8.6% 8.7 Cash dividends 12.00 8.00 10.00 10.00 12.00 12.00 13.00 15.00 Cash dividends 15.00 20.00 32.00 40.00 25.0% 0.4 Major Index Major Index Return on assets (ROA) (%) (1.5) 1.4 5.1 3.9 2.6 3.4 4.2 4.7 Return on assets (ROA) (%) 5.9 5.9 7.5 5.6 (1.9pt) — Return on equity (ROE) (%) (8.9) 1.9 11.6 4.6 2.3 3.7 6.4 4.8 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 5.2 15.1 17.8 12.7 (5.1pt) — Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 24.4 20.0 23.0 24.2 24.6 25.8 22.6 22.9 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (%) 23.0 24.5 27.4 24.7 (2.7pt) — Other Other Number of employees 41,480 53,907 53,882 53,979 55,131 56,031 68,263 68,988 Number of employees 68,988 69,291 69,230 72,020 4.0% — (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 4,000,000 3,823,098 3,724,406 3,923,444 400,000 Net sales 3,498,834 3,656,278 Sales revenue 3,543,352 Left axis Left axis 3,376,057 Right axis Operating income 2,909,030 3,166,771 3,208,168 3,088,577 Right axis Core operating income 380,489 3,000,000 280,026 317,187 300,000 2,515,079 300,410 307,522 226,493 2,000,000 165,681 200,000 110,460 1,000,000 90,241 100,000 66,342 130,579 8,178 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Medium-term management plan 2008–2010 APTSIS 10 2011–2012 Step 1 2013–2015 Step 2 APTSIS 15 2016–2020 APTSIS 20 transition (Notes) 1. In this report, the fiscal year refers to the period beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year. FY2018 refers to the year ended March 31, 2019. (Notes) 4. Return on equity (ROE) (%) is calculated by dividing net profit attributable to owners of the parent by the average of the beginning and ending balances of equity attributable to owners of the parent. 2. U.S. dollar amounts are converted from yen at the rate of ¥111.1 = U.S. $1.00. 5. When non-recurring depreciation on non-current assets is recorded, the amount is included in depreciation and amortization. 3. Return on assets (ROA) (%) is calculated by dividing profit before tax by the average of the beginning and ending balances of total assets. 59 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 60 Financial Highlights Financial Index With the start of the medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, we have adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in FY2016. Core operating income is calculated as operating income (loss) excluding certain gains and expenses attributable to non-recurring factors (gains and losses incurred by business withdrawal and contraction, etc). We disclose core operating income as our unique gains/losses incurred by staged gains/losses, considering the comparability with the operating income of J-GAAP. Net Income and ROS/ROE Total Assets and ROA Free Cash Flow (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) Left axis (Core) operating income Net income attributable to owners of the parent Total assets (Left axis) ROA (Right axis) 6,000 8 200 185.8 (Billions of yen) Right axis ROE ROS (%) 7.5 5,572.5 400 20 4,500 4,463.5 4,701.4 6 107.5 4,323 4,223.8 100 380.5 4,061.5 65.5 62.0 5.9 5.9 52.5 17.8 4.7 5.6 J-GAAP IFRS 3,000 4 0 4.2 317.2 307.5 1,500 2 300 300.4 15 -400 280.0 15.1 0 J-GAAP IFRS 0 -500 -479.5 12.7 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Total assets amounted to ¥5,572.5 billion. Owing to the industrial gas business Net cash flows by operating activities was ¥415.6 billion, mainly due to the 211.8 200 9.1 10 acquisitions in Europe and the U.S., the fixed assets and goodwill increased by posting of income before taxes. Net cash used by investing activities was ¥871.1 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year. ROA was 5.6%, down ¥895.1 billion, due to ¥677.6 billion used on the industrial gas business 1.9 points year on year. acquisitions in Europe and the U.S. Accordingly, net free cash used (by 165.6 8.5 169.5 operating and by investing activities) was ¥479.5 billion. 156.3 10.2 6.4 7.3 8.1 100 5.2 5 4.5 4.8 Ratio of Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent Net Interest-bearing Debt and Net D/E Ratio 60.8 46.4 51.4 (%) (Billions of yen) Net interest-bearing debt (Left axis) (Times) 40 2,000 Net D/E ratio (Right axis) 1.6 1,736.2 0 0 30 1,500 1.25 1.2 1.17 1.26 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 27.4 1.10 1,155.9 24.5 24.7 1,228.2 1,139.5 22.6 22.9 23.0 J-GAAP IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) 20 1,000 1,024.0 1,134.4 0.8 1.06 0.89 We implemented business portfolio reforms under the previous medium-term management plan (for FY2011 to FY2015) and the 10 500 0.4 present plan, APTSIS 20, launched in FY2016. As a result, we stabilized sales revenue in the Industrial Materials domain and J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS increased sales volumes mainly in the Performance Products domain. In FY2017, we set new records for both core operating 0 0 0 income and net income attributable to owners of the parent. In FY2018, the market remained brisk in the Industrial Materials 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) domain in the first half, however, a greater impact of demand slowdown of some products, the scheduled maintenance and repair Equity attributable to owners of the parent increased ¥92.1 billion, to ¥1,377.9 Net interest-bearing debt rose to ¥1,736.2 billion, up ¥596.7 billion year on at petrochemical production facility in Petrochemicals subsegment, and national health insurance (NHI) drug price revision in the billion. Consequently, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent year, owing to the industrial gas businesses acquisitions in Europe and the decreased 2.6 points year on year, to 24.7%. We will continue striving to U.S. The net D/E ratio increased 0.37 from the end of the previous fiscal year, Health Care domain in the second half caused decrease in core operating income by ¥63.3 billion (16.6%) to ¥317.2 billion and achieve 30%, the target in the medium-term management plan, APTSIS 20. to 1.26. We will continue thriving to achieve 1.0, the target in the medium-term drop of ROS to 8.1%, down 2.1 points year on year. Net income attributable to owners of the parent declined ¥42.3 billion (20.0%), management plan, APTSIS 20. to ¥169.5 billion and ROE also decreased to 12.7%, down 5.1 points year on year. Sales Revenue and Ratio of Overseas Revenue Overseas Revenue by Region Basic Earnings per Share and Cash Dividends per Share R&D Expenditures and Capital Expenditures (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Yen) (Billions of yen) Sales revenue (Left axis) Ratio of overseas revenue (Right axis) Asia Pacific U.S. Europe Others Basic earnings per share Dividends per share R&D expenditures Capital expenditures 4,000 60 2,000 160 240 3,823.0 3,923.4 231.7 3,724.4 225.2 3,656.2 3,543.4 147.14 213.1 3,376.1 206.5 1,659.0 1,664.6 3,000 45 1,500 1,519.0 1,547.0 120 119.22 180 176.5 1,430.0 165.0 42.4 1,333.6 106.73 43.4 138.3 138.8 143.8 41.5 40.4 41.6 132.2 126.8 126.3 2,000 39.5 30 1,000 80 120 41.40 1,000 15 500 40 35.06 40.00 60 31.70 32.00 20.00 13.00 15.00 15.00 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Sale revenue increased by ¥199.0 billion (5.3%) from a year earlier, driven by Overseas revenue were up owing to the acquisitions of an industrial gas Basic earnings per share amounted to ¥119.22. The full-year cash dividend R&D expenditures increased ¥5 billion year on year, to ¥143.8 billion, mainly in the brisk market in the Industrial Materials domain, despite the impact of the business in Europe and the U.S. and increase in sales of Radicava, a per share increased ¥8 year on year, to ¥40, in consideration of maintaining an the Performance Products domain. These expenditure were applied to refine NHI drug prices revision and demand slowdown in the Performance Products treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in the U.S. appropriate balance between strengthening the financial position, investing in and develop technologies. Capital expenditures increased to ¥231.7 billion, up domain. The ratio of overseas revenue rose to 42.4%, up 0.8 points year on growth business, and enhancing shareholder returns. ¥6.5 billion year on year, due to expenses the construction of new facilities or year. the expansion and renewal of existing facilities, mainly in the Industrial Materials domain. 61 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 62 Non-Financial Highlights Non-Financial Index GHG Emissions Energy Consumption Water Withdrawal (GWh) (Million m3) Japan Outside Japan Japan Outside Japan 50,000 200 (1,000 t-CO2e) (t-CO2e/100millions of yen) Left axis Japan Outside Japan Right axis Per unit of revenue 174 171 23 22 22 20,000 500 37,500 150 166 171 167 9,164 34,935 8,707 9,099 30,277 31,813 25,000 30,243 30,027 100 12,500 15,000 362 375 50 0 0 3,989 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 3,826 3,728 Since FY2016, we have expanded the scope of tracking energy consumption Since FY2016, we have tracked our water withdrawal (excluding seawater) to a global level, and the results are assured by a third party. In FY2018, our globally and the results have been assured by a third party. For FY2018, we 10,000 250 energy consumption decreased in Japan mainly as a result of the periodic used 189 million m3 of water, down 4 million m3 year on year, due to the efficient maintenance of our large production facilities, while the power consumption use of the water. We will continue to make effective use of water resources to increased as a result of the brisk production for the performance products. As reduce our water consumption and thereby contribute to greater sustainability a total, our energy consumption slightly decreased. To accelerate the reduction of water resources. of energy consumption, we will further expand measures for stable process operation, energy conservation and efficient use of energy. 13,141 12,054 5,000 10,443 10,826 10,459 125 Increase Rate of Number of Clinical Tests and Medical Lost-time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Checkup/Health Information Rate of increase in the number of clinical tests Relative to the benchmark year (%) Rate of increase in the number of medical checkup/ Japan Global 160 health information 1.20 146 160 154 0 0 1.11 120 0.90 0.99 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 110 100 102 99 97 80 100 101 0.60 In FY2018, our GHG emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) came to 14,187 thousand t-CO2e and the emissions per unit of revenue 0.48 were 362 t-CO2e/100millions of yen. 40 0.30 0.32 0.30 Our absolute GHG emissions decreased by 4% from the previous fiscal year as a result of the periodic repair and 0.26 0.24 maintenance large production facilities and of the improvement of the emission factor for electricity outside Japan. We 0 0 decreased per-unit emissions substantially as in the previous fiscal year. To achieve the 2030 reduction targets in alignment 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) with the Paris Agreement, we will continue to plan and implement GHG emission reduction measures. Additionally, in FY2016 The number of clinical tests and the number of medical checkup/health The LTIFR in Japan was 0.24, a slight improvement from the previous year. the emission calculation method was revised to be in line with the global standards. We will continue to expand the scope of information came to 97% and 160%, respectively, relative to the benchmark Meanwhile, the global LTIFR, for which data started to be gathered and year (FY2014) for the MOS indices. calculated in FY2017, has been higher than that in Japan. We will strive to calculation and enhance the reliability of the method so that we can achieve the medium-term reduction targets. reduce the LTIFR by stepping up efforts to prevent occupational accidents through measures such as ensuring compliance with basic behavioral and operational rules for safety as well as undertaking risk assessments. Number of R&D Personnel and Percentage of Female Employees/ Number of Directors and Outside Directors Employee Satisfaction R&D Expenditures per R&D Personnel Percentage of Female Managers Directors (executive) Directors (non-executive) (Persons) (Millions of yen) (Persons) Independent (outside) directors Corporate auditors (%) Percentage of female managers Percentage of female employees 6,000 Number of R&D personnel R&D expenditures per R&D personnel 40 16 Outside corporate auditors 16 4.00 15.8 5,130 5,040 4,883 4,843 4,961 15.1 15.1 15.3 14.7 4,500 30 12 13 3.75 3.74 3 5 4 28.7 28.9 5 3.69 27.4 25.9 5 5 3.63 3.62 3.64 3,000 25.8 20 8 2 10 3.50 1 3 3 8.6 4 8.0 4 4 7.4 7.7 1,500 10 4 7 3.25 7 7.1 6 6 4 0 0 0 3 3 4 3.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) For FY2018, the number of R&D personnel increased by 118 persons from the MCHC transitioned to a company with nominating committee, etc. in June 2015. The percentage of female employees increased by 0.5 points to 15.8% from The level of employee satisfaction rose 0.05 points from the previous fiscal previous fiscal year to 4,961 persons. R&D expenditures per R&D personnel the previous fiscal year while the percentage of female managers was 8.6%, year to 3.69 and has remained favorable as a whole. We will foster health and remained at the same level as the previous fiscal year, 28.9 million yen. up 0.6 points from the previous fiscal year. We are continuing to implement productivity management and work-style reforms to further raise the level of measures for the empowerment of women. satisfaction. * International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) basis since FY2016 63 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 64 Shareholder Information Ba s i c Po l i cy o n S hare ho lde r Re turns Stock Information (As of March 31, 2019) Major Shareholders Aim to improve shareholder value by enhancing corporate value 4188 Name Number of Shares Percentage (Thousands) (%) In dividend policy, consider the balance between growth Securities code (First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 103,414 7.3 investment and improving financial position Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 82,308 5.8 Shares per unit 100 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 64,389 4.5 Targeting a medium-term consolidated payout ratio of 30% / Paying stable dividends Nippon Life Insurance Company 42,509 3.0 EPS/Cash Dividends per Share Authorized shares 6,000,000,000 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 4) 28,319 2.0 EPS (Left axis) Cash dividends per share (Right axis) Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 25,724 1.8 (Yen) (Yen) 150 147.1 50 Outstanding shares 1,506,288,107 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 7) 25,552 1.8 SSBTC CLIENT OMNIBUS ACCOUNT 21,503 1.5 120 119.2 118.3 40 MUFG Bank, Ltd. 20,553 1.4 Number of shareholders 206,844 40 40 State Street Bank West Client-Treaty 505234 20,472 1.4 106.7 90 30 (Notes) 1.In addition to the above, MCHC holds 83,118 thousand shares as treasury stocks, but these shares are non-voting pursuant to the provisions of Article 308, Paragraph 2 of the 32 Companies Act. 2. Equity investment ratios are calculated to the exclusion of the treasury stock (83,118 thousand shares). 3. In addition to the above, equity investments of MUFG Bank, Ltd. In MCHC include 2,375 thousand shares of stock (representing the equity investment ratio of 0.2%) held in the name of “The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd (Retirement Benefit Trust MUFG Bank Account)” over which MUFG Bank, Ltd. retains the right to issue instructions regarding the exercise 60 20 of the relevant voting right. 20 41.4 15 Composition of Shareholders Other Japanese Corporations 30 13 10 Securities Corporations 3.9% 4.8% Governments and Local Governments 0.0% 31.7 Japanese Financial Institutions Foreign Shareholders Japanese Individuals and Others* 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) (Forecast) FY2018 As of March 31, 2019 41.4% 25.9% 24.1% J-GAAP IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) * Shares held by the Group as treasury stock are included in “Japanese Individuals and Others.” Stock Price / Stock Trading Volume FY2018 IR Report FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Stock Price ¥ 698.6 Stock Price ¥ 587.5 Stock Price ¥ 861.4 Stock Price ¥ 1,030.5 Stock Price ¥ 779.4 MCHC has an active and constructive dialog with shareholders, customers and other stakeholders through various PER 16.8 times PER 18.5 times PER 8.1 times PER 7.0 times PER 6.5 times opportunities and aims to cooperate for realization of KAITEKI by sharing issues and goals. In dialog with shareholders and (Yen) PBR 1.0 times PBR 0.9 times PBR 1.1 times PBR 1.2 times PBR 0.8 times (Yen) investors, we will ensure appropriate disclosure so as to gain the trust of our shareholders and encourage long-term holding 1,500 60,000 of our shares. We also intend to engage in active dialog with shareholders and reflect it in our corporate activities. Activities Description 1,000 40,000 MCHC stock price (Left axis) 1 Held on June 25, 2019, Attendance: 2,782 persons General Meeting of (Reference: 1,826 attended in 2018) Shareholders 500 20,000 IR briefings (large meetings) 2 sessions, Jun.: IR Day, Dec.: Business briefing Nikkei stock average <closing price> (Right axis) 0 0 Small meetings (Jun., Dec.), Visits to investors Top management’s dialog Overseas roadshows (6 times, 9 countries in North with investors Business briefing (Thousand shares) America, Europe and Asia) 300,000 Conference call, 4 sessions (following the quarterly financial results announcement), Stock trading volume following the financial results 2 Audio data available on the website (Japanese and English) announcement For domestic and 200,000 overseas institutional investors, analysts Participation in conference held 6 sessions (4 sessions in Japan, 2 sessions in overseas) by securities firms 100,000 Visit to operating sites 2 tours, Sep.: Mie district plants, Feb.: Kagawa Plant 0 Individual meetings following the financial results Other IR activities 2014 Apr. 2015 Apr. 2016 Apr. 2017 Apr. 2018 Apr. 2019 Mar. announcement and small meetings on specific subjects J-GAAP IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) 3 10 sessions for 1,901 attendees (including those in the IR briefings *Stock price: As of March 31 PER: Share price as of March 31/Basic earnings per share (Net income (loss)-basic per share in the J-GAAP) PBR: Share price as of March 31/Equity attributable For individual investors online sessions and in briefings by the CEO and CFO) IR briefing for individual investors to owners of the parent per share (Net assets per share in the J-GAAP ) 65 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 66 Overview of Business Domains Growth Measures of the Focus Markets and Medical, Food, Bio Products Updates of Actions in the Three Business Domains Sales Revenue Billions of yen 200 Expanding the implant material business Growth Expanding the nutrition-related business Measures We expand our business in the six focus markets through generating synergy effects 160 150.0 Expanding the medical use gas business among related business segments. 120 Focus Markets Related Business Segments 95.0 80 80.0 • Acquired a U.S. high-performance engineering plastics molding company (Piper Plastics, Inc.) Automobiles, Aircraft Lightweight composites Performance Chemicals Progress • Food emulsifier: Expanding sales mainly in China and other ASEAN countries (Mobility) Environment-friendly materials Products 40 • Respiratory-related business including home healthcare services: Acquired IMI 0 Co., Ltd. Flat Panel Display materials Performance Industrial 2015 2018 2020 (FY) IT, Electronics, Displays Products Gases Target Semiconductor-related materials Health Care Food ingredients Performance Industrial Medical, Food, Bio Products Pharmaceutical materials Products Gases Health Care Billions of yen Sales Revenue Reinforcing pipelines for ethical pharmaceuticals Medical related products 600 570.0 570.0 Growth Developing the business in the U.S. 540.0 Ethical pharmaceuticals 480 Measures Commercialization of VLP (Virus Like Particles) vaccine Health Care Health Care Regenerative medicine Commercialization of regenerative medicine 360 Battery materials Performance Environment, Energy Water treatment systems and Products 240 • Expanding Radicava, a treatment for ALS, globally devices Progress • Advancing development of influenza VLP vaccine and constructing a manufacturing 120 facility for commercialization Food packaging films Performance • Developing Muse cell-based regenerative medicine and promoting commercialization Packaging, Labels, Films Products 0 Industrial films 2015 2018 2020 (FY) Target 3 Business Domains: • Performance Products • Industrial Materials (Chemicals, Industrial Gases) • Health Care Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility) Environment, Energy Billions of yen Sales Revenue Responding to trend toward CASE (Connected, Autonomous, Shared, Electric) in Billions of yen Sales Revenue Expanding Lithium-ion battery materials business 500 the automotive industry, reinforce response to environmental issues 250 Growth Growth Accelerating development of wastewater treatment in China and water supply Reinforcing carbon fiber and composite material business and accelerate 420.0 Measures 210.0 Measures treatment business in Japan 400 overseas expansion 200 Developing products that reduce environmental impact 340.0 Accelerating overseas expansion of resin compound business 160.0 300 300.0 150 135.0 • Reinforcing overseas network for carbon fiber and composite material business 200 100 • Expanding adoption of carbon fiber sheet molding compound: Prius PHV of Toyota Motor • Accelerating global expansion of electrolyte business (Europe/U.S./China) Corporation, other • Start of full-scale sales of wastewater treatment facilities for farming villages 100 Progress 50 Progress • Higher performance of polypropylene: A new polypropylene manufacturing facility is and pig farms in China under construction at the Goi Plant (150kt/y) • Accelerating development of other applications of biodegradable polymer, BioPBS 0 0 • Acquired 2 overseas compound producers (India, Indonesia) 2015 2018 2020 (FY) 2015 2018 2020 (FY) Target Target IT, Electronics, Displays Packaging, Labels, Films Billions of yen Sales Revenue Billions of yen Sales Revenue 500 250 Barrier application: Accelerating overseas expansion of food packaging film, Reinforcing display-related product business: LCD and OLED materials Growth 230.0 Growth reinforcing development of new high-barrier performance products Measures Expanding semiconductor related business: Expanding precision cleaning agent Measures 400 410.0 200 High-performance films: Developing new products by combining the Group’s related business, developing thermal management materials 350.0 180.0 technologies 165.0 300 150 220.0 200 100 • Optical films: A new line is under construction in China • Started full-scale operation of a new polyester film line in the U.S. in FY2018 Progress • Optical PVOH film, OPL Film: A new line is under construction Progress • Launch of high-barrier performance deep-formed microwavable containers 100 50 • Precision cleaning of semiconductor manufacturing equipment: Acquired • Multilayer co-extruded film DIAMIRON production site is under construction in Cleanpart Group GmbH Thailand 0 0 2015 2018 2020 (FY) 2015 2018 2020 (FY) Target Target 67 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 68 Overview of Business Domains | Summary * Figures for FY2016 do not include discontinued operations. * Figures for FY2014 to 2016 of reporting segments prior to the change are presented for reference purposes only. * Sales Revenue Growth Rate and ROA figures for FY2016 in the New Segments section are presented for reference purposes only. * ROA = (Core) Operating Income / Total Assets (Annual Average) Sales Revenue/Sales Revenue Growth Rate (Core) Operating Income/(Core) Operating Margin Total Assets/ROA Capital Expenditures/Depreciation and Amortization R&D Expenditures/Ratio of R&D Expenditures to Sales Revenue Sales revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenditures (Left axis) Percentage of —Sales revenue growth rate (Right axis) —(Core) Operating margin (Right axis) Total assets (Left axis) —ROA (Right axis) —Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) —Ratio of R&D expenditures to sales revenue (Right axis) Sales revenue (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) by Domain 2,200 20 250.0 20 3,500 10.0 160 120 100 20 29.8% 8.1 8.0 7.9 1,650 10 187.5 15 2,625 7.5 120 90 75 15 6.8 4.1 1,170.1 2.1 Performance Products Domain 1,100 0.6 1,072.6 1,145.9 0 125.0 10 1,750 5.7 5.6 5.0 80 60 50 10 54.9 55.7 930.1 968.2 911.4 8.6 8.8 54.4 8.2 48.3 47.2 Sales revenue 7.7 46.3 1,215.1 1,216.6 94.2 5.9 1,140.4 29.6 29.7 -5.9 5.7 94.0 961.1 29.5 29.0 28.2 27.6 ¥1,170.1billion 954.8 937.5 59.6 54.8 56.1 62.8 68.3 65.2 550 -10 62.5 78.6 5 875 2.5 40 30 25 5 74.7 68.6 53.3 3.1 2.8 3.2 3.0 2.4 2.5 ROIC 0 -20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.1% 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Old Segments New Segments Old Segments New Segments Old Segments New Segments Old Segments New Segments Old Segments New Segments Sales revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenditures (Left axis) —Sales revenue growth rate (Right axis) —(Core) Operating margin (Right axis) Total assets (Left axis) —ROA (Right axis) Percentage of —Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) —Ratio of R&D expenditures to sales revenue (Right axis) Sales revenue (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) by Domain 2,200 20 250.0 20 3,500 10.0 160 120 100 20 51.1% 2,094.7 9.4 3,190.0 118.1 1,974.0 1,816.0 2,003.5 111.2 104.3 205.4 194.4 99.4 142.6 97.1 1,731.4 1,650 10 187.5 15 2,625 7.5 120 117.2 123.5 90 75 15 1,558.7 16.5 10.3 7.1 110.6 2,237.2 2,246.8 2,306.3 84.4 8.8 6.1 95.4 2,040.6 11.3 6.0 Industrial Materials Domain 1,100 0 125.0 130.8 114.7 10 1,750 2,070.4 5.0 80 74.9 60 50 10 100.5 9.7 4.7 Sales revenue 7.6 7.4 ¥2,003.5billion 550 -10 62.5 5 875 2.5 40 30 25 5 4.8 16.9 18.1 16.8 35.9 1.9 15.4 13.0 13.5 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.7 ROIC 0 -17.3 -20 0 1.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7.3% 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Old Segments New Segments Old Segments New Segments Old Segments New Segments Old Segments New Segments Old Segments New Segments Sales revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenditures (Left axis) Total assets (Left axis) —ROA (Right axis) Percentage of —Sales revenue growth rate (Right axis) —(Core) Operating margin (Right axis) —Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) —Ratio of R&D expenditures to sales revenue (Right axis) Sales revenue (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) by Domain 2,200 20 250.0 20 3,500 9.8 10.0 160 120 100 20 13.9% 18.7 9.0 92.1 90.6 18.0 86.3 80.5 16.6 77.0 1,650 10 187.5 14.6 15 2,625 7.5 120 90 75 16.6 15 14.5 7.4 7.2 15.1 15.6 4.2 14.1 1.7 Health Care Domain 1,100 0.1 0 125.0 10.4 10 1,750 5.0 80 60 50 10 103.4 4.9 -1.3 -2.0 98.4 Sales revenue 1,166.8 1,171.4 77.0 81.2 1,050.9 1,059.0 1,101.5 ¥545.7billion 550 531.9 554.0 547.0 556.6 545.7 -10 62.5 56.9 5 875 2.5 40 30 25 5 15.7 16.2 17.9 27.5 18.0 19.1 19.5 ROIC 0 -20 0 0 0 0 0 24.6 21.3 28.5 0 0 0 5.9% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 69 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 70 Overview of Business Domains FY2018 Results by Segment Information, Electronics Optical films, liquid crystaland semiconductor-related and Displays products, etc. Performance Products Domain Contributing Factors to Core Operating Income High Food packaging Functional Products Performance Products Performance materials, industrial-use Performance Products Segment (Billions of yen) Buying and selling Volume Cost reduction Other Films and medical films, etc. 95 94.0 difference difference differences* This segment posted increased sales revenue and decreased revenue rose in the Performance Chemicals subsegment by Aqua solutions, 85 8.5 Environment ion-exchange resins, income. Sales revenue advanced ¥24.2 billion, to ¥1,170.1 reflecting favorable market conditions in the first half for -9.5 and Living agricultural and billion, but core operating income dropped ¥25.4 billion, to phenol-polycarbonate chain materials in advanced polymers, 75 Solutions infrastructural solutions, etc. ¥68.6 billion. Sales revenue remained basically flat in the which outweighed a downturn in the second half. Another -10.0 68.6 65 -14.4 Functional Products subsegment. This was because sales positive factor was higher automotive battery materials sales Advanced Carbon fibers, alumina volumes dwindled for products related to information and volumes in the new energy business. However, core operating 55 Moldings and fibers, high-performance electronics, and displays, and other products with demand income in this segment was down owing to generally higher 2017 2018 (FY) Composites engineering plastics, etc. slowing, principally in the second half, despite higher sales raw materials costs, higher fixed expenses, and the impact of volumes in high-performance engineering plastics and other scheduled maintenance and repairs at production facilities for Phenol and Advanced polycarbonate, products for advanced moldings and composites. Sales phenol-polycarbonate chain materials in advanced polymers. Polymers performance polymers, Performance Chemicals etc. Industrial Materials Domain Contributing Factors to Core Operating Income High Specialty chemicals, food Performance ingredients, etc. Chemicals Segment Chemicals Chemicals Segment (Billions of yen) Buying and selling Volume Cost reduction Other 170 difference difference differences* This segment posted increased sales revenue and decreased on higher prices in line with increased raw materials costs. Sales 13.0 Lithium-ion batteries 155 income. Sales revenue rose ¥93.4 billion, to ¥1,270.7 billion. Core revenue rose in the Carbon Products subsegment because New Energy materials, optoelectronics 147.9 materials, etc. 4.5 operating income declined ¥16.8 billion, to ¥131.1 billion. Sales prices increased in the needle coke market amid firm demand 140 revenue in the MMA subsegment was basically unchanged. This for coke and other products. Core operating income in this -22.2 131.1 125 -12.1 was because a demand slowdown in the second half, segment declined because a widened price spread between particularly in China, offset the impact of favorable MMA raw materials costs and prices of carbon products was 110 MMA (raw materials), monomer and other products market conditions in the first half. outweighed by a greater impact of scheduled maintenance and 2017 2018 (FY) MMA PMMA (acrylic resins), In the Petrochemicals subsegment, sales volumes fell because repairs at petrochemicals product facilities, inventory valuation etc. Industrial Gases Segment of the impact of scheduled maintenance and repairs at the losses stemming from plunging raw materials costs since the (Billions of yen) Buying and selling Volume Other ethylene production facility. Sales revenue increased, however, end of the previous year, and a fall in MMA sales volumes. 70 Cost reduction Chemicals difference difference differences* 9.0 0.2 Basic petrochemicals 65 Petrochemicals and derivatives, polyolefins, etc. Industrial Gases Segment 63.3 -4.2 60 This segment recorded growth in both sales revenue and businesses and the impact of the acquisition of a portion of 57.5 0.8 Carbon Coke, carbon materials, income. Sales revenue rose ¥94.1 billion, to ¥732.8 billion. the European business of Praxair, Inc. of the U.S. and part of 55 carbon black, synthetic Products rubber, etc. Core operating income was up ¥5.8 billion, to ¥63.3 billion. the U.S. hydrogen and carbon monoxide business and related 50 These gains reflected the solid performances of overseas assets of Linde Gas North America LLC. 2017 2018 (FY) Industrial gases, industrial gas-related Industrial Gases equipment and facilities, Health Care Domain Contributing Factors to Core Operating Income etc. Health Care Segment Health Care Segment (Billions of yen) Buying and selling Volume Cost reduction Other 90 difference difference differences* This segment posted increased sales revenue and ethical pharmaceuticals in April 2018 and lower royalty Ethical pharmaceuticals, 81.2 Pharmaceuticals 80 etc. Health Care decreased income. Sales revenue declined ¥10.9 billion, revenue. Core operating income decreased because of 12.8 to ¥545.7 billion. Core operating income dropped ¥24.3 lower sales revenue and higher research and development 70 Capsules and billion, to ¥56.9 billion. In pharmaceuticals, sales revenue expenses. Royalty revenue from Novartis International AG pharmaceutical -15.6 was down despite higher U.S. sales of Radicava for for Gilenya, multiple sclerosis treatment was down, as a 60 processing equipment, -5.8 56.9 Life Science active pharmaceutical treating amyotropic lateral sclerosis, owing to the impact part of the revenue was not recognized under IFRS 15 50 -15.7 ingredients and intermediates, etc. of national health insurance price revision in domestic owing to start of arbitration proceedings. 2017 2018 (FY) * “Other differences” include impacts from inventory valuation gain/loss and differences of equity income, etc. 71 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 72 Overview of Business Segments: Performance Products Domain Performance SWOT Analysis Optical Films High-performance Films Optical Films High-performance Films Strong market position and Technologies to add functions Ability to adapt to the short-term Business development with a ability to deliver solutions for including gas barrier, porous demand changes that fluctuated focus on the domestic market various optical applications control and multiple layers beyond expectation High-performance Carbon Fiber and High-performance Carbon Fiber and Engineering Plastics Composite Materials Engineering Plastics Composite Materials S W Global network across business Business development through a Widespread and direct impacts Exchange rate impacts due to groups from materials to vertically-integrated value chain from social/economic/foreign the high ratio of overseas sales forming processing field which covers materials from exchange risks in different Products carbon fibers to intermediate base regions around the world material/composites Strengths Weaknesses Optical Films High-performance Films Optical Films High-performance Films Increase in the sophistication of Roll-out of high-performance Shrinkage of existing market Medium-term decrease in market needs (greater demand products to overseas businesses due to disruptive technology and domestic demand for high-performance and highinnovation precision products) High-performance Carbon Fiber and High-performance Carbon Fiber and Engineering Plastics Composite Materials Engineering Plastics Composite Materials O T Expanded demand in industrial Expanded demand in industrial Shrinkage of existing market Intensified competition due to Performance Products Domain (aircraft, semiconductors) and use (automobiles, wind power due to diffusion of new quality improvement of products medical use generation, pressure vessels, technologies such as 3D printer from developing countries and others) In the performance products domain, the MCHC Group focuses on Opportunities Threats five growing markets while coordinating a wide range of products and technologies of the Group to differentiate and enhance the performance of products in order to provide a variety of solutions to the respective markets. Main businesses and products Information, Electronics and Displays Optical films, precision cleaning, color resist Advanced Polymers Performance polymers, phenol and polycarbonate, polybutylene terephthalate, sustainable resources Functional Products Optical films Performance Chemicals Performance polymers We swiftly respond to the globally expanding markets, increasingly sophisticated needs and support the advancement of displays through products such as polyester films, optical clear adhesive With a broad product range centered on thermoplastic elastomers, performance polyolefins and sheets and optical PVOH films. PVC compounds, we contribute to the customers’ innovations in areas ranging from medical care FY2018 FY2018 and industry to daily consumer goods. Sales revenue Information and electronics materials Sales revenue Phenol and polycarbonate 785.9billion ¥ We focus on developing and selling products and services that create new value consistent with customers’ needs, including through various materials for FPD (Flat Panel Display) and precision cleaning for semiconductors. 384.2billion ¥ Integrating our proprietary manufacturing process technologies with polymer design technologies and compound technologies, we have expanded our business globally while having one of the largest market shares in Asia. FY2018 High Performance Films High-performance films: food package materials, industrial-use films, medical and sanitary films FY2018 Core operating income Core operating income High-performance films High Performance Chemicals Coating materials, epoxy resins, resin additives, food ingredients, inorganic chemicals ¥ 40.1 billion Through the optimal combination of technologies, including polymer material design, forming processing, surface treatment and composition, we offer products with added functionalities such as gas barrier, weather resistance, moisture permeability, and easy-opening, applied in different ¥ 28.5billion Coating materials We provide added value with a strong consciousness of sustainability for polymers used in paints, inks, adhesives, hair care materials and resist materials for semiconductors based on advanced markets such as food, industrial, and healthcare. technologies of synthesis, formulation and evaluation. Food ingredients Environment and Living Solutions Aqua solutions, ion-exchange resins, separator and aqua chemicals, agricultural solutions, infrastructure solutions We have expanded our business to a wide range of fields from food to pharmaceuticals and Aqua solutions cosmetics in product groups such as emulsifiers, represented by our sugar ester, which has the Through offerings such as water treatment chemicals, filtration membranes, and ion-exchange leading global market share, and vitamin E. resins, we cover the whole water treatment process ranging from drinking water to wastewater, aiming to provide solutions to any and all water-related issues worldwide. Agricultural solutions New Energy Lithium-ion battery materials, phosphors, scintillators, GaN substrates We offer agricultural materials such as high-performance films with superior durability for Lithium-ion battery materials greenhouses and plant factories for cultivating high-quality vegetables stably throughout the year. While targeting the increasingly sophisticated needs of customers, we are developing electrolytes and anode materials primarily for the batteries used in electric vehicles based on high technological Advanced Moldings and Composites High-performance engineering plastics, carbon fiber and composite materials, fibers and textiles, alumina fibers, functional moldings and composites capabilities and a global supply chain network covering from material development to safety High-performance engineering plastics evaluation. As a leading global manufacturer of high-performance engineering plastics, we are developing our Phosphors, scintillators, GaN substrates business in a wide range of fields, such as industrial machinery, automobiles, aircrafts, and medical use. We are providing phosphors for fluorescent backlights and LED lighting, and scintillators for security Carbon fiber and composite materials and medical diagnostic devices, such as CT scanners. We are also developing gallium nitride (GaN) We have realized one of the most integrated product chains in the world, covering materials from substrates used in lasers and other high-performance devices. PAN-based and pitch-based carbon fibers to intermediates and composite products using fibers as base materials. 73 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 74 Overview of Business Segments: Performance Products Domain APTSIS 20 Provide a wide range of solutions and accelerate global business Ta r ge t Fi gu re s deployment in the IT, electronics, and displays market. Policies Investment Core operating income (Billions of yen) 160 (Five-year plan, total) Provide high-performance products and solutions on a global scale by The integration of businesses involving optical remarkably, which is expected to continue. To 390billion* 120.0 120 accelerating growth through cooperation and integration. films used in electric displays and information and date, we have endeavored to enhance businesses ¥ electronics materials, such as color resists, realized including cleaning solutions and precision cleaning 80 Key Strategies R&D investment 68.6 a timely response to the remarkable technological services. In October 2018, we acquired Cleanpart (Five-year plan, total) 40 innovation in this market. As LCD panels become Group GmbH, one of the leading companies in 170billion* Expand high-performance, higher value-added products and solutions business thinner and larger, we are not only accelerating the fields that include precision cleaning and coating Accelerate global development Enhance innovation through business integration ¥ 2018 2020 0 building-up of production lines for wider optical services for semiconductor manufacturers in Europe (FY) Result Target Achieve profitability of new energy businesses at an early stage PVOH film, OPL Film used in polarizer but also and the U.S. We will strengthen our access to the * In November 2017, MCHC announced that it would increase investments and loans by 200 billion yen and R&D investments by 25 billion yen on a company-wide basis. applying our technology and expertise in displays to semiconductor industry based on the advanced OLED panel materials, which are expected to grow precision cleaning technology cultivated in Japan Growth Strategies of High Performance Films in the future. and Asia and the acquired business bases and their While strengthening our advantage in product development, On the other hand, as the volume of data client networks in Europe and the U.S. We will also Technology Platform delivering solutions by increasing positive synergy among being processed increases due to the development enhance our solution proposal capability to respond other business domains, and advancing a seamless of information technologies such as AI and IoT, to customers’ technological development and Products technology platform, we will accelerate the global expansion the semiconductor market has been growing needs. of higher value-added products by making full use of SiOx vacuum coated Moisture transmission Acrylic film, Multilayer co-extruded film, high gas barrier film film, resources of overseas affiliates. We are constructing a new DIAMIRON ACRYPLEN TECHBARRIER KTF Established a global cleaning service system based on the acquisition of Cleanpart Group GmbH production facility in Thailand for multilayer co-extruded film, Expanding business by transferring advanced precision cleaning technology developed in Japan and Asia DIAMIRON, that is widely used in food and medical packaging Ultra-multi Porous Transparency to semi-conductor manufactures in Europe and North America in order to expand business in the ASEAN where growing Functions layer control Gas barrier control weatherability market demands are expected. (Commercial production will begin in April 2020). We will also globally expand the business of barrier films through our M&A strategy and enhance the Optimal Combination 10 19 locations technological development of next-generation products, such Polymeric Core Forming Surface as smart packaging, with focus on achieving SDGs, solving technology material processing functionalization Composition design the food-loss issue (longer shelf life), and others. Growth Strategies of Advanced Polymers No.1 in Europe Our growth strategies are: enhancing the competitiveness of the existing No.1 in Japan Expanding Production and Sales Bases businesses, pioneering a circular economy, and promoting M&A and alliances. In the existing businesses, the strength of our solution proposals are bolstered Europe Japan Americas by our global network. In FY2018, we decided to establish a new production 12 China 12 5 facility for PVC compound production in China (Chengdu), and acquired two 10 PVC compound producers in Indonesia and India. Toward the actualization of a circular economy, we proactively contribute to the achievement of the SDGs and Precision cleaning technology locations Cleanpart Group HmbH locations the reduction of GHGs with a strong focus on the feature improvement of biomass Japan (7 locations), Taiwan, China, Korea North America (4 locations), Europe (5 locations) Asia and biodegradable polymers. We are accelerating M&A and alliances activities with the aim of acquiring new technologies, new applications, new customers and 13 Ex new business models for further business growth. pa nd Our high-performance engineering plastics and carbon fiber reinforced plastic are also applied to various ing KA parts of aircrafts. In addition to their light weight, these products have requisite characteristics for aircraft, ITE Growth Strategies of New Energy KI Va such as strength, heat resistance, flame retardance, sound insulation and vibration damping, allowing Provide innovative lue We will cultivate next-generation businesses by promoting early commercialization Demand Forecast for Large-scale LiB Use aircraft to achieve higher performance. advanced moldings and profitability of business clusters that contribute to the realization of a Going forward, as the global leader in sustainable society. The electrolyte and anode materials used in the lithiumAircraft, marine vessel Energy storage system On-board use and composites 400 (GWh) high-performance engineering plastics ion batteries (LiBs) that we manufacture and distribute are widely adopted for to the aircraft and carbon fiber reinforced plastic, we automobile LiB as high-performance products capable of improving performance 300 markets to realize will continue to make utmost efforts to such as LiB life, output and charging characteristics. Going forward, we will 200 a KAITEKI society contribute to improving safety and reliability continue to enhance our global supply chains through increased production 100 in the growing aircraft markets of the world capacity at overseas business bases, and will meet our customers’ needs for 0 and realize a KAITEKI society. more sophisticated performance with our advanced technological capabilities. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2025 (FY) Reference: IHS, Fuji Keizai, B3, ID Tech 75 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 76 Overview of Business Segments: Industrial Materials Domain Industrial SWOT Analysis MMA Petrochemicals MMA Petrochemicals Possesses three major Possesses product chains Fluctuating revenue due to Susceptible to the impacts of manufacturing methods. Holds a ranging from crackers to overseas market conditions and price fluctuation in commodities strong market position with the derivatives, and accumulation of raw material trends such as crude oil world’s top market share own technologies Carbon Products Industrial Gases Materials Carbon Products Industrial Gases S W Coking coal blending Holds a strong market position Fluctuating revenue due to Fluctuating domestic revenue technologies and coke quality and the domestic top market volatile coking coal prices due to the impact of electricity management technologies share with a supply system that cost cover the whole global market Strengths Weaknesses MMA Petrochemicals MMA Petrochemicals Business network positioned to Knowledge business (technology Competition with other materials U.S. shale-based products and respond to global expansion of license, catalysts) in overseas Chinese coal-based products demands growth regions flowing into the Japanese market in greater than expected quantities Carbon Products Industrial Gases Carbon Products Industrial Gases Industrial Materials Domain O T Expanding the production of Increased investment Integration of blast furnace along Oligopolization of the major gas crude steel and increase in coke opportunities overseas and with the restructuring of steel companies in oversea markets demand in developing countries demand from electronics and companies such as India medical use MCHC will continue to advance the diversification of raw materials, Opportunities Threats including renewable resources, provide products and technologies through a framework that reﬂects the needs of the time, and support the growing markets. Major Businesses and Products MMA*1 Coke We possess three major manufacturing methods*2 that utilize Coke supports the global steel industries, and MMA different raw materials, and maintain a leading 40% share of the Carbon Products it serves as a raw material for various products global market. By establishing a global supply chain that takes which are produced from the tar created in the advantage of raw material availability for each plant as well as cost coke manufacturing process. Each year we import FY2018 FY2018 Sales revenue competitiveness, MCHC aims to actualize sophisticated operations. Sales revenue coal from countries around the world and produce 388.8billion 280.3billion *1 Methyl methacrylate coke of different qualities by blending around 60*2 Acetone cyanohydrin (ACH) method, C4 direct oxidation process, and New 70 types of raw materials in various combinations. ¥ Ethylene Method (Alpha Technology) ¥ PMMA*3 Carbon black PMMA (acrylic resin) has various excellent characteristics such FY2018 FY2018 Carbon black is a material used for products as superior transparency, strong weatherability, and formability. Core operating income Core operating income found in daily life, such as tires, printing ink and We operate businesses that utilize a variety of PMMA products 94.4 billion 24.5 billion colored resins. We manufacture carbon black including acrylic sheets for signs, display shelves and aquarium under stringent quality control throughout the ¥ tanks, molding materials for automotive products, optical components and home electronic parts, and plastic optical fibers. ¥ manufacturing process, covering all stages from raw material processing to the final products. *3 Polymethyl methacrylate MMA, PMMA Coke, carbon materials, carbon black, synthetic rubber Basic petrochemicals and basic chemical derivatives Industrial gases Our ethylene plants are located in Ibaraki and Okayama,* We have a leading 40% share of the domestic Petrochemicals Japan, where we manufacture olefins such as ethylene and Industrial Gases market for industrial gases, centered on propylene, and aromatics such as benzene and toluene. We oxygen, nitrogen and argon. We are expanding also deal in various ethylene, propylene and C4 derivatives, our business overseas with a focus on North FY2018 FY2018 Sales revenue terephthalic acid and more. Sales revenue America, Europe, Asia and Oceania as the key 601.6billion 732.8billion *The Okayama ethylene plant is owned by Asahi Kasei Mitsubishi Chemical Ethylene Corporation, markets. which is jointly owned by Asahi Kasei Corporation and Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC). ¥ Polyolefins ¥ Industrial gas-related equipment and facilities Our polyolefin (polyethylene and polypropylene) business Besides our domestic production of Japan’s first offers high-quality and high-performance product lineups for air separation units plant, we have earned a stellar FY2018 FY2018 Core operating income a wide range of fields including automobiles, electrical wires, Core operating income reputation as a world class plant manufacturer medical devices and food packaging based on proprietary 12.2 billion 63.3 billion through the production of space-simulation catalyst and process technologies. We are also expanding chambers and liquid helium-related equipment. ¥ this business to markets outside Japan as a global supplier ¥ of high-performance materials while developing the growing Basic petrochemicals, basic chemical derivatives, polyolefins global markets including the automobile industry. Industrial gases, industrial gas-related equipment and facilities 77 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 78 Overview of Business Segments: Industrial Materials Domain APTSIS 20 Industrial gases: Aiming at further growth based on Ta r ge t Fi gu re s the tetrapolar global production structure Policies Investment Core operating income (Billions of yen) 250 (Five-year plan, total) 225.0 As the oligopolization of the industrial gas industry U.S., Europe, and Asia-Oceania) was finally established. 1,280billion* Stabilizing earnings by strengthening cost-competitiveness 194.4 200 advances due to internal reorganizations, Taiyo Nippon Amid its efforts to expand the gas technology Accelerating growth and increasing presence in the global ¥ 150 Sanso Corporation (TNSC) has been implementing its domain through M&A based on the priority strategy of market Ortus Stage 2, a four-year Medium-term Management Innovation under the Ortus Stage 2 Plan, TNSC made Key Strategies R&D investment 100 Plan, starting from the fiscal year ended March 2018, an entry into the HyCO business by acquiring the U.S. (Five-year plan, total) 80 50 Ehance cost-competitiveness with the aim of firming up its position by enhancing HyCO business of Linde Gas North America LLC, a Accelerate global business development (MMA, industrial gasses) ¥ billion* 2018 2020 0 its global competitiveness. In December 2018, TNSC subsidiary of Linde AG, in February 2019. (FY) Business restructuring Result Target acquired a European subsidiary of Praxair, Inc. and HyCO business refers to the large-scale supply of *1 In November 2017, MCHC announced that it would increase investments and loans by 200 billion yen and R&D investment by 25 billion yen on a company-wide basis. thereby obtained the company’s market share in Europe, hydrogen (H2) and carbon monoxide (CO) separated *2 A capital increase of 700 billion yen was implemented due to the large-scale merger of an industrial gas company in FY2018. a market which TNSC was yet to enter at that time. As from natural gas and other raw materials by steam Growth Strategies of the MMA Domain the regional headquarters in Europe, TNSC established reforming equipment, etc. pipelined to be used mainly Nippon Gases Euro-Holding S.L.U. in Spain to organize in the oil refinery/petrochemical industries. TNSC will We will continue to increase our production capacity and MMA Production Bases and Regional Share the governance system of each subsidiary. As a result, endeavor to enhance its ability to make proposals to optimize the production system with the aim of maintaining our the tetrapolar global production structure (Japan, the users by expanding the product lineup. competitiveness as the leading global supplier of MMA, boasting a roughly 40% share of the global production capacity. Expanding global market share by moving into new business areas Europe Asia Americas In April 2018, a new plant with the world’s largest Target Businesses to be Acquired production capacity started its operation. The plant utilizes Under consideration* Businesses to be acquired have a roughly 16% share in the the MCC Group’s proprietary New Ethylene Method (Alpha target regions. Technology) together with the highly cost-competitive natural Outline of major assets, Number of Regional share etc. plants No.3 gas of Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, in North America, we are also Air separation considering the establishment of a new plant that utilizes the Total units 27 New Ethylene Method with a less expensive shale gas-based Cylinder filling ethylene. Thus, we will secure stable earnings while maintaining plants 35 Regional share the competitiveness by retaining a leading share in MMA and No.2 Regional share Liquid CO2 World share No.1 plants 12 No.3 building optimal production systems. * Project with shale gas in North America is under consideration. Dry ice plants 19 Regional share Strategic Approach to Strengthening No.2 Competitiveness of Petrochemicals We have completed the large-scale structural reforms, including Ratio of Higher Value-added Polyolefin the consolidation of naphtha cracker and withdrawal from (%) Polyethylene Polypropylene 70 unprofitable businesses, to a certain extent. Looking ahead, we Europe will continue to increase the added value by commercializing the Japan 60 U.S. unused fraction between crackers and derivatives, developing China Door module high-performance polyolefin, and expanding technology licenses (Automotive interior component) India 50 through the refinement of possessed technologies. Southeast Asia For high-performance polyolefin, we are accelerating the 40 development to add higher value to polyolefin by developing Australia a new catalyst to improve the strength, heat resistance and 30 molding capability of polyolefin. 2015 2018 2020 Target (FY) Automotive fuel tank We will continue to maximize earnings by increasing the value of our petrochemical business. Ex pa MCC has developed BENEBiOL, the world’s first plant-derived polycarbonate diol (PCD). While PCD has been Strategic Approach to Strengthening Competitiveness of Carbon Products nd ing KA applied to resin coating materials, such as artificial/synthetic leather and exterior and interior coating materials We will endeavor to secure stable earnings by consistently producing coke, core product, Business ITE KI for automobiles, the plant-derived PCD not only has an excellent environmental performance but also the and maximizing the added value of coke byproducts, such as needle coke. development of Va lue capability of improving texture, flexibility and strength compared to In 2009, MCC introduced large-scale partial refining operation under a coke oven (hot earth-friendly and conventional PCD from petroleum. Looking forward, our Group will renewal method) for the first time in Japan, enabling us to stably produce coke without high-performance continue to promote the business development of earth-friendly and suspending the operation of the oven while at the same time maintaining its soundness. plant-derived high-performance plant-derived materials, thus contributing to the We will focus on maximizing earnings by consistently promoting efforts to increase the materials construction of a resource-saving and recycling-oriented society. added value of coke byproducts, such as needle coke, the demand for which has been ® “Ultrasuede BX,” Toray Industries’ environmentally friendly non-woven material with a suede texture using our BENEBiOL. (Image courtesy of Toray Industries, Inc.) sharply increasing in recent years due to its use in graphite electrodes. 79 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 80 Overview of Business Segments: Health Care Domain Health Care SWOT Analysis Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals • Capabilities for drug discovery and IKUYAKU (drug fostering and • Delay in global business expansion (especially in North America) evolution) in the pharmaceutical business • Presence in focus areas, including autoimmune diseases Life Science Life Science S W • Broad business foundation covering sick care, health care, and • Product/service lineup insufficient to meet a range of customer life care needs • Strong market position in the capsule manufacturing business Strengths Weaknesses Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals • Diversification of medical needs • Declining success rate for new drug discovery, and increasing R&D • Expanding demand in the healthcare domain due to global aging costs due to stricter drug approval processes • Various measures taken to control medical expenditures by governments Life Science Life Science O T • Expanded use of big data by health and medical ICT • Lack of economic incentives in the healthcare business Health Care Domain • Governmental incentives to maintain health and prevent serious diseases in order to stop the increase of medical expenses • Enhanced awareness of health, including self-medication MCHC will develop the healthcare businesses beyond the treatment of Opportunities Threats diseases, with an aim to create a society where people around the world live longer and healthier. Major Businesses and Products Pharmaceuticals Immuno-inflammation Life Science Next-generation healthcare Health Care We have a strong sales foundation based on the relationships We began the clinical testing with a formulation that uses Muse* cells, which of trust built with medical professionals through one of were discovered by a team led by Professor Mari Dezawa of Tohoku University. our main products, Remicade (indication: inflammatory To obtain an approval for Muse cell-based product (CL2020) by FY2021, FY2018 autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis). We will we have been conducting clinical tests for four indications. Additionally, Sales revenue continue to take the top share in this area by maximizing the we constructed a new cell processing center (“Tonomachi CPC”) for the ¥545.7billion Remicade Simponi Stelara advantages provided by three products: Remicade, Simponi (indication: rheumatoid arthritis, etc.) and Stelara (indication: psoriasis, Crohn’s disease, etc.). Regenerative medical product commercialization of Muse cell-based products. In February 2019, we began preparing for production at the CPC for the launch. (See page 84). *Muse: Multilineage-differentiating Stress Enduring FY2018 Diabetes and kidney Drug discovery solutions Core operating income 56.9 billion We aim to obtain clinical evidence and expand sales We manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates. We also channels for Tenelia Tablets and Canaglu Tablets, originally provide high-quality, high-performance hard capsules, such as HPMC*, the ¥ developed by Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) world’s first HPMC made from plant-derived materials, and pharmaceutical as Japan’s first treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus, and processing equipment made by using our manufacturing technologies and for Canalia Combination Tablets, thereby establishing our expertise. Tenelia Canaglu Canalia Pharmaceutical capsules, active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates presence in this area. *HPMC: Hydroxypropyl methylcellulose Central nervous system Health and medical ICT It is thought that Radicut (Radicava in the U.S.) has the effect of scavenging To solve social issues, such as the aging society and regional disparities in free radicals, which increase in ALS, protecting motor neurons from medical treatment, we will develop diagnosis support systems for higher quality oxidative stress, and delaying the decline in muscle strength and the medical care by using digital technology thereby creating a new business that progress of muscular atrophy. For this product, we obtained approval for helps mitigate the burdens imposed on doctors. Presently we are collaborating the indication of ALS first in Japan in June 2015 and subsequently in South with universities and others to develop an AI-based diagnostic imaging support Lexpro Radicut Korea, the U.S., Canada, and Switzerland. We are now applying for approval Medical ICT system. in China while developing an oral agent in the U.S. Vaccines MTPC and the Research Foundation for Microbial Diseases of Osaka University founded BIKEN Co., Ltd., a joint venture to produce vaccines, which started operation in September 2017. We plan to double or triple the production volume of varicella vaccine and to increase total vaccine production capacity by 20 to 30% in the future. We will also enhance the production platform for vaccines Inﬂuenza vaccine Tetrabik Varicella vaccine that are in greater demand and help further stabilize the supply of vaccines. 81 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 82 Overview of Business Segments: Health Care Domain APTSIS 20 Aiming to meet Unmet Medical Needs by providing Policies Ta r ge t Fi gu re s (Billions of yen) Muse cell-based products Worldwide growth in the pharmaceutical business Investment Core operating income 80 Establish and improve the healthcare and medical business utilizing ICT (Five-year plan, total) Development of new drugs and medical not to necessarily induce into damaged tissues, 460billion* and the regenerative medical products 60.0 technologies have tremendously progressed in but through iv injection, to accumulate and engraft 56.9 60 Key Strategies ¥ recent years, however, some disease have not injured tissues for repairing. • Promote the development of overseas pharmaceutical business, 40 had effective therapies yet. They call them unmet We are developing Muse cell-based products particularly in the U.S. R&D investment • Strengthen capabilities for drug discovery (Five-year plan, total) medical needs and we are working to address these (CL2020) through the use of Muse cell enrichment 20 440 • Maximize the value of new drugs and priority products by strengthening unmet medical needs by creating Muse cell-based culture techniques. Exploratory clinical test for the capabilities of IKUYAKU (drug fostering and evolution) and marketing • Expand the healthcare and medical business utilizing ICT ¥ billion* 2018 2020 0 regenerative medicine and other products. treatment of acute myocardial infarction started (FY) • Expand the regenerative medicine business Result Target Muse cells were discovered by a team led by in January 2018 and we are now conducting • Improve profitability and global expansion of the business for capsules * In November 2017, MCHC announced that it would increase investments and loans by ¥200 billion and R&D investment by ¥25 billion on a company-wide basis. Professor Mari Dezawa of Tohoku University in another tests indicated for cerebral infarction 2010. These pluripotent stem cells have the capacity and epidermolysis bullosa. Furthermore, we Growth Strategies in the Pharmaceutical Business Fou r S t r a t e gi c P r i or i t i e s t o O p e n U p t h e Fu t u re to differentiate into a range of human cells. Muse have conducted the clinical study for spinal cord cells naturally exist in the connective tissue of the injury from July 2019. We will continuously work Strategic Strategic MTPC engages in the pharmaceutical business within the Priority Maximizing Priority Strengthening IKUYAKU* human body and therefore risks of tumorigenicity on research and development for new treatment 1 Pipeline Value 2 and Marketing MCHC Group. In November 2018 it revised the FY2020 is likely low. Moreover, they have characteristics options. Late-stage development R&D investment Revenue in Japan(FY2020) New drug and priority targets set in its Medium-term Management Plan, “Open for 10drug candidates ¥400.0billion ¥ 300.0billion product sales ratio75 % Up the Future.” Specifically, it made downward revisions FY2018 Results:Started late-stage development in 7 candidates FY2018 Results: ¥307.7 billion Estimate by FY2020: 55% to revenue (down ¥70 billion to ¥430 billion) and to core Estimate by FY2020:Start late-stage development for 4 additional drug candidates *Drug Fostering and Evolution Outline of the use of the Muse cell product for acute myocardial infarction operating income (down ¥40 billion to ¥60 billion), mainly Goal for FY2020 Migrate in heart via blood vessels Revenue of ¥430.0 billion and core operating income of ¥60 billion because of a decrease in the royalty revenue gained for Strategic Strategic Priority Priority Invocana, a treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus, and the Accelerating U.S. Reforming Operational 3 Business Development 4 Productivity delayed business contribution by the M&A project in the ¥ 40.0 billion Strategical investment Reduction of the cost of sales Number of employees U.S. in North America in the U.S. by more than and SG&A expenses ¥ 20.0 5,000 200.0billion + Sales of Radicava in billion more countries ¥ Signal from FY2018 Results: Reduced by ¥25.0 billion and to 4,956 employees FY2018 Results: ¥27.0 billion Estimate by FY2020: Reduced by ¥30.0 billion injured tissues MTPC Aims to Achieve the Initial Targets by FY2023 In the U.S. and Europe, accelerate growth through the three drivers IV infusion of Through the Following Measures Accumulate at cardiac infarction site Cardiac tissue repaired; as maintaining revenue of ¥300 billion achieved by launching new Muse cells and spontaneously differentiate into organ function restored Peak sales (Billions of yen) drugs and promoting IKUYAKU in Japanese market blood vessels and cardiac tissue Launch of Radicava oral agent 70–100 U.S. and Europe Japan (including intravenous agent) U.S. Clinical testing Application Approval Sales New items (Partnering) Vadadustat/5-in-1 vaccine and Launch of inﬂuenza VLP vaccine 40–60 Growth drivers Fasinumab/Valbenazine Europe Canaglu (diabetic nephropathy) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2025 Launch of ND0612 (indication: Parkinson’s disease) 50–80 Radicava (including oral agent) Inﬂuenza VLP vaccine ND0612 Jan. Acute myocardial infarction Jul. Spinal cord injury Launch of Vadadustat (indication: renal anemia) Sep. Cerebral infarction Existing Dec. Epidermolysis bullosa 5-in-1 vaccine Total in five Japan (for pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, polio and Hib) products products For CL2020, we aim to obtain manufacturing and sales approval by Fasinumab (indication: osteoarthrosis), 50–70 and Valbenazine (indication: tardive dyskinesia), FY2021. We started preparations for commercial manufacturing of and an additional indication to Canaglu Royalty CL2020 from February 2019 at the newly completed cell processing (diabetic nephropathy) 2018 2020 2023 2018 2020 2023 (FY) center (CPC). We will continue our efforts to deliver CL2020 to patients as soon as possible. Growth Strategies in the Life Science Business Tonomachi CPC (within the Life Innovation Center in Kanagawa) Provision of solutions to promote people’s health Ex pa and prevent the aggravation of symptoms nd ing Radicava was released in the U.S. in 2017 as the first new drug developed in 20 years to help ALS patients Wellness Provision of unique products and services for Medical KA ITE delay the progression of the damage caused by the disease to their physical functions, and we are working Solution pharmaceutical development Solution KI Va lue to introduce it to other countries. Presently, however, the drug can be Provision of solutions to meet unmet medical needs Providing patients administered only by instillation and patients and their caregivers need to Next-generation Healthcare Health and Medical ICT Drug Discovery Solutions with easier-to-take visit and remain at medical facilities for the administration of the drug. drugs In order to mitigate this burden, we are developing an oral We will address unmet medical needs by developing We will create new businesses to improve the quality of While taking an integrated approach across the regenerative medicine of Muse cell-based formulation, medical treatment by using digital technology, thereby pharmaceutical business (active pharmaceutical and aim to obtain approval for the manufacture and sale contributing to solving social issues such as the aging ingredients and intermediates, capsules, etc.), we will suspension that can be easily taken by patients and aim to obtain of the product in FY2021. In February 2019, we began society and regional disparities in medical treatment. provide pharmaceutical companies with higher valueapproval for it in FY2021. preparations for the production and commercialization of added one-stop solutions through alliances with other said product at the newly completed cell processing center. organizations. 83 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 84 Corporate Data / Information Financial Information Consolidated Financial Summary Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 IFRS Japan GAAP Millions of yen Millions of yen Millions of yen April 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Transition date) 2014 2015 2016 2017 For the Year: For the Year: Sales revenue ¥ — ¥3,543,352 ¥3,376,057 ¥ 3,724,406 ¥ 3,923,444 Net Sales ¥ 3,498,834 ¥3,656,278 ¥3,823,098 ¥3,432,398 Income before taxes — 252,791 258,343 344,077 288,056 Ordinary income 103,092 163,059 270,616 258,073 Net income — 104,858 216,515 276,362 216,729 Net income attributable to owners of the parent 32,248 60,859 46,444 113,237 Net income attributable to owners of the parent — 51,358 156,259 211,788 169,530 Total comprehensive income 134,016 173,692 7,695 205,319 Total comprehensive income — 34,302 226,493 297,476 205,898 Net cash provided by operating activities 177,027 329,776 388,663 333,150 Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent — 253 165,709 233,619 161,655 Net cash used in investing activities (159,789) (277,223) (202,796) (264,566) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities — 299,612 396,643 397,940 415,575 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (8,307) (2,061) (156,957) 40,123 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities — (234,078) (289,056) (335,933) (895,068) Cash and cash equivalent at end of period 179,556 243,055 263,770 360,012 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities — (40,945) 1,411 (150,592) 519,062 Cash and cash equivalent at end of period 252,749 267,148 363,510 277,624 321,541 At Year-End: Total net assets 1,314,870 1,588,601 1,554,528 1,608,324 At Year-End: Total assets 3,479,359 4,323,038 4,061,572 4,295,260 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 993,011 972,197 1,091,398 1,285,750 1,377,947 Yen Total assets 4,368,998 4,223,774 4,463,547 4,701,415 5,572,508 Per Share: Yen Net assets ¥611.95 ¥669.77 ¥636.43 ¥691.18 Per Share: Net income attributable to owners of the parent —Basic 21.89 41.40 31.70 77.35 Equity attributable to owners of the parent ¥677.98 ¥663.71 ¥758.30 ¥893.26 ¥970.46 Net income attributable to owners of the parent —Diluted 21.45 41.37 31.68 76.78 Net income attributable to owners of the parent —Basic — 35.06 106.73 147.14 119.22 Net income attributable to owners of the parent —Diluted — 35.03 105.95 136.06 110.05 Ratios: Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 25.8 22.6 22.9 23.2 Ratios: Return on equity (ROE) (%) 3.7 6.4 4.8 11.8 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (%) 22.7 23.0 24.5 27.3 24.7 Price earnings ratio (Times) 19.5 16.8 18.5 11.1 Ratio of earnings attributable to owners of the parent (ROE) (%) — 5.2 15.1 17.8 12.7 Price earnings ratio (Times) — 16.8 8.1 7.0 6.5 Other: Number of employees (People) 56,031 68,263 68,988 69,291 Other: (Temporary employees in parentheses) (People) (5,208) (6,101) (6,967) (6,878) Number of employees (People) 68,263 68,988 69,291 69,230 72,020 Notes: 1. The consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, are based on Japanese standards, and have not been audited pursuant Temporary employees (People) 6,101 6,967 6,878 7,428 7,558 to Paragraph 1 of Article 193-2 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 2. Sales revenues do not include consumption taxes. Notes: 1. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in keeping with International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) since the fiscal year, ended March 31, 2017. 2. Sales revenues do not include consumption taxes. 3. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Company classified terephthalic acid operations in India and China as discontinued. The Company accordingly presents sales revenue and income before taxes for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, and 2017, as amounts for continuing operations after excluding discontinued operations. 4. As it accounted provisionally for business combinations in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the Company has retroactively revised the related key business indicators for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. 85 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 86 Financial Information Segment Information Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended/as of March 31 The Overview of Reporting Segments is detailed in Note 4 (Segment Information). Sales revenue Core Operating Income (Loss) Net Sales Millions of yen Millions of yen Millions of yen REPORTING SEGMENT 2018 2019 2018 2019 GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT 2018 2019 Performance Products ¥1,145,932 ¥ 1,170,119 ¥ 93,995 ¥ 68,564 Japan ¥ 2,589,590 ¥ 2,678,735 Chemicals 1,177,352 1,270,750 147,868 131,132 Overseas 1,134,816 1,244,709 Industrial Gases 638,675 732,837 57,467 63,323 Total ¥ 3,724,406 ¥ 3,923,444 Health Care 556,568 545,666 81,227 56,865 Others 205,879 204,072 7,119 7,553 Core Operating Income (Loss) Subtotal 3,724,406 3,923,444 387,676 327,437 Millions of yen Elimination and corporate — — (7,187) (10,250) GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT 2018 2019 Total ¥3,724,406 ¥3,923,444 ¥380,489 ¥317,187 Japan ¥ 223,165 ¥ 165,395 * Inter-segment revenue and transfers are not included. Overseas 157,324 151,792 Total ¥ 380,489 ¥ 317,187 Total assets Depreciation and Amortization Millions of yen Millions of yen REPORTING SEGMENT 2018 2019 2018 2019 Millions of yen Performance Products ¥1,215,112 ¥ 1,216,636 ¥ 54,861 ¥ 55,661 OVERSEAS SALES 2018 2019 Chemicals 1,290,102 1,340,129 53,741 59,563 Overseas sales ¥1,547,060 ¥1,664,575 Industrial Gases 1,016,171 1,849,857 45,708 58,554 Overseas sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales 41.5% 42.4% Health Care 1,167,599 1,171,411 19,049 19,549 Others 961,554 1,002,178 3,018 3,273 Subtotal 5,650,538 6,580,211 176,377 196,600 Adjustments (949,123) (1,007,703) 2,518 2,732 Total ¥4,701,415 ¥5,572,508 ¥178,895 ¥ 199,332 Capital Expenditures R&D Expenditures Millions of yen Millions of yen REPORTING SEGMENT 2018 2019 2018 2019 Performance Products ¥ 68,301 ¥ 65,188 ¥ 27,624 ¥ 29,655 Chemicals 61,910 70,623 9,989 10,053 Industrial Gases 61,549 72,056 2,989 3,494 Health Care 27,505 17,985 92,140 90,613 Others 3,535 3,729 310 273 Subtotal 222,800 229,581 133,052 134,088 Adjustments 2,389 2,161 5,781 9,748 Total ¥225,189 ¥231,742 ¥138,833 ¥ 143,836 Employees Number REPORTING SEGMENT 2018 2019 Performance Products 23,601 23,950 Chemicals 8,510 8,168 Industrial Gases 16,746 19,229 Health Care 11,894 11,989 Others 7,586 7,857 Subtotal 68,337 71,193 Corporate 893 827 Total 69,230 72,020 87 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 88 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations, Financial Position, and Cash Flows Results of Operations first half for phenol-polycarbonate chain materials in advanced Sales Revenue and Core Operating Income polymers, which outweighed a downturn in the second half. Industrial Gas Segment (Industrial Gases) Non-Recurring Items and Operating Income In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, the MCHC Group Another positive factor was higher automotive battery Sales revenue rose ¥94.1 billion, to ¥732.8 billion. Core In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, non-recurring enjoyed favorable market conditions in Industrial Materials domain materials sales volumes in the new energy business. operating income was up ¥5.8 billion, to ¥63.3 billion. items recorded a loss of ¥19.2 billion, representing a during the first half of the fiscal year, despite the impact of national Core operating income in this segment was down These gains reflected the solid performances of decrease in loss of ¥5.6 billion compared to the previous health insurance drug price revision in Japan in April 2018 in the owing to generally higher raw materials costs, higher fixed overseas businesses and the impact of the acquisition of a fiscal year. Key factors were an ¥11.8 billion impairment Health Care domain and decelerating demand and higher raw expenses, and the impact of scheduled maintenance and portion of the European business of Praxair, Inc. of the loss and an ¥8.5 billion loss on sale and disposal of fixed materials costs in Performance Products domain. In the second repairs at production facilities for phenol-polycarbonate United States and part of the U.S. hydrogen and carbon assets. half, the outlook became uncertain amid concerns about chain materials in advanced polymers. monoxide business and related assets of Linde Gas North As a result of these factors, operating income for the worsening U.S.-China trade friction and an easing of supply and America LLC. fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 was down ¥57.7 billion, demand in some product areas. to ¥298.0 billion. It was against this backdrop that consolidated sales Chemicals Segment (MMA, Petrochemicals revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 increased and Carbon Products) Health Care Segment (Pharmaceuticals and Financial Income / Expenses and Income ¥199.0 billion from a year earlier, to ¥3,923.4 billion. Core Sales revenue rose ¥93.4 billion, to ¥1,270.7 billion. Core Life Science) Before Taxes operating income decreased ¥63.3 billion, to ¥317.2 billion. operating income declined ¥16.8 billion, to ¥131.1 billion. Sales revenue declined ¥10.9 billion, to ¥545.7 billion. Core Financial income rose ¥1.8 billion, to ¥10.2 billion. This was The ratio of core operating income to sales revenue was Sales revenue in the MMA subsegment was basically operating income dropped ¥24.3 billion, to ¥56.9 billion. due largely to higher interest and dividend income. 8.1%, from 10.2% a year earlier. unchanged. This was because a demand slowdown in the In Pharmaceuticals, sales revenue was down despite Financial expenses were up ¥100 million, to ¥20.1 second half, particularly in China, offset the impact of higher U.S. sales of Radicava for treating amyotropic lateral billion. This reflected increased interest expense associated favorable MMA monomer and other products market sclerosis, owing to the impact of national health insurance with increased interest-bearing debt related to Taiyo Results by Segment conditions in the first half. price revision in domestic ethical pharmaceuticals in April Nippon Sanso Corporation’s business acquisitions in In the Petrochemicals subsegment, sales volumes fell 2018 and lower royalty revenue. Europe and the United States. Performance Products Segment (Functional because of the impact of scheduled maintenance and repairs at Core operating income decreased because of lower Income before taxes therefore declined ¥56.0 billion, Products and Performance Chemicals) the ethylene production facility. Sales revenue increased, however, sales revenue and higher R&D expenditures. Royalty to ¥288.1 billion. Sales revenue advanced ¥24.2 billion, to ¥1,170.1 billion, but on higher prices in line with increased raw materials costs. revenue from Novartis Pharma AG of Switzerland for core operating income dropped ¥25.4 billion, to ¥68.6 billion. Sales revenue rose in the Carbon Products Gilenya multiple sclerosis treatment was down, as a portion Income Taxes and Net Income Sales revenue remained basically flat in the Functional subsegment because prices increased in the needle coke of the revenue was not recognized under IFRS 15 owing to Income taxes in the year under review was ¥71.4 billion, up Products subsegment. This was because sales volumes market amid firm demand for coke and other products. start of arbitration proceedings. ¥3.7 billion. This was despite lower income before taxes, and dwindled for products related to information and Core operating income in this segment declined because reflected a reversal in deferred tax liabilities following a electronics, and displays, and other products with demand a widened price spread between raw materials costs and reduction in U.S. federal income tax rates in the previous year. slowing, principally in the second half, despite higher sales prices of carbon products was outweighed by a greater Others The effective tax rate after applying tax-effect accounting was volumes in high-performance engineering plastics and impact of scheduled maintenance and repairs at Sales revenue decreased ¥1.8 billion, to ¥204.1 billion, while 24.8%, whose difference from the statutory rate was 5.8 points. other products for advanced moldings and composites. petrochemicals product facilities, inventory valuation losses core operating income advanced ¥400 million, to ¥7.6 billion. As a result of these factors, net income declined ¥59.7 Sales revenue rose in the Performance Chemicals stemming from plunging raw materials costs since the end of billion, to ¥216.7 billion. Net income attributable to owners of the subsegment. This reflected favorable market conditions in the the previous year, and a fall in MMA sales volumes. parent was ¥169.5 billion, down ¥42.3 billion. Sales Revenue and Ratio of Overseas Revenue (Core) Operating Income and ROS Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent R&D Expenditures Reference and Basic Earnings per Share Sales revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating Income (Left axis) Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent Foreign Exchange (Exchange rate at each fiscal year-end) Domestic Naphtha Average Price of Each Fiscal Year (Billions of yen) Ratio of Overseas Sales Revenue (Right axis) (%) (Billions of yen) ROS (Right axis) (%) (Billions of yen) (Left axis) (JP¥) (Billions of yen) 4,000 60 400 20 240 Basic earnings per share (Right axis) 160 150 143.8 120 (JP¥/US$) 80,000 (JP¥/KL) 3,923.4 3,823.0 380.5 112 3,656.2 3,724.4 147.14 211.8 138.3 138.8 120 111 3,543.4 132.2 3,376.1 126.8 113 126.3 317.2 119.22 106 63,500 3,000 45 300 300.4 307.5 15 180 120 90 60,000 43.4 280.0 106.73 42.4 169.5 100 41.5 41.6 156.3 49,400 40.4 39.5 42,800 41,900 2,000 30 200 10.2 10 120 80 60 40,000 8.5 34,700 165.7 9.1 8.1 7.3 50 60.8 35.06 1,000 15 100 5 60 40 30 20,000 46.4 4.5 41.40 51.4 31.70 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 89 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 90 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations, Financial Position, and Cash Flows R&D Expenditures Financial Position Liabilities Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing MCHC Group companies maintain independent R&D Activities programs and collaborate closely with each other by sharing At March 31, 2019, total assets were ¥5,572.5 billion, up Interest-bearing Debt Net cash provided by financing activities was ¥519.1 billion, technology and market information, conducting joint ¥871.1 billion from a year ago. This increase was due largely Interest-bearing debt was ¥2,246.8 billion, up ¥640.7 billion, up ¥669.7 billion year on year. The main factors in this change research, and undertaking and outsourcing R&D. They are to an increase in fixed assets and goodwill associated with owing to funding for Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation’s were shortand long-term borrowings and corporate bonds also working proactively with businesses outside the Group Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation’s business acquisitions in business acquisitions in Europe and the United States. to fund Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation’s business to refine and develop technologies. The Group has 4,961 Europe and the United States. acquisitions in Europe and the United States. R&D employees. R&D expenditures totaled ¥143.8 billion in Total liabilities were ¥3,546.6 billion, up ¥764.7 billion. Equity As a result of these factors, free cash flow, comprising the year under review. This mainly reflected higher interest-bearing debt after cash flows from operating and investing activities, was procuring funds for these acquisitions. Retained Earnings outflow of ¥479.5 billion, an increase of ¥541.5 billion. Cash Total equity was ¥2,025.9 billion, up ¥106.4 billion. Retained earnings increased ¥117.0 billion, to ¥1,073.9 billion, and cash equivalents at March 31, 2019 were ¥321.5 The prime factor was an increase in net income, which mainly because of the posting of net income attributable to billion, up ¥43.9 billion. Sources of Funds and Liquidity outweighed the impacts of dividend paid to shareholders owners of the parent. and purchase of treasury stock. Under the medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, the As a result of these factors, the ratio of equity MCHC Group has set out the basic policy of “Aim to become attributable to owners of the parent decreased 2.6 points, to Capital Expenditures a corporate group with a high-growth and high-profit 24.7%. business structure through the Performance Products, The balance of main account items at March 31, 2019, Cash Flows Capital expenditures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Industrial Materials and Health Care domains.” It has also and details of increases and decreases are as follows. were ¥231.7 billion, up ¥6.5 billion from a year earlier. These set basic management indicators comprising core operating Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating expenditures were largely applied to the construction of new income, ROS (ratio of core operating income to sales Assets Activities facilities or the expansion and renewal of existing facilities, revenue), net income attributable to owners of the parent, Increases in each of the line items below stemmed from Net cash provided by operating activities in the fiscal year and rationalization investments in other facilities. ROE (return on equity attributable to owners of the parent) Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation’s business acquisitions in ended March 31, 2019 was ¥415.6 billion, up ¥17.7 billion year New additions of facilities during the year under review and net D/E ratio. We seek to improve corporate value while Europe and the United States. on year, mainly due to the posting of income before taxes. included polyvinyl alcohol film production facilities at The maintaining an appropriate balance between investing in Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. (now Mitsubishi growth businesses, enhancing shareholder returns and Trade Receivables Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Chemical Corporation), and polyester film production facilities strengthening our financial position. Trade receivables increased ¥300.0 million, to ¥855.1 billion. Activities at Mitsubishi Chemical Converting Film Wuxi Co., Ltd. in the The MCHC Group funds working capital and capital Net cash used in investing activities was ¥895.1 billion, up Performance Products segment. In the Chemicals segment, expenditures largely by drawing on internal reserves, loans Inventories ¥559.2 billion year on year. This rise stemmed from Taiyo Japan Polypropylene Corporation installed polypropylene and bonds. The Group deployed a cash management system Inventories rose ¥15.3 billion, to ¥623.0 billion. Nippon Sanso Corporation’s business acquisitions in Europe production facilities. In the Industrial Gas segment, Taiyo to employ its funds efficiently and cut financial expenses. and the U.S., which outweighed the impact of asset Nippon Sanso Corporation installed air separation units. In Going forward, management will pursue Group-wide Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible divestments and sales of businesses in line with business the Health Care segment, Life Science Institute, Inc., set up improvements in capital efficiency by consolidating Group Assets portfolio reforms. regenerative medicine cell processing facilities, while fund procurement and management functions. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Medicago Inc. installed vaccine manufacturing facilities. increased ¥463.4 billion, to ¥2,252.1 billion. Total Assets Total Equity and Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent Net Interest-bearing Debt and Net D/E Ratio Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Depreciation and Amortization Ratio of Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent Net D/E Ratio (incld. minority interests) and Capital Expenditures Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent (Left axis) Net Interest-bearing Debt (Left axis) Net Cash Provided by (used in) Investing Activities (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Times) (Billions of yen) 415.6 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Total Equity (Left axis) Net D/E Ratio (Right axis) Capital Expenditures 6,000 2,000 Ratio of Equity Attributable to Owners of 40 2,000 1.6 400 396.6 397.9 300 200 199.3 Net D/E Ratio (incld. minority interests) (Right axis) 388.6 5,572.5 the Parent (Right axis) 2,025.9 231.7 1,919.5 213.1 206.5 225.2 180.3 182.6 178.9 1,736.2 176.5 173.9 1,596.2 1,698.2 329.7 165.0 4,800 4,701.4 1,588.6 1,554.5 1.25 150 4,463.5 1,500 27.4 30 1,500 1.17 1.26 1.2 300 299.6 150 151.2 4,323.0 4,223.8 4,061.5 24.7 1.10 1.06 24.5 3,600 22.6 23.0 1,228.2 1,139.5 0 22.9 1,285.8 1,378.0 1,134.4 1,155.9 1,024.0 0.89 0.86 1,000 1,091.4 20 1,000 0.8 200 J-GAAP IFRS 100 0.68 2,400 980.9 932.2 972.2 -150 0.77 0.71 0.66 0.59 500 10 500 0.4 100 -202.7 50 1,200 -300 -234.1 -277.2 -289.1 -335.9 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 0 0 0 -900 -895.1 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 91 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 92 Financial Information (d) Others Business Risks The Group includes companies offering engineering and logistics services. Those companies secure some external orders. Significant fluctuations in demand within and outside the Group, or in market conditions The MCHC Group (“the Group”) faces the following key risks, which could adversely affect its operating results and financial position. This worldwide, could adversely affect results. section contains forward-looking statements based on information deemed relevant at March 31, 2019. The business risks presented are not allencompassing. In recognition of exposure to risks such as those detailed below, the Group conducts risk assessments once a year. Based on these assessments, risk management systems are established and revised in consideration of the risks faced by specific businesses. In this (e) Overall Operations manner, the Group is working to prevent the risks from occurring and minimize the impacts of such risks be realized. The Group aims to grow, innovate, and leap ahead by orchestrating its strengths. It is therefore reinforcing its structure and implementing growth strategies (including to deliver high performance and added value), while cultivating innovative businesses. Changes in the economic or business climates (including social demands Changes Affecting Many of the Group’s products can be impacted by demand and product markets domestically and abroad; pricing relating to climate change measures and other aspects of the environment) that are far greater than projected Operating Results and procurement volumes for crude oil, naphtha, utilities, and other raw materials and supplies; foreign exchange could adversely affect results. rates; and relevant laws and regulations. The principal assumed risks for each business domain are as follows. The Group’s broad overseas activities include exporting products and manufacturing around the world. Risks in countries or regions relating to Group businesses, notably of conflicts, terrorism, civil wars, riots, (a) Performance Products Domain (Performance Products segment) demonstrations, deteriorating security, and other international geopolitical problems, unforeseeable issues with These products must satisfy high-quality and performance requirements, and the Group must develop and supply regulations, taxation, working conditions, customs, and other country risks, large-scale natural disasters, them at the appropriate times to meet market needs. Group business results (“results”) may be adversely affected difficulties hiring and retaining employees, inadequate supplies from utilities or other infrastructural shortfalls, if market needs change far more than the Group envisages, or if the Group is unable to ensure the timely supply changes in the economic and financial climates, or other risks impacting specific countries or regions could of products that meet market needs, including issues with the availability of raw materials. If supply is interrupted adversely affect results. for raw materials that can only be procured from certain areas or specific suppliers, then this could adversely affect results. The Group outsources production of most information and electronics-related materials to other Asian Interest-Bearing The Group aims to balance its growth and innovation strategies with efforts to enhance its financial position. manufacturers, so disasters or other issues with those facilities could disrupt the supply structure, adversely Debt MCHC’s results could be adversely affected in a situation where interest payments on interest-bearing debt rises, affecting results. Specifically, film and sheet products rely greatly on demand for liquid crystal display (LCD) such as because interest-bearing debt increases, interest rates rise, or MCHC’s credit rating declines owing to panels, so drastic fluctuations in demand for LCD panels could adversely affect results. fluctuating Group performances. Results could also be adversely affected if it becomes essential to procure funds to upgrade facilities and the Group must obtain financing at unfavorable terms. (b) Industrial Materials Domain (Chemicals segment and Industrial Gases segment) In this area, MCHC consumes large volumes of naphtha and other raw materials, and uses considerable amounts Risks Associated Results could be adversely affected if mergers, acquisitions, or joint ventures created in Japan or abroad to of electricity and steam in production processes. For those reasons, drastic fluctuations in the costs of naphtha, with Acquisitions, expand scale or overhaul MCHC’s business portfolio fail to deliver anticipated synergies or other benefits, or if the fuels, and other resources owing to changes in crude oil prices; the demand and supply balance for raw fuels or Mergers, or Group’s financial burden thereby increases or, if after mergers or acquisitions, the Group encounters new debt or naphtha; or the impact of foreign exchange rates could adversely affect results if MCHC is not fully able to adjust Restructuring other issues that it did not initially envisage. Other factors that could adversely affect results include reorganizations as part of business selection and concentration initiatives, through which MCHC withdraws from its product prices, or if there are delays in such adjustments. MCHC relies on suppliers from certain areas for its unprofitable businesses or liquidates affiliates. raw fuels, and an inability to secure required fuels at the right times could adversely affect results. A worldwide recession or increased production capacity among rivals could adversely affect results if it becomes impossible to maintain the product demand and supply balance or MCHC is unable to generate revenues and earnings or reach Deferred Tax Assets The Group records deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differences on tax loss carryforwards. Deferred goals that are commensurate with its capital expenditures. tax assets are calculated based on various predictions and assumptions about future taxable income. If results MCHC relies heavily on certain business partners for some products in the Industrial Materials domain. For differ from such predictions and assumptions, or if tax rates change in line with changes to the tax system, MCHC example, the coke business depends greatly on specific steelmakers, so if the steel output of those companies would need to recalculate deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect results. declines, such as because of dramatic fluctuations in the demand and supply of raw steel, the performances of such business partners could adversely affect MCHC’s results. Impairment of The Group holds marketable securities, mainly as a non-controlling shareholder in customer companies or Securities financial institutions, to help improve corporate value over the medium and long terms. Major declines in the (c) Health Care Domain (Health Care segment) market values of such securities could adversely affect its financial position. The results of the pharmaceuticals business are subject to the Group being unable to reach revenue and earnings targets by adequately expanding sales volumes of existing treatments or rationalizing operations in Impairment of Fixed Dramatically deteriorating performances or major declines in property values, which could cause the Group to response to lower prices from periodic revisions in National Health Insurance prices of pharmaceuticals. Results Assets incur impairment losses, adversely affecting results. Although the Group conducts impairment tests on goodwill are also subject to government policies in each country to constrain medical expenditures. acquired through business integrations, if carrying amounts exceed recoverable amounts owing to lower In general, lead times for drug research and development are far longer than in other industries, whereas the profitability, it could incur impairment losses, which could adversely affect results. percentage of drugs receiving approval is not high. It is therefore difficult to produce accurate forecasts for the certainty or timing of commercialization. Results are thus subject to drugs not being commercialized as planned. Even where drugs are commercialized, results are subject to sales volumes being lower because of intensified Pension and The Group calculates retirement benefit obligations and expenses for current and former employees based on competition with rival offerings, volumes declining on reports of new side effects when usage of these drugs Severance Plans actuarial assumptions, investment returns on plan assets, and other factors. A decline in the value of pension becomes broad-based, generic drugs are commercialized after patents expire, or when approval is withdrawn. assets, fluctuations in the interest rate climate, and changes in retirement benefit obligations and expenses owing We undertake activities on commission in such fields as joint research and development, product derivations to changes in the retirement plan and pension systems could adversely affect results and its financial position. and introductions, manufacturing, and sales. Changes in or cancellations of contracts with business partner, operating downturns or business policy changes among business partners, or delays or slowdowns in pharmaceutical supplies from these enterprises could affect business results. Impact of Inventory The Group states inventory assets principally at cost based on the weighted average method. Declines in the In clinical testing and diagnostic reagents and instruments, results can be affected by periodic revisions in Valuations costs of naphtha or raw materials during the fiscal period could detract from earnings by affecting relatively medical treatment fees and drug price revisions. Results in these businesses are subject to the Group being expensive inventories at the start of a term, thereby increasing the cost of sales. Earnings would conversely rise if unable to reach revenue and earnings targets by adequately expanding sales volumes of existing treatments or fuel costs rose during the fiscal period. Changes in fuel costs could therefore affect results. Any book value writerationalizing operations in response to lower fees or prices. In the pharmaceutical intermediates and active down based on lower profitability could adversely affect results. pharmaceutical ingredients business and the capsules for pharmaceutical products, results are subject to lower sales volumes of customers’ pharmaceuticals following revisions in National Health Insurance prices or patent expiries on customer products. 7 6 93 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 94 Financial Information Changes in Foreign The Group endeavors to minimize the short-term impact of fluctuations in foreign currency transactions, primarily Consolidated Statement of Income Exchange Rates for exports and imports, notably by using forward foreign exchange contracts. Changes in exchange rates in the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries short, medium, and long terms may affect results. Years ended March 31 The Group engages in production and sales in Asia, Europe, North America, and other locations overseas. It Millions of yen translates sales, expenses, assets, and other items denominated in foreign currencies in such regions into yen in Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2019 its consolidated financial statements. Even if the foreign currency valuations of such items remain unchanged, the yen equivalents could change after conversion from other currencies, so foreign exchange rate fluctuations could Continuing operations: affect the Group’s results and financial position. Sales revenue (Notes 4 and 6) ¥ 3,724,406 ¥ 3,923,444 Cost of sales (2,604,344) (2,821,889) Gross profit 1,120,062 1,101,555 Laws and The Group’s operations are subject to related laws and regulations in Japan and abroad. Such laws and Regulations regulations may govern security and safety, the environment and chemical substances, pharmaceutical safety policies, and other areas relating to Group operations. Selling, general and administrative expenses (764,317) (800,843) The Group maintains voluntary rules that are stricter than legal provisions while pursuing thorough Other operating income (Note 9) 19,679 21,462 compliance to satisfy laws and regulations in engaging in business activities. Dramatic changes in laws and Other operating expenses (Note 9) (46,350) (51,074) regulations or strengthened legislation could further restrict the Group’s activities or increase its costs. Share of profit of associates and joint ventures (Note 4) 26,637 26,850 Furthermore, should the Group violate laws or regulations, it could be ordered to halt operations at plants, and Operating income (Note 4) 355,711 297,950 trust from society could be lost. All these factors have the possibility of influencing results. Financial income (Note 10) 8,404 10,243 Product Liability The Group manufactures and sells products that conform with standards as ISO 9001, the international standard Financial expenses (Note 10) (20,038) (20,137) for quality management systems. The Group endeavors to prevent product liability problems from arising when Income before taxes 344,077 288,056 launching products or improving quality by previously evaluating such liability risks. The Group cannot guarantee, however, that all of its products will be free of defects. It therefore has product liability insurance to cover possible Income taxes (Note 11) (67,715) (71,327) accidents. Regardless, product defects that could cause major product liability exposure with damages exceeding the range of such insurance could adversely affect results. Net income ¥ 276,362 ¥ 216,729 Net income attributable to: Accidents and The Group regularly inspects its plants and otherwise endeavors to prevent accidents at facilities. It cannot, Disasters however, completely prevent or mitigate accidents at such facilities, nor natural disasters such as earthquakes. Owners of the parent ¥ 211,788 ¥ 169,530 Accidents that damage property, cause human suffering or loss of life, or create environmental pollution could Non-controlling interests 64,574 47,199 adversely impact production activities and reduce social trust in the Group, thereby adversely affecting results. Natural disasters that damage property, cause human suffering or loss of life, or significantly damage or Earnings per share: (Yen) functionally degrade the social infrastructure and chronically affect the Group’s activities could affect results. Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 147.14 ¥ 119.22 (Note 12) Information The Group strictly manages corporate and personal information in its possession. Problems resulting from leaks Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the ¥ 136.06 ¥ 110.05 of such information could decrease competitiveness or reduce social trust in the Group, which may adversely parent (Note12) Management affect results. Although the Group has taken various measures to safeguard against cyber attacks, if problems The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. were to arise with the plant control systems of business sites, it would take steps that include adjusting production volumes to maintain safety, which could adversely affect results. Research and The Group deems research and development as pivotal to supporting sustainable corporate growth, and has long Development undertaken solid R&D. It intends to deploy resources in a planned and sustainably stable manner from long-term perspectives. Results could be adversely affected, however, if the fruits of R&D are far less than anticipated. Intellectual The Group takes ample precautions to avoid violating the intellectual property of third parties. Nonetheless, Property injunctions or damages claims by third parties on the basis of patent or other infringements could adversely affect results. Litigation The Group maintains various businesses, as mentioned in Changes Affecting Operating Results. In engaging in business, or in reorganizing or restructuring operations, the Group could face litigation from business partners or other third parties relating to intellectual property or the Group’s products. It is impossible to predict or assess the results of such lawsuits, which could adversely affect results. Litigation proceedings to which the Group is currently subject is as follows: Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation was a codefendant with the Japanese government in damages lawsuits over blood products tainted with hepatitis C virus. In September 2008, the defendants concluded a basic agreement with nationwide plaintiff groups and their attorneys to resolve this case in response to the Act on Special Measures concerning the Payment of Benefits to Relieve the Victims of Hepatitis C Infected through Specified Fibrinogen Concentrates and Specified Coagulation Factor XI Concentrates. The plaintiffs began dropping litigation against the company, and in April 2009 the company decided to pay costs to the hepatitis C sufferers according to the payment apportionment standards of the above act. 8 9 95 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 96 Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Millions of yen Millions of yen March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2019 Assets Current assets: Net income ¥276,362 ¥216,729 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 21) ¥ 277,624 ¥ 321,541 Other comprehensive income: Trade receivables (Note 20) 854,804 855,107 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Inventories (Note 19) 607,671 623,049 Net gain (loss) on revaluation of financial assets measured at fair value (Note 25) 9,682 4,743 Other financial assets (Note 17) 247,365 248,262 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans Other current assets (Note 18) 62,050 76,072 22,170 (4,482) (Note 25) Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of Subtotal 2,049,514 2,124,031 associates and joint ventures for using the equity method — 107 (Note 25) Assets held for sale (Note 22) 2,139 17,810 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 31,852 368 Total current assets 2,051,653 2,141,841 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (Note 25) (13,598) (5,751) Net gain (loss) on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (Note 25) 2,278 (3,152) Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of associates and joint ventures for using the equity method 582 (2,296) (Note 25) Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit (10,738) (11,199) or loss Total other comprehensive income (net of tax) 21,114 (10,831) Total comprehensive income ¥297,476 ¥205,898 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥233,619 ¥161,655 Non-controlling interests 63,857 44,243 Non-current assets: The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Property, plant and equipment (Note 14) 1,433,509 1,683,354 Goodwill (Note 13) 324,201 648,806 Intangible assets (Note 13) 355,151 568,787 Investments accounted for using the equity 175,905 183,067 method (Note 16) Other financial assets (Note 17) 244,489 228,571 Other non-current assets 36,145 33,573 (Note 18) Deferred tax assets (Note 11) 80,362 84,509 Total non-current assets 2,649,762 3,430,667 Total assets (Note 4) ¥4,701,415 ¥5,572,508 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 10 11 97 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 98 Financial Information Millions of yen March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Liabilities and Equity Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Liabilities Current liabilities: Years ended March 31 Trade payables (Note 34) ¥ 488,592 ¥ 492,404 Bonds and borrowings Common Additional Treasury Retained 580,854 1,108,643 (Note 29) stock paid-in capital stock earnings Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥50,000 ¥ 321,703 ¥ (43,587) ¥761,364 Income tax payable 41,293 31,768 Other financial liabilities (Note 31) 201,208 222,377 Net income — — — 211,788 Other comprehensive income (Note 25) — — — — Provisions (Note 28) 7,463 8,296 Total comprehensive income — — — 211,788 Other current liabilities (Note 33) 127,108 138,089 Purchase of treasury stock (Note 23) — — (62) — Disposal of treasury stock (Note 23) — (77) 80 — Subtotal 1,446,518 2,001,577 Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — (38,861) Liabilities directly associated with Share-based payment transactions (Note 26) — 144 — — 364 11,723 assets held for sale (Note 22) Share-based payment transactions of subsidiaries (Note 26) — — — — Total current liabilities 1,446,882 2,013,300 Changes in interests in subsidiaries — (659) — — Changes in scope of consolidation — — — 1,242 Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings — — — 21,413 Non-current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings Transfer from other components of equity to non-financial assets, etc. — — — — 1,025,268 1,138,108 (Note 29) Total transactions with owners — (592) 18 (16,206) Other financial liabilities (Note 31) 29,174 26,755 Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥50,000 ¥321,111 ¥(43,569) ¥956,946 Retirement benefit liabilities (Note 27) 110,639 120,816 Provisions (Note 28) 30,712 28,294 Other components of equity Net gain Net gain Equity Other non-current liabilities (Note 33) 38,014 41,971 (loss) on RemeasureExchange (loss) on attributable Nonrevaluation ments of differences derivatives to owners controlling defined on Total equity Deferred tax liabilities of financial designated Total of the interests 101,236 177,410 assets benefit translation as cash parent (Note 11) pensions of foreign measured plans operations flow at fair value hedges Total non-current liabilities 1,335,043 1,533,354 Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥46,831 ¥ — ¥(43,886) ¥(1,027) ¥1,918 ¥1,091,398 ¥606,799 ¥1,698,197 Total liabilities 2,781,925 3,546,654 Net income — — — — — 211,788 64,574 276,362 Other comprehensive 6,918 19,208 (6,569) 2,274 21,831 21,831 (717) 21,114 Equity Common stock: (Note 23) 50,000 50,000 income (Note 25) Total comprehensive Additional paid-in capital (Note 23) 321,111 321,477 6,918 19,208 (6,569) 2,274 21,831 233,619 63,857 297,476 income Treasury stock (Note 23) (43,569) (63,560) Purchase of treasury — — — — — (62) — (62) Retained earnings (Note 23) 956,946 1,073,873 stock (Note 23) Other components of equity (Note 23) 1,262 (3,843) Disposal of treasury stock (Note 23) — — — — — 3 — 3 Equity attributable to owners of the Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — — — (38,861) (40,946) (79,807) 1,285,750 1,377,947 parent Share-based payment transactions (Note 26) — — — — — 144 — 144 Non-controlling interests 633,740 647,907 Share-based payment Total equity 1,919,490 2,025,854 transactions of — — — — — — 41 41 subsidiaries (Note 26) Total liabilities and equity ¥ 4,701,415 ¥ 5,572,508 Changes in interests in subsidiaries — — — — — (659) 3,882 3,223 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Changes in scope of consolidation — — — — — 1,242 107 1,349 Transfer from other components of equity to (2,205) (19,208) — — (21,413) — — — retained earnings Transfer from other components of equity to — — — (1,074) (1,074) (1,074) — (1,074) non-financial assets, etc. Total transactions with owners (2,205) (19,208) — (1,074) (22,487) (39,267) (36,916) (76,183) Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥51,544 ¥ — ¥(50,455) ¥173 ¥ 1,262 ¥1,285,750 ¥633,740 ¥1,919,490 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 12 13 99 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 100 Financial Information Millions of yen Common Additional Treasury Retained Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows stock paid-in capital stock earnings Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Balance at April 1, 2018 ¥50,000 ¥ 321,111 ¥ (43,569) ¥956,946 Millions of yen Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies — — — (85) Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2019 Restated balance at April 1, 2018 50,000 321,111 (43,569) 956,861 Cash flows from operating activities: Income before taxes ¥344,077 ¥288,056 Net income — — — 169,530 Depreciation and amortization 178,895 199,332 Other comprehensive income (Note 25) — — — — Share of profit of associates and joint ventures (26,637) (26,850) Total comprehensive income — — — 169,530 Interest and dividend income (7,669) (9,627) Purchase of treasury stock (Note 23) — — (20,033) — Interest expense 15,652 18,868 Disposal of treasury stock (Note 23) — (39) 42 — Impairment loss 12,062 17,340 Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — (52,867) Loss on sales and retirement of property, plant and equipment 10,414 13,824 Share-based payment transactions (Note 26) — 609 — — Provision for loss on business liquidation — 5,169 Share-based payment transactions of subsidiaries (Note 26) — — — — Environmental measures costs 3,672 886 Provision for loss on litigation 1,170 626 Changes in interests in subsidiaries — (204) — — Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and associates (3,747) (7,546) Business combinations or business divestitures — — — — Gain on sales of non-current assets (4,183) (3,839) Changes in scope of consolidation — — — (24) (Increase) decrease in trade receivables (80,607) 25,149 Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings — — — 373 (Increase) decrease in inventories (70,882) (13,193) Increase (decrease) in trade payables 51,755 (20,090) Transfer from other components of equity to non-financial assets, etc. — — — — Increase (decrease) in retirement benefit assets and liabilities, net 8,876 (1,324) Total transactions with owners — 366 (19,991) (52,518) Others 18,184 6,783 Subtotal 451,032 493,564 Balance at March 31, 2019 ¥50,000 ¥321,477 ¥(63,560) ¥1,073,873 Interest received 2,699 4,816 Dividends received 16,941 27,781 Other components of equity Interest paid (15,041) (18,114) Net gain RemeasureExchange Net gain Equity Income tax (paid) received, net (57,691) (92,472) (loss) on ments of differences (loss) on attributable Nonrevaluation defined on derivatives controlling Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 397,940 415,575 to owners interests of financial benefit translation designated Total of the Total equity assets pensions of foreign as cash parent measured plans operations flow Cash flows from investing activities: at fair value hedges Purchase of property, plant and equipment (199,871) (225,740) Balance at April 1, 2018 ¥51,544 ¥ — ¥(50,455) ¥173 ¥1,262 ¥1,285,750 ¥633,740 ¥1,919,490 Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 10,268 7,170 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting — — — — — (85) (61) (146) Purchase of intangible assets (28,390) (4,839) policies Purchase of other financial assets (401,573) (453,070) Restated balance at April 51,544 — (50,455) 173 1,262 1,285,665 633,679 1,919,344 Proceeds from sales/redemption of other financial assets 441,464 438,748 1, 2018 Purchase of investments in subsidiaries (122,977) (655,629) Net income — — — — — 169,530 47,199 216,729 Proceeds from sales of investments in subsidiaries 12,701 16,619 Other comprehensive Payments for transfer of businesses (343) (50,900) 4,152 (3,823) (5,075) (3,129) (7,875) (7,875) (2,956) (10,831) income (Note 25) Net (increase) decrease in time deposits (55,835) 31,581 Total comprehensive 4,152 (3,823) (5,075) (3,129) (7,875) 161,655 44,243 205,898 Others 8,623 992 income Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (335,933) (895,068) Purchase of treasury stock (Note 23) — — — — — (20,033) — (20,033) Cash flows from financing activities: Disposal of treasury stock (Note 23) — — — — — 3 — 3 Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 25,243 428,298 Net increase (decrease) in commercial papers (16,000) 44,000 Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — — — (52,867) (38,025) (90,892) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 80,638 213,182 Share-based payment transactions (Note 26) — — — — — 609 — 609 Repayment of long-term borrowings (148,016) (122,954) Proceeds from issuance of bonds 29,828 132,036 Share-based payment transactions of — — — — — — 25 25 Redemption of bonds (40,000) (65,000) subsidiaries (Note 26) Net (increase) decrease in treasury stock (60) (20,030) Changes in interests in subsidiaries — — — — — (204) 5,796 5,592 Dividends paid to owners of the parent (38,861) (52,867) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (40,946) (38,011) Business combinations or business divestitures — — — — — — 2,265 2,265 Proceeds from stock issuance to non-controlling interests 5,473 6,548 Changes in scope of consolidation — — — — — (24) (76) (100) Others (7,891) (6,140) Net cash provided in (used in) financing activities (150,592) 519,062 Transfer from other components of equity to (4,196) 3,823 — — (373) — — — retained earnings Transfer from other components of equity to — — — 3,143 3,143 3,143 — 3,143 non-financial assets, etc. Total transactions with owners (4,196) 3,823 — 3,143 2,770 (69,373) (30,015) (99,388) Balance at March 31, 2019 ¥51,500 ¥ — ¥(55,530) ¥187 ¥(3,843) ¥1,377,947 ¥647,907 ¥2,025,854 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 15 14 101 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 102 Financial Information Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 847 6,207 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (87,738) 45,776 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 363,510 277,624 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from (6) (1,899) transfer to assets held for sale Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from 1,640 40 Note 1 change in scope of consolidation Net increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from merger and acquisition 218 — Reporting Entity Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (the “Company”) is a corporation domiciled in Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (Note 21) ¥277,624 ¥321,541 Japan, whose shares are listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The registered address of its Head Office is presented on its website The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. (https://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/). The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended March 31, 2019 comprise those of the Company, its subsidiaries and associates, and interests under joint arrangements (collectively, the “Group”). The Group’s three principal domains are Performance Products, Industrial Materials, and Health Care. Further details are presented in Note 4 Segment Information. Note 2 Basis of Presentation 1. Compliance with IFRS The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. The provisions of Article 93 of the Ordinance on Terminology, Forms, and Preparation Methods of Consolidated Financial Statements apply, as the Company meets the requirements for a “Specified Company applying Designated International Financial Reporting Standards” prescribed in Article 1-2 of said ordinance. 2. Approval of Consolidated Financial Statements The Group's consolidated financial statements were approved on June 25, 2019, by Hitoshi Ochi, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Hidefumi Date, Managing Corporate Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. 3. Basis of Measurement The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments measured at fair value presented in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies. 4. Presentation Currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in Japanese yen, which is the Company’s functional currency, rounded to the nearest million yen. 5. Use of Judgments, Estimates and Assumptions Management has made a number of judgments, estimates and assumptions relating to the application of accounting policies, reporting of revenues and expenses and assets and liabilities in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are continually evaluated. The effect of changes to accounting estimates is recognized in the reporting period in which the revision was made and in future periods. Information regarding judgments, estimates, and assumptions used in applying accounting policies that could materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial statements is included in the following notes: • Impairment of Non-Financial Assets (Note 13, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Note 14, Property, Plant and Equipment and Note 15, Impairment Losses) • Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets (Note 11, Income Taxes) • Measurement of Defined Benefit Obligations (Note 27, Retirement Benefits) • Fair Value of Financial Instruments (Note 35, Financial Instruments) • Contingent Liabilities (Note 39, Contingent Liabilities) 16 17 103 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 104 Financial Information 6. Newly Applied Standards and Interpretations (2) Associates Main standards and interpretations newly applied by the Group from the year ended March Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence over the financial and 31, 2019, are as follows. operational policies but does not have control or joint control. Normally, the Group is assumed to be able to exercise significant influence when it holds 20% to 50% Standard and Interpretation Overview of Introduction or Revision ownership. Other factors considered in assessing whether or not the Group can exercise Accounting standards and disclosure methods for revenue significant influence include sending any of its officers being on the Board of Directors. In IFRS 15 recognition have been revised. such cases, the Group may be considered to be able to exercise significant influence Revenue from Contracts with Specifically, revenue is recognized based on the rights over an associate even if its investment accounts for less than 20% of voting rights. Customers expected to be received in exchange for transferring goods The Group accounts for investments in associates under the equity method. Such or services to customers. investments are recognized at cost upon acquisition. After acquisition, the Group's share The impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements of adopting IFRS 15 is of net assets of associates is adjusted and recorded in the consolidated statement of immaterial. financial position. The Company estimates that the impact on the consolidated financial statements of The consolidated financial statements reflect the Group's share of earnings in adopting IFRS 15 is immaterial. In adopting IFRS 15, the Company employed a retroactive associates. If amounts recognized in other comprehensive income of associates change, adjustment as a transitional measure to recognize the cumulative effect retrospectively to the Group's share with respect to those changes is also recognized in other the adoption date. comprehensive income. Because of the application above, Note 6 Sales Revenue is disclosed. The Group's consolidated financial statements have been adjusted to eliminate its share in unrealized gains and losses arising from transactions between it and associates. Associates prepare their financial statements for the same reporting period as the 7. New Standards and Interpretations Not Yet Applied Group, adjusting their accounting policies to align with those of the Group. Standards and interpretations that have not been applied by the Group as of March 31, In the event that the Group loses significant control over an associate, it assesses 2019 because application was not mandatory among key standards and interpretations and recognizes the remaining investment at fair value as of the day on which it lost such issued by the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements are as follows. influence. Gains and losses arising from the loss of significant influence are recognized The adoption of IFRS 16 will increase the carrying amounts of the Group’s leasein profit or loss. related assets by around ¥100 billion while increasing lease liabilities by about the same In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the requirements of local laws amount. In adopting IFRS 16, the Company employed a retroactive adjustment as a and shareholder agreements made it effectively impossible to match reporting dates of transitional measure to recognize the cumulative effect retrospectively to the adoption date. all associates to that of the Group. For certain associates for which it was impracticable to provisionally settle accounts on the Group's reporting date owing to business or other Mandatory Year of factors, the Group uses relevant provisional financial statements for the period ending Application Standards and Interpretations (Hereafter, Application by Overview of Introduction or Revision December 31. Significant transactions or events between the reporting dates of those the Group associates and the consolidated closing date are reflected in the consolidated financial Starting Year) Accounting standards and disclosure statements. methods for handling leases have been revised. Year ending Specifically, under a single model, the (3) Joint Arrangements IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 March 31, 2020 financial statements must generally A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which unanimous consensus from the parties reflect asset usage rights and that have joint control of decision-making over related activities is required. payment obligations for borrower leases exceeding 12 months. A joint venture is a joint agreement through which parties with joint control over an arrangement have rights to the net assets of an arrangement. Note 3 The Group uses the equity method to account for its equity interests in joint Significant 1. Basis of Consolidation ventures. Accounting Policies (1) Subsidiaries A joint operation is one in which parties with joint control of an arrangement have Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group has control over an entity if rights to assets and obligations for liabilities relating to the joint arrangement. it has exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and If the Group holds an interest in a joint operation, the Group recognizes assets, has the ability to affect those returns through its influence over the investee. liabilities, revenues and expenses generated from joint operating activities only to the In preparing its consolidated financial statements, the Company based the financial extent of its interest. Inter-company transactions among the Group’s companies as well statements of each Group company prepared as of the same closing date based on as receivable and payable balances and unrealized gains and losses arising from such common Group accounting policies. Subsidiaries’ financial statements are adjusted, if transactions are eliminated. necessary, when their accounting policies differ from those of the Group. The principal joint operation is The Saudi Methacrylates Company, in which the The Group consolidates entities from the date on which it acquires control until the Group and Saudi Arabia have a 50-50 interest. That company manufactures methyl date on which it loses control. methacrylate monomer, acrylic resin, and other offerings. All intergroup balances, outstanding receivables and obligations, unrealized gains and losses are eliminated on consolidation. 2. Business Combinations A change in ownership interest of a consolidated subsidiary, without a loss of The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations. control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. Differences between adjusted nonIf the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the controlling interest amounts and fair value are recognized directly as equity attributable reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts to owners of the parent. and adjusts the amounts in a measurement period that does not exceed one year from In the event of a loss of control, the Group measures and recognizes any remaining the acquisition date. investments at fair value. Any gain or loss arising from a loss of control is recognized in The Group measures the cost of an acquisition as the aggregate of the profit or loss. consideration transferred, measured at acquisition-date fair value and the amount of any Non-controlling interests in a subsidiary's net assets are recognized separately from non-controlling interest in the acquiree. those under the Group's control. The comprehensive income of consolidated subsidiaries For each business combination, the Group measures components of non-controlling is attributed to owners of the parent and non-controlling interests even if this results in interests in the acquiree at fair value or the amounts of non-controlling interests in the the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. acquiree's identifiable net assets. 18 19 105 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 106 Financial Information The Group accounts for acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in Regarding product sales in these businesses, once customers gain control over which such costs are incurred. delivered products and it is determined that the performance obligations are met, sales When the Group acquires a business, the Group classifies or designates the revenue is recognized upon product delivery. identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of the contractual terms, Sales revenue is measured at the amount of consideration promised in contracts economic conditions and other pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date. with customers, net of discounts, rebates and returns. In principle, the Group generally measures the identifiable assets acquired and the Considerations in product sales contracts are generally collected within one year liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. after control of products transfers to customer, and do not include significant financial If a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group reassesses the equity of elements. the acquiree before acquisition of control at fair value on the acquisition date, and recognizes the resulting gain or loss in profit or loss. The Group accounts for the equity 5. Government Grants interest of the acquiree booked in other comprehensive income before the acquisition on Government grants are recognized at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that the same basis as would be required if the Group had disposed directly of the previously the Group will comply with grant terms and that the grant will be received. held equity interest. Government grants related to income are recognized as income on a systematic Goodwill is measured as the difference by which total value recognized as basis over the periods in which the Group recognizes as expenses the related costs for transferred consideration and non-controlling interests exceeds the net value of which the grants are intended to compensate. identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Government grants relating to assets are deducted from asset acquisition costs. If the total amount recognized as transferred consideration and non-controlling interests is less than net amount of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, 6. Borrowing Costs the Group recognizes the difference as profit or loss. The Group capitalizes borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, After initial recognition, the Group does not amortize goodwill acquired through a construction or production of assets that require considerable time before use as business combination, but records goodwill at cost less any accumulated impairment intended or sale as part of the cost of that asset. The Group recognizes all other loss. The Group conducts impairment tests annually or when there are signs of borrowing costs as expenses in periods incurred. impairment. 7. Income Taxes 3. Foreign Currency Translations The Group calculates current tax liabilities or assets for the current and prior periods as The consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented in Japanese yen, amounts that it expects to pay to or recover from taxation authorities. The Group uses which is the Company's functional currency. tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the end of a reporting period In addition, each company in the Group determines its individual functional currency to determine tax amounts. and measures transactions using these functional currencies. The Group uses the asset and liability method to record deferred taxes for differences Foreign currency denominated transactions are translated into functional currencies between carrying amounts of assets or liabilities on the accounts at the end of the at spot exchange rates as of the transaction dates or at similar rates. reporting period and the tax basis (temporary differences). Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the functional In principle, the Group recognizes deferred tax liabilities for all future taxable currency using the spot exchange rate on the date of end of the consolidated reporting temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probably period. Exchange differences arising from translations or settlement are recognized in that taxable income will be available against which deductible temporary differences and profit or loss. However, exchange differences arising from financial instruments for tax credits and tax loss carryforwards can be used. designated as hedging instruments of net investments in foreign operations (foreign As exceptions, however, the Group does not recognize deferred tax assets or subsidiaries, etc.), financial assets measured through other comprehensive income and deferred tax liabilities for the following temporary differences: cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehensive income. • The initial recognition of goodwill The Group translates assets and liabilities of foreign operations using the spot • The initial recognition of assets or liabilities in transactions that are not business exchange rate at the end of the reporting period, and revenue and expenses using the combinations and do not affect profits in the accounts at the time of transactions or spot exchange rate on the transaction date or an approximate rate in Japanese yen, taxable profits or losses. respectively. The Group accounts for any exchange differences arising in such • Deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and retranslation in other comprehensive income. associates, and interests in joint ventures to the extent that it is probable that the On the disposal of a foreign operation, accumulated exchange differences related to timing of the reversal of the temporary difference in the foreseeable future and it is not the foreign operation are recognized in profit or loss in the corresponding period of probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilized. disposal. • Taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures to the extent that the timing of the reversal 4. Sales Revenue of the temporary difference is controlled and that it is probable the temporary The Group recognizes sales revenue based on the following five-step model in amounts difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. reflecting the Group’s anticipated entitlements in exchange for goods or services transferred to customers. The Group reviews the carrying amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities (including unrecognized deferred tax assets) at the end of each reporting period. The Group Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer calculates deferred tax and liabilities based on tax rates that have been enacted or Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, estimating tax rates at the time Step 3: Determine the transaction price assets materialize or liabilities are settled. Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation 8. Earnings per Share The Company calculates basic earnings per share by dividing the net income attributable The Group offers an array of products and services to domestic and foreign customers to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, adjusted through its business activities. The Group operates in four business areas centered on for treasury stock during that period. The Company calculates diluted earnings per share four operating companies. They are Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe by adjusting the effects of all potentially dilutive shares. Pharma Corporation, Life Science Institute, Inc., and Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation. The business segments are Performance Products, Chemicals, Industrial Gases, and Health Care. 20 22 107 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 108 Financial Information 9. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Group does not amortize intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, and Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term conducts impairment tests individually or by cash-generating unit (or groups of cashinvestments that are readily convertible to cash, which are subject to insignificant risks of generating units) annually, and whenever there are indications of impairment. changes in value, and whose maturities are three months or less from the date of acquisition. 14. Impairment of Assets (1) Impairment of Non-Financial Assets 10. Inventories The Group assesses whether indications of asset impairment exist at the end of each The cost of inventories comprises all purchase costs, processing costs, and all costs reporting period. If there are such indications and annual impairment testing is incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. necessary, the Group estimates recoverable amounts, which are the higher amount of Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realizable value. The fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. If a recoverable amount of an asset Company mainly uses the weighted average cost formula to calculate costs. The cannot be estimated, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each cashCompany calculates net realizable value by deducting the estimated selling price in the generating unit or group of cash-generating units of the asset class. If the carrying ordinary course of business from the estimated costs required to make a sale. amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the Group recognizes an impairment loss and reduces the carrying amount of the asset to its recoverable amount. 11. Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations In measuring value in use, the Group determines the present value of cash flow The Company classifies a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its projections, discounted by pre-tax rates reflecting current market assessments of the carrying amount is expected to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather time value of money and risks specific to the asset. The Group estimates cash flow than through continuing use. This applies only if the asset (or disposal group) is available projections using a business plan for five years or less, in principle. Cash flow projections for immediate sale in its present condition and a sale is highly probable within one year. beyond the business plan period use long-term-average growth rates according to The Company measures a non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for individual circumstances. sale at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value, less the cost to sell. The Group uses an appropriate valuation model supported by an available fair value The Group does not depreciate or amortize property, plant or equipment or intangible index to measure fair value less costs of disposal. assets classified as held for sale. The Group allocates goodwill after acquisition dates to individual or groups of cash Discontinued operations include units that have been disposed of or are classified as generating units expected to benefit from corporate combination synergies. held for sale. The Group recognizes an operation as discontinued if it is a Group For goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet business and is scheduled for disposal. available for use, the Group tests for impairment annually and when there are indications of impairment. 12. Property, Plant and Equipment The Group applies the cost model to measure property, plant and equipment. (2) Reversal of Impairment Loss The Group carries property, plant and equipment at acquisition cost less accumulated For assets other than goodwill, at the end of each reporting period the Group evaluates depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. whether assumptions used to measure recoverable amounts have changed for The acquisition cost includes direct costs of acquisition, estimated costs of impairment losses recognized in prior periods and if there are indications that such dismantlement, removal and restoration, and borrowing costs that satisfy capitalization losses have decreased or disappeared. criteria. If such indications exist, the Group reverses impairment losses if recoverable Except for land, property, plant and equipment, less the residual value at the end of amounts exceed the Group's carrying amounts of assets or cash-generating units. Any the reporting term, is depreciated using the straight-line method. reversal is limited to the lower of the estimated recoverable amount or the carrying value Depreciation is computed over the following estimated useful lives for the following that would have been determined, net of accumulated depreciation, had no impairment major classes of assets: loss been recognized in prior periods. Buildings and structures 3 to 50 years Impairment loss reversals are recognized in profit or loss. Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed. Machinery, equipment and vehicles 2 to 22 years Tools, furniture and fixtures 2 to 25 years 15. Leases A lease contract is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks 13. Intangible Assets and rewards incidental to ownership of a leased asset to the Group. An operating lease The Group uses the cost model to measure intangible assets. is a lease other than a finance lease. Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost less accumulated amortization and In finance lease transactions, leased assets and lease obligations are recognized in impairment losses. the consolidated statement of financial position at the lower of the fair value of the Separately acquired intangible assets are initially recognized at cost. The acquisition leased property or the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined cost of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is measured at fair value at the inception of the lease. Lease payments are apportioned between the financial cost at the acquisition date. and reduction of lease obligations based on the interest method. Financial costs are Expenditure on an internally generated intangible asset is recognized as an expense recognized in profit or loss. Leased assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over when it is incurred, excluding development expenditures that satisfy the criteria for the useful lives or lease term, whichever is shorter. capitalization. In operating lease transactions, lease payments are recognized as an expense in the The Group amortizes intangible assets with finite useful lives on a straight-line basis Consolidated Statement of Income on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Variable over their useful lives. It tests intangible assets when there are indications of impairment. lease is charged as expenses in the period when they are incurred. Amortization periods and methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the reviewed at year-end. Any changes are applied to the future as changes in accounting substance of the arrangement regardless of whether it takes the legal form of a lease. estimates. Amortization is over the following estimated useful lives for the following major 16. Provisions classes of intangible assets: A provision is recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) Technology-related intangible assets 4 to 20 years as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the Customer-related intangible assets 5 to 30 years obligation can estimated reliability. Software 3 to 5 years 23 24 109 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 110 Financial Information Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is measured at • Financial assets are based on a business model where the aim is to hold financial the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle obligations. The assets to collect contractual cash flows and sell assets discount rate used in measuring the present value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current • Contractual terms of financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows market assessments of the time value of money and risks inherent in the liability. that are solely payments of principal and interest on principal amounts outstanding Equity instruments other than those for trading purpose are designated as 17. Retirement Benefits measured at fair value through profit or loss or as measured at fair value through other The Group operates a defined benefit plan and defined contribution plan as employee comprehensive income. Such designations are applied subsequently on a consistent retirement benefit plans. basis. The Group uses the projected unit credit method to determine the present value of its Except for financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial defined benefit obligations and the related current and past service costs for each plan. instruments are measured at fair value plus transaction costs attributable directly to The rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations is determined by them. referring to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate (ii) Subsequent Measurements bonds. After initial recognition, financial assets are measured based on the following The fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the present value of the defined classifications: benefit obligation in determining the amount of the net defined benefit liabilities or assets (a) Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost of defined benefit plans. Financial assets measured at amortized cost are measured at amortized cost using Remeasurements of liabilities and assets associated with defined benefit retirement the effective interest method. plans are recognized in other comprehensive income in the period incurred and (b) Other Financial Assets immediately reflected in retained earnings. Prior service costs are recognized as Financial assets other than those measured at amortized cost are measured at fair expenses in the periods incurred. value. The Group recognizes contributions payable to defined contribution plans as Changes in the fair value of financial assets measured at fair value are expenses at the time of contribution. recognized in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. Changes in the fair value of equity instruments designated as measured at fair 18. Capital value through other comprehensive income are recognized in other comprehensive (1) Ordinary Shares income and the amount in other comprehensive income is transferred to retained The Company allocated the issue price of ordinary shares between common stock earnings when equity instruments are derecognized or when the fair value of equity and additional paid-in capital. instruments declines significantly. (2) Treasury Shares (iii) Derecognition Acquired treasury stock is recognized at cost and deducted from equity, while the The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash difference between the carrying value of treasury stock and its value at the time of flows from the financial asset expire or when the Group transfers the financial asset sale is recognized in additional paid-in capital. and the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. 19. Share-Based Payment If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of The Company and some subsidiaries employ equity-settled share-based compensation ownership of a transferred asset and retains control of the transferred asset, the Group plans. recognizes the residual interest in the transferred asset and the associated liability to Under such plans, services received are measured at fair value as of the date capital be payable to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. financial instruments are granted. If granted capital financial instruments are immediately (iv) Impairment determined, all services received on the grant date is recognized as expenses, that At each closing date, the Group assesses whether the credit risk on a financial asset amount being recognized as an increase in equity. If granted capital financial instruments or a financial asset group measured at amortized cost or a financial guarantee contract are determined after a certain period of time, they are recognized as expenses over the has increased significantly since initially recognizing the impairment of a financial vesting period from the date granted, that amount being recognized as an increase in asset or financial guarantee contract. equity. If, at the closing date, the credit risk of a financial asset or a financial asset group has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss 20. Financial Instruments allowance for that financial asset at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit (1) Financial Assets (Except Derivatives) losses. However, the Group recognizes the expected credit losses of trade receivables (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement over the remaining period from the initial recognition. The Group initially recognizes trade receivables at the date of occurrence. The Group If a credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group recognizes initially recognizes all other financial assets on the transaction dates on which the an expected credit loss over the remaining period as a loss allowance. Group becomes a contract party. The Group assesses whether the credit risk has increased significantly using the Financial assets are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through change in the risk of default, and assesses whether the default risk has changed profit or loss or other comprehensive income and financial assets measured at mainly using delinquent (past due information). amortized cost. The Group determines classifications at initial recognition. The Group measures a credit loss using the discounted present value of the Debt financial instruments are classified as financial assets measured at amortized difference between the contractual amount receivable and the estimate amount cost if both of the following conditions are met. receivable based on the past credit loss. • Financial assets are based on a business model where the aim is to hold financial assets to recover contractual cash flows (2) Financial Liabilities (Except Derivatives) • Contractual terms of financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement that are solely payments of principal and interest on principal amounts Financial liabilities are classified into financial liabilities measured at fair value through outstanding profit or loss and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. The Group Debt financial instruments meeting the following conditions and measured at fair determines classifications at initial recognition. value are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other Although all financial liabilities are measured at fair value at initial recognition, comprehensive income. Otherwise, they are classified as financial assets measured at financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are measured at cost after deducting, fair value through profit or loss. from the fair value, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial 25 26 111 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 112 Financial Information liabilities. (b) Cash Flow Hedges (ii) Subsequent Measurement The effective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments is recognized in other After initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured based on classifications as comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit follows: or loss. (a) Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Hedging instrument amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss are measured at reclassified to profit or loss when the transactions of the hedged items affect profit or fair value. After initial recognition, portions of changes in fair value and interest cost loss. Where hedged items result in the recognition of non-financial assets or liabilities, attributed to the change in credit risk of the Group are recognized in other the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are accounted for as comprehensive income, and the balance is recognized in profit or loss. adjustments to the original carrying amount of non-financial assets or liabilities. (b) Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost When forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any related After initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are cumulative gain or loss that has been recognized in equity as other comprehensive measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Amortization under income is reclassified to profit or loss. When hedging instruments expire, are sold, the effective interest method and gains or losses on derecognition is recognized in terminated or exercised without the replacement or rollover of other hedging profit or loss. instruments, or when the hedge designation is revoked due to change in the risk (iii) Derecognition management objective, accumulated amounts that have been recognized in other Financial liabilities are derecognized when the obligation is discharged, canceled or comprehensive income continue to be recognized in other comprehensive income until expired, or when they are exchanged with substantially different terms or their terms the forecast transactions occur. are modified substantially. (c) Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign Operations Translation differences resulting from hedges of net investments in foreign operations (3) Complex Financial Instruments are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. The effective portion of gains or The Group measures and initially recognizes hybrid financial instrument liabilities at the losses on hedging instruments is recognized in other comprehensive income. The fair value of similar liabilities that do not have equity conversion options. Equity is ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss. At the time of the disposal of the measured and initially recognized at fair value after deducting the fair value of the foreign operations, any related cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as other liabilities of complex financial instruments overall. Direct transaction costs are allocated comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss. according to initial carrying amount ratio of liabilities and equity. After initial recognition, complex financial instruments liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the (6) Fair Value of Financial Instruments effective interest method. The Company does not remeasure complex financial The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active financial markets at the instrument equity after initial recognition. fiscal year-end refers to quoted prices or dealer quotations. If there is no active market, the fair value of financial instruments is determined referring (4) Offsetting of Financial Instruments to appropriate valuation models or prices presented by related financial institutions. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented as a net amount in the consolidated statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts and the Group intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. (5) Derivatives and Hedge Accounting The Group uses derivatives, including forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts, to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate risks. These derivatives are initially measured at fair value when contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in profit or loss, although gains or losses on hedging instruments relating to the effective portions of cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive income. At the inception of hedging relationships, the Group formally designates and documents relationships to which hedge accounting applies and the objectives and strategies of risk management for undertaking the hedges. The documentation includes identifying hedging instruments, the hedged items or transactions, the nature of the risks being hedged and how the hedging instrument effectiveness (including its analysis of the sources of hedge ineffectiveness and how it determines the hedge ratio) is assessed in offsetting the exposure to changes in hedged item fair value or cash flows attributable to hedged risks. When designating a hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis, the Group analyses whether a derivative used to a hedge transaction is effective to offset the change in the fair value or the cash flow of a hedged item. The Group specifically determines that a hedge is effective when the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument is offset. Hedges that meet the requirements for hedge accounting are classified in the following categories and accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. (a) Fair Value Hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in profit or loss. For changes in the fair value of hedged items attributable to the hedged risks, carrying amounts of hedged items are adjusted, with changes recognized in profit or loss. 27 28 113 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 114 Financial Information Note 4 2. Revenues and Operating Results for the Group's Reporting Segments Segment The Group evaluates results based on segment profits. 1. Overview of Reporting Segments Information The Group’s reporting segments are the components for which separate financial Year ended March 31, 2018 information is available, and the Board of Directors regularly assesses this information in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate results. No operating segments or Millions of yen components have been aggregated in preparing the reporting segment information. REPORTING SEGMENT Others Adjustments The Group operates in four business areas centered on four operating companies. Performance Chemicals Industrial Health Care Total (Note 1) Subtotal (Note 2) Consolidated Products Gases They are Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Life Sales revenue Science Institute, Inc., and Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation. The business segments are External revenue ¥1,145,932 ¥1,177,352 ¥638,675 ¥ 556,568 ¥3,518,527 ¥ 205,879 ¥3,724,406 ¥ — ¥3,724,406 Performance Products, Chemicals, Industrial Gases, and Health Care. Inter-segment revenue 65,280 83,720 7,543 2,214 158,757 129,947 288,704 (288,704) — Total ¥1, 211,212 ¥1,261,072 ¥646,218 ¥ 558,782 ¥3,677,284 ¥ 335,826 ¥ 4,013,110 ¥ (288,704) ¥3,724,406 The businesses in each reporting segment are as follows: Segment profit (loss) ¥ 93,995 ¥ 147,868 ¥ 57,467 ¥ 81,227 ¥ 380,557 ¥ 7,119 ¥ 387,676 ¥ (7,187) ¥ 380,489 Sub Business Segments Core operating income (Note 3) Business Business Segment assets 1,215,112 1,290,102 1,016,171 1,167,599 4,688,984 961,554 5,650,538 (949,123) 4,701,415 Domains Segments Businesses Other items Information, Depreciation and amortization 54,861 53,741 45,708 19,049 173,359 3,018 176,377 2,518 178,895 Performance Performance Functional Optical films, information and Electronics and Share of profit of investments Products Products Products electronics materials, and acetyl Displays accounted for using the equity 10,865 12,946 3,488 4 27,303 (15) 27,288 — 27,288 High method Performance Packaging and industrial films Investments accounted for Films 61,459 69,327 28,033 16,595 175,414 491 175,905 — 175,905 using the equity method Environment Aqua and separator solutions, Capital expenditures 68,301 61,910 61,549 27,505 219,265 3,535 222,800 2,389 225,189 and Living infrastructure solutions, and Notes: Solutions agricultural materials 1.The Others category consists of businesses not included in reporting segments and mainly includes High-performance engineering engineering, transportation, and warehousing operations. plastics, fibers and textiles, 2. The segment profit (loss) adjustment includes corporate costs of ¥(7,618) million not allocated to reporting Advanced segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥431 million. Corporate costs include expenditures on basin carbon fiber and composite Moldings and testing, research, and other activities not allocated to reporting segments. materials, functional moldings and Composites The segment assets adjustment includes corporate assets of ¥104,279 million not allocated to reporting composites, alumina fibers light segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(1,053,402) million. Corporate assets include financial assets not and metal products allocated to reporting segments. Performance and engineering 3. Segment profit (loss) is Operating profit in accordance with IFRS after excluding earnings from non-recurring Performance Advanced polymers and sustainable factors, such as losses from business withdrawals and downsizings, representing core operating income. Chemicals Polymers resources High Performance chemicals and Year ended March 31, 2019 Performance materials and food ingredients Chemicals Millions of yen Lithium-ion battery materials and REPORTING SEGMENT New energy Others Adjustments energy transduction materials Performance Industrial Subtotal Consolidated Chemicals Health Care Total (Note 1) (Note 2) Industrial Products Gases Chemicals MMA MMA MMA Sales revenue Materials External revenue ¥1,170,119 ¥1,270,750 ¥732,837 ¥ 545,666 ¥3,719,372 ¥ 204,072 ¥3,923,444 ¥ — ¥3,923,444 Basic petrochemicals, polyolefins, Petrochemicals Petrochemicals Inter-segment revenue 59,447 73,301 7,504 3,244 143,496 127,929 271,425 (271,425) — and basic chemical derivatives Total ¥1,229,566 ¥1,344,051 ¥740,341 ¥ 548,910 ¥3,862,868 ¥ 332,001 ¥4,194,869 ¥ (271,425) ¥3,923,444 Carbon Carbon Carbon products Segment profit (loss) Products Products Core operating income (Note 3) ¥ 68,564 ¥ 131,132 ¥ 63,323 ¥ 56,865 ¥ 319,884 ¥ 7,553 ¥ 327,437 ¥ (10,250) ¥ 317,187 Industrial Segment assets 1,216,636 1,340,129 1,849,857 1,171,411 5,578,033 1,002,178 6,580,211 (1,007,703) 5,572,508 Industrial gases Gases Other items Depreciation and amortization 55,661 59,563 58,554 19,549 193,327 3,273 196,600 2,732 199,332 Health Care Health Care Ethical pharmaceuticals Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity 8,189 14,692 3,836 12 26,729 82 26,811 — 26,811 Life science method Investments accounted for 62,524 68,182 34,318 16,536 181,560 1,507 183,067 — 183,067 using the equity method Capital expenditures 65,188 70,623 72,056 17,985 225,852 3,729 229,581 2,161 231,742 Notes: 1.The Others category consists of businesses not included in reporting segments and mainly includes Accounting policies for reportable segments are identical to those Group accounting engineering, transportation, and warehousing operations. policies stated in Note 3, Significant Accounting Policies. Inter-segment sales and transfers 2. The segment profit (loss) adjustment includes corporate costs of ¥(10,218) million not allocated to reporting are based mainly on prevailing market prices. segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(32) million. Corporate costs include expenditures on basin testing, research, and other activities not allocated to reporting segments. The segment assets adjustment includes corporate assets of ¥95,968 million not allocated to reporting segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(1,103,671) million. Corporate assets include financial assets not allocated to reporting segments. 3. Segment profit (loss) is Operating profit in accordance with IFRS after excluding earnings from non-recurring factors, such as losses from business withdrawals and downsizings, representing core operating income. 29 29 115 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 116 Financial Information Adjustments to income before tax from segment operating results are as follows: Note 5 Business Year ended March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Combinations Year ended Year ended (Completion of provisional business combination accounting) March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Segment operating results ¥380,489 ¥317,187 1. Acquisition of NeuroDerm Ltd. by Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and On October 18, 2017, consolidated subsidiary Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation 3,683 7,538 associates acquired all of the outstanding shares (including shares underlying options) of NeuroDerm Gain on sales of property, plant and Ltd., which researches and develops central nervous system drugs to treat Parkinson’s 3,628 2,622 equipment Disease and other illnesses. The latter thereby became a wholly owned subsidiary of Impairment loss (9,662) (11,775) Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation. Loss on sales and disposal of fixed assets (5,556) The fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed were provisional in the (8,542) previous fiscal year but were finalized in the second quarter of the year ended March 31, Provision for loss on business liquidation — (5,169) 2019. Provisional amounts were corrected as follows. Early retirement program expenses (2,408) (931) Environmental measures costs (1,001) (886) (1,170) Assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and goodwill Provision for loss on litigation (626) Millions of yen Prior service cost (4,996) (177) Acquisition date Cost related to integration of subsidiaries (3,774) — (October 18, 2017) Others (3,522) (1,291) Current assets: 355,711 Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 4,686 Operating income 297,950 Other financial assets 8,705 Financial income 8,404 10,243 Other current assets 303 Financial expenses (20,038) (20,137) Non-current assets: Income before taxes ¥344,077 Intangible assets 136,178 ¥288,056 Others 217 Acquired assets 150,089 3. Geographic Information Current liabilities 4,571 The breakdown of external sales revenue and non-current assets is as follows: Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities 32,692 External sales revenue Liabilities assumed 37,263 Millions of yen Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 112,826 Year ended Year ended Goodwill (Note) 11,584 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 During the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2019, current liabilities increased Japan ¥2,177,346 ¥2,258,869 ¥874 million following additional analysis of NeuroDerm’s fair value, thereby increasing U.S.A. 406,730 453,174 goodwill by ¥874 million. PRC 289,083 292,023 In line with the completion of initial business combination accounting, the Others 851,247 919,378 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for the previous fiscal year was revised Total ¥3,724,406 ¥3,923,444 retroactively. Goodwill and current liabilities for the previous fiscal year each increased ¥823 million from before the retroactive adjustment. Note: Sales revenue are based on the locations of customers. Note: Non-current assets Goodwill Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition that do Millions of yen not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Japan ¥1,215,479 ¥1,219,668 (Significant business combinations in the year ended March 31, 2019) U.S.A. 357,269 432,163 Others 548,882 1,257,299 1. Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation acquisition of European business of Plaxair of Total ¥2,121,630 ¥2,909,130 the United States Notes: Consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation acquired the European business 1. Non-current assets are based on the locations of the assets and do not include financial instruments, deferred of Plaxair, Inc., of the United States on December 3, 2018, through subsidiary Nippon tax assets and retirement benefit asset. Gases Euro-Holding S.L.U. and other entities. 2. The Others category mainly encompasses increases in property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and goodwill from European business acquisitions by consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation. (1) Overview of business combination Details are per Note 5 Business Combinations. 1. Names and business descriptions of acquired companies Name : Praxair Espana S.L.U. and 36 other entities Description of business : Praxair’s European operations, including industrial gas 4. Information about Major Customers businesses in Germany, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Norway, This information has been omitted because no external customers account for more than Denmark, Sweden, Netherlands, and Belgium, carbon dioxide 10% of sales revenue. businesses in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Netherlands, and France, and helium-related businesses 31 30 117 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 118 Financial Information 2. Main reason for business combination Although the Company provisionally accounted for the transaction in the third quarter of the Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation aims to enhance its global competitiveness amid an year ended March 31, 2019, it completed accounting for the initial business combination in ongoing industry reorganization and solidify its position by pursuing a long-term the fourth quarter. business vision of generating ¥1 trillion in sales revenue, an operating margin of 10%, and a return on capital employed of more than 10%, deriving more than half of its sales Notes revenues from overseas markets. The acquisition is a major step toward materializing 1. Composition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that vision, and also represents a solid, strategically significant investment opportunity. Property, plant and equipment mainly comprised ¥136,460 million in machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Intangible assets of ¥203,900 million were mainly for customers. Europe’s industrial gas market ranks second only to North America’s, and features 2. Goodwill a stable competitive climate. Acquiring businesses with market shares in areas that it Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition that had yet to tap enable the company to make strong progress in globalizing. While do not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. acquiring highly profitable businesses of a certain scale and network (including manufacturing units), it also secures talented people, including top management, and (4) Acquisition-related expenses business platforms. Under such business foundations, Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation Acquisition-related costs were ¥6,722 million, of which ¥2,695 million in selling, general will cultivate products, including by drawing on offerings that are compatible with and administrative expenses and ¥548 million in financial expenses were included in the environmental regulations, while pursuing a policy of strengthening the Group’s crossConsolidated Statement of Income for the year ended March 31, 2019. The Consolidated functional capabilities, including by expanding marketing to global enterprises. Statement of Financial Position for the year included ¥(771) million in bonds and borrowings in current liabilities and ¥(2,708) million in bonds and borrowings in non-current 3. Acquisition date liabilities. Acquisition-related expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position December 3, 2018 were costs of bond issue expenses and debt origination costs from obtaining to acquisition funds deducted from fair value at the time of initial recognition of the bonds and borrowings 4. Method for gaining control of acquired company during the year ended March 31, 2019 that were not posted as financial expenses at the Acquisition of shares for cash end of the period. 5. Percentage of voting rights acquired (5) Impact on Group business results 100% The Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended March 31, 2019 included sales revenue of ¥55,101 million and net income of ¥6,167 million that the acquired company (2) Fair value of consideration transferred generated subsequent to the acquisition date. If the business combination were on April 1, 2018, the start of the year ended March 31, Millions of yen 2019, the Group’s pro forma sales revenue would have been ¥4,040,646 million, with net Acquisition date income of ¥226,781 million. The pro forma information has not been audited. (December 3, 2018) Cash ¥635,847 Cost of the acquisition ¥635,847 2. Acquisition of hydrogen and carbon monoxide business and related business assets in United States by Matheson Tri-Gas (3) Assets acquired, liabilities assumed, non-controlling interests, and goodwill Through Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation acquired a portion of the hydrogen and carbon monoxide Millions of yen (HyCO) business and related U.S. assets of Linde Gas North America LLC. Acquisition date (December 3, 2018) Current assets: (1) Overview of business combination Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 4,354 Trade receivables 32,664 1. Name of counterparty company and description of business Inventories 8,368 Name : Linde Gas North America LLC Others 3,681 Description of business: Portion of HyCO business (see note) of Linde Gas North Non-current assets: America LLC in the United States Property, plant and equipment 190,561 (Note 1) Note: Large-scale supply of hydrogen and carbon monoxide derived from natural gas and other sources with Intangible assets (Note 1) 208,301 steam reforming and other apparatuses through pipelines to petroleum refining and petrochemical Investments accounted for using 5,998 industries the equity method Others 4,196 2. Main reason for business combination Acquired assets 458,123 Current liabilities: Under the Ortus Stage 2 medium-term management plan, Taiyo Nippon Sanso Trade payables 23,882 Corporation aims to strategically expand in the gas technology area through mergers and Other financial liabilities 13,593 acquisitions, and explored fully entering the HyCO business from the perspective of Others 12,254 bolstering its product lineup to strengthen its proposal capabilities. The acquisition will Non-current liabilities: enable the company to materialize that goal, generating the following envisaged benefits Retirement benefit liabilities 6,942 for the Taiyo Nippon Sanso Group. Deferred tax liabilities 72,444 (i) Secure stable mediumand long-term earnings from on-site supplies of hydrogen and Others 1,297 Liabilities assumed 130,412 carbon monoxide Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 327,711 (ii) Secure human and technological resources to streamline HyCO business operations Non-controlling interests 2,265 (iii) Strengthening proposal capabilities for new on-site demand (including oil refining and Goodwill (Note 2) 310,401 petrochemicals) in the United States 32 33 119 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 120 Financial Information 3. Acquisition date: February 27, 2019 Note 6 4. Method for gaining control of acquired company Sales Revenue (1) Disaggregation of sales revenue A portion of the HyCO business of Linde Gas North America LLC in the United States and related U.S. business assets was acquired for cash by consolidated subsidiary Matheson The Group operates in four business areas centered on four operating companies. They Tri-Gas, Inc. are Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Life Science Institute, Inc., and Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation. The business segments are Performance Products, Chemicals, Industrial Gases, and Health Care. Progress reports on (2) Fair value of consideration transferred enhancing overseas sales ratios as a key operational measure go regularly to the Board of Millions of yen Directors. The relationship between geographic and segment revenue described in Note 4 Acquisition date Segment Information is as follows. (February 27, 2019) Cash ¥46,133 Year ended March 31, 2019 Cost of the acquisition ¥46,133 Millions of yen Japan U.S.A. PRC Others Total (3) Assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and goodwill Performance Products 594,161 154,802 101,209 319,947 1,170,119 Millions of yen Chemicals 767,498 76,215 110,702 316,335 1,270,750 Acquisition date Industrial Gases 369,033 177,941 22,128 163,735 732,837 (February 27, 2019) Health Care 405,679 41,425 7,767 90,795 545,666 Current assets ¥ 215 Others (Note 2) 122,498 2,791 50,217 28,566 204,072 Non-current assets: Total ¥2,258,869 ¥453,174 ¥292,023 ¥919,378 ¥3,923,444 Property, plant and equipment 30,875 Notes (Note 1) 1. Amounts are shown as sales revenue from external customers. Intangible assets (Note 1) 8,356 2. The Others category consists of businesses not included in reporting segments and mainly includes Acquired assets 39,446 engineering, transportation, and warehousing operations. Non-current liabilities 498 3. Sales revenue is mostly recognized from contracts with customers. Sales revenue recognized from other Liabilities assumed 498 sources is immaterial. Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 38,948 Goodwill (Note 2) 7,185 Performance Products Segment Since initial accounting for the business combination has yet to be completed, the above This segment encompasses the functional products business (information, electronics and amounts are provisional fair values based on best estimates. Once additional information displays, high-performance films, environment and living solutions, and advanced moldings on the facts and circumstances as of the acquisition date are obtained, the above amounts and composites) and the performance chemical business (advanced polymers, highcould be revised one year after the acquisition date. performance chemicals, and new energy). We sell to domestic and overseas customers. Once customers gain control over products, when products are delivered to customerNotes: designated locations, the legal title and physical possession of products and significant 1. Composition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets risks associated with product possession and rewards have been transferred, and we Property, plant and equipment mainly comprised ¥30,851 million in machinery, equipment and vehicles. Intangible assets of ¥8,356 million were mainly customer-related intangible assets. accordingly determine at that stage that we have satisfied our performance obligations and 2. Goodwill recognize sales revenue. Sales revenue from selling these products is measured at Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition that transaction prices relating to agreements with customers. do not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is tax deductible for fixed periods. Sales revenue is measured at the amount of consideration promised in contracts with customers, net of discounts, rebates and returns. Rebates and other estimates use the (4) Acquisition related expenses most frequent techniques based on experience. Sales revenue is recognized only to the Acquisition-related expenses were ¥149 million and were included in selling, general and extent of no possibility of a significant reversal. Considerations in product sales contracts administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended are generally collected within one year after control of products transfers to customer, and March 31, 2019. do not include significant financial elements. (5) Impact on Group business results Chemicals Segment If the business combination were on April 1, 2018, the start of the year ended March 31, In the Chemicals segment, we conduct the MMA, petrochemicals, and carbon products 2019, the Group’s pro forma sales revenue would have been ¥3,933,102 million, with net businesses, and sell to domestic and overseas customers. income of ¥219,046 million. The pro forma information has not been audited. Upon satisfying performance obligations in selling products in these businesses, calculations of transaction prices and payment terms are identical to those of the Performance Products segment. Industrial Gases Segment In this segment, our gas business serves the steel, chemical and electronics industries. We manufacture such household items as stainless steel thermoses. We sell to domestic and overseas customers. Upon satisfying performance obligations in selling products in these businesses, calculations of transaction prices and payment terms are identical to those of the Performance Products segment. 34 35 121 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 122 Financial Information Health Care Segment Note 7 Here, we engage in the ethical pharmaceuticals business (researching and developing and manufacturing ethical pharmaceuticals) and the life science business (undertaking clinical Employee Benefit The breakdown of employee benefit expenses is as follows: testing, diagnostic reagents and instruments, capsules and pharmaceutical processing Expenses equipment, active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates), selling to domestic and Millions of yen foreign customers. Year ended Year ended Upon fulfilling performance obligations in selling products in these businesses, March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 calculations of transaction prices and payment terms are identical to those of the Wages and salaries ¥ 563,269 ¥ 580,944 Performance Products segment. Retirement benefit costs 37,196 31,338 Total ¥ 600,465 ¥ 612,282 Royalty income generated in the Health Care business is from contracts in which the Note: Remuneration for key executives is excluded. Remuneration to major executives is as described in Note 37 Group has permitted third parties to produce or sell products or use technology. One-off Related Parties. contract payments are recognized as sales revenue when performance obligations are met at certain points. If such obligations are not met, the transaction is recorded as deferred Note 8 sales revenue and recognized as sales revenue over a certain period as obligations are met. Milestone payments are recognized only to the extent that significant returns are Research and Research and development expenses recognized in the years ended March 31, 2018 and unlikely after reaching contractual milestones. Running royalties are measured based on Development 2019 were ¥138,833 million and ¥143,836 million, respectively. contractor sales calculations, etc., and sales revenue is recognized as sales occur. Royalty Expenses income is generally received within one year of establishing contractual rights, and does not include significant financing components. Note 9 (2) Contract balance Other Operating The breakdown of other operating income is as follows: Receivables from contracts with customers, contract assets, and liabilities are as follows. Income and Other Operating Expenses Millions of yen Millions of yen Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 As of April 1, 2018 March 31, 2019 Gain on sales of shares of subsidiaries and Receivables arising from contracts with associates ¥ 3,747 ¥ 7,546 customers 851,576 850,802 Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment 4,183 3,839 Contract assets 7,893 12,562 Rent income 2,639 2,285 Contract liabilities 16,582 16,234 Others 9,110 7,792 Total ¥ 19,679 ¥ 21,462 The Group mainly posts contract assets for compensation from work in progress and posts The breakdown of other operating expenses is as follows: contract liabilities for advance payments and for deferred sales revenue from derived Millions of yen transactions with customers. Year ended Year ended Of sales revenue recognized in the year ended March 31, 2019, ¥10,674 million was March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 included in contract liabilities at the start of the term. Sales revenue recognized from Impairment loss ¥ 12,062 ¥17,340 performance obligations satisfied during the year was ¥63,960 million. There were no Loss on sales and disposal of fixed assets 10,414 13,824 significant changes in outstanding contract assets and liabilities. Provision for loss on business liquidation — 5,169 Early retirement program expenses 2,408 931 (3) Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations Environmental measures costs 3,672 886 Total transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and sales Provision for loss on litigation 1,170 626 revenue recognition periods were as follows. Transactions with estimated contract terms of Cost related to integration of subsidiaries 3,712 — less than one year are excluded. Others 12,912 12,298 Total ¥ 46,350 ¥51,074 Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2019 The provision for loss on business liquidation is as described in Note 22 Assets Held for Due within one year Sale. 15,443 Due after one year 26,317 Total ¥41,760 (4) Assets recognized from costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with customers In the year ended March 31, 2019, no assets were recognized from the costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with customers. As a practical expedient, costs are recognized as expenses when incurred if the amortization period of the asset to be recognized is one year or less. 36 37 123 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 124 Financial Information Note 10 Note 11 Financial Income The breakdown of financial income is as follows: Income Taxes 1. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities and Financial As of March 31, 2018 and 2019, significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities Expenses are as follows: Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended Year ended Millions of yen March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Amounts Financial income Amounts recognized in March 31, April 1, 2017 recognized in other Others (Note) Interest income 2018 profit or loss comprehensiv Financial assets measured at amortized cost ¥ 3,365 ¥ 4,430 e income Financial assets at fair value through profit Deferred tax assets: or loss 25 — Tax loss ¥ 64,364 ¥ (6,396) ¥ — ¥ (545) ¥ 57,423 carryforwards Dividend income Net defined benefit Financial assets measured at fair value 38,137 1,808 (8,876) 61 31,130 4,279 5,197 liabilities through other comprehensive income Property, plant and 17,161 (1,655) — (29) 15,477 Foreign exchange gains — 370 equipment Others 735 246 Employees’ bonuses 13,593 1,574 — (29) 15,138 Inventory 4,420 2,589 — (3) 7,006 Total ¥ 8,404 ¥10,243 Employees’ paid 6,814 (48) — 121 6,887 leave Others 55,709 (3,488) (969) (271) 50,981 The breakdown of financial costs is as follows: Total ¥ 200,198 ¥ (5,616) ¥ (9,845) ¥ (695) ¥ 184,042 Millions of yen Deferred tax liabilities: Year ended Year ended Valuation of assets ¥ (46,197) ¥ 1,916 ¥ — ¥(37,409) ¥ (81,690) March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Property, plant and (65,407) 15,617 — (280) (50,070) equipment Financial costs Securities and other Interest expenses (33,149) (1) (4,231) 1,681 (35,700) investments Financial liabilities measured at amortized Retained earnings of (12,181) (1,729) — — (13,910) cost ¥ 15,652 ¥ 18,868 foreign subsidiaries Foreign exchange losses 2,960 — Others (28,788) (3,120) (451) 8,813 (23,546) Total ¥(185,722) ¥12,683 ¥ (4,682) ¥(27,195) ¥(204,916) Others 1,426 1,269 Net deferred tax assets ¥ 14,476 ¥ 7,067 ¥ (14,527) ¥(27,890) ¥ (20,874) Total ¥ 20,038 ¥ 20,137 Year ended March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Amounts Amounts recognized in March 31, April 1, 2018 recognized in other Others (Note) 2019 profit or loss comprehensiv e income Deferred tax assets: Tax loss ¥ 57,423 ¥ 6,392 ¥ — ¥ 254 ¥ 64,069 carryforwards Net defined benefit 31,130 (1,741) 1,631 1,842 32,862 liabilities Property, plant and 15,477 1,641 — 120 17,238 equipment Employees’ bonuses 15,138 (369) — 46 14,815 Inventory 7,006 3,530 — 57 10,593 Employees’ paid 6,887 582 — 676 8,145 leave Others 50,981 5,136 1,383 (708) 56,792 Total ¥ 184,042 ¥15,171 ¥ 3,014 ¥ 2,287 ¥ 204,514 Deferred tax liabilities: Valuation of assets (81,690) 4,641 — (67,737) (144,786) Property, plant and ¥ (50,070) ¥(13,697) ¥ — ¥(10,415) ¥ (74,182) equipment Securities and other (35,700) — (2,397) 3,789 (34,308) investments Retained earnings of (13,910) (4,186) — — (18,096) foreign subsidiaries Others (23,546) (3,717) (303) 1,523 (26,043) Total ¥(204,916) ¥(16,959) ¥ (2,700) ¥(72,840) ¥(297,415) Net deferred tax assets ¥ (20,874) ¥ (1,788) ¥ 314 ¥(70,553) ¥ (92,901) Note: Others include exchange differences on translation of foreign operations and changes owing to business combinations, etc. In recognizing deferred tax assets, the Group considers whether it can use all or part of future deductible temporary differences or unused tax loss carryforwards with respect to expected future taxable income. In evaluating the recoverability of deferred tax assets, the Group considers the planned reversal of deferred tax liabilities, expected future taxable 39 40 125 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 126 Financial Information income, and tax planning. There is a high probability of collecting recognized deferred tax 3. Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation Schedule asset benefits based on historical taxable income levels and on expected future taxable The Company is principally subject to corporate taxes, resident taxes and business taxes. income for the period in which it can recognize deferred tax assets. The statutory effective tax rates that are the bases for these taxes were 30.8% and 30.6% for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. For overseas subsidiaries, Future deductible temporary differences and unused tax loss carryforwards (on an income local corporate income taxes are imposed. basis), not recognized as deferred tax assets are as follows: Millions of yen A reconciliation of the statutory tax rates to the effective tax rates for the years ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, was as follows: March 31, March 31, 2018 2019 Year ended Year ended Future deductible temporary differences 125,508 106,112 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Unused tax loss carryforwards 447,864 374,604 Statutory tax rate 30.8% 30.6% Difference of statutory tax rate in overseas subsidiaries (3.3) (5.1) Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity Unrecognized deferred tax assets corresponding to the above are as follows. method (2.4) (2.8) Millions of yen Tax credits for research and development costs (2.2) (1.9) Year ended Year ended Unrecognized deferred tax assets (1.6) (0.6) March 31, March 31, Permanent differences 0.6 1.8 2018 2019 Foreign taxes 0.5 1.0 Future deductible temporary differences 34,273 30,172 Impact of lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate (3.6) — Unused tax loss carryforwards 61,412 58,308 Others 0.9 1.8 Effective tax rate 19.7% 24.8% The breakdowns of tax loss carryforwards not recognized as deferred tax assets (on an income basis) by expiration date are as follows: Millions of yen Year ended Year ended March 31, March 31, 2018 2019 Due within one year 116,157 65,918 Due after one year and not later than five years 72,398 51,169 Due after five years and not later than 10 years 112,965 93,829 Due after 10 years and not later than 20 years 85,038 95,568 Indefinite 61,306 68,120 Total ¥447,864 ¥374,604 As of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2019, total temporary differences related to undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities were not recognized were ¥1,055,342 million and ¥1,142,046 million, respectively. The Group does not recognize deferred tax liabilities related to temporary differences when it can control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is highly probable that temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. 2. Income Taxes The breakdown of income taxes is as follows: Millions of yen Year ended Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Income taxes ¥74,782 ¥69,539 Deferred income taxes (7,067) 1,788 Total ¥67,715 ¥71,327 The President of the United States signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law on December 22, 2017, thereby lowering the federal corporate tax rate after January 1, 2018.Therefore, deferred tax assets and liabilities subsequent to the third quarter of the year ended March 31, 2018, are calculated based on the effective revised tax rate corresponding to the consolidated fiscal year in which temporary differences are expected to be resolved. Consequently, income taxes for the year ended March 31, 2018 decreased by ¥12,494 million. 41 42 127 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 128 Financial Information Note 12 Accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses Millions of yen Intangible assets Per Share The bases for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of TechnologyCustomerrelated Information the parent were as follows: Goodwill related intangible intangible Software Other Total assets assets Balance as of ¥— ¥46,199 ¥26,554 ¥49,868 ¥26,686 ¥149,307 April 1, 2017 Amortization — 6,973 7,081 7,512 2,622 24,188 Impairment — 3,364 — 218 18 3,600 losses Year ended Year ended Sale or — (973) — (1,780) (262) (3,015) March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 disposal Exchange (Millions of yen) differences on translation of — (114) (414) 1,196 5,291 5,959 Net income attributable to owners of the parent ¥211,788 ¥169,530 foreign Adjustment 283 285 operations Balance as of Net income used to calculate diluted earnings per share 212,071 169,815 March 31, ¥— ¥55,449 ¥33,221 ¥57,014 ¥34,355 ¥180,039 2018 (Thousands of shares) Average number of ordinary shares during period 1,439,338 1,422,018 Carrying amount Impact of potentially dilutive ordinary shares Millions of yen Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to Intangible assets 118,388 119,685 shares Goodwill Technology-related Customer-related Software Other Total Subscription rights to shares 955 1,388 intangible assets intangible assets Balance as of Average number of diluted ordinary shares April 1, 2017 ¥312,950 ¥92,257 ¥89,083 ¥20,215 ¥25,614 ¥227,169 1,558,681 1,543,091 during period Balance as of March 31, ¥324,201 ¥227,349 ¥79,621 ¥19,400 ¥28,781 ¥355,151 2018 (Yen) Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent ¥147.14 ¥119.22 Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent ¥136.06 ¥110.05 Year ended March 31, 2019 Acquisition cost Note: In the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to owners of the parent, the Millions of yen Company stocks held by Board Incentive Plan trust are included in shares of treasury stock deducted in Intangible assets calculating the average number of shares during the period. Technology-related Customer-related Goodwill Software Other Total intangible assets intangible assets Balance as of ¥324,201 ¥282,798 ¥112,842 ¥76,414 ¥63,136 ¥535,190 April 1, 2018 Note 13 Acquisitions — 3,192 7,127 7,922 3,149 21,390 Acquisitions through 334,121 1,688 216,914 2,470 511 221,583 business Goodwill and combinations Intangible Assets 1. Schedule of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Sale or disposal — (4,061) (2) (6,981) (1,790) (12,834) Transfers — (14) — (3) 9 (8) The acquisition cost, accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses and Exchange carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets were as follows: differences on translation of (9,516) 8,010 (4,431) (311) 1,161 4,429 Year ended March 31, 2018 foreign Acquisition cost operations Balance as of Millions of yen March 31, ¥648,806 ¥291,613 ¥332,450 ¥79,511 ¥66,176 ¥769,750 Intangible assets 2019 CustomerTechnologyrelated Goodwill related intangible Software Other Total intangible assets assets Balance as of Accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses ¥312,950 ¥138,456 ¥115,637 ¥70,083 ¥52,300 ¥376,476 April 1, 2017 Acquisitions — 17,792 — 7,013 5,996 30,801 Millions of yen Acquisitions Intangible assets through Customer13,358 136,266 — 507 15 136,788 Technologybusiness related Goodwill related intangible Software Other Total combinations intangible assets Sale or assets — (1,022) — (1,844) (358) (3,224) Balance as of disposal ¥— ¥55,449 ¥33,221 ¥57,014 ¥34,355 ¥180,039 April 1, 2018 Transfers — 103 — 28 6,293 6,424 Amortization — 7,422 10,595 7,805 4,012 29,834 Exchange Impairment differences on — 383 — 165 63 611 losses translation of (2,107) (8,797) (2,795) 627 (1,110) (12,075) Sale or foreign — (3,696) — (6,808) (1,755) (12,259) disposal operations Exchange Balance as of differences on March 31, ¥324,201 ¥282,798 ¥112,842 ¥76,414 ¥63,136 ¥535,190 translation of — 1,728 407 (294) 897 2,738 2018 foreign operations Balance as of March 31, ¥— ¥61,286 ¥44,223 ¥57,882 ¥37,572 ¥200,963 2019 43 44 129 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 130 Financial Information Carrying amount Note 14 Millions of yen Intangible assets Property, Plant and The acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses and Technology-related Customer-related Goodwill intangible assets intangible assets Software Other Total Equipment carrying amount of property, plant and equipment were as follows: Balance as of ¥324,201 ¥227,349 ¥79,621 ¥19,400 ¥28,781 ¥355,151 April 1, 2018 Balance as of 1. Schedule of property, plant and equipment March 31, ¥648,806 ¥230,327 ¥288,227 ¥21,629 ¥28,604 ¥568,787 2019 Year ended March 31, 2018 Acquisition cost There were no material internally generated assets in the years ended March 31, 2018 and Millions of yen 2019. Tools, Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction The amortization of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales and Selling, general and structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total Balance as of administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. April 1, 2017 ¥1,075,780 ¥2,908,122 ¥314,342 ¥286,915 ¥141,216 ¥4,726,375 Acquisitions 28,141 122,020 21,145 1,764 38,172 211,242 Acquisitions The carrying amounts of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives were ¥183,790 million through 2,222 1,887 4,752 944 66 9,871 and ¥192,381 million as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2019, respectively. The main business combinations items were in-process research and development expenses recognized when Mitsubishi Sale or (21,870) (69,601) (13,907) (8,424) (670) (114,472) Tanabe Pharma Corporation acquired Medicago Inc. in 2013 and NeuroDerm Ltd. in 2017 disposal Transfers (1,603) (2,407) (263) (7) (13,894) (18,174) (both in the Health Care segment), and which were included in Technology-related intangible Exchange assets. Given that the assets are at the research and development stage, have yet to obtain differences on translation of (167) (9,860) (8,801) 2,515 (15,462) (31,775) marketing approval from regulatory authorities, and cannot be in use, the period in which foreign they could deliver future economic benefits is unforeseeable, so the assets are classified as operations Balance as of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. March 31, ¥1,082,503 ¥2,950,161 ¥317,268 ¥283,707 ¥149,428 ¥4,783,067 2018 2. Significant Intangible Assets Significant intangible assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position include Accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses technology-related intangible assets that the Company obtained in acquiring Mitsubishi Millions of yen Tools, Rayon Co., Ltd. (now Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation), in March 2010. The carrying Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction amounts of these intangible assets were ¥20,891 million as of March 31, 2018 and ¥18,254 structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total Balance as of million as of March 31, 2019. The remaining amortization periods were 6 to 10 years. April 1, 2017 ¥739,906 ¥2,302,687 ¥241,587 ¥5,241 ¥5,273 ¥3,294,694 The carrying amounts of technology-related intangible assets of Medicago Inc., which Depreciation 24,746 112,686 17,275 — — 154,707 Impairment Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation acquired in September 2013, were ¥25,885 million losses 2,347 4,271 80 1,546 218 8,462 as of March 31, 2018 and ¥25,967 million as of March 31, 2019. Impairment tests are Sale or (19,767) (63,920) (13,113) (1,650) — (98,450) disposal conducted every year, as these items are classified as intangible assets with indefinite useful Transfers (1,897) (1,524) 23 — — (3,398) lives. Exchange differences on The carrying amounts of customer-related intangible assets of Taiyo Nippon Sanso translation of 634 (3,644) (2,452) 2,754 (3,749) (6,457) foreign Corporation, which the Company acquired in November 2014, were ¥30,291 million as of operations March 31, 2018, and ¥28,187 million as of March 31, 2019. The remaining amortization Balance as of March 31, ¥745,969 ¥2,350,556 ¥243,400 ¥7,891 ¥1,742 ¥3,349,558 periods were 9 to 14 years. 2018 The carrying amounts of technology-related intangible assets of NeuroDerm Ltd. which Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation acquired in October 2017, were ¥ 128,338 million as of March 31, 2018 and ¥134,076 million as of March 31, 2019. This item is classified as Carrying amount intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. The carrying amount of customer-related intangible assets of European businesses which Millions of yen Tools, Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation acquired in December 2018, was ¥194,267 million as of Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction March 31, 2019. The remaining amortization periods were mainly 29 years. structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total Balance as of ¥335,874 ¥605,435 ¥72,755 ¥281,674 ¥135,943 ¥1,431,681 April 1, 2017 3. Impairment Losses Balance as of March 31, ¥336,534 ¥599,605 ¥73,868 ¥275,816 ¥147,686 ¥1,433,509 The Group has recognized impairment losses of ¥3,600 million during the year ended March 2018 31, 2018 and ¥611 million during the year ended March 31, 2019, in other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The Company conducts impairment tests at certain times of the year for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, regardless of whether there are signs of impairment. In the impairment tests, the recoverable value of intangible assets is measured based on its value in use. The Company calculates value in use by using cash flow projections based on management-approved business plans. These plans are based on historical experience and external information. Except on justifiable grounds, the plans are, in principle, for up to five years. The Company uses a pretax weighted average cost of capital (discount rate) of 5.5% to 14.8%. 45 46 131 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 132 Financial Information Year ended March 31, 2019 Note 15 Acquisition cost Millions of yen Impairment Losses In principle, the Group determines its cash-generating units considering operational, Tools, Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction production processes, regions, and other factors based on business units. The Group tests structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total idle assets individually to recognize impairment losses. Balance as of ¥1,082,503 ¥2,950,161 ¥317,268 ¥283,707 ¥149,428 ¥4,783,067 April 1, 2018 Acquisitions 31,620 184,832 23,936 1,992 (11,923) 230,457 Impairment losses recognized in the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 are as follows. Acquisitions through Impairment losses are included in Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement 12,259 171,121 29,263 9,923 8,451 231,017 business of Income. combinations Sale or Millions of yen (16,081) (71,148) (12,196) (2,349) (913) (102,687) disposal Year ended Year ended Transfers (2,338) (2,867) (1,671) (482) (12,894) (20,252) March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Exchange differences on Property, plant and equipment translation of (3,038) (978) 189 (2,680) 707 (5,800) foreign Buildings and structures ¥ 2,347 ¥ 6,958 operations Machinery and vehicles 4,271 4,418 Balance as of March 31, ¥1,104,925 ¥3,231,121 ¥356,789 ¥290,111 ¥132,856 ¥5,115,802 Tools, furniture and fixtures 80 415 2019 Land 1,546 2,283 Construction in progress 218 2,655 Accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses Total of property, plant and equipment ¥ 8,462 ¥16,729 Intangible assets 3,600 611 Millions of yen Total impairment losses ¥12,062 ¥17,340 Tools, Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total The main assets for which impairment losses were recognized are as follows: Balance as of ¥745,969 ¥2,350,556 ¥243,400 ¥7,891 ¥1,742 ¥3,349,558 April 1, 2018 Depreciation 25,906 125,004 18,507 — — 169,417 Impairment losses 6,958 4,418 415 2,283 2,655 16,729 Year ended March 31, 2019 Sale or (13,906) (66,379) (11,416) (377) (219) (92,297) disposal Transfers (1,599) (4,111) (1,626) (6) 281 (7,061) Reporting Impairment Use Location Category Exchange segment loss differences on translation of (3,555) 123 834 (422) (878) (3,898) Pharmaceuticals research Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Buildings and Health Care ¥5,271 foreign facilities Corporation’s Toda Office land, etc. million operations Balance as of (Toda, Saitama Prefecture) March 31, ¥759,773 ¥2,409,611 ¥250,114 ¥9,369 ¥3,581 ¥3,432,448 2019 Composition of Impairment Losses Carrying amount Millions of yen Pharmaceuticals research facilities Tools, ¥5,271 million (including ¥3,537 million in buildings and structures, ¥1,720 million in land, Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction and ¥14 million in others) structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total Balance as of ¥336,534 ¥599,605 ¥73,868 ¥275,816 ¥147,686 ¥1,433,509 April 1, 2018 Consolidated subsidiary Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation decided to close its Toda Balance as of March 31, ¥345,152 ¥821,510 ¥106,675 ¥280,742 ¥129,275 ¥1,683,354 Office in line with a research bases reorganization. Because of the likelihood of the property, 2019 plant and equipment of the office becoming idle owing to the closure, its book value has been reduced to the recoverable value. The recoverable amount is measured at ¥4,062 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is included in the Cost of sales and Selling, million, representing the fair value, less disposal costs based on the appraised property general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. value. The fair value hierarchy is Level 3. Expenditure on construction work in progress for property, plant and equipment is included in construction in progress. 2. Leased Assets The carrying amounts of leased assets included in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Buildings and structures ¥1,583 ¥1,221 Machinery and vehicles 4,101 3,557 Tools, furniture and fixtures 3,309 3,529 Total ¥8,993 ¥8,307 47 48 133 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 134 Financial Information The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units (groups of cashNote 16 generating units) are as follows: Millions of yen Individually The carrying amounts of individually insignificant investments in joint ventures accounted Cash-Generating Unit Insignificant for using the equity method are as follows: Reporting segment (Groups of CashMarch 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Investments Generating Units) High-performance Accounted for Using ¥ 21,371 ¥ 21,029 Equity Method engineering plastics Performance Products Other 28,069 37,036 Millions of yen Total ¥ 49,440 ¥ 58,065 As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 MMA ¥ 36,813 ¥ 36,813 Carrying amounts of investments in joint ventures ¥89,109 ¥92,615 Chemicals Other 2,863 2,887 Total ¥ 39,649 ¥ 39,700 Equity in earnings of joint ventures accounted for using the equity method for total Industrial Gases Industrial gases ¥142,902 ¥459,013 comprehensive income is as follows: Ethical ¥ 58,742 ¥ 59,246 Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceutical Millions of yen 33,295 32,626 Health Care formulation materials Year ended Year ended March Other 173 156 March 31, 2018 31, 2019 Share of profit using equity method ¥17,390 ¥14,219 Total ¥ 92,210 ¥ 92,028 Share of other comprehensive income using equity method 507 (1,180) Total ¥324,201 ¥648,806 Share of total shareholders' equity in total comprehensive income ¥17,897 ¥13,039 Carrying amounts of individually insignificant investments in associates accounted for using the equity method are as follows: The recoverable amount of goodwill in cash-generating units and groups of cash generating units is measured by the value in use. The value in use is based on a management-approved five-year plan reflecting past Millions of yen experience and external source of information. After considering future uncertainties after As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 the five-year period, the Company assumed a zero growth rate, with value equaling cash Carrying amounts of investments in associates ¥86,796 ¥90,452 flows in the fifth year. Equity in earnings of associates accounted for using the equity method for total The discount rates used for measuring recoverable value are as follows: comprehensive income is as follows: Cash-Generating Unit Millions of yen Reporting segment (Groups of CashMarch 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Year ended Year ended Generating Units) March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 High-performance Share of profit using equity method ¥9,247 ¥12,631 Performance Products engineering plastics 7.5% 8.1% Share of other comprehensive income using equity method 75 (1,009) Chemicals MMA 6.3% 7.7% Share of total shareholders' equity in total comprehensive income ¥9,322 ¥11,622 Industrial Gases Industrial gases 6.3% 7.7% Ethical pharmaceuticals 6.1% 5.5% Health Care Pharmaceutical formulation materials 6.1% 6.5% It was possible that the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to pharmaceutical formulation materials would equal the carrying amount if the discount rate rose 0.8% in the previous fiscal year. If the discount rate increased by 1.9% in the year ended March 31, 2019, the recoverable amount could have equaled the carrying amount. . 49 49 135 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 136 Financial Information Note 17 (derecognizing) equity financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Fair values upon sales and cumulative gains or losses on sales are as follows. Other Financial The breakdown of other financial assets is as follows: Cumulative gains or losses (after tax) recognized in other components of equity are Assets transferred to retained earnings at the time of sale. Millions of yen Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Year ended Year ended March Stocks and investments ¥200,347 ¥192,413 March 31, 2018 31, 2019 Certificate of deposits 98,000 129,500 Fair value ¥17,801 ¥15,148 Accounts receivable 41,235 41,507 Cumulative gains or losses 5,254 7,989 Time deposits 65,563 36,560 Bonds 31,710 30,000 Dividend income from equity financial assets measured at fair value through other Other 57,047 48,403 comprehensive income is as follows: Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,048) (1,550) Total ¥491,854 ¥476,833 Millions of yen Current assets ¥247,365 ¥248,262 Year ended Year ended March Non-current assets March 31, 2018 31, 2019 244,489 228,571 Derecognized financial assets ¥ 110 ¥ 287 Total ¥491,854 ¥476,833 Financial assets held at year-end 4,169 4,910 Stocks and investments are classified mainly equity financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Certificate of deposits, accounts receivable, time Note 18 deposits and bonds are classified financial assets mainly measured at amortized cost. Other Assets The breakdown of other assets is as follows: The major issues and fair values of equity financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are as follows: Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 As of March 31, 2018 Accrued income tax ¥24,821 ¥31,510 Company name Prepaid expenses 23,564 28,318 Millions of yen TOHO HOLDINGS CO., LTD. ¥8,955 Net defined benefit assets 27,376 25,390 SUZUKEN CO., LTD. Advance payment 7,207 7,258 6,804 JFE Holdings Corporation 5,515 Other 15,227 17,169 Alfresa Holdings Corporation 5,271 Total ¥98,195 ¥109,645 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 4,997 Current assets 62,050 76,072 Tosoh Corporation 4,649 Non-current assets 36,145 33,573 MEDIPAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION 4,634 Total ¥98,195 ¥109,645 ONO PHARMACEUTICAL CO.,LTD. 3,617 Azbil Corporation 3,469 Note 19 KOATSU GAS KOGYO CO., LTD. 2,957 Inventory The breakdown of inventory is as follows: As of March 31, 2019 Company name Millions of yen Millions of yen SUZUKEN CO., LTD. ¥9,924 As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 TOHO HOLDINGS CO., LTD. 9,873 Finished goods ¥354,129 ¥365,278 Alfresa Holdings Corporation 7,011 Raw materials and supplies 176,985 177,863 MEDIPAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION 5,591 Work in process 76,557 79,908 JFE Holdings Corporation 4,833 Total ¥607,671 ¥623,049 Tosoh Corporation 3,834 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 3,481 Inventories measured at net realizable value as of March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2019 were Daicel Corporation 3,085 ¥78,463 million and ¥96,463 million, respectively. KOATSU GAS KOGYO CO., LTD. 2,862 In the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, write-downs of inventories recognized as Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. expenses were ¥6,687 million and ¥7,483 million, respectively. 2,790 As well as the assets above, the Group holds financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income for which quoted prices in active markets are unavailable, mainly comprising stocks related to the chemicals and oil refining sectors. As stocks are held mainly to maintain and strengthen business and collaborative ties and financial transactions, they are designated as equity financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The Company endeavors to enhance the efficiency and effective use of its assets by selling 50 51 137 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 138 Financial Information Note 20 Note 23 Trade Receivables The breakdown of trade receivables is as follows: Capital 1. Common stock and Treasury Stock Number of shares authorized and issued is as follows: Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Thousands of shares Accounts receivable ¥859,469 ¥863,364 Year ended Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Allowance for doubtful accounts (4,665) (8,257) Number of shares authorized 6,000,000 6,000,000 Total ¥854,804 ¥855,107 Number of shares issued: At the beginning of the period 1,506,288 1,506,288 Trade receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. Increase (decrease) — — At the end of the period 1,506,288 1,506,288 Note 21 The Company's shares are ordinary shares without par value. The shares issued were fully Cash and Cash The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: paid. Equivalents Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Changes in the number of shares of treasury stock during the year are as follows: Cash and deposits ¥205,934 ¥219,968 Thousands of shares Short-term investments 71,690 101,573 Year ended Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Total ¥277,624 ¥321,541 At the beginning of the period 67,025 66,902 Increase (note 1) 57 19,584 Decrease (note 2) (180) (84) Note 22 At the end of the period 66,902 86,402 Assets Held for Sale The breakdowns of assets held for sale and directly related liabilities are as follows: Notes: 1. An increase in the number of shares of treasury stock in the year ended March 31, 2018 was due to purchases of shares of less than one unit. Millions of yen An increase in the number of shares of treasury stock in the year ended March 31, 2019 was due to the acquisition of 19,549,000 shares through a resolution of the Board of Directors and the purchase of 35,000 As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 shares of less than one unit. Assets held for sale: 2. A decrease in the number of shares of treasury stock in the year ended March 31, 2018 was due to the payment Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 253 ¥ 2,152 of 179,000 shares through the exercise of stock options and the sale of 1,000 shares of less than one unit. Trade receivables 353 5,165 A decrease in the number of shares of treasury stock in the year ended March 31, 2019 was due to the payment of 71,000 shares through the exercise of stock options, 9,000 shares from the Board Incentive Plan Inventories 390 7,359 trust, and the sale of 3,000 shares of less than one unit. Property, plant and equipment 693 1,782 3. The Company stocks held by the Board Incentive Plan trust are included. Other financial assets 407 532 March 31, 2018 – March 31, 2019 3,285,000 shares Others 43 820 Total ¥2,139 ¥17,810 2. Additional paid-in capital and Retained Earnings Liabilities related directly to assets Additional paid-in capital comprises amounts arising from capital transactions that are not held for sale: included in common stock. The main component is legal capital surplus and other capital Trade payables ¥ 292 ¥ 2,090 surplus. Retained earnings comprise legal retained earnings and other retained earnings. Other financial liabilities 23 3,563 The Japanese Company Law mandates that at least half of paid-in capital be Provision — 5,169 appropriated as common stock and the rest be appropriated as a legal reserve within the Others 49 901 legal capital surplus. Under that law, the legal capital surplus can be incorporated in common Total ¥ 364 ¥ 11,723 stock by resolution at a shareholders’ meeting. Amounts classified as equity elements at the time of issuance of convertible bond type Assets held for sale and directly related liabilities as of March 31, 2019, were the recording bonds with stock acquisition rights are included in other capital surplus as a capital element media and other global businesses of the Verbatim Group, as subsidiary of Mitsubishi of compound financial products. Chemical Media Co., Ltd. (MCM), a consolidated subsidiary of the Group in the That law requires that 10% of the surplus appropriated for dividends be retained until the performance products segment, and covered sales of assets related to those businesses of total amount of the legal capital surplus and legal retained earnings reaches a quarter of the MCM. amount of common stock. The accumulated legal retained earnings can be appropriated for Assets held for sale and liabilities related directly to them are classified as held for sale deficit disposition, and legal retained earnings may be available for dividends by resolution at based on a resolution of the Corporate Executive Officers Committee on March 28, 2019. a shareholders' meeting. On June 14, 2019, MCM entered into a transfer agreement relating to the above business with CMC Magnetics Corporation of Taiwan to strengthen portfolio management. 3. Other Components of Equity The fair value is based on the price negotiated with the seller. The hierarchy is Level 3. Other components of equity are as follows: Of the difference between the fair value (expected selling price) after deducting selling costs and the book value, the estimated loss exceeding the book value of non-current (Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income) assets is posted as a provision for loss on business liquidation. Unrealized gains on financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. As of March 31, 2018 and 2019, the amount of other components of equity relating to assets held for sale was ¥(264) million and ¥(528) million, respectively. 52 53 139 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 140 Financial Information (Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Pension Plans) Note 25 This remeasurement is for differences between actuarial assumptions at the beginning of the year and actual experience and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. This amount Other Changes in each item of other comprehensive income during the year are as follows: is recognized in other comprehensive income when it occurs and is immediately transferred Comprehensive from other components of equity to retained earnings. Income Millions of yen (Exchange Differences on Translation of Foreign Operations) Year ended Year ended These adjustments result from consolidating the financial statements of foreign operations. March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Financial assets measured (Effective Portion of Net Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges) at fair value through other comprehensive This is the cumulative amount of effective portions of hedges from gains or losses arising income: from changes in the fair value of hedging instruments relating to cash flow hedges. Amounts arising during period ¥ 13,929 ¥ 7,629 Tax effects (4,247) (2,886) Net amount ¥ 9,682 ¥ 4,743 Note 24 Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans: Dividends Dividends paid to shareholders are as follows: Amounts arising during period ¥ 31,452 ¥ (6,227) Tax effects (9,282) 1,745 Net amount ¥ 22,170 ¥ (4,482) Year ended March 31, 2018 Exchange differences on translation of foreign Amount Amount per operations: Date of Resolution Type of (Millions of share Entitlement Effective Amounts arising during period ¥ (13,713) ¥ (6,848) approval approved by shares yen) (Yen) date date May 17, Board of Common March 31, June 6, Reclassification adjustments 166 1,032 ¥17,271 ¥12 2017 Directors stock 2017 2017 Tax effects (51) 65 November 2, Board of Common September December 4, 2017 Directors stock ¥21,590 ¥15 30, 2017 2017 Net amount ¥ (13,598) ¥ (5,751) Effective portion of net change in fair value of cash flow hedges: Year ended March 31, 2019 Amounts arising during period ¥ 1,157 ¥ (3,220) Reclassification adjustments 2,068 (1,322) Amount Amount per Date of Resolution Type of (Millions of share Entitlement Effective Tax effects (947) 1,390 approval approved by shares yen) (Yen) date date Net amount ¥ 2,278 ¥ (3,152) May 16, Board of Common March 31, June 5, 2018 Directors stock ¥24,470 ¥17 2018 2018 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of November 1, Board of Common September December 4, investments accounted for using equity ¥28,463 ¥20 2018 Directors stock 30, 2018 2018 method: Amounts arising during period ¥ 596 ¥ (2,193) Note: Total dividends from a resolution of the Board of Directors on November 1, 2018, included ¥66 million in dividends of the Company stock held by the Board Incentive Plan trust. Reclassification adjustments (14) 4 Net amount ¥ 582 ¥ (2,189) Total other comprehensive income ¥ 21,114 ¥(10,831) Dividends with a record date in the year ended March 31, 2019, with an effective date in the following fiscal year are as follows: Note 26 Year ended March 31, 2019 Share-based 1. Stock Option System Amount Amount Payment Resolution Type of (Millions Paid per share Entitlement Effective (1) Details of Equity-Settled Share-Based Compensation Plan Date of approval approved by shares of yen) from (Yen) date date May 22, Board of Common Retained March 31, June 4 Based on a resolution of the Remuneration Committee, the Company issues share-based ¥28,463 ¥20 compensation stock options as a form of performance-related payment to its corporate 2019 Directors stock earnings 2019 2019 executive officers (directors excluding outside directors until the year ended March 31, 2015. Note: Total dividends included ¥66 million in dividends of the Company stock held by the Board Incentive Plan trust. The same shall apply hereinafter) and executive officers who will share with shareholders not only the benefits due to a rise in the Company’s stock price but also losses due to a decline in the stock price as an incentive to boost corporate performance and enhance mediumto long-term corporate value taking into consideration the Company’s financial results for each fiscal year as well as the status of achieving of business targets by the corporate executive officers or executive officers (including those who have the retired) based on their degree of contribution, etc. All stock options that the Company issues are equity-settled share-based compensation. There are no vesting conditions. The exercise period is principally 20 years from the date of grant, and is, in principle, effective for 5 years from the day after the first year after recipients lose their status as director, executive officer, executive, or corporate auditor of the Company and/or its subsidiaries. In line with the deployment of a share-based compensation plan using the Board Incentive Plan trust, there will be no new share-based compensation stock option grants from the fiscal year ending March 2020. 54 55 141 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 142 Financial Information targets, each executive officer is granted a number of points each year according to that person’s position. The Company stocks equivalent to accumulated points calculated after the retirements of executive officers (1 point = 1 share) are provided as executive remuneration. The Plans employ the Board Incentive Plan trust. The Company and Mitsubishi (2) Changes in the Number of Stock Options Chemical Corporation contribute funds to acquire the Company stocks through the trust, which delivers the shares to executive officers. The Plans are accounted for as equity-settled share-based compensation. Number of shares Year ended Year ended (2) Number of Points Granted during the Period and Weighted Average Fair Value of Points March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Outstanding at the beginning of the period The number of points granted during the period and weighted average fair value of points 937,100 921,300 are as follows. The fair value on the day points were granted uses the share price on that Granted 162,750 178,500 day since the share price on the day of grant is a close approximation of fair value. Exercised (178,550) (71,300) Forfeited — — Year ended Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Expired — — Number of points granted Outstanding at the end of the period 921,300 1,028,500 — 464,540 during the period Exercisable at the end of the period 91,550 123,350 Weighted average fair value of — 991 points (yen) The exercise price for all stock options is ¥1 per share. The weighted average share prices for exercised stock options were ¥1,016.7 and (3) Share-Based Compensation Expenses ¥967.8 in the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. Stock option-related expenses were ¥460 million in the year ended March 31, 2019. These The weighted average remaining contractual years of stock options outstanding at expenses were presented within Selling, general and administrative expenses and Cost of year-end were 13.2 years and 11.4 years as of March 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. sales in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 3. Share-Based Compensation Plan using the Board Incentive Plan Trust of (3) Fair Value of Stock Options Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation The weighted average fair value of stock options granted in years ended March 31, 2018 (1) Details of Share-based Compensation Plan and 2019 as of the measurement date were ¥887 and ¥834, respectively. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC), a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, The Company employs the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of stock has introduced a performance-based share compensation plan (hereinafter, “the plan”) options, using the following assumptions. from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. The plan clarifies the linkage between remuneration of MTPC’s board directors and executive officers (excluding non-residents of Millions of yen Japan and outside board directors; hereinafter “MTPC directors and executive officers”) Year ended Year ended and the MTPC group’s business performance. The objectives of introducing the plan are to March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 provide incentives to MTPC directors and executive officers to strive for sustained growth Share price ¥974.2 ¥954.7 of the MTPC group and enhance mediumto long-term corporate value, as well as raise management team morale. These objectives will be achieved by sharing with shareholders Share price volatility (note 1) 32.917% 31.808% not only the benefits of rises in MTPC’s share price but also the risk of share price decline. Expected period (note 2) 4.52years 3.98years MTPC has adopted a Board Incentive Plan (BIP) trust as the structure for the plan. Under Expected dividends (note 3) ¥20 per share ¥32 per share the plan, MTPC shares are acquired through the trust using money contributed by MTPC Risk-free interest rate (note 4) (0.070)% (0.102)% as the source of funds. In accordance with “Rules relating to grant of shares” established by MTPC, from the date of commencement of the plan, points (1 point = 1 share) are Notes: 1. Calculated based on the daily share price over the past 4.52 years and 3.98 years for the fiscal years granted to MTPC directors and executive officers each year on the final day of the fiscal ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. year during the period in which the plan applies. Vesting conditions include the requirement 2. Using a period up to the expected average exercise time from the grant date. that the recipient is a current office holder as an MTPC director or executive officer, and 3. Based on the latest dividends for each fiscal year. points are granted according to office held and the degree of achievement of performance 4. The yield on Japanese government bonds for the expected period. targets. In principle, when MTPC directors and executive officers retire from office, by carrying out the prescribed beneficiary vesting procedures, they are able to receive shares of the Company, with the number of shares corresponding to the number of points granted. (4) Share-Based Compensation Expenses The plan is accounted for as equity-settled share-based compensation. Stock option-related expenses were ¥ 144 million and ¥149 million in the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and were posted in Selling, general and (2) Number of Points Granted during the Period and Weighted Average Fair Value of Points administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The number of points granted during the period and weighted average fair value of points For stock options that do not have vesting conditions, bulk expenses are applied at the are as follows. The fair value on the day points were granted uses the share price on that time of grant. day since the share price on the day of grant is a close approximation of fair value. 2. Share-Based Compensation Plans using Board Incentive Plan Trusts of the Year ended Year ended Company and Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 (1) Details of Share-Based Compensation Plans Number of points granted 15,259 11,975 during the period In the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company and Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Weighted average fair value of 2,582 2,532 began offering performance-based share compensation plans (“the Plans”) to executive points (yen) officers and directors (excluding non-residents of Japan, the same applying hereafter) and the president & CEO of Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation and to directors and executives (3) Share-Based Compensation Expenses concurrently serving as executive officers (excluding nonresidents of Japan; executive Stock option-related expenses were ¥41 million and ¥33 million in the years ended March officers and directors collectively referred to as executive officers below). 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively. These expenses were presented within Selling, general The Plans cover five consecutive fiscal years (initially, three through the fiscal year and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. ending March 2021) that correspond to the period covered by the Company’s medium-term management plan. Based on assessments of progress toward corporate performance 56 57 143 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 144 Financial Information Note 27 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Retirement Benefits The Company's consolidated subsidiaries maintain lump-sum retirement and retirement Millions of yen benefit plans. The retirement benefit plans are defined benefit (fundand contract-type) and Year ended Year ended defined contribution plans. Some consolidated subsidiaries also maintain welfare pension March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 plans. Outstanding at the beginning of the period ¥630,280 ¥613,261 Current service cost 18,974 19,091 1. Defined Benefit Plans Interest expense 4,952 4,477 The defined benefit plans of the Company's consolidated subsidiaries are mainly cash Remeasurements: balance pension plans. Benefits under these plans are based on such conditions as years of Actuarial gains and losses arising from (1,396) 41 service, points gained from results and contributions during employment. Investment yields changes in demographic assumptions are determined after taking into consideration the yields of 10-year national government Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (2,257) 5,466 bonds. Other (605) 1,349 Cash balance pension plans are managed by corporate pension funds that are legally Benefits paid (41,913) (37,797) separated from the consolidated subsidiaries of the Company pursuant to Japan's Defined Prior service cost 5,482 31 Benefit Corporate Pension Plan Act. Consolidated subsidiaries, or pension fund directors, Acquisitions through business combinations — 12,817 and pension investment management institutions are legally required to accord top priority to Exchange differences on translation of foreign plan participants, and must manage plan assets based on prescribed policies. operations (256) (1,597) Contract-type cash balance plans are run in line with Bureau of Health and WelfareOutstanding at the end of the period ¥613,261 ¥617,139 approved pension provisions. The management and operation of reserve funds is through contracts with trust banks and other entrusted management institutions on the basis of duty Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: of care and damages stipulations for trustees. Millions of yen Funded cash balance pension plans are run by corporate pension funds. If fund directors Year ended Year ended neglect to faithfully discharge their duties concerning reserve management and operations, March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 they assume liability for fund damages. Outstanding at the beginning of the period ¥531,840 ¥529,998 Interest income 4,254 3,913 Defined benefit plan amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as Remeasurements: follows: Return on plan assets 27,194 629 Contributions by the employer 10,380 13,563 Millions of yen Benefits paid (38,272) (32,429) As of March 31, As of March 31, 2018 2019 Acquisitions through business combinations — 5,275 Present value of the defined benefit obligation ¥613,261 ¥617,139 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (5,398) 764 Fair value of the plan assets (529,998) (521,713) Outstanding at the end of the period ¥529,998 ¥521,713 Net defined benefit liabilities ¥ 83,263 ¥ 95,426 Retirement benefit liabilities ¥110,639 ¥120,816 Retirement benefit assets (27,376) (25,390) The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate present values of defined benefit Net defined benefit liabilities ¥ 83,263 ¥ 95,426 obligations are as follows: For defined benefit plans, amounts recognized as expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income are as follows: As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Discount rate 0.64% 0.57% Millions of yen Year ended Year ended In the event of a 0.5% increase or decrease in the discount rate, the principal actuarial March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 assumption, the impact on the present value of defined benefit obligation as of March 31, Current service cost ¥18,974 ¥19,091 2018 and 2019 would be as follows. This sensitivity analysis assumes that all actuarial Prior service cost 5,482 31 assumptions other than that subject to analysis are held constant. Interest expense 4,952 4,477 Interest income (4,254) (3,913) Millions of yen Total ¥25,154 ¥19,686 As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Increase by 0.5% ¥(32,970) ¥(33,558) Decrease by 0.5% 25,902 21,757 Note: The discount rate is determined by referring to yields on high-quality bonds with maturities similar to periods in which benefits are anticipated. The sensitivity analysis is therefore based on a minimum reasonable discount rate of 0%. 58 59 145 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 146 Financial Information The fair value of plan assets are as follows: retirement. Some domestic consolidated subsidiaries have established retirement benefits trusts. As of March 31, 2018 The weighted average durations of defined benefit plan obligations as of March 31, 2018 Millions of yen and March 31, 2019 were13.1 years and 10.8 years, respectively. Fair value with Fair value without quoted prices in quoted prices in Total 2. Defined Contribution and Public Plans active markets active markets Amounts recognized as expenses under defined contribution and public plans are as Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 25,424 ¥ — ¥ 25,424 follows: Equity instruments Domestic equities 42,568 — 42,568 Millions of yen Foreign equities 31,401 — 31,401 Year ended Year ended Other — 76,579 76,579 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Debt instruments Defined contribution plan cost ¥ 6,662 ¥ 8,451 Domestic bonds 9,043 — 9,043 Public plan cost 20,075 24,821 Foreign bonds 39,077 — 39,077 Other — 167,690 167,690 Note 28 General accounts of life insurance companies — 97,564 97,564 Provisions The breakdowns and schedule of provisions are as follows: Other — 40,652 40,652 Total ¥147,513 ¥382,485 ¥529,998 Year ended March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Millions of yen Fair value with Asset Provision for Fair value without Provision for quoted prices in quoted prices in Total retirement environmental Other Total litigation active markets active markets obligations measures Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 15,601 ¥ — ¥ 15,601 As of April 1, 2017 ¥15,584 ¥7,961 ¥2,425 ¥5,105 ¥31,075 Equity instruments Domestic equities Arising during the year 1,412 1,401 3,399 7,166 13,378 37,550 — 37,550 Foreign equities 33,413 — 33,413 Interest cost associated 201 12 — — 213 Other — 101,119 101,119 with passage of time Debt instruments Utilized (97) (775) (2,309) (911) (4,092) Domestic bonds 8,766 — 8,766 Unused amounts reversed (205) (28) (45) (1,778) (2,056) Foreign bonds 25,256 — 25,256 Other — 168,237 168,237 Exchange differences on (24) — (4) (159) (187) General accounts of life insurance translation of foreign companies — 103,260 103,260 operations Other — 28,511 28,511 Other (168) — — 12 (156) Total ¥120,586 ¥401,127 ¥521,713 As of March 31, 2018 ¥16,703 ¥8,571 ¥3,466 ¥9,435 ¥38,175 The Company's consolidated subsidiaries secure the total investment returns required Current liabilities ¥137 ¥ — ¥1,207 ¥6,119 ¥ 7,463 within an acceptable range of risk to sufficiently fund payments of pension benefits and lump-sum payments, and endeavor to minimize long-term contributions and amass Non-current liabilities 16,566 8,571 2,259 3,316 30,712 financing for payments of benefits. Total ¥16,703 ¥8,571 ¥3,466 ¥9,435 ¥38,175 To achieve targeted rates of return, management sets percentages of policy assets based on mediumto long-term perspectives, reviewing them regularly, and endeavors to maximize returns in keeping with risk assumptions. Standard and special contributions to defined benefit plans cover the expenses necessary to provide benefits. In keeping with laws and regulations, the Company regularly recalculates pension financing to balance pension funding for the future. The recalculations review basal rates (including projected mortality, withdrawal, and interest rates) related to setting contributions, and validating premiums. Scheduled contributions to plan assets for the year ending March 31, 2020 are ¥16,200 million. The Company's consolidated subsidiaries may pay premium benefits to employees on 60 61 147 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 148 Financial Information Year ended March 31, 2019 (3) Reserve for HCV Litigation Millions of yen To provide for losses that may arise in the future from a settlement of lawsuits filed by Provision for plaintiffs infected with HCV (hepatitis C virus), MTPC has set aside an estimated amount Asset Provision for environmental for payments related to such settlement based on estimates of the number of people retirement Other Total litigation measures receiving relief and the amount of relief payments required under a law which stipulates obligations that relief be provided to people who contacted hepatitis C from specific fibrinogen As of April 1, 2018 ¥16,703 ¥8,571 ¥3,466 ¥9,435 ¥38,175 products or specific coagulation factor IX products. Arising during the year 1,414 992 1,054 7,065 10,525 Reserve for environmental measures Interest cost associated 557 12 — 57 626 The Company records estimated losses to cover future losses from construction and with passage of time environmental remediation activities. These expenses are expected to be paid after one Utilized (146) (1,974) (1,462) (5,665) (9,247) year or more; however, they may be affected by future business plans. Unused amounts reversed (139) — — (2,672) (2,811) Exchange differences on Note 29 427 — 3 108 538 translation of foreign operations Bonds and The breakdown of bonds and borrowings is as follows: Other (878) — — (338) (1,216) Borrowings Millions of yen As of March 31, 2019 ¥17,938 ¥7,601 ¥3,061 ¥7,990 ¥36,590 As of March 31, As of March 31, Current liabilities ¥29 ¥ — ¥ 841 ¥7,426 ¥ 8,296 2018 2019 Short-term borrowings ¥ 349,641 ¥ 771,340 Non-current liabilities 17,909 7,601 2,220 564 28,294 Current portion of long-term borrowings 116,025 180,873 Total ¥17,938 ¥7,601 ¥3,061 ¥7,990 ¥36,590 Commercial paper 24,000 68,000 Current portion of bonds 65,000 60,000 Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables 22,410 24,322 Asset retirement obligations Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables of 3,778 4,108 The Company covers recovery obligations for the rental real estate of the Group by subsidiaries recording projected payments based on historical amounts. These expenses are expected Bonds 320,000 392,065 to be paid after one year or more; however, they may be affected by future business plans. Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to 148,027 148,403 shares Reserves for Possible Losses in Connection with Litigation Long-term borrowings 557,241 597,640 Reserves for possible losses in connection with litigation are set aside for payments to Total ¥1,606,122 ¥2,246,751 settle lawsuits and in preparation for payments that may arise in the future. The main Current liabilities ¥580,854 ¥1,108,643 provisions for loss on litigation are as follows: Non-current liabilities 1,025,268 1,138,108 Total ¥1,606,122 ¥2,246,751 (1) Reserve for Health Management Allowances for HIV Compensation To provide for future payments of health management allowances and settlement Bonds and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. payments (including attorney fees) in connection with a lawsuit for damages filed by plaintiffs infected with HIV, the consolidated subsidiary, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma The average interest rates for shortand long-term borrowings as of March 31, 2018 Corporation (MTPC) has set aside an estimated amount for such future payments. were 1.001% and 1.493%, respectively. In accordance with the finalization of the settlement concluded in March 1996, The average interest rates for shortand long-term borrowings as of March 31, 2019 regarding the health management allowances, the present value of the estimated amounts were 0.736% and 1.585%, respectively. to be paid in the future calculated based on the actual payment record up to the present Repayment terms for long-term borrowings are from 2019 to 2059. time for AIDS patients who have reached a settlement is recognized. Regarding settlements, the corresponding estimated amounts calculated based on the actual Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables are liabilities for transfers that do not meet settlements record up to the present time for HIV plaintiffs as of March 31, 2019 and HIVthe criteria for derecognition as financial assets. infected patients due to anti-haemophilia preparations (unheated concentrate) who have Borrowings by consolidated subsidiaries from trade receivable transfers are liabilities not filed lawsuits are recognized. related to transfers to consolidated subsidiaries. (2) Reserve for Health Management Allowances for Sub-acute Myelo-Optical Neuropathy (SMON) Compensation MTPC has made a provision in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for the estimated future medical treatment payments to be made over the remaining lives of the parties entitled to such payments under the compromise settlement. 63 64 149 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 150 Financial Information The breakdown of bonds is as follows: Assets pledged as collateral and collateralized obligations are as follows: Millions of yen Assets pledged as collateral Interest As of March 31, As of March 31, Millions of yen Note Name of bond Term rate 2018 2019 As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 1 2nd unsecured bond 2011-2021 1.204% ¥ 10,000 ¥ 10,000 1 4th unsecured bond 2012-2019 0.556% 10,000 10,000 Buildings and structures ¥ 6,595 ¥ 6,248 1 6th unsecured bond 2012-2019 0.665% 10,000 10,000 Machinery and vehicles 9,892 11,979 1 7th unsecured bond 2013-2018 0.615% 20,000 — Land 7,699 6,667 1 8th unsecured bond 2013-2020 0.948% 10,000 10,000 Other 1,402 763 1 9th unsecured bond 2013-2023 1.226% 10,000 10,000 Total ¥25,588 ¥25,657 1 10th unsecured bond 2013-2018 0.319% 10,000 — 1 11th unsecured bond 2013-2020 0.604% 15,000 15,000 1 12th unsecured bond 2013-2023 0.918% 15,000 15,000 1 13th unsecured bond 2014-2019 0.319% 25,000 25,000 1 14th unsecured bond 2014-2021 0.482% 15,000 15,000 1 15th unsecured bond 2014-2024 0.800% 15,000 15,000 Collateralized obligations 1 16th unsecured bond 2015-2022 0.433% 10,000 10,000 1 17th unsecured bond 2015-2025 0.755% 10,000 10,000 Millions of yen 1 18th unsecured bond 2015-2020 0.281% 20,000 20,000 As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 1 19th unsecured bond 2015-2022 0.476% 10,000 10,000 Trade payables ¥ 1,732 ¥ 389 1 20th unsecured bond 2015-2025 0.711% 10,000 10,000 Short-term borrowings 51 49 1 21st unsecured bond 2016-2021 0.120% 10,000 10,000 Current portion of long-term 1 22nd unsecured bond 2016-2026 0.320% 10,000 10,000 borrowings 1,857 1,486 1 23rd unsecured bond 2016-2036 0.850% 20,000 20,000 Long-term borrowings 5,778 6,882 1 24th unsecured bond 2018-2028 0.370% 15,000 15,000 1 25th unsecured bond 2018-2038 0.890% 15,000 15,000 Other 104 50 1 26th unsecured bond 2018-2028 0.410% — 12,000 Total ¥ 9,522 ¥ 8,856 1 27th unsecured bond 2018-2038 1.000% — 8,000 1 28th unsecured bond 2008-2048 1.380% — 5,000 2 37th unsecured bond 2008-2018 2.030% 20,000 — 2 38th unsecured bond 2009-2019 2.020% 10,000 10,000 Note 30 3 6th unsecured bond 2009-2019 1.940% 5,000 5,000 4 11th unsecured bond 2014-2019 0.319% 15,000 — Changes in Changes in liabilities relating to financing activities are as follows: 4 12th unsecured bond 2014-2021 0.558% 10,000 10,000 Liabilities 4 13th unsecured bond 2016-2021 0.140% 15,000 15,000 4 14th unsecured bond 2016-2026 0.390% 15,000 15,000 Relating to 5 1st series deferrable interest Financing Activities and callable unsecured 2019-2054 1.410% — 99,153 Year ended March 31, 2018 subordinated bonds 6 2nd series deferrable interest Millions of yen and callable unsecured 2019-2059 1.870% — 7,912 Long-term subordinated bonds Short-term Commercial paper borrowings Bonds (Note) borrowings Subtotal ¥385,000 ¥452,065 (Note) Zero coupon convertible bondAs of April 1, 2017 ¥356,713 ¥40,000 ¥754,377 ¥542,652 1 type bonds with subscription 2017-2022 0.196% 74,415 74,561 Cash flows 25,243 (16,000) (67,378) (10,172) rights to shares due 2022 Increase (decrease) Zero coupon convertible bonddue to transfer to 1 type bonds with subscription 2017-2024 0.312% 73,612 73,842 liabilities related directly associated (199) — (983) — rights to shares due 2024 with assets held for Subtotal 148,027 148,403 sale Total ¥533,027 ¥600,468 Changes from Notes: acquisition or loss of 1. These corporate bonds are issued by the Company. 2. These corporate bonds are issued by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, a domestic consolidated subsidiary. As control over (1,480) — 5 — of March 28, 2016, the Company began managing the bonds because the company took over them based on subsidiaries or other the absorption-type company split. businesses 3. This corporate bond is issued by Mitsubishi Plastic, Inc. (now Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation), a domestic Impact of foreign consolidated subsidiary. As of March 28, 2016, the Company began managing the bond because the company exchange rate (4,448) — (12,755) 547 took over it based on the absorption-type company split. fluctuations, etc. 4. These corporate bonds are issued by Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation, a domestic consolidated subsidiary. 5. These corporate bonds are issued by Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation, a domestic consolidated subsidiary. A As of March 31, ¥375,829 ¥24,000 ¥673,266 ¥533,027 fixed interest rate from the day following January 29, 2019 to January 29, 2024 and a variable interest rate from 2018 the day following January 29, 2024 (with a step-up in the interest rate scheduled for January 30, 2024). 6. These corporate bonds are issued by Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation, a domestic consolidated subsidiary. A Note: Including amounts due or scheduled for redemption within one year. fixed interest rate from the day following January 29, 2019 to January 29, 2029 and a variable interest rate from the day following January 29, 2029 (with a step-up in the interest rate scheduled for January 30, 2029). Assets pledged as collateral and collateralized obligations are as follows: Assets pledged as collateral 64 66 151 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 152 Financial Information Year ended March 31, 2019 2. Operating Lease (Lessee) Future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating lease contracts are as Millions of yen follows: Long-term Short-term Commercial paper borrowings Bonds (Note) borrowings Millions of yen (Note) As of March 31, As of March 31, As of April 1, 2018 ¥375,829 ¥24,000 ¥673,266 ¥533,027 2018 2019 Cash flows 428,298 44,000 90,228 67,036 Increase (decrease) Due within one year ¥11,795 ¥14,638 due to transfer to Due after one year and not later than five years 18,788 24,504 liabilities related 8,526 9,578 directly associated (400) — — — Later than five years with assets held for Total ¥39,109 ¥48,720 sale Changes from In the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, lease fees recognized as expenses were acquisition or loss of control over 841 — 5,978 — ¥18,318 million and ¥22,154 million, respectively. subsidiaries or other businesses Impact of foreign Note 33 exchange rate (4,798) — 9,041 405 fluctuations, etc. As of March 31, Other Liabilities The breakdown of other liabilities is as follows: ¥799,770 ¥68,000 ¥778,513 ¥600,468 2019 Note: Including amounts due or scheduled for redemption within one year. Millions of yen Note 31 As of March 31, As of March 31, 2018 2019 Employees’ bonuses ¥ 48,778 ¥ 48,537 Other Financial The breakdown of other financial liabilities is as follows: Employees’ paid leave related obligations 31,753 35,646 Liabilities Advances received 12,806 14,243 Millions of yen Accrued consumption taxes 15,163 12,319 As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Deferred income from out-licensing agreements 4,464 3,777 Accounts payable-other ¥ 115,030 ¥ 124,855 Accrued expenses 64,161 75,174 Social insurance premiums received 4,918 6,199 Lease obligations 17,334 16,329 Other 47,240 59,339 Deposits 8,169 8,699 Total ¥165,122 ¥180,060 Other 25,688 24,075 Current liabilities ¥127,108 ¥138,089 Total ¥230,382 ¥249,132 Non-current liabilities 38,014 41,971 Current liabilities ¥201,208 ¥222,377 Non-current liabilities 29,174 26,755 Total ¥165,122 ¥180,060 Total ¥230,382 ¥249,132 Note 34 Other financial liabilities are mainly classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Trade Payables Trade payables are as follows: Millions of yen Note 32 As of March 31, As of March 31, 2018 2019 Accounts payable ¥488,592 ¥492,404 Lease 1. Finance Leases (Lessee) Transactions Future minimum lease payments and the present value of future minimum lease payments are as follows: Trade payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Total Total future Future Present future Future Present minimum finance value minimum finance value lease costs lease costs payments payments Due within one year ¥ 3,741 ¥ (205) ¥ 3,536 ¥ 3,849 ¥ (184) ¥ 3,665 Due after one year and not later than five years 8,782 (621) 8,161 7,711 (403) 7,308 Later than five years 5,795 (158) 5,637 5,444 (88) 5,356 Total ¥18,318 ¥ (984) ¥17,334 ¥17,004 ¥ (675) ¥16,329 67 68 153 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 154 Financial Information Note 35 Millions of yen Year ended Year ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Financial 1. Capital Management Outstanding at the beginning of the period ¥5,811 ¥6,713 Instruments Under the APTSIS 20 medium-term management plan (fiscal 2016 to 2020), which Addition 2,277 5,465 commenced from the year ended March 31, 2017, the Group aims to become a fastDecrease (intended use) (434) (1,462) growing, highly profitable corporate entity through its business domains in Performance Decrease (reversal) (818) (699) Products, Health Care and Industrial Materials. The Company aims to balance efforts to Other (123) (210) invest in growth business, bolster shareholder returns, and reinforce its financial position Outstanding at the end of the period ¥6,713 ¥9,807 and thereby enhance enterprise value. Key benchmarks are core operating income, core operating income return on sales, net income attributable to owners of the parent, return on equity, and the net debt-to-equity ratio. The maximum exposure to the credit risks of financial assets is the carrying amount after impairment presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The Group holds real estate, securities, etc. as collateral for receivables against certain As of or year As of or year customers. ended ended Maximum exposure on credit risk of financial guarantee contracts is the amount of March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 guarantee obligations etc. described in Note 39 Contingent Liabilities . Return on Equity (ROE) (Note 1) 17.8% 12.7% Net D/E ratio (Note 2) 0.89 1.26 4. Liquidity Risk Notes: The Group's trade payables obligations and borrowings are exposed to liquidity risk. The 1. Net income attributable to owners of the parent / equity attributable to owners of the parent (averages of Group manages this risk by producing cash plan and ensuring liquidity by maintaining beginning and end of fiscal years) commitment lines with several financial institutions. 2. Net interest-bearing debt*1 / equity attributable to owners of the parent (end of fiscal years) *1Net interest-bearing debt = Interest-bearing debt (cash and cash equivalents + cash reserves*2) Outstanding financial liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) by fiscal year are *2 Cash reserves comprise certificates of deposits, securities, and other instruments other than cash equivalents that the Group holds to manage surplus funds. as follows: 2. Financial Risk Management As of March 31, 2018 The Group is exposed to financial risks in the course of doing business in an array of fields Millions of yen around the world. It manages risks based on certain policies to reduce or avoid such risks. Due after Due after Due after Due after The policy with derivatives transactions is to restrict their use to actual demand. The Group Carrying Contractual Due within one year two years three years four years Due after does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. The relevant officers are amount cash flow one year through through through through five years informed about contract balances, fair value, and other elements of these transactions based two years three years four years five years on internal regulations for transaction authority and limits. Non-derivative financial liabilities: 3. Credit Risk Trade payables ¥488,592 ¥488,592 ¥488,592 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — The Group is exposed to customer credit risk for trade and other receivables acquired in the Short-term course of business. The securities that the Group holds are exposed to the credit risk of 375,829 375,829 375,829 — — — — — borrowings issuers. Derivatives transactions that the Group conducts to hedge financial risks are Commercial 24,000 24,000 24,000 — — — — — exposed to the credit risks of counterparty financial institutions. paper In keeping with its credit management rules, the Group regularly monitors the trade Bonds 533,027 535,000 65,000 60,000 55,000 125,000 20,000 210,000 Long-term receivables and long-term loans of major customers, oversees due dates and balances for 673,266 673,523 116,542 174,551 108,564 68,883 54,454 150,529 borrowings each counterparty, and endeavors to swiftly identify and mitigate collections concerns arising Accounts from deteriorating financial positions. The Group only invests in bonds with high ratings, so 115,030 115,030 115,030 — — — — — payable-other credit risk is inconsequential. Derivatives transactions are only entered into with financial Accrued 64,161 64,161 64,161 — — — — — institutions with high credit ratings to minimize credit risk from nonperformance by expenses counterparties. The Group prevents excessive concentrations of credit risk through special Others 50,830 51,557 23,139 4,951 3,222 2,314 1,269 16,662 Derivative management procedures. liabilities: At the end of the fiscal year, the Group recognizes impairment losses based on historical Foreign rates to the Allowance for doubtful accounts, for significant uncollectible financial assets, and exchange ¥ 105 ¥ 105 ¥ 105 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — for insignificant financial assets. The Allowance for doubtful accounts relating to such assets forward is included in Trade receivables and Other financial assets in the Consolidated Statement of contracts Currency Financial Position. 24 24 4 4 4 4 2 6 swaps Interest rate Changes in the Allowance for doubtful accounts, measured at amounts equivalent to swaps 232 238 153 72 7 — — 6 projected losses for the entire period, are as follows. There were no significant differences between projected 12-month credit losses on loans and the projected credit losses for the entire period. 68 69 155 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 156 Financial Information As of March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Year ended Year ended Millions of yen March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Due after Due after Due after Due after U.S. dollar (1% appreciation of yen) ¥(100) ¥(388) Carrying Contractual Due within one year two years three years four years Due after amount cash flow one year through through through through five years Euro (1% appreciation of yen) (30) 118 two years three years four years five years Non-derivative financial 6. Interest Rate Risk liabilities: Interest rate risk within the Group arises from interest-bearing debt net of cash equivalents. Trade payables ¥492,404 ¥492,404 ¥492,404 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — The Group raises funds needed to do business and make capital investments through Short-term 799,770 799,770 799,770 — — — — — borrowings and the issuance of corporate bonds. Borrowings and corporate bonds with borrowings floating rates are exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk. Commercial 68,000 68,000 68,000 — — — — — The Group uses derivatives transactions (interest rate swaps) to hedge against interest rate paper Bonds 600,468 603,000 60,000 55,000 125,000 20,000 100,000 243,000 fluctuation risk. Long-term 778,513 780,598 181,298 114,325 84,036 64,495 96,187 240,257 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis borrowings Accounts 124,855 124,855 124,855 — — — — — In the event the interest rate on financial instruments that the Group holds at the end of each payable-other fiscal year increases by 100 basis points, the impact on income before taxes in the Accrued Consolidated Statement of Income would be as follows: 75,174 75,174 75,174 — — — — — expenses Others 48,964 49,638 23,715 4,253 2,447 1,626 1,215 16,382 The analysis is for financial instruments affected by interest rate fluctuations and Derivative assumes that other factors, including the impacts of foreign exchange fluctuations, are held liabilities: constant. Foreign exchange ¥ 38 ¥ 38 ¥ 38 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Millions of yen forward contracts Year ended Year ended Currency March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 4 4 1 1 1 1 — — swaps Income before taxes ¥(1,607) ¥(3,300) Interest rate 89 84 75 9 — — — — swaps Others 8 8 8 — — — — — 7. Market Price Fluctuation Risk The Group's securities holdings are exposed to market price fluctuation risk. For financial guarantee agreements, maximum amounts based on performance requests are With respect to securities, the Group regularly reviews the fair value and financial the outstanding guaranteed liabilities described in Note 39 Contingent Liabilities. positions of issuers (business partners), and constantly reviews holdings by taking into account its relationships with business partners. 8. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial instruments are classified into the following three-level fair value hierarchy: The total commitment line and borrowing balance is as follows: Millions of yen Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Level 2: Valuations measured by direct or indirect observable inputs other than Level 1 Total commitment line ¥131,162 ¥131,589 Level 3: Valuations measured by significant unobservable inputs Borrowing balance 7,437 7,769 Unused balance ¥123,725 ¥123,820 Whether any financial instruments are determined to have been transferred between levels is considered at year-end. There were no significant transfers between levels in the We are also diversifying funding, notably by obtaining uncommitment-based overdraft years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019. facilities with several financial institutions and by securing frameworks to issue commercial paper or register corporate bond issues. (1) Financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: 5. Foreign Exchange Risk Foreign currency denominated receivables and payables from the Group's global operations As of March 31, 2018 are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuation risk. The Group uses foreign exchange forward Millions of yen contracts and currency swaps as needed to hedge against the foreign currency risk Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total associated with such receivables and payables. Assets Foreign Exchange Sensitivity Analysis Stocks and ¥127,192 ¥ — ¥73,155 ¥200,347 If the yen at the end of the fiscal year was 1% higher against the U.S. dollar and the euro for investments Stocks and the foreign currency denominated financial instruments that the Group held at the year end, investments held for 317 — 89 406 the impact on income before taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Income would be as sale follows. Derivatives — 1,618 — 1,618 This analysis is based on multiplying each currency risk exposure by 1%, based on the Total ¥127,509 ¥1,618 ¥73,244 ¥202,371 assumption that other variables (including other foreign exchange rates and interest rates) are held constant. Liabilities Derivatives ¥ — ¥ 361 ¥ — ¥ 361 Total ¥ — ¥ 361 ¥ — ¥ 361 70 72 157 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 158 Financial Information (2) Financial instruments measured at amortized cost As of March 31, 2019 The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the financial instruments measured at Millions of yen amortized cost are as follows: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets As of March 31, 2018 Stocks and Millions of yen ¥108,249 ¥ — ¥84,164 ¥192,413 investments Carrying Fair value Stocks and amounts Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total investments held for 449 — 9 458 Assets: sale Debt securities ¥ 31,710 ¥ — ¥ 702 ¥30,960 ¥ 31,662 Derivatives — 258 — 258 Total ¥ 31,710 ¥ — ¥ 702 ¥30,960 ¥ 31,662 Total ¥108,698 ¥ 258 ¥84,173 ¥193,129 Liabilities: Liabilities Long-term borrowings ¥ 673,266 ¥ — ¥ 672,380 ¥ — ¥ 672,380 Derivatives ¥ — ¥ 139 ¥ — ¥ 139 Bonds 533,027 — 539,649 — 539,649 Total ¥1,206,293 ¥ — ¥1,212,029 ¥ — ¥1,212,029 Total ¥ — ¥ 139 ¥ — ¥ 139 Stocks and investments As of March 31, 2019 The fair value of marketable shares classified as Level 1 is based on unadjusted Millions of yen quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Carrying Fair value The fair value of Level 3 unlisted shares and investments for which quoted prices amounts Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total in active markets are unavailable is calculated by using reasonably available inputs Assets: through similar company comparisons or other appropriate valuation techniques. Debt securities ¥ 30,000 ¥ — ¥ — ¥29,982 ¥ 29,982 Illiquidity discounts are added as needed. Total ¥ 30,000 ¥ — ¥ — ¥29,982 ¥ 29,982 Liabilities: Derivative assets and liabilities Long-term borrowings ¥ 778,513 ¥ — ¥ 793,472 ¥ — ¥ 793,472 The fair value of Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities is based on such observable Bonds 600,468 — 609,081 — 609,081 inputs as prices provided by counterparty financial institutions or exchange and Total ¥1,378,981 ¥ — ¥1,402,553 ¥ — ¥1,402,553 interest rates and such like. The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost, other The fair value of Level 3 financial instruments is calculated by valuation specialists than debt securities, long-term borrowings and bonds presented in the tables above, are determining valuation methods for each relevant financial instrument in accordance approximately the same as the fair values of such financial assets and liabilities. with valuation policies and procedures that include valuation methods for fair value calculations approved by suitably authorized personnel Debt securities The fair value of Level 1 bonds is based on the market price. Changes in Level 3 financial instruments are as follows: The fair value of Level 2 bonds is based on prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. Millions of yen The fair value of Level 3 subordinated and other bonds is calculated with reference to Year ended Year ended prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Balance at beginning of period ¥81,875 ¥73,244 Long-term borrowings Other comprehensive income (Note) (1,346) 13,354 The fair value of Level 2 long-term loans is based on the present value, calculated by Purchases 1,345 1,794 discounting the total principal and interest by the interest rate assumed for similar new Sales or redemptions (4,379) (3,582) borrowings. Others (4,251) (637) Balance at end of period ¥73,244 ¥84,173 Bonds Note: Included in “Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income The fair value of Level 2 corporate bonds is based on the market price. 9. Transfers of Financial Assets The Group transfers some operating receivables to a business entity comprising third-party financial institutions. The entity operates as part of these institutions and purchases a large amount of assets from customers other than those of the Group, so trade receivables that the Group transferred constitute a small proportion of the entity's total assets. The relevance of the Group to the assessment of exposure to the risks of this entity is therefore low. (1) Transfers of financial assets that are not derecognized overall As of March 31, 2018 and 2019, Trade receivables included ¥19,337 million and ¥20,097 million, respectively, of trade receivables that were transferred without satisfying financial asset derecognition requirements. Bonds and borrowings included ¥22,410 million and ¥24,322 million in transfers. These fair values approximate their carrying values. The net positions mainly stem from differences in periods for retained portions relating to sales of 73 trade receivables and deposits of trade receivables and repayments of borrowings. 74 159 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 160 Financial Information If debtors defaulted on these trade receivables, the Group would be deemed to hold most The principal rates on forward exchange contracts and currency swap transactions and the of the risks and economic value of ownership of the transferred assets, as payment principal rates on payments under interest rate swaps are as follows: obligations would revert to the Group. Millions of yen (2) Transfers of financial assets that are derecognized overall As of March 31, As of March 31, In the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019, expenses arising from transfers of trade 2018 2019 receivables that were derecognized in their entirety were ¥156 million and ¥224 million, Cash flow hedges respectively. Foreign exchange risk: Foreign exchange forward contracts 10. Derivative Transactions U.S. dollars ¥103.36-112.13 ¥107.13-111.82 (1) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is applied Euros ¥130.41-132.96 ¥124.43-131.48 Interest rate risk The analysis of contract amounts of derivative transactions by due dates is as follows: Interest rate swaps Pay fixed rate, receive floating rate 0.23%-2.30% 0.23%-2.30% As of March 31, 2018 Interest rate currency swaps Millions of yen Pay fixed rate, receive floating rate 0.59% — Due after Due after Due after Due after two years three Amounts for derivatives designated as hedges are as follows: Contract Due within one year four years Due after through years amount one year through through five years three through two years five years years four years As of March 31, 2018 Cash flow Millions of yen hedges Change in fair value Carrying amount Items in Foreign of hedged item used Contract Consolidated exchange risk: as the basis for amount Statement of Foreign Assets Liabilities recognizing hedge Financial Position exchange ineffectiveness ¥11,888 ¥11,849 ¥ 39 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Cash flow hedges forward contracts Foreign exchange risk: Interest rate Other financial risk: Foreign exchange assets Interest rate ¥ 11,888 ¥ 146 ¥ 99 ¥ 894 81,166 18,509 58,352 2,272 272 272 1,489 forward contracts Other financial swaps liabilities Interest rate Interest rate risk: currency 14,000 14,000 — — — — — Other financial swaps assets Others 221 221 — — — — — Interest rate swaps 81,166 248 232 Other financial 805 liabilities Interest rate currency Other financial 14,000 1,180 — (761) swaps assets As of March 31, 2019 Other financial Others 221 15 — 22 Millions of yen assets Due after Due after Due after Due after two years three Contract Due within one year four years Due after through years amount one year through through five years As of March 31, 2019 three through two years five years Millions of yen years four years Change in fair value Cash flow Carrying amount Items in of hedged item used hedges Contract Consolidated as the basis for Foreign amount Statement of Assets Liabilities recognizing hedge exchange risk: Financial Position ineffectiveness Foreign Cash flow hedges exchange ¥5,436 ¥4,766 ¥ 670 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Foreign exchange risk: forward contracts Other financial Foreign exchange assets Interest rate ¥ 5,436 ¥ 46 ¥ 27 ¥ (28) risk: forward contracts Other financial liabilities Interest rate 63,893 60,332 2,284 284 284 284 425 Interest rate risk: swaps Others 292 292 — — — — — Other financial assets Interest rate swaps 63,893 158 89 53 Other financial liabilities Interest rate currency Other financial — — — (1,180) swaps assets Other financial Others 292 — 8 (23) assets 75 75 161 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 162 Financial Information Amounts for items designated as hedges are as follows: Year ended March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Millions of yen Consolidated As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Consolidated Statement of Change in fair Change in fair Changes in fair Ineffective Reclassification Statement of Income items value of hedged value of hedged value of hedges portions of adjustments Income items in which item used as the Cash flow item used as Cash flow recognized in hedges from cash flow including profit ineffective basis for hedge the basis for hedge other recognized hedge reserve from portions of recognizing reserve recognizing reserve comprehensive in profit or to profit or loss reclassification hedges are hedge hedge income loss adjustments included in ineffectiveness ineffectiveness profit or loss Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange risk: Foreign Planned to purchase ¥ (894) ¥ 55 ¥ 28 ¥ 54 exchange risk: Foreign Interest rate risk: exchange Interest on borrowings (44) 87 1,127 95 forward ¥(2,960) ¥— ¥— ¥(124) Financial expenses Others (22) 31 23 38 contracts Others (199) — — — — Interest rate risk: The breakdown of cash flow hedges is as follows: Interest rate swaps 48 — — 61 Financial expenses Year ended March 31, 2018 Interest rate currency swaps (24) — — (832) Financial expenses Millions of yen Others (17) — — — — Consolidated Consolidated Statement of Changes in fair Ineffective Reclassification Statement of value of hedges portions of Income items adjustments Income items (2) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is not applied in which recognized in hedges from cash flow including profit Amounts relating to items not designated as hedges are as follows: ineffective other recognized hedge reserve from portions of comprehensive in profit or to profit or loss reclassification hedges are income loss adjustments As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 included in profit or loss Contract Over one Fair value Contract Over one Fair value amount year amount year Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange Foreign ¥ 5,075 ¥— ¥ (6) ¥ 7,250 ¥ — ¥ 1 exchange risk: forward contracts Foreign Currency swaps 795 623 5 626 458 38 exchange forward ¥ 594 ¥— ¥— ¥611 Financial expenses Total ¥ 5,870 ¥623 ¥ (1) ¥ 7,876 ¥458 ¥ 39 contracts Currency options 1,033 — — — — Interest rate risk: Interest rate swaps 557 — — 433 Financial expenses Interest rate currency swaps 65 — — 475 Financial expenses Others 29 — — — — 77 76 163 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 164 Financial Information Note 36 Summary Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Subsidiaries Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests are as follows: Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended 31, 2019 Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Pharma Sanso Pharma Sanso Percentage of non-controlling interest Corporation Corporation Corporation Corporation Name of subsidiary Location As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Sales revenue ¥433,855 ¥646,218 ¥424,767 ¥740,341 Mitsubishi Tanabe Net income 53,992 49,062 32,216 42,017 Pharma Corporation Japan, others 43.6% 43.6% Total Taiyo Nippon Sanso comprehensive 56,620 44,908 40,894 26,161 Corporation Japan, others 49.4% 49.4% income Summary Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Net income attributable to non-controlling interests of relevant subsidiaries and dividends paid to non-controlling interests are as follows: Millions of yen Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2019 Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Pharma Sanso Pharma Sanso Pharma Sanso Pharma Sanso Corporation Corporation Corporation Corporation Corporation Corporation Corporation Corporation Cash flows from Net income operating activities ¥66,943 ¥ 83,199 ¥41,460 ¥ 98,686 attributable to ¥21,335 ¥24,793 ¥10,714 ¥21,528 Cash flows from non-controlling investing activities (19,178) (52,088) (31,212) (754,969) interests Cash flows from Dividends paid to financing activities (32,501) (39,859) (25,869) 664,925 non-controlling 16,277 5,285 13,982 5,735 Effect of exchange interests rate changes on cash and cash (1,457) 1,841 531 3,128 Cumulative non-controlling interests of relevant subsidiaries are as follows: equivalents Millions of yen Net increase As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 (decrease) in cash and cash ¥13,807 ¥(6,907) ¥(15,090) ¥ 11,770 Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Pharma Sanso Pharma Sanso equivalents Corporation Corporation Corporation Corporation Cumulative noncontrolling interests ¥362,174 ¥208,239 ¥369,091 ¥ 219,605 amounts Note 37 Summary financial information on relevant subsidiaries is as follows. Summary financial Related Parties 1. Related Party Transactions information below is calculated based on the amounts before elimination in consolidation, Transactions with major related parties are as follows. For sales of goods and services, adjusting goodwill and other items recognized at the time of a business combination. the principal transactions are product sales, while the main transactions for goods purchases are purchases of raw materials. The terms for transactions with related Summary Consolidated Statements of Financial Position parties are similar to those of independent third-party transactions. Millions of yen Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2019 Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Mitsubishi Tanabe Taiyo Nippon Joint venture Associates Joint venture Associates Pharma Sanso Pharma Sanso Sales of goods Corporation Corporation Corporation Corporation ¥63,690 ¥27,081 ¥64,441 ¥37,058 and services Current assets ¥ 585,525 ¥ 278,302 ¥ 588,433 ¥ 347,143 Purchases of Non-current assets 433,672 742,942 438,606 1,508,420 goods and 22,978 41,068 23,138 45,824 services Total ¥1,019,197 ¥1,021,244 ¥1,027,039 ¥1,855,563 Current liabilities 98,193 221,087 91,699 719,177 Non-current liabilities 56,575 308,878 55,406 626,225 Total ¥ 154,768 ¥ 529,965 ¥ 147,105 ¥1,345,402 Equity 864,429 491,279 879,934 510,161 Total ¥1,019,197 ¥1,021,244 ¥1,027,039 ¥1,855,563 78 79 165 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 166 Financial Information Receivables and obligations to major related parties as a result of the above transactions Note 41 (Unaudited) are as follows: Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Litigation Court action for compensation by patients infected with HCV (hepatitis C virus) Joint venture Associates Joint venture Associates Consolidated subsidiary Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation was a codefendant with Receivables the Japanese government in damages lawsuits over blood products tainted with hepatitis C Accounts receivable ¥12,054 ¥8,734 ¥12,538 ¥ 9,658 virus. In September 2008, the defendants concluded a basic agreement with nationwide Others 2,501 507 509 2,145 plaintiff groups and their attorneys to resolve this case in response to the Act on Special Total ¥14,555 ¥9,241 ¥13,047 ¥11,803 Measures concerning the Payment of Benefits to Relieve the Victims of Hepatitis C Obligations Infected through Specified Fibrinogen Concentrates and Specified Coagulation Factor XI Accounts payable ¥ 4,265 ¥4,073 ¥3,467 ¥4,516 Concentrates. The plaintiffs began dropping litigation against the company, and in April 2009 the company decided to pay costs to the hepatitis C sufferers according to the Others 7 102 2 841 payment apportionment standards of the above act. Total ¥ 4,272 ¥4,175 ¥ 3,469 ¥5,357 Arbitration regarding GILENYA, the treatment for multiple sclerosis Remuneration for key Group executives is as follows: Consolidated subsidiary Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) has received a Millions of yen notice of request for arbitration from Novartis in February 2019. Novartis has asked the Year ended March 31, 2018 Year ended March 31, 2019 arbitral tribunal to rule that Novartis has no obligation to pay certain royalties, because Remuneration and bonuses ¥2,149 ¥1,952 some terms of the license agreement entered into with MTPC in 1997 are allegedly invalid. Share-based compensation 87 237 MTPC maintains it is entitled to receive the full royalty amounts due according to the Total ¥2,236 ¥2,189 license agreement with Novartis, and MTPC will rigorously pursue its rights in the arbitration. Note 38 Besides, given the arbitration proceeding, as for the part of “GILENYA Royalty” amounts that was not recognized as sales revenue in accordance with IFRS 15, those will Commitments Commitments relating to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible be recognized as revenue at the end of the arbitration, depending on the outcome of the assets are as follows: arbitration. Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets ¥143,540 ¥152,883 Note 39 Contingent Guarantee Obligations Liabilities Guarantees and similar undertakings for borrowings from joint ventures, associates and financial institutions of general business partners are as follows. Millions of yen As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 Joint ventures ¥9,400 ¥8,201 Associates 421 372 General business partners 641 361 Others 1,445 1,262 Total ¥11,907 ¥10,196 Note 40 Subsequent event Strategic Capital Partnership for Health Care-Related Businesses by Life Science Institute, Inc. On May 14, 2019, consolidated subsidiary Life Science Institute, Inc., agreed to form a strategic capital partnership with PHC Holdings Corporation, which engages in the health care business in Japan and overseas. Life Science Institute, Inc., will further expand its health care-related businesses exchanging all of its shares in LSI Medience Corporation with PHC Holdings Corporation to acquire a 13.72% stake in PHC Holdings Corporation. PHC Holdings Corporation and Life Science Institute, Inc., will plan to complete this share exchange, subject to competition law-related regulatory approval. 80 81 167 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 168 Financial Information 169 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 170 Financial Information 171 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 172 Financial Information 173 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 174 Non-Financial Information Indicators with this icon have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. for FY2018. Environmental Data The data for FY2015 covers the three operating companies (MCC, MTPC, and LSII), TNSC and their domestic Group Scope of data companies. The data from FY2016 to FY2018 covers these four operating companies and their domestic and overseas Group aggregation: companies. (Group companies are directly-owned consolidated subsidiaries.) Energy Consumption/ Greenhouse Gasses (GHG) *1 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 2 3 Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) (1,000 t-CO2e)* 12,054* 14,269 14,815 14,187 Scope 1 7,771 7,223 7,470 6,787 3 Scope 2 4,283* 7,046 7,345 7,400 Scope 3*4 43,240 54,370 49,640 49,260 5 3 Energy consumption (GWh) * 34,935* 38,950 40,977 39,126 *1 Energy used to produce electricity and steam sold externally and the resulting CO2 emissions were excluded from figures for FY2015 (CO2 emissions were excluded from Scope 2 emissions), but in conformity with the GHG protocol, they are not excluded starting in FY2016. *2 The emission factors specified in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures are used for the calculation of emissions in Japan. GHG emissions that are not subject to reporting under the Act are mostly calculated based on the mass balance of chemical reactions. Overseas Scope 1 emissions are calculated with the emission factors specified in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures or by the IPCC, and overseas Scope 2 emissions are calculated with power company-specific emission factors or country level emission factors for electricity published by the IEA. *3 The FY2015 results include GHG emissions of 1.65 million tons and energy consumption of 1,942 GWh by affiliate companies that are closely associated in terms of energy management, but the FY2016 results and thereafter exclude GHG emissions and energy consumption of these companies. *4 For the calculation method for Scope 3 GHG emissions, see page 3 of the non-financial data sheet on the MCHC website. *5 The unit higher heating values for fuels specified in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy or by the IPCC are used. Environmental Impact FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 NOx emissions (1,000 tons) 8.04 8.96 8.12 7.54 SOx emissions (1,000 tons) 3.08 4.77 4.42 3.81 6 COD emissions (1,000 tons) * 1.74 2.00 2.08 1.84 Total nitrogen emissions in water discharged (1,000 tons) *6 5.53 6.06 6.04 5.64 6 Total phosphorous emissions (1,000 tons) * 0.05 0.09 0.07 0.10 *6 Total COD emissions, total nitrogen emissions and total phosphorous emissions each show total volume of emissions discharged into rivers, lakes and oceans. Emissions into sewage systems are excluded. Water Use FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 3 water withdrawal (Million m ) (excluding seawater) 171 189 193 189 Social Data Constitution of Employees (MCHC Group) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of consolidated employees 68,988 69,291 69,230 72,020 Number of employees by district In Japan 44,858 44,034 43,406 43,709 Outside Japan 24,130 25,257 25,824 28,311 Aggregation period: Each fiscal year from April 1 to March 31, or as of March 31 Scope of data The figures show those employed by MCC, MTPC, TNSC and LSII (including those seconded to other companies but excluding aggregation: those seconded from other companies). Diversity / Work-Life Balance / Occupational Safety FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of employees 22,508 21,736 21,770 22,064 Number of employees by gender Male 19,194 18,459 18,440 18,578 Female 3,314 3,277 3,330 3,486 Percentage of females (%) 14.7 15.1 15.3 15.8 7 Percentage of female managers (%) * 7.1 7.7 8.0 8.6 Paid leave utilization rate (%) 66.8 67.6 65.4 71.1 8, 9 Lost-time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR) * * 0.48 0.30 0.26 0.99 *7 Percentage of female employees out of all employees at assistant manager level and above. *8 Scope of data aggregation: The data from FY2015 to FY2017 covers the figures from domestic operations of the four operating companies (MCC, MTPC, LSII and TNSC) and their Group companies with operating divisions active within Japan. The data for FY2018 covers these four operating companies and their domestic and overseas Group companies with operating divisions active. *9 The LTIFR is the number of lost-time injuries, illnesses and fatalities per million hours worked. 175 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 176 Corporate Data Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates (As of March 31, 2019) Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (As of March 31, 2019) Direct Investees Company Name Principal Businesses Paid-in Capital Equity Participation(%) Address of the head office 1-1 Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8251 Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Manufacture and marketing of chemical products ¥53.2 billion 100.0 Establishment October 3, 2005 Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals ¥50.0 billion 56.4 Paid-in capital ¥50.0 billion Healthcare solutions business and holding shares of Life Science Institute, Inc. ¥3.0 billion 100.0 companies that manage the said businesses, etc. Revenue (consolidated) ¥3,923.4 billion (FY2018) Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation Manufacture and marketing of industrial gases ¥37.3 billion 50.6 Number of employees (consolidated) 72,020 Indirect Investees Company Name Principal Business Paid-in Capital Equity Participation(%) Organizational Structure Performance Performance Products Segment Products Domain J-Film Corporation Manufacture and marketing of plastic films ¥1.2 billion 100.0 Holding Company Mitsubishi Chemical Infratec Manufacture and marketing of house and Formulation of Group strategies, optimal allocation of management ¥0.4 billion 100.0 Co., Ltd. building materials and infrastructure materials resources, supervision of business management and others Mitsubishi-Chemical Foods Manufacture and marketing of food and ¥0.5 billion 100.0 MCHC* Corporation pharmaceutical ingredients Mitsubishi Chemical Media Marketing of recording media and computer ¥4.1 billion 100.0 Co., Ltd. peripheral equipment Function-sharing companies Manufacture and marketing of electrolytes for MC Ionic Solutions US, Inc. U.S. $100 100.0 lithium-ion batteries Investigation into future societal issues and research for Mitsubishi Chemical Management of subsidiaries that engage in the proving solutions to those issues CHF28 million 100.0 100% Advanced Materials AG engineering plastic business The KAITEKI Institute Mitsubishi Chemical Performance Manufacture and marketing of thermoplastic U.S. $100 100.0 Overseas administrative representatives in North America, Europe and China Polymers, Inc. compounds and functional polyolefins 100% Mitsubishi Polyester Film, Inc. Manufacture and marketing of polyester film U.S. $100 100.0 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) 100% Industrial Chemicals Segment Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Europe Materials Kansai Coke and Chemicals Domain Manufacture and marketing of coke ¥6.0 billion 51.0 Common functions for accounting and financial affairs Co., Ltd. 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporate Staff Japan Polyethylene Corporation Manufacture and marketing of polyethylene ¥7.5 billion 58.0 Functions for partnering with and investment in startup companies 100% Japan Polypropylene Corporation Manufacture and marketing of polypropylene ¥11.8 billion 65.0 Diamond Edge Ventures Mitsubishi Chemical Lucite Group Management of subsidiaries that engage in the £111 million 100.0 Limited MMA business Operating companies Industrial Gases Segment Business operations in the three domains of Performance Products, Industrial Materials and Health Care JFE Sanso Center Corporation Manufacture and sale of industrial gases ¥0.09 billion 60.0 100% 56.4% 100% 50.6% NIPPON EKITAN Corporation Manufacture and marketing of industrial gases ¥0.6 billion 84.2 MCC MTPC* LSII TNSC* Nippon Gases Management of subsidiaries that engage in the 100 million 100.0 Euro-Holdings S.L.U. industrial gases business Paid-in capital Paid-in capital Paid-in capital Paid-in capital ¥53.229 billion ¥50.0 billion ¥3.0 billion ¥37.344 billion Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc. Manufacture and marketing of industrial gases U.S. $56 100.0 Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) ¥2,661.7 billion ¥424.8 billion ¥131.8 billion ¥740.3 billion Health Health Care Segment Business lines Business lines Business lines Business lines Care Manufacture and marketing of capsules for pharmaceuticals, health Domain Qualicaps Co., Ltd. ¥2.9 billion 100.0 Performance products, Healthcare and medical ICT, Industrial gases, related and nutrition foods, and pharmaceutical processing equipment Pharmaceuticals drug discovery solutions, industrial materials, and others equipment and facilities, Clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic and others and next-generation and others LSI Medience Corporation ¥3.0 billion 100.0 healthcare reagents and instruments, and drug discovery solutions Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Business domain Business domain Business domain Business domain Manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals ¥1.1 billion 100.0 Factory Ltd. Performance products Planning and execution of targets and strategies relating Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Health care Health care Industrial materials to development of the pharmaceutical business in the U.S. U.S. $167 100.0 Industrial materials Holdings America, Inc. and management of U.S. subsidiaries Mitsubishi Chemical Engineering Group companies Group companies Group companies Group companies Others Corporation Engineering and construction services ¥1.4 billion 100.0 Mitsubishi Chemical Logistics * Listed company Logistics and warehouse services ¥1.5 billion 100.0 Corporation (Quadrant AG changed corporate name to Mitsubishi Chemical Advanced Materials AG as of April 1, 2019) 177 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 178 Main Businesses Global Network (As of March 31, 2019) MCC Group MTPC Group LSII Group TNSC Group Main Businesses, Products and Services Main Uses Number of Subsidiaries and Number of Subsidiaries and Display businesses Affiliates (Japan) Affiliates (Outside Japan) Optical films 306 448 Information, Color resist Electronics Semiconductor businesses Electronics and Displays Optical clear adhesive sheet, Optical PVOH*1 film, High purity chemicals, High-performance Color resist cleaning agents Clearﬁt OPL ﬁlm Solution service High Food packaging materials Foods and household goods Total: 754 Performance Industrial-use films Industrial materials Films Food packaging film, Acrylic film, Moisture-proof PVC sheet for tablet DIAMIRON ACRYPLEN and capsule packaging, VINYFOIL Medical and sanitary films Medical care Aqua solutions Environment, infrastructure, household goods, medical care, foods Environment, energy, industrial-use chemicals, Environment Ion-exchange resins electronics, medical care, foods Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Europe GmbH and Living Separator and aqua chemicals Environment, electronics, medical care, foods Solutions Kasteler Strasse 45, 65203 Wiesbaden, Germany Water treatment components, Hydroponic system for leafy FRP*2 panel water tank, Agricultural solutions Agriculture equipment and facilities vegetables, Napperland HISHITANK TEL: [+49](0)611-962-6923 Infrastructure solutions Environment, infrastructure, industrial materials High-performance engineering plastics Automobiles, electronics, industrial materials, medical care Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Advanced Carbon fiber and composite materials Automobiles, aircraft, industrial materials, sporting goods Moldings and Alumina fibers Automobiles, industrial materials 1-1 Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8251, Japan Composites Carbon fiber and Functional moldings and composites Industrial materials TEL: [+81] (0)3-6748-7200 Engineering plastics Alumina fibers compounds materials Fibers and textiles Household goods, industrial materials Automobiles, industrial materials, electronics, Performance polymers household goods, foods, medical care Advanced Phenol and polycarbonate Industrial-use chemicals, automobiles, electronics Europe Polymers Japan PBT*3 North 147 Thermoplastic elastomer, Biodegradable polymer, Automobiles, electronics, household goods, America 306 Polycarbonate industrial materials TEFABLOC BioPBS Sustainable polymers High Performance Coating materials Epoxy resins Resin additives Industrial materials, automobiles, electronics, household goods, industrial-use chemicals, aircraft 75 Chemicals Epoxy resin, Inorganic chemicals Automobiles, electronics, Industrial-use chemicals Acrylic resins Sugar ester jER Food ingredients Foods (beverages, confectionary, nutrition products, etc.) Lithium-ion battery materials Automobiles, electronics, energy Africa 1 New Energy LED materials Electronics, automobiles Lithium-ion battery Asia Pacific Phosphors Scintillator Scintillator Medical care, electronics Latin 217 materials America MMA MMA and PMMA Automobiles, electronics, industrial materials, household goods 8 Acrylic molding material MMA monomers Acrylic resin products ACRYPET Basic petrochemicals and Industrial-use chemicals basic chemical derivatives Petrochemicals Automobiles, electronics, household goods, Polyolefins Ethylene production facility Petrochemical derivatives Automotive gasoline tank industrial materials, medical care Coke Industrial materials Carbon materials Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America, Inc. Carbon Products Carbon black 655 Third Avenue, 15th Floor, Industrial materials, automobiles, household Coke Carbon materials Carbon black Synthetic rubber goods New York, NY 10017, USA TEL: [+1] 212-672-9400 Industrial gases Industrial Industrial materials, industrial-use chemicals, Gases electronics, automobiles, foods, medical care Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Separate gases Industrial gas-related equipment (oxygen, nitrogen, argon) Electronics material gases Air separation units and facilities Room 710, Beijing Fortune Building, Dong San Huan Bei Lu 5, Chao Yang District, Beijing, 100004, PRC TEL: [+86](0)10-6590-8621 Pharmaceuticals Ethical pharmaceuticals Medical care, health Treatment agent for Therapeutic agent for amyotrophic Vaccine autoimmune diseases lateral sclerosis, Radicut Capsules and pharmaceutical processing equipment Life Science Medical care, health Disclaimer: This report contains forward-looking statements that reflect MCHC’s assumptions and beliefs based on currently available information. Actual results may differ materially Active pharmaceutical ingredients from forecasts due to various risk factors and uncertainties. They include, but are not limited to, demand in Japan and overseas, exchange rates, price and procurement volume of Pharmaceutical processing Pharmaceutical Capsules equipment intermediate and intermediates crude oil and naphtha, market trends, technological innovation, National Health Insurance drug price revisions, product liabilities, lawsuits, laws and regulations, as the MCHC Group is engaged in a wide range of businesses, including Information, electronics and displays, Advanced moldings and composites, Advanced polymers, MMA, Petrochemicals, Carbon *1 Polyvinyl alcohol *2 Fiber reinforced plastic *3 Polybutylene terephthalate products, Industrial gases and Pharmaceuticals. 179 KAITEKI REPORT 2019 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 180 Printed in Japan Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 1-1 Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8251 www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/english This product is made of material from well-managed, FSC®-certified forests and other controlled sources, using Non-VOC ink, which does not include VOC (Volatile Organic Compound), and a waterless method that generates no harmful wastewater in the printing process.
