UN Global Compact AkzoNobel has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact are included in the AkzoNobel Code of Conduct. The way in which we support and enact the principles are included in the relevant section in the AkzoNobel report and website. The Ten Principles The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Summary AkzoNobel Communication on Progress Principle of the UNGC AkzoNobel Report 2018 Human 1. Businesses should support and respect Governance and compliance: rights the protection of internationally • Compliance and integrity proclaimed human rights; and management 2. make sure that they are not complicit in Sustainability statements: human rights abuses. • Note 8: Human rights Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom Governance and compliance: of association and the effective • Compliance and integrity recognition of the right to collective management bargaining; Sustainability statements: 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Note 6: Supplier engagement 5. the effective abolition of child labour; • Note 8: Human rights and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environ7. Businesses should support a Sustainability statements: ment precautionary approach to • Resource productivity environmental challenges; • Note 1: Sustainable products 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater • Note 3: Operational environmental responsibility; and excellence 9. encourage the development and • Note 7: Safety diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work against Governance and compliance: corruption corruption in all its forms, including • Compliance and integrity extortion and bribery. management The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
