2019 Center for Sustainability and Excellence – Communication of Progress Communication on Progress 2019 A message from the President As corporate responsibility has grown rapidly over the past years, sustainability key issues are dynamic and therefore create the need for new, innovative directions in the development and implementation of effective and integrated Sustainability Strategies. For long corporate Responsibility and Sustainability has been misconceived for being entirely voluntary from various organizations, who have not integrated specific policies and strategies in their core activities and philosophy. Sustainability represents one of the most discussed topics, on a social, environmental and economic level, mainly as a result of the latest critical transformational changes in all levels of society and their huge environmental impacts. In the business world today there is a growing sense of Sustainability to improve transparency and accountability to the wider community-not just to a company’s shareholders. Closely related to business ethics and sustainable development, the concept of Sustainability has emerged. An organization encompassing sustainability activities is bound to be responsible towards its various stakeholders, either within their social, economic or physical environment. Corporate executives must find new ways to address the social, economic, and environmental impacts of doing business “as usual” and organizations must increase the degree to which employees of all levels and functions, and not only managers or directors, comprehend, appreciate, embrace and practice the concepts of Sustainability. Specifically for CSR Managers and CSOs, required abilities and skills should focus on the alignment of the organization’s strategy with the values and principles of corporate responsibility. Sustainability policies and goals for employees, the environment and the society is part of the corporate structure of CSE and we are proud to present our continuous commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 1|Page CSE Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact Looking back over the past years, we are really proud to have met our commitment to globalize sustainability, by including new services to our portfolio and expanding into new areas. Our flexible working structure has enabled us to meet our targets, expand and exceed customer expectations. Our long-lasting partnerships are becoming stronger while new collaborations are providing valuable insight for further growth. Since 2008, CSE has embraced the UN Global Compact and endorsed its 10 Principles, that refer to main ideas such as Human Rights, Labour standards, Environment and Anti-corruption and is committed to acting responsibly. We have incorporated the UN Global Compact and its Principles in our policy, and operations. In addition, we promote these ideals to all markets in which we have an active presence, proving they are a vital component of our strategic direction. Within the same rationale, CSE is a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Certified Training Provider in Greece and Middle East. Our commitment to sustainability is a statement of our progress, our achievements and our goals for the future. Transparency is a fundamental part of our activities and we ensure that information pertaining to the economic, social and environmental impact of our operations is accessible and available to all stakeholders. This COP report provides a detailed presentation of our commitment to each of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. Our policies, processes and management systems in place as well as our actions and targets for continuous improvement are outlined here. For more information you can refer to our GRI Sustainability Report. The Profile of CSE CSE is a global strategic advisory and training organization specialized in Sustainability with offices in Athens & Chicago. With an international network of specialists and consultants, CSE provides organizations, governments, and institutions unique and advanced services to achieve Stakeholder Value across Operational and organizational frameworks. CSE is a leading boutique firm specialized in global sustainability (CSR) consulting, coaching and training. Since 2004, early entry into the international sustainability (CSR) services market, CSE has been assisting clients to achieve higher performance, build brand loyalty and innovate through the continuous integration of sustainability principles into their culture, products and/or services 2|Page . Public and private sector clients benefit from CSE expertise in serving diverse sectors, markets and organizational cultures in the Americas, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. 3|Page As an Approved Training Provider under the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) CSE Workshops offer professionals and executives opportunities to gain international business qualifications as Certified Sustainability Practitioners. As a GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Certified Training Provider, CSE offers advanced GRI Workshops for the effective use of the GRI Standards for Sustainability Reporting. Policy Review, Vision & Mission Policy review The CSE, in order to ensure the quality of company’s services and products, has launched a Stakeholder Code of Conduct. All stakeholders, internal and external, are committed and engaged to ensure the policies both in a company and individual level by signing the code. The Stakeholder Code of Conduct includes the commitments of our organisation and our employees in reference to human rights, working conditions and labour standards, the environment and to anti-corruption. Vision Being an advisory network comprised of specialists with international experience, CSE provides a meeting platform and an advisory panel, acting in the same time as a key Promoter and Coach with the objective of increasing Sustainability and Excellence within Organizations, Society and Governments. CSE’s overall objective is to create positive impact and added value for all stakeholders across the Triple Bottom Line. Mission CSE is committed to globalizing sustainability by advising and educating organizations, institutions and governments to reconsider business models and adopt sustainability strategies that produce positive impacts and high stakeholder value. CSE commitment has led its leadership to be distinguished as a Top Thought Leader for Trustworthy Business Behaviour in 2010 by Trust Across America. 4|Page Key Results Customer Satisfaction Energy & Emissions Year Consumption (KWh) CO2 emissions (tons) 2018 6047 6.91 2017 6254 7.15 2016 6739 7.7 2015 7547 8.63 2014 8415 9.62 Recycling Our organization uses 100% recycled paper. In particular, for the years 20172018 we printed 40325 sheets recycled paper. As recycling is one of our main concerns, our company continues to recycle plastic and paper in a percentage of 40%. Water 5|Page Year Water Consumption (m3) 2018 102 2017 105 2016 111 2015 118 2014 125 Training of Employees The average time of training hours per employee was 42 hours in 2017 and 45 hours in 2018. 6|Page Our Commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals The UN SDGs represent the global commitment of companies, organizations and nations in realizing globally recognized sustainability goals. Our activities in CSE related closely to specific SDGs and in our sustainability report a clear linkage between our activities/performance and the UN SDGs is included. 7|Page UN Global Compact Table Principles Our Actions for Principle Implementation HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses Since CSE is an international organization should support and with offices in Europe and USA, we comply with respect the protection of the European Union and US laws, in reference to internationally human rights. We further ensure that our proclaimed human stakeholders and suppliers based in countries of rights the European Union and USA comply with the Principle 2: Businesses same laws. should make sure that In reference to our engagement with they are not complicit in suppliers and partners, who originate and operate human rights abuse in countries outside the European Union, we assure that all relevant (legal, operational and financial) documentation is provided, which proves the ethical viability of the organization with respect to human rights. We conduct regular (annual) assessments, analyzing various focus areas relevant to our suppliers and partners policy vis-à-vis their employees, their community and the environment in which they operate. More specifically, we request of our suppliers to meet standards for Sustainability (CSR) or international guidelines (e.g. SA8000, UN Global Compact, EFQM Framework for CSR, GRI). LABOR RIGHTS Principle 3: Businesses In CSE, we support a multicultural should uphold the environment and make no discrimination in terms of freedom of association gender, religion and nationalities. CSE operates and the effective also with the assistance of affiliates, who originate recognition of the right from diverse educational, racial and religious to collective bargaining backgrounds. Depending upon CSE needs for Principle 4: Businesses advisory services, for the projects we handle, we should uphold the collaborate with an international network of experts, elimination of all forms based in different regions across the world. We are of forced and a very diverse team, having members of five (5) compulsory labour different nationalities. Principle 5: Businesses CSE welcomes interns in its workplace. Our should uphold the interns come from different educational, racial and effective abolition of religious backgrounds. A guide has been developed child labour that outlines the key information interns need Principle 6: Businesses (induction manual). Furthermore, on-going weekly should uphold the coach-mentoring sessions are being run by their elimination of line manager. discrimination in respect We recognize the importance of employee of employment and development and understand that the knowledge occupation and skills of our employees are the company’s most 8|Page important assets. According to CSE HR policy, we offer partial funding for Certified Trainings (part-time mode) to our employees after at least 18 months of co-operation, giving them the opportunity to extend their knowledge level, encouraging employee development. Moreover, CSE takes an active role in enriching employees’ knowledge and understanding of CR and sustainable development. The implementation of in-house training workshops provides a concrete part of CSE innovative and practical application of Sustainability (CSR) practices and methodologies. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business CSE keeps records of energy, water and should support a paper consumption, business travels and ways of precautionary approach transport in order to measure our CO2 emissions. to environmental In parallel to our offsetting activities, we are challenges dedicated to an environmental management strategy with the goal of minimizing our environmental footprint and continuing to offset our emissions in order to maintain our status as a climate neutral organization. According to our Sustainability Policy and our Stakeholder code of conduct, CSE takes actions such as: CSE has implemented an office recycling scheme in which signatories of CSE Stakeholder Principle 8: Business Code of Conduct dispense waste material should undertake accordingly. Bins for paper, plastic, glassware and initiatives to promote metals have been placed in our office premises greater environmental enabling easy access to recycling. Furthermore, all responsibility recycled material is disposed in recycling bins 9|Page Principle 9: Business placed by the Municipality in the neighborhood should encourage the where our offices are located. development and CSE has installed environmentally diffusion of responsible software to its printing utilities that save environmentally friendly ink, paper and reduce operating cost. CSE technologies proceeds with environmentally friendly printing that uses sustainable paper stock and no harmful solvents. The corporate brochures are printed on 100% recycled paper. CSE uses compost bins in its offices, in order to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and produce a nutrient-rich food product for the garden. The Compost bin helps improve soil structure, maintain moisture levels, and keep the soil's PH balance in check while helping to suppress plant disease. Where possible, CSE has agreed to purchase more environmentally friendly office supplies as opposed to their nocuous counterparts. In order to track its most energyconsuming sources of its headquarters, CSE has installed an energy-consumption tracking system. This system enables CSE to cut its operational cost and hence reduce its carbon footprint. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: The CSE Stakeholder Code of Conduct Businesses should work refers to anticorruption in general and more against corruption in all specifically, to the commitments of all our its forms, including stakeholders towards eliminating corruption and extortion and bribery supporting transparency. Every 6 months we undertake an Internal Audit, which is implemented by an independent third party. Via this process we assure that all members of the CSE Team abide and operate in line with the formulated procedures, policies and processes. We support transparency and integrity in any possible way, through our projects, which operate in an international level As such; we have worked with many governments, like Executive Dubai Council, to create a Transparency and Integrity Model. 10 | P a g e
