Building the futureTM BUILDING BUILDING A A CEMEX 2018 2018 INTEGRATED REPORT INTEGRATED REPORT Table of Contents 2 Company Overview 13 How We Create 31 Our Performance 89 Governance 106 Our Performance 207 About this Report Value in Detail 1 2 3 4 5 6 A stronger position to remain A stronger business model A stronger execution to A stronger commitment A stronger position to A stronger reporting to better global leaders in the building designed to maximize achieve our priorities to transparency and maximize opportunities inform on our progress materials industry value creation for all of our accountability stakeholders 3 CEMEX at a Glance 14 Our Value Creation Model 32 Business Review 91 Board of Directors 107 Financial Information 208 Scope and Boundaries 92 Board Committees 210 External Advisory Panel 5 Letter to Stakeholders 15 The Plan for Achieving our 39 Our People 199 Non-Financial Information Mission Members and Statement 8 Building a Stronger CEMEX 47 Delivering a Superior 94 Executive Committee 213 Terms We Use 11 Performance and Progress 17 Engaging our Stakeholders Customer Experience 97 Ethics and Compliance 215 Investor, Media, and Highlights 23 Our Approach to the UN 57 Sustainable Communities 100 Our Commitment to Sustainability Information SDGs 68 Responsible Suppliers Respect Human Rights 25 Our 2030 Sustainability 72 Our Commitment to Ambitions the Planet 83 Risk Management twitter.com/cemex instagram.com/cemex facebook.com/cemex youtube.com/cemex ©2018 CEMEX S.A.B DE C.V. All rights reserved. Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report OUR MISSION IS TO CREATE SUSTAINABLE VALUE by providing industry-leading products and solutions to satisfy the construction needs of our customers around the world. Company Overview A stronger position to remain global leaders in the building materials industry 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 2 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE CEMEX at a Glance PEOPLE CEMENT READY-MIX CONCRETE AGGREGATES TERMINALS                                                 CEMEX is a global building materials company that provides high-quality products and reliable service to customers and communities in more than 50 countries. CEMEX has a rich history of improving the wellbeing EUROPE of those it serves through innovative building solutions, efficiency advancements, and AFRICA, MIDDLE EAST & ASIA efforts to promote a sustainable future. USA MEXICO SOUTH, CENTRAL AMERICA & THE Founded in Mexico in 1906, CEMEX has CARIBBEAN grown from a local player to one of the top global companies in the industry. With over 42,000 employees worldwide, CEMEX is strategically positioned in the Americas, Europe, MEXICO USA SCA&C EUROPE AME&A OTHER* TOTAL Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. EMPLOYEES 9,697 8,617 5,701 10,720 3,047 4,242 42,024 CEMENT PLANTS AND MILLS 15 11 16 21 4 — 67 READY-MIX CONCRETE PLANTS 256 327 107 719 81 — 1,490 AGGREGATES QUARRIES 12 64 22 177 9 — 284 As of December 2018. *Includes Neoris and employees performing corporate functions in different locations. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 3 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report AGGREGATES CEMENT READY-MIX CONCRETE OUR PORTFOLIO OFFERING A customer-centric, vertically integrated building materials company Our operations network produces, distributes, and markets cement, ready-mix concrete, aggregates, and related building materials, services, and solutions. We always strive to provide superior building solutions and a superior customer experience in the markets we Obtained from land-based sources or A binding agent, when mixed with A combination of cement, aggreserve. To this end, we tailor our products and services to by dredging marine deposits. aggregates and water, produces gates, admixtures, and water. suit our customers’ specific needs—from home construceither ready-mix concrete or mortar. tion, improvement, and renovation to agricultural, industrial, and marine/hydraulic applications. OUR OFFER: OUR OFFER: OUR OFFER: Crushed stone, manufactured sand, High-quality cement such as Gray Architectural and decorative, rapid We are focused on three core businesses within the gravel, sand, and recycled concrete. Ordinary Portland, White Portland, setting, fiber-reinforced, fluid-fill, heavy building materials industry—cement, ready-mix Masonry or Mortar, Oil-well, and roller-compacted, self-consolidatconcrete, and aggregates—which have enabled us to Blended Cement in bags or in bulk, as ing, pervious, and antibacterial develop deep expertise, knowledge, and practices. well as clinker. ready-mix concrete. We also participate selectively in complementary businesses that enable us to become closer to our customers, grow our core business, develop a competitive advantage, and improve our performance. RELATED PRODUCTS We rely on our close relationships with our customers to offer them complementary products for their construction needs, including asphalt, concrete blocks, roof tiles, admixtures, blast furnace slag, fly ash, architectural products for different building or landscaping projects, pipe, and other pre-cast products. SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES Our growing array of solutions enable us to serve our customers better—from our housing, paving, and Green Building consulting services to our Construrama® cement distribution network and our training, financing, and technical support. DIGITAL SOLUTIONS Our digital solutions, including CEMEX Go and other digital platforms, place the power to succeed in our customers’ hands. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 4 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Letter to Stakeholders DEAR FELLOW STAKEHOLDERS: US$14.4 We are building a Stronger CEMEX by aiming all of our actions, taken together, to secure our position as a global leader and an even more challenging competitor in the building materials industry. This year we embarked on our strategic plan to build A Stronger CEMEX. and backgrounds—our top priority and permanent commitment is to achieve Rogelio Zambrano Chairman of the Board of Directors BILLION NET SALES IN 2018 an increase of 6%, on a This transformational plan is designed zero injuries across all of our operations. to fortify our company’s position as a like-to-like basis leading global building materials comThis goal is vitally important to the life pany, accelerate our path to investment and integrity of our people, our congrade, enhance our total shareholder tractors, and everyone who interacts return, and ultimately, generate longwith our company. Overall, we conterm value for all our stakeholders. tinued to make significant progress on several fronts. We achieved zero The talent and constant dedication of employee fatalities for the first year our people are the foundation for our ever—driving us to remain a global construction of a stronger CEMEX. safety leader in our industry. We reTogether, we are focused on providing duced our total employee and contracour customers with a superior experitor lost-time injuries by 20%, a record ence, including the best construction low. Moreover, 96% of our operations solutions to their ever-changing needs, safeguarded our people and contracwhile promoting the best health and tors by achieving zero fatalities and safety practices across our organization. lost-time injuries—our highest percentFernando A. González age ever. Nevertheless, we still have Chief Executive Officer Recognizing that our progress begins much work to do to achieve this level with our people—thousands of employof performance everywhere. Consisees from diverse countries, cultures, tent with our dedication to developing 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 5 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report best risk management practices for our Notably, we made significant progpeople and our contractors, we cannot ress on our related Stronger CEMEX and will not accept anything short of a initiatives. We implemented all of our perfect safety record. cost-reduction initiatives by the end of the year, so we expect most of the benAs our industry evolves, our values efit of these actions to be reflected in and ethical standards distinguish our our EBITDA for 2019. We reduced our company, serving as the pillars for all total debt by close to US$1 billion, and of our actions and the keys to achievwe are progressing well on our asset ing our strategic vision. Only by acting divestment commitment. Lastly, we honestly, responsibly, and transparincluded a proposed cash dividend for ently—while caring for our people, our our shareholders that will be presentcommunities, and our natural resourced for approval at our annual ordinary es—we will build a better future for all general shareholders’ meeting to be of our stakeholders. With this in mind, held on March 28, 2019. As divestwe strengthened our commitment to ments occur and the benefits from our the ethical principles and values that cost-reduction initiatives are realized, ready placing around 45% of the global Global Cement and Concrete Associenable us to work as One CEMEX by we should accelerate our deleveraging orders of our main products through ation (GCCA). Joining forces with 10 launching our Workplace Diversity and and expect to be within metrics consisthis end-to-end digital platform. This other companies, we are speaking with CLOSE TO US$1 Inclusion Policy, our renewed Human tent with an investment-grade rating industry’s first-of-its-kind digital solution one voice on behalf of the cement and Rights Policy, and our enhanced Code by the end of 2020. not only enables us to serve our cusconcrete sectors to achieve responof Ethics and Business Conduct. tomers better, but also translates into sible industry leadership, improve the A couple of years ago, we decided important efficiencies in the way we do social and environmental impact of the BILLION In the face of continued headwinds in to become the company to offer the business. In addition, we expect CEMEX sectors’ products and activities, foster energy costs, we are encouraged by our best customer experience within our Go to generate data-rich analytics to innovation and collaboration with local favorable financial results for 2018. On a industry, and we have made important better anticipate our customers’ needs and regional industry associations, like-to-like basis, our net sales rose by progress by placing our customers at and focus on the most valuable soluand inspire architects, engineers, and 6% to US$14.4 billion, and our operatthe center of our business decisions. tions for them. We are witnessing only innovators across the industry’s global ing EBITDA increased by 1% to US$2.6 Undoubtedly, one of the most significant the beginning of the potential of CEMEX value chain. DEBT REDUCTION billion on a like-to-like basis. Our results steps to improve the experience of our Go, and our other digital transformation during 2018 were underpinned by solid fundamencustomers is through our CEMEX Go initiatives—because by establishing Consistent with this commitment, we tals across most of our operations, digital platform. We are especially excitbetter business relationships with our continually work to build strong relaparticularly our Mexico and U.S. mared about the acceptance that CEMEX customers, we both win. tionships throughout our value chain— kets, that translated into positive volume Go has achieved. To date, it is already from our business partners to our and pricing dynamics for our products. being used by more than 30,000 Importantly, we took big steps to communities. Through both the global Consequently, we generated net income customers in most of our markets. promote the use of concrete as the and local editions of our Supplier of the of US$543 million for the year. Representing approximately 85% of our preferred sustainable building material Year Program, we recognized supplicompany’s total recurring customers for the construction industry by beers for their contribution to delivering worldwide, these customers are alcoming a founding member of the new profitable and innovative services and 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 6 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report solutions to our company and our cusMoreover, through our shared value In a world of finite resources, we conAll of our actions, taken together, will tomers. In 2018, we also launched the projects, we continued to bring together tinually invest and innovate to become position our company to become a Global Edition of our “INTEGRATE Your our communities and local authorities an environmentally friendly, sustainable stronger competitor and global leader Ideas” Innovation Program, recognizing to tackle critical social issues such as leader—enabling a low-carbon and in the building materials industry. We three global suppliers for their creative housing, land ownership, access to baresource-efficient circular economy. are committed to proactively managideas that reflected process, product sic services, employment, and financial Among our results for the year, we ing our business to drive value for all or service efficiencies. Through this inclusion through micro credits. To date, achieved an alternative fuel substituof our stakeholders, and we remain we have worked together with more tion rate of 27%, our highest rate in confident in both CEMEX’s outlook and than 16 million community stakeholders the past four years. Together with our ability to grow. globally, positively impacting their wellother mitigation efforts, this allowed us being and improving conditions in their to reduce our net CO2 emissions per On behalf of CEMEX’s Board of Dicommunities and cities. ton of cementitious products by more rectors, our management team, and than 21%, compared with our 1990 our employees, we thank you for the Aligned with our commitment to the baseline—equivalent to the emissions opportunity you give us and for your United Nations Sustainable Developgenerated by 1.4 million homes’ elecconfidence in CEMEX, as we continue ment Goals (SDGs), we prioritized five tricity consumption in a year. Additionour efforts to build a better future for all SDGs that are directly related to our ally, 98% of our clinker was produced of our stakeholders. company’s business and represent our at plants with continuous emissions greatest opportunities to contribute monitoring systems, nearing our target Sincerely, further to the United Nations’ estabof 100% by 2020. Furthermore, we lished 2030 global goals. These five renewed our global partnership with goals are focused on the promotion BirdLife International for three years to of decent employment and economachieve our shared goal of implementROGELIO ZAMBRANO ic growth (SDG 8); innovation and ing Biodiversity Action Plans across Chairman of the Board of Directors program, we foster closer collaborainfrastructure development (SDG 9); the totality of our active quarries in tion between our company and our climate change mitigation (SDG 13); high biodiversity areas by 2020. FERNANDO A. GONZÁLEZ suppliers to generate disruptive new environmental and ecosystem conserChief Executive Officer +27% ideas that will enable us to improve our vation (SDG 15); and the advancement The profound changes brought about practices across our value chain. of sustainable cities and communities by the advancement of the digital (SDG 11). Moreover, aligned with our economy, along with the growing global Additionally, our Community Engagepreviously defined 2020 Sustainability attention given to the importance of ment Plans ensure that our efforts Goals, we have broadened our vision promoting the sustainable development ALTERNATIVE FUEL rate around our operations are aligned with and defined our new 2030 Sustainof cities and communities, opens up substitution reached in what is relevant from our communities’ ability Ambitions—which we now enormous business opportunities for perspective, foster regular dialogue, and make public in this integrated report. us. To make the best of them, we are 2018, our highest rate in build long-term relationships and trust. By partnering within and outside of further exploring value-added initiatives the past 4 years To date, we are proud to report that our company, we know we can make in the construction ecosystem through 95% of our cement plants have estabsystemic change for the benefit of all of CEMEX Ventures, our open innovation lished Community Engagement Plans. our stakeholders. and corporate venture capital unit. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 7 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Building a Stronger CEMEX Across our organization, we SUPERIOR CUSTOMER continued to build a stronger HEALTH & SAFETY EXPERIENCE CEMEX on multiple fronts: We are taking decisive, transformational steps to continue building A Stronger CEMEX. All our actions, taken together, are aimed to secure our position as a global leader and an even ZERO EMPLOYEE FATALITIES more challenging competitor in the building materials industry. achieved for the first We achieved ZERO employee CEMEX Go, our end-to-end time ever fatalities for the first year ever— integrated digital platform, is We have invested considerable effort focusing on how we create value, proacpushing us to do our best to remain currently used by more than 30,000 tively managing our business and reshaping everything we do as a company to a global safety leader in our industry. customers in 21 countries. achieve our vision of building a better future for all our stakeholders. At the heart of our “A Stronger CEMEX” plan announced in July 2018, we are: ENVIRONMENT AND ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT CLIMATE CHANGE REBALANCING AND STREAMLINING OUR ACHIEVING PORTFOLIO to create a OPERATIONAL profile positioned to deliver IMPROVEMENTS higher growth and greater in our regional and corporate stakeholder value over the operations midto long-term A STRONGER CEMEX We strengthened our commitment We invested US$83 million in More than 2 million people were to ethical principles and values that sustainability projects to strengthen positively impacted through our ACCELERATING OUR RETURNING CAPITAL TO enable us to work as One CEMEX by our environmental performance. social strategy for the year. In PATH TO INVESTMENT OUR SHAREHOLDERS launching our Workplace Diversity Moreover, we reached 21.6% addition, 95% of our cement plants GRADE by further deleverthrough cash dividends and aging our company share buybacks and Inclusion Policy, our updated reduction in our specific CO2 have established Community Human Rights Policy, and our emissions vs. 1990. Engagement Plans. enhanced Code of Ethics. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 8 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report REBALANCE OUR PORTFOLIO While this asset divestment program is › Serving our customers better and at We are undertaking a number of expected to optimize our portfolio for a lower cost actions that are designed to streamline growth, we will continue to complement this program with organic investments › Optimizing our production and and reposition our portfolio in order logistics supply chain models to enhance our diversification and using a metropolis centric approach achieve higher profitable growth. To leveraging our related businesses and › Optimizing our procurement stratthis end, we expect to optimize our digital strategy. egy through implementation of new portfolio by focusing on the markets sourcing strategies from lower-cost with the greatest long-term growth ACHIEVE OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS suppliers. potential, retaining those assets that After performing a thorough analysis of US$230 are best suited to grow, and selling our operations, we identified opportubetween US$1.5 to US$2.0 billion of nities to further improve our profitabilassets that are not fundamental to our ity, obtain higher returns, and deliver portfolio and better positioned to grow more value for our stakeholders. As MILLION with another owner by the end of 2020. part of our business improvement program, we identified US$230 million We expect to remain disciplined sellers in operational improvements to our and will work to attain high value regional and corporate operations. for these businesses in line with our COST-REDUCTION past achievements. Our recent track We plan to realize these efficiencies initiatives identified by record of asset sales underscores our through focused operational initiatives, the end of 2018 commitment to this disciplined sales including: approach. › Improving our operational perforBy selling assets not fundamental to our mance and expense rationalization, strategy, we expect to free up more cash which includes improving cement We implemented all of our identified San Francisco Bay Bridge, USA flow to deleverage our balance sheet plant efficiencies through new operaUS$230 million of cost-reduction initiafaster and reduce our financing costs tional models and increasing perfortives by the end of 2018. Accordingly, sooner. This in turn should accelerate mance based on maintenance cost we expect to reflect most of the benefit our operating cash flow generation and, reductions and third-party services of these actions in 2019. therefore, enable us to invest in more optimization avenues for greater growth, ultimately ACCELERATE PATH TO INVESTMENT › Increasing our utilization of alterdelivering more value to our stakeholders. native fuels in several countries, GRADE including developing initiatives to We remain committed to returning to increase our sourcing and processinvestment grade, but now we expect ing of alternative fuels, with emphato get there sooner. While we have sis on higher refuse derived fuel made significant progress on this front, (RDF) utilization as a result of this plan, we expect to 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 9 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report LOW-COST SOURCING INITIATIVE In 2018, we continued to focus on Our sourcing initiative plays a RETURN CAPITAL TO SHAREHOLDERS cost-reduction opportunities to furfundamental part in our “A Stronger In addition to reducing our leverage, ther improve our profitability, obtain CEMEX” plan. This three-year iniwe intend to return capital to sharehigher returns, and deliver more tiative is expected to generate total holders through cash dividends and value to our shareholders. savings of US$160 million according share buybacks. We are aligned with to current parameters, with half of our shareholders in recognizing these Our procurement mandate is these savings impacting EBITDA and actions as top priorities. expected to guarantee the continuity the rest impacting free cash flow of our operations, looking to provide since they are related to CAPEX. Consequently, we included a proposed the best total cost while ensuring For 2019, under this initiative, our cash dividend that we will present the quality of the products and sertargeted savings are approximately for approval at our Ordinary General vices we acquire by using a strateUS$70 million of which around Shareholders Meeting to be held on gic sourcing process empowered by US$35 million is expected to impact March 28, 2019. We also intend to our people’s knowledge and expert EBITDA and US$35 million is maintain an active share repurchase management. expected to impact free cash flow or authorization of up to US$500 million CAPEX. that is expected to complement our Imbanaco Clinic, Colombia free up substantially more cash to Started in late 2017, our low cost dividend proposal. enable us to further reduce our debt, sourcing initiative intends to To capture these savings, it is critical invest in our business, and potentially reduce our operations’ cost—while for us to work as one CEMEX, leverreturn capital to our shareholders. always assuring quality and timely aging our positive low cost sourcing delivery—by buying goods and experiences among the countries. By the end of 2020, we expect to be equipment from China, India, Mexwell within investment grade metrics ico, Egypt, Turkey, Eastern Europe by further reducing our total debt by among others. US$3.5 billion. This should bring our total debt reduction since the end of   2013 to more than US$10 billion.   Aligned with our strategy, we reduced our total debt by 8%—or close to US$1.0 billion—during 2018, putting us on track  to achieve our debt-reduction target.            2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 10 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Performance and Progress Highlights NET SALES AND OPERATING EBITDA (i) (millions of US dollars) 14,975 14,375 2018(i) 2017 (i) % VAR. 13,723 13,327 13,635 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Net sales 14,375 13,635 5.4 In millions of US dollars , 1 except per-ADS data Operating earnings before other expenses, net 1,724 1,727 (0.2) Operating EBITDA 2,558 2,574 (0.6) 2,664 2,596 2,753 2,574 2,558 Controlling interest net income 543 806 (32.6) Controlling interest basic earnings per ADS2 0.36 0.53 (31.9) 14 15 16 17 18 Controlling interest basic earnings per ADS2 from continuing operations 0.35 0.41 Controlling interest basic earnings per ADS2 from discontinued operations 0.01 0.12 FREE CASH FLOW AFTER MAINTENANCE CAPITAL Free cash flow after maintenance capital EXPENDITURES (i) expenditures 918 1,290 (28.8) (millions of US dollars) Total assets 28,124 28,890 (2.7) 1,685 Total debt plus perpetual debentures 10,397 11,349 (8.4) 1,290 Total controlling stockholders’ equity 9,601 9,137 5.1 918 as of December 31, 2018 881 1. For the reader’s convenience figures are presented in US dollars. For statements of operations accounts, these figures result from translating the local currency amounts into US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year, which approximates a convenience translation of the Mexican peso results for 2018 and 2017 using the average exchange rates of the year of 19.26 and 18.88 MXN/US$, respectively. For balance sheet accounts, US dollar figures result 401 from translating the local currency amounts into US dollars at the closing exchange rate for the year, which approximates a convenience translation of the Mexican peso amounts at the end of each year using the end-of-year exchange rate of 19.65 and 19.65 MXN/US$, respectively. 2. Based on an average of 1,543 and 1,517 million American Depositary Shares (ADSs) for 2018 and 2017, respectively. (i) As a result of requirements by the National Banking and Exchange Commission, CEMEX prepares its consolidated financial statements using International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). For further detail refer to page 107 of this report. 14 15 16 17 18 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 11 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS l HEALTH AND SAFETY l CIRCULAR ECONOMY l EMPLOYEES l ENVIRONMENT l CLIMATE CHANGE l SUPPLIERS l SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION l COMMUNITIES l CUSTOMERS ZERO 96% 27.1% Our consumption of non-recyclable waste from other industries was employee fatalities of our operations had zero fatalities alternative fuels rate, highest in the 32 times the waste we sent for disposal 79% of employees would and injuries past 4 years recommend CEMEX as a good place to work 91% Biodiversity Action Plans 98% 21.6% 26% of power in cement supplied +2,400 suppliers underwent implemented in quarries with of clinker reduction by renewable energy sustainability assessment high biodiversity value produced with continuous in specific CO2 monitoring of major emissions vs. 1990 emissions +1,000 +16M +30,000 95% Green Building people positively customers in 1 CEMEX office ST Certification projects impacted by social initiatives 21 countries adopted where we contributed since 1998 LEED Gold of cement sites Certified established Community Houston, Texas, USA Headquarters Engagement Plans 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 12 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report WE ALL SHARE A COMMON VISION to build a better future for all our stakeholders How We Create Value A stronger business model designed to maximize value creation for all of our stakeholders 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 13 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Our Value Creation Model Our mission is to create WHAT HOW WHO VALUE sustainable value by providing WE DO WE DO BUSINESS WE SHARE OUR HOW WE CREATE VALUE VALUE WITH industry-leading products OUR STRATEGIC PILLARS ■ Provide a great workplace that helps and solutions to satisfy the STAKEHOLDERS employees grow ■ Build skills and expertise construction needs of our OUR MISSION ■ Enable a strong sense of purpose customers around the world. Create sustainable value by proPEOPLE AS CUSTOMER viding industry-leading products Nº1 ASSET CENTRICITY EMPLOYEES ■ Tailor our offerings to solve our clients’ At CEMEX, we all share a common and solutions to satisfy the conconstruction needs vision: to build a better future for our ■ Make it easy to work with us struction needs of our customers employees, our customers, sharehold■ Provide enhanced performance and around the world. ers, suppliers, and the communities reliability in which we live and work. We come PROFITABLE SUSTAINABILITY MARKETS CUSTOMERS ■ Grow revenue to work each day excited to develop WHY ■ Reduce costs and deliver high-quality, sustainable construction products and innovative OUR REASON FOR BEING OUR OPERATING MODEL ■ Optimize assets ■ Keep a tight rein on risks building solutions that exceed our OUR PURPOSE customers’ expectations and meet SHAREHOLDERS Building a better future AND INVESTORS ■ Be a relevant engine of economic growth society’s growing needs. ■ Build more capable, inclusive a  nd GLOBAL SUPPORT TRANSACTIONAL resilient communities By aligning our business strategies OUR VALUES NETWORKS FUNCTIONS FUNCTIONS ■ Reduce local air, water and waste with the United Nations Sus­tainable ■ Ensure Safety impacts and conserve biodiversity Development Goals (UN SDGs), we ■ Focus on Customers CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES not only better position our business ■ Encourage creation of innovative soluto respond to the biggest challenges ■ Pursue Excellence tions to reduce costs while promoting facing our world, but also provide sustainable goods and services ■ Work as One CEMEX opportuni­ties for growth, strengthen ■ Be a reliable client throughout the ■ Act with Integrity value chain, adding a trustworthy our license to operate, and create ecoBOARD ETHICS AND HUMAN SUPPLIERS reputation to the negotiation nomic, social, and environmental value MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE RIGHTS for all of our stakeholders. GRI 102-42, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 14 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report The Plan for Achieving our Mission We drive value across all aspects of OUR FOUR STRATEGIC PILLARS our business through the integration of our strategic pillars with our operating MARKETS FOCUS ON OUR PEOPLE OUR CUSTOMERS and governance models. WHERE WE OPERATE SUSTAINABILITY At its core, we distinguish four straVALUE OUR PEOPLE AS OUR MAIN HELP OUR CUSTOMERS SUCCEED PURSUE MARKETS THAT OFFER ENSURE SUSTAINABILITY IS FULLY tegic pillars in our business strategy. COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY EMBEDDED IN OUR BUSINESS Individually, each element engages We hire the best and foresee that our Our customers deal with important We pursue markets where we can add We invest and innovate to become an and impacts our business in very team’s health, safety, and professional challenges daily. value for our employees, customers, and industry leader in profitable, environmendistinct ways. Collectively, they help us growth are top priorities. shareholders. tally friendly, and sustainable operations. We must invest time in our relationships achieve our mission of creating value We develop leaders and encourage and listen closely to understand their We focus on what we do best— cement, We provide products and solutions that by building and managing a global them to create new ways of thinking needs. aggregates, ready-mix concrete, and contribute to more sustainable cities. portfolio of integrated cement, aggreand acting, while assessing risks and related businesses. gates, ready-mix concrete, and related We help them to succeed by delivering We act responsibly in our operations, opportunities. businesses. quality products, innovative solutions, and We venture beyond those core busialways looking for a way to minimize our We foster an open dialogue in all of our a superior customer experience. nesses when it is essential to better impact on the environment. interactions to align and achieve greater market our products. We collaborate with local communities results. to empower them and contribute to their development. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 15 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report UNTAPPING MEXICO’S DIGITAL POTENTIAL OUR OPERATING MODEL This is best exemplified with our our industry over two years ago. As we and policies, deploy digital technology, Together with other companies, indusHow we operate effectively and get things CEMEX Operating Model in which began this journey, we set two goals: measure our success, and foster innotry leaders, and academic institutions, done every function—corporate, regional, 1) Deliver a superior customer expevation, while continuously evolving and we developed the Monterrey Digital We leverage our global knowledge and and country (business unit)—is united rience enabled by digital technology; maturing. Among our initiatives, we Hub, the first digital transformation scale to establish best practices and toward a common objective. and 2) Develop new business models implemented the Net Promoter Score, campus in Mexico. Designed to posicommon processes worldwide in order driven by digital technology. along with other KPIs, that standardize tion Monterrey among the main tech to operate more effectively and achieve LEVERAGING ON INNOVATION AND the way we measure our progress to hubs in the world, it offers an opportuthe greatest value. We accomplish this DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES To accomplish these goals, we are deliver a superior customer experinity to not only unlock local potential, by sharing what we know, supporting Recognizing that we live and work in a working on different fronts and underence. We created CEMEX Ventures to but also foster an environment in which each other and eliminating any boundfully digital era, we embarked on a digtaking different initiatives to align our develop new disruptive ideas designed digital innovative thrives; where comaries that may separate us. ital transformation of our company and organization, update our processes to revolutionize our industry through panies, academic institutions, entrepredigital technologies. We joined forces neurs, and digital talent are committed to establish the Monterrey Digital Hub, to revolutionize organizations and comOur Operating Model consists of four integrated building blocks: Mexico’s first digital transformation munities through the use of technology campus. Most importantly, we led the and digital business models. way with our launch and rollout of OUR VALUE CHAIN CEMEX Go. For more on CEMEX Go Led and owned by a committed group Through local execution, our business units deliver the greatest value to our stakeholders and CEMEX. As the core our and our customer centricity initiatives, of local industry leaders and academic business, our business units are the platform on which our management team executes and delivers value for our stakesee page 48 of this report. institutions with a shared vision of fosholders. Our Business Units are divided into five regions: Mexico, United States, South, Central America & the Caribbean tering Mexico’s digital transformation (SCAC), Europe, and Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA). Understanding that the most profound through corporate innovation, entreimpact of digital technology will be on preneurial collaboration, and digital the way in which markets and custalent preparation, the Hub is an inspirtomers are served, the first milestone ing place to learn, work, and connect in our digital transformation is CEMEX that puts us in close contact with the Go, the first end-to-end e-commerce talent to transform our country and our platform in our industry—designed to company through digital technologies. deliver a superior customer experience GLOBAL NETWORKS SUPPORT FUNCTIONS TRANSACTIONAL FUNCTIONS every time, everywhere. Beyond a digOur Support Functions help The goal of these functions is ital platform for our customers, CEMEX Although each of our regions and to maximize standardization of Go also encompasses back-end platbusinesses are strong, we are enhance value by defining and forms like CEMEX Go CRM and CEMEX even stronger when sharing ideas enforcing global policies and proprocesses and minimize transacGo Order Fulfillment, together with and working together. Operating as viding technical knowledge and tional costs of doing business. the digital enablers, capabilities, and One CEMEX, our Global Networks specialized tools for continuous advanced analytics that will empower leverage our know-how worldwide improvement. our digital transformation. In short, to create competitive advantage. CEMEX Go is igniting our company’s and our industry’s digital evolution. For more information visit mtydigitalhub.com 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 16 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Engaging Our Stakeholders Working with a diverse group of stakeholders—listening to their concerns and managing our relations in a proactive and fruitful way—is crucial to understanding our ecosystem and maximizing our positive impact in the places where we operate. EVERY To set our business priorities, we incoropportunities, reduce our operations’ porate stakeholder inputs, company risk, and deliver shared value to our insights, sector initiatives, peer reviews, communities. and global trends. This helps to identify 3 YEARS the most important issues for our comTo identify those issues that are most pany and our stakeholders, making it important to our company and our easier to not only define risks, opportustakeholders, we conduct a Materinities, and KPIs, but also to report and ality Assessment every three years, set strategic targets. which helps us to prioritize our efforts WE CONDUCT A and minimize any gaps in our busiour operations based on the previously MATERIALITY ANALYSIS WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONSIDER ness strategy by demonstrating the identified material issues; classify and to identify the most important IMPORTANT significance of economic, environprioritize the selected material issues Understanding, acknowledging, and mental, social, and governance issues. according to their frequency and plot issues to our company and listening to the concerns of our stakeDeveloped according to the Global them on our materiality matrix; and our stakeholders holders enables us to understand based on our stakeholders’ prioritizaReporting Initiative (GRI) framework, what they consider important, while this analysis is best expressed in our tion, we select the material issues that maintaining our mindset of continuMateriality Matrix last updated in 2017. most concern them and directly impact ous improvement across our internal our business. processes and strategic business Through a four-stage process, we priorities. This process also provides identify the most relevant material us with essential direction to focus issues that influence our stakeholders’ our proactive engagement strategies assessment and decisions; define and in order to capture material business carry out a worldwide survey across GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 17 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report nities, and NGOs. We grow through 1 Customer Experience and Satisfaction MATERIALITY MATRIX HOW WE ENGAGE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS strategic engagement and building 2 Health and Safety partnerships with this wide range of Across the countries where we oper3 Product Quality and Innovation stakeholders, some who participate ate, we develop and invest in strategic 4 Business Ethics and Transparency relations through open dialogues with directly in our value chain while others 5 Employee Engagement and Development key stakeholders that enable us to colare partners in the development of 6 Growth in Existing Markets and Countries lectively acceler­ate change toward an a shared value ecosystem where we 1 7 Return on Capital Employed inclusive and proactive external advooperate. 3 cacy agenda. By becoming enablers 8 Environmental and Air Emissions 4 2 of innovative dialogue platforms with Through our Stakeholder Engagement Management STAKEHOLDER CONCERN 9 our stakehold­ers, we look to achieve Policy, launched in 2016, we define 9 Transport and Logistics Optimization transforma­tional change. the framework that we use when 10 Local Community Development deploying our proactive stakeholder 17 11 8 11 Products and Solutions for Sustainable 5 engagement strategy. Along with this 16 10 We use tailor-made activities to inter­ Construction policy, our Code of Ethics defines the 19 13 HIGHEST MATERIALITY act with each one of them, depending 12 CO2 Management Strategy 6 corporate principles for our engage­ 15 12 on our line of business operating in 13 Direct Economic Impact on Stakeholders 21 7 ment with external audiences. Among 14 a given location. Our stakeholders 14 Energy Sourcing, Efficiency and Cost 23 18 other principles, we are committed to 22 HIGHER MATERIALITY include our peo­ple, investors, custom20 ers, suppliers, governments, regulators, conduct our business relations with 15 Materials Recycling and Circular Economy HIGH MATERIALITY and other businesses through trade honesty, respect, and integrity. These 16 Biodiversity Preservation associa­tions, academia, local commutwo tools shape our overall strategy. 17 Supplier Management IMPACT ON CEMEX 18 Public Affairs and Stakeholder Engagement l ECONOMIC 19 Water Management l SOCIAL 20 Corporate Governance l ENVIRONMENTAL l GOVERNANCE 21 Waste Management 22 Risk Management 23 Human Rights MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT STAGES We have classified the material issues into three categories: high, higher, and highest materiality. This report focuses on them and reflects our top priorities IDENTIFICATION DEFINITION PRIORITIZATION RESULTS based on our comprehensive stakeof relevant aspects and participation of of material issues and materiality matrix holder consultation. for survey target audience GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 18 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report OUR PEOPLE COMMUNITIES NGOs AND ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS Our more than 42,000 employees— With the goal of enhancing stakeWe build innovative collaboration who come from rich and diverse backholder experience with our neighboring platforms through which we can find grounds—are our competitive advancommunities, we encourage formal common ground between entities. To tage and the reason for our success. stakeholder dialogues, which are key this end, we foster global partnerships We take great pride in hiring the best to revise expectations, review progress, in collaboration with NGOs and other and brightest people, supporting them and continue monitoring our achievestakeholders who share our vision of with a safe, healthy, and inclusive work ment of agreed plans. Regular and building a better future. environment, and providing them with formal dialogues with our stakeholders opportunities for growth and develophave proven key to building mutual trust Our global partnerships are fundament. We continuously communicate between our company and our surmental to the way we deliver value and listen to our employees through a rounding communities. By understandand improve the quality of people’s multi-channel approach consisting of, ing their expectations and analyzing lives. We leverage the knowledge and but not limited to, global surveys, ethour material themes, we can take action experience we gain from our collaboraics hotline, as well as global and local together. For more on Sustainable Comtive programs with NGOs and leading newsletters. For more on Our People SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS munities see pages 57-67 of this report. academic institutions. We invest in see pages 39-46 of this report. research and development (R&D) to Our commitment to deliver value to our drive our adaptive and inclusive busiinvestors rests on a clear recognition SUPPLIERS ness model that benefits both the enviCUSTOMERS that, as a public company, we are Under our worldwide Procurement ronment and society. Additionally, we stewards of other people’s money. ConOur core strategic goal is to become Model, we aim to build strong relationare committed to scientific research sequently, we embark on a robust the most customer-centric company in ships across our network of suppliers as that enhances our understanding of investor engagement strategy to foster our industry. We place our customers we acquire the quality goods and serhow our products can benefit and a clear understanding not only of our at the center of everything we do. By vices our company needs to succeed. improve their environmental, societal, company’s financial position, perforlistening to their needs and underWe continually work to engage and and economic impact. mance, business perspectives, and standing their challenges, we always risks, but also of our management and align our suppliers with our core values, aim to surpass our customers’ expecensuring our suppliers’ compliance Moreover, we are active participants corporate environmental, social, and tations. With this in mind, we work with our Code of Ethics and Suppliers in global initiatives led by the World governance (ESG) practices. For more to become our customers’ partner of Code of Conduct When Doing Business Economic Forum, the United Nations, on our business performance, see choice by conducting our business with Us. When managing and selectand the World Business Council for pages 31-38 of this report. fairly, professionally, and with integrity. ing our business partners, we offer Sustainable Development, among For more on Our Customers see pages equal opportunities to bid on and win other internationally recognized institu47-56 of this report. contracts, following strict competitive tions. Through open dialogue, we share pricing, quality, experience, and service best practices, accelerate change, and criteria while adhering to sustainable ensure we are contributing our utmost practices. For more on Our Suppliers to a sustainable future. see pages 68-71 of this report. GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 19 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report BECOMING THE VOICE OF OUR INDUSTRY In Europe, we enjoy a long history of Along with 10 other companies, we took big steps MAIN CEMENT AND CONCRETE ASSOCIATIONS GOVERNMENTS AND POLICY MAKERS contributing our best practices through to promote the use of concrete as the preferred We cooperate and engage with govour work with the Cement Sustainable sustainable building material for the construction ernments, regulators, and legislators— Initiative (CSI). Recently absorbed industry by becoming a founding member of the GLOBAL CEMENT AND CONCRETE ASSOCIATION (GCCA) both directly and through business by the Global Cement and Concrete new Global Cement and Concrete Association Global associations—responsible for reguAssociation (GCCA), the CSI is a global (GCCA). Officially launched on November 23, 2018, CEMENT SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE (CSI) lating and defining relevant industry effort of 24 major cement producers our company not only is a member of the GCCA Global policy to our company. We actively to advance sustainable development. Management Board, but also our CEO, Fernando participate in global and national Over its history, the CSI has focused on A. González, is Vice President of the association. EUROPEAN CEMENT ASSOCIATION (CEMBUREAU) industry policy discussions covering understanding, measuring, managing, Regional (Europe) issues related to Climate Change, and minimizing the impacts of cement Together, we are joining forces and speaking with Sustainable Infrastructure, Innovation production and use by addressing one voice on behalf of the cement and concrete EUROPEAN READY MIXED CONCRETE ORGANIZATION & Digital Transformation, Operational a range of issues, including climate sectors to achieve responsible industry leadership, (ERMCO) Efficiency, Health & Safety, Circular change, fuel use, employee health and improve the social and environmental impact of Regional (Europe) Economy, Alternative Fuels, and Waste safety, airborne emissions, concrete the sectors’ products and activities, foster innoEUROPEAN AGGREGATES ASSOCIATION (UEPG) Management Frameworks, among recycling, and quarry management. vation and collaboration with local and regional Regional (Europe) others. We conduct our business and industry associations, and inspire architects, engirelations with government entities in a On a national level, 19 of our 21 busineers, and innovators across the industry’s global INTER-AMERICAN CEMENT FEDERATION (FICEM) manner consistent with our values, our ness units enjoy leading roles on value chain. Regional (LATAM) Code of Ethics, polices, and the law. the different cement, concrete, and aggregates associations in which we As an active member of the working group that NATIONAL CHAMBER OF CEMENT (CANACEM) participate. During 2018, executives created the GCCA, we provided the first steps National (Mexico) BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS from CEMEX served as chairmen of that turned it into a reality. Through the GCCA, we PORTLAND CEMENT ASSOCIATION (PCA) As a global company, we maximize 10 national associations. Our active are creating a dedicated advocacy platform that National (USA) our scale to share operational best participation in these associations give aims to position concrete as a sustainable buildpractices across our industry—always us crucial influence to push, along with ing material of choice, while reinforcing that the NATIONAL READY MIXED CONCRETE ASSOCIATION (NRMCA) raising the bar. We actively participate other companies, fundamental topics cement industry is managed and acts responsibly National (USA) in different business associations at for our sector such as sustainability as an important driver of growth to raise standards practices, health and safety standards, of living. The GCCA will further serve to fulfill our AMERICAN CONCRETE PAVEMENT ASSOCIATION (ACPA) regional, national, and local levels to National (USA) develop partnerships, provide a voice, and alternative fuels, among others. industry’s sustainability commitments, developing and within the sector, promote our guidelines and initiating research on all relevant CEMENT MANUFACTURERS’ ASSOCIATION OF THE core cement, ready-mix concrete, and topics. PHILIPPINES (CEMAP) aggregates businesses. National (Philippines) By playing a meaningful role in this association, we reinforce our commitment to build a better future for our communities and the world. For more information visit www.gcca.com GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 20 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report COMMUNICATION MECHANISMS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS We outline the key concerns brought up by our materiality assessment and how we engage with our key stakeholders in the table below. STAKEHOLDERS KEY CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT CHANNELS AND FREQUENCY OUTCOMES ■ ETHOSLine 24/7 ■ Health and safety ■ Understanding of our employees’ needs ■ Bi-annual Ethics and Compliance campaigns ■ Employee experience and engagement ■ Talent Management strategy ■ Bi-annual engagement survey OUR PEOPLE ■ Diversity and Inclusion ■ Monthly global newsletter ■ Ethics case reports for investigation ■ Training and development ■ Learning strategy ■ Local HR teams on a daily basis and HR process platforms 24/7 ■ Career path and growth ■ Safety workplace environment ■ Open dialogues and meetings with leaders ■ Ongoing relationship management through sales reps ■ Customer engagement and satisfaction ■ Digital platforms ■ Company’s economic performance in mid and long term ■ Annual commercial events and ■ Customer centricity strategy CUSTOMERS ■ Quality products, services, and solutions ■ customer-satisfaction surveys ■ Clear understanding of our customers’ needs and concerns ■ Sustainability management practices ■ Customer service centers and help lines ■ Net Promoter Score (NPS) ■ Regular meetings, webcasts. and conference calls ■ Company’s economic performance in mid and long term ■ Quarterly financial updates and guidance ■ Understanding of CEMEX’s financial position, performance, ANALYSTS, INVESTORS, ■ Corporate Governance ■ Annual integrated report, annual reports, and mandatory filings business perspectives, and risks SHAREHOLDERS ■ Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) disclosure and ■ Ongoing website updates and press releases ■ Understanding of management and corporate ESG practices performance ■ Annual CEMEX Day investor event ■ Yearly collaborative research portfolio ■ Development of communities and regions ■ Impact through collaborative projects to develop knowledge ■ Bi-weekly “Lighthouses” talks ■ Collaboration in applied research projects and solutions ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS ■ Engaging students ■ Quarterly whitepapers ■ Build strategic partnerships with top universities & NGOs ■ Develop employees’ talent and awareness of global trends ■ Yearly best practices and methodologies playbooks ■ Employee awareness of global trends ■ Annual event to share the project’s outcomes ■ Innovation efforts ■ Attract new talent for CEMEX ■ Hackathons co-organized with Universities ■ Education and capability development ■ Ongoing dialogues with community stakeholders ■ Sustainable and resilient infrastructure and mobility ■ Quarterly community panels, sessions, and meetings ■ Creation of social and inclusive businesses ■ Social and environmental innovation and entrepreneurship ■ Annual open house days at operating sites ■ Generation of empowerment and capacity-building ■ Health and safety, environment protection culture ■ Ongoing educational programs and training ■ Improvement to community infrastructure and wellbeing COMMUNITIES ■ Human Rights ■ Participation in local career events ■ Development of learning opportunities ■ Accountability and transparent communication ■ Development of community infrastructure, volunteering, and ■ Open communication and feedback ■ Contribution to community quality of life and wellbeing social investment initiatives ■ Community transformation ■ Local employment opportunities ■ Development of inclusive business programs ■ Economic empowerment for women in communities ■ Health and safety ■ CEMEX Supplier Sustainability Program ■ Daily procurement interactions ■ Company’s economic performance in mid and long term ■ Inclusion of human rights, labor, antitrust, and sustainability SUPPLIERS ■ Fair business conditions ■ Ongoing capacity building programs clauses in our contracts and purchase orders ■ Supplier sustainability guidance ■ Sustainability management practices ■ Promotion of local suppliers ■ Environmental impact mitigation and management ■ Annual integrated report and conservation books ■ Company’s economic performance in mid and long term ■ Ongoing public policy discussions ■ Collaboration and communication with governments and GOVERNMENTS AND ■ Health and safety ■ Long-term partnerships regulatory bodies POLICY MAKERS ■ Climate change and CO2 emissions policy ■ Working groups ■ Successful adaptations to new local, national, and regional ■ Infrastructure and housing solutions ■ Periodic plant visits regulations ■ Local employment opportunities ■ Events and conferences ■ Periodic meetings ■ Development of coordinated initiatives with trade ■ Annual conferences BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS ■ Active engagement and guidance ■ Ongoing working groups associations ■ Best practices sharing ■ Ongoing research studies GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 21 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report OUR PARTNERSHIPS ENVIRONMENT AND KNOWLEDGE AND Consistent with our commitment to SHARED VALUE PARTNERS BIODIVERSITY PARTNERS INNOVATION PARTNERS work as One CEMEX, collaboration across external and internal boundaries is crucial to our contribution to UN SDG 17. Our global partnerships are a key success factor in the meaningful role we play to positively impact society We work closely with several partners to CEMEX aims to embed a growth mindset in Through collaboration in responsible busithrough our collaborative efforts and protect the environment and biodiversity of the our employees and to position learning as a ness processes, we can achieve better results our ability to transform societal chalcountries in which we operate by engaging in high-impact catalyst for the thriving of our through the co-creation of value for society. lenges into business opportunities fruitful partnerships with global, national, and business and its transformation. that generate positive, sustainable local organizations. Our more than 500 partnerships and strategic long-lasting impact. We leverage the knowledge and expertise of alliances worldwide have proven a key sucFor more than two decades, we have actively thought partners from varied perspectives cess factor in multiplying our positive impact spread a culture of appreciation and respect such as consulting, research institutions, union society and in the creation of sustainable for nature among our company, our stakeholdversities and technology partners. communities.. ers, and the global community. We have been honored to work with over 20 conservation Some of the most relevant partners we colThese collaborative alliances have made posNGOs in the past 25 years. laborate with include Deloitte Consulting, sible joint projects, best practices documentaMcKinsey & Company, IBM, ExperiencePoint, tion, and pilots of socially innovative solutions At a global level, we cooperate closely with MIT Center for Information Systems, MIT throughout different lines of action: resiliency, UNESCO, Wild Foundation, BirdLife InternaSloan School of Management, Cambridge environment, education, social integration, tional, Wildlife Conservation Society, World University-Cambridge Service Alliance, Harhealth, women’s economic empowerment in Business Council for Sustainable Development, vard Business Publishing, Degreed, NovoEd, the communities, development of employabilWildlife Habitat Council (WHC), Conservation London School of Economics, Ecole Polytechity capabilities for youth and people in vulnerInternational, and the International Union for nique Fédéral de Lausanne (EPFL), and Tec de able situations in the communities, inclusive Conservation of Nature (IUCN). These projects Monterrey. businesses, affordable housing, volunteering, have led to a series of conservation and nature and CEMEX Foundation activities. books that have proved widely successful. These collaborations enable the design, development, curation, and delivery of relevant learning experiences aligned with CEMEX’s strategic capabilities and emerging practices. GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 22 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Our Approach to the UN SDGs Building upon our commitment to the United Nations We selected FIVE SDGs that represent our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we continue our greatest opportunities to contribute further journey to contribute even more to these global goals and and to identify new business opportunities connected with our business strategy. unlock business opportunities for our company by creating shared value for society. Since 2015, we made a clear committhe identification of the focus goals. ment to the tackle the world’s greatThe result of this analysis is our set of est challenges and identified those focus SDGs (8, 9, 11, 13, and 15), upon goals that are more connected to our which we can contribute even further company’s’ impacts, risks, and opporto achieving the United Nations’ estabtunities. lished 2030 goals. PRIORITY SDGs In 2017, we prioritized the SDGs by These SDGs are connected to our analyzing their underlying targets and company’s strategy and are reflected indicators , and linked them to our in our company’s 2030 Sustainability materiality assessment, taking into targets. We will continuously track and LINKING SDGs consideration our stakeholders’ expecmeasure our progress toward these tations. By identifying key indicators goals through key indicators and and targets to measure progress, we disclosures. identified 11 SDGs to which CEMEX contributes directly. We are convinced that, by engaging in these global goals through our day-toUNDERLYING SDGs During 2018, in collaboration with a day activities, we are building a better multidisciplinary group within CEMEX future by tackling global challenges we connected stakeholders’ objectives, such as poverty, inequalities, climate risks, and financial and non-financial change, environmental changes, and indicators to the SDGs on a target level lack of proper education and capain a connectivity table that supported bility development, among others. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 23 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report By partnering within and outside of to make them an integral part of the our company, we know we can make a process. Each of our employees must systemic change. live these SDGs to make the required impacts on the United Nations’ Global Our five priority SDGs represent our Goals and to contribute to our vision of greatest opportunities to contribute building a better future. further and to identify new business PRIORITY opportunities connected with our Moreover, aligned to KPMG’s True business strategy, such as innovation, Value Methodology we are also releasCOLLABORATING AND SHARING BEST PRACTICES WITH UN research and development, employing for the second year CEMEX Net INITIATIVES ability, climate change, diversity, and Value to Society Statement to commuSDGs education, among others. In 2019, nicate our quantified economic, social, United Nations High-Level Political Forum In 2018, CEMEX parwe expect to continue embedding and environmental impacts which ticipated in the United Nations High-Level Political Forum, where the SDGs in our strategy to create confirm the positive impact we have sustainable urbanization was put at the heart of member states’ comengagement, a sense of purpose, and in communities. These efforts are a mitment to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. awareness among our stakeholders. critical part of maintaining our license The UN SDG 11 “Sustainable Cities and Communities” was featured EMBEDDED IN OUR 2030 For example, we expect to embed the to operate, innovating, and creating as a key focus area of progress alongside other SDGs that are central SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS SDGs in our Sustainability Scorecard value for society—improving quality of to making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and and train our employees on the SDGs life and wellbeing globally. sustainable. We shared our experience on how multi-stakeholder collaboration and investments in urban areas contribute to sustainable growth and reduction of poverty and prosperity. Through our business strategy, we contribute not only by developing innovative and sustainable solutions for the construction industry, but also by fostering the quality of life and wellbeing of our employees and our communities through inclusive business models and the co-creation of projects with our stakeholders and multi-stakeholder alliances. Participation Global Board of UNISDR ARISE – CEMEX joined the Global Board of UNISDR ARISE to build resilient cities and communities, fostering collaboration between academia, the public and private sectors, government, and civil society, while launching the ARISE network in Mexico. We are further leading the UN Global compact in Mexico, encouraging more companies to partner to contribute and explore business opportunities while reducing negative impact, and creating shared value to society. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 24 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Our 2030 Sustainability Ambitions A fundamental element in our sustainability approach involves setting integral goals that move our organization to achieve global objectives for which all our operations and functions are accountable. CEMEX As a leading building materials company, several of these objectives. Nonetheless, we recognize and embrace our responwe recognize that, while we are fully sibility in the development of sustainable committed to keep pushing to achieve cities and the generation of shared value our targets, we have experienced set2030 among communities. As part of this backs and difficulties along the way to purpose, we collaborate very closely reach some others. with peers in the sector, field experts, authorities, customers, suppliers, NGOs, With the world moving towards a 2030 WITH THE WORLD MOVING and other stakeholders to ensure our Agenda, we recognize our responsibility products and solutions not only address to join the collective action to continue end, we have defined a new set of ambiTOWARDS A 2030 AGENDA, all construction needs efficiently and positively impacting the world. Internations with a 2030 vision that strengthens we recognize our responsibility effectively, but also accomplish it in the tional milestones going from the Paris our commitment to building a better to join the collective action to most sustainable way. Agreement on Climate Change and more world and helping to alleviate some of continue positively impacting stringent phases for carbon regulated the biggest challenges communities are the world After the public announcement of our markets to the UN Sustainable Develfacing today. CEMEX 2020 sustainability targets, opment Goals (SDGs), continue to set we have been annually reporting our the pace for urgent action from governOur new sustainability goals are progress towards these aspirations. The ments, private sector and civil society. designed to continue to enhance CEMEX journey to fulfill these goals has enabled These global plans aim to address the environmental, social, and economic us to integrate sustainability more holismost significant problems, especially performance and contribute to achieve a tically within our company’s strategy. We those linked to poverty, inequality, better and more sustainable future for all. are motivated to see that, two years from climate, environmental degradation, the due date, we are about to achieve prosperity, and peace and justice. To this GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 25 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report FOCUS AREA KPI 2018 2030 TARGET LINK TO PRIORITY SDGs ■ Employee fatalities (No.) 0 0 HEALTH AND SAFETY ■ Employee Lost Time Injuries (No.) 49 0 SUSTAINABLE ■ Annual sales from cement and ready-mix concrete products with outstanding sustainable attributes (%) 43 ≥50 CONSTRUCTION CIRCULAR ECONOMY ■ Total consumption of waste-derived sources from other industries (million ton) 13.2 19 ■ Reduction of net CO2 emissions per cementitious product vs. 1990 aligned to science-based targets 21.6 29 methodology (%) CLIMATE CHANGE ■ Power consumption from renewable energy in cement (%) 26 40 ■ Reduction of dust emissions per ton of clinker vs. 2005 (%) 87 95 AIR EMISSIONS ■ Reduction of NOX emissions per ton of clinker vs. 2005 (%) 45 47 ■ Reduction of SOX emissions per ton of clinker vs. 2005 (%) 64 67 ■ Quarry rehabilitation plans, Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs), and third party certification (% from target quarries) 65 100 BIODIVERSITY AND WATER ■ Implementation of Water Management Plans in sites located on water-scarce areas (%) 1 100 ■ Community engagement plans with formal stakeholder dialogues and committees in all priority sites (%) 88 100 COMMUNITIES ■ Community partners (i.e., individuals positively impacted from our social initiatives) (million people) 16.1 30 1 During 2019 we expect to update our former Water Stress Assessment GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 26 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report FOCUS AREA KPI 2018 2030 TARGET LINK TO PRIORITY SDGs ■ Employees that would recommend CEMEX as a good place to work (%) 79 ≥80 EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE ■ Implementation of key diversity and inclusion initiatives in our business units (%) 0 100 CUSTOMER CENTRICITY ■ Net Promoter Score (NPS) (%) 44 60 SUPPLIERS ■ Sustainability assessment executed by an independent party for our critical suppliers (% spend) 44 80 ETHICS AND ■ Implementation of Ethics and Compliance Continuous Improvement Program (%) 50 100 COMPLIANCE THE RATIONALE BEHIND OUR NEW active participants in this effort, given › WBCSD-IEA Low-Carbon Transition AMBITIONS our bottom-up approach to define our in the Cement Industry Roadmap We conceive of sustainability as the commitments with all of our business only safe way to do business. This units accountable for contributing to › Global trends, risks, challenges, and implies managing risks and opportuthe global goals’ achievement. opportunities nities and coordinating environmental, › Materiality Matrix social, and financial demands relying Some of the key inputs that fed our › CEMEX Top Management on a solid governance framework. internal discussions and analysis to perspectives Sustainability is embedded in CEMEX’s define these new objectives include: strategy, and thus, it is linked to all › Key stakeholders’ concerns and functions across our business lines. › 2030 Agenda based on the UN Susinterests (e.g., governments, NGOs, tainable Development Goals universities, ESG analysts, industry Coordinated by the Sustainability associations, etc.) › The Paris Agreement on Climate team, the process to define CEMEX Change 2030 Sustainability Ambitions involved collaboration of more than 10 corpo› Milestones in carbon regulated rate functions. Representatives from markets all countries and regions were also GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 27 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report HEALTH & SAFETY share of our products’ portfolio that CLIMATE CHANGE offers performance characteristics We are confident that ZERO fatalities beyond the traditional options. This According to the International Energy are possible, and 2018 evidenced our special set of our ready-mix concrete Agency, cement is responsible for strong effort to achieve this goal. For solutions have demonstrated unique about 7% of global CO2 emissions. the first time, we achieved zero sustainability attributes that include For several decades, CEMEX has employee fatalities. This new milestone saving water and other resources, embraced CO2 emissions mitigation clearly shows that we can make a energy efficiency, resilience, and health as a priority within our sustainability difference. Health and Safety remains and safety benefits. In addition, we are strategy, and this battle has become our top priority, and to that end, we are working hard to not only develop novel one our biggest responsibilities and endorsing our determination to avoid types of cements such as low-carbon challenges given the rising global popany human losses. solutions, but also produce them in a ulation and urbanization phenomenon. more sustainable manner, increasing Additionally, we have reached a continued alternative fuels and raw materials and This year, we are taking further steps low level of Employee Lost-Time Injuries reducing clinker content. For 2030, by customizing a CO2 reduction road(LTIs) in the sector, which confirms that, we are committed to ensuring that at map by cement installation considering although we still have much to do, our least half our ready-mix concrete and co-processing residues as a cleaner five main levers: strategy is producing positive results. For cement sales is linked to solutions with energy option. In addition to convertthis reason, we have reinforced our former ing non-recyclable waste as alternative superior sustainability performance. 1 Energy Sourcing and Efficiency public goal and aspire to reach zero fuels and alternative raw materials in Employee LTIs by 2030. 2 Fuel Mix and Raw Meal our cement process, we also seize resiCIRCULAR ECONOMY Composition dues and by-products in our ready-mix Progress toward a more sustainable concrete production either as a sub3 Clinker Substitutes SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION future requires embedding waste stitute for cement or as a substitute for 4 Novel Cements CEMEX acknowledges that the buildmanagement into the framework of a natural aggregates. Moreover, concrete ing materials industry plays a key role circular economy. Making this transiitself can be recycled after its main 5 Carbon Capture, Storage and use, becoming an alternative aggreUtilization Technologies in addressing some of the most reletion is essential to reach a truly susvant societal challenges—from buildtainable, low-carbon, resource-effigate after its demolition. Beyond this detailed plan, our stronger ing the cities of the future to enabling cient, and competitive economy. Here CEMEX has become a “waste eater” ambition for continued progress in the construction of bridges, airports, again, the building materials sector has and this year we consumed 32 times Climate Change mitigation is reflected schools, hospitals, houses, and roads plenty to offer. more residues from other sectors than in our rigorous 2030 carbon-reduction to minimizing the environmental footthe amount of waste we generated and target, calculated using Science-Based print of our products during their proCEMEX has certainly become one of sent for disposal. This is precisely the Targets (SBTs) methodology. SBTs are duction, application, use, and end-life. the industry leaders in alternative fuels rationale behind our 2030 vision as an aligned with the reduction pathways consumption. However, to achieve our active contributor to a global circular for limiting a long-term global temConcrete and cement are natural full potential in actively participating economy. perature increase within 2°C. SBTs are choices for sustainable construction. in the solution to many cities’ waste grounded in an objective, scientific On top of this, there is an important management problem, we go beyond GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 28 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report evaluation of the actual contribution for more than a decade. As part of our agement Plans in all of our operations ties for growth and leadership develneeded from a company, and CEMEX 2030 ambitions, we are committed to located in water-scarce areas. During opment. For others, it’s fostering an is committed to this global goal, conachieving 100% rehabilitation plans for 2019, we expect to update our former open environment where dialogue is sistent with the Paris Agreement. all of our active quarries (more than Water Stress Assessment to prioritize encouraged. Whatever their needs, we 280 sites), continuing with the impleour plans in those sites where major want our employees to feel supported Moreover, we are also determined to mentation of BAPs in those quarries risk is identified. and engaged. reducing our indirect CO2 emissions classified as sites with high-biodiverthrough our new aggressive target of sity value, and extending our objective covering 40% of our cement operato obtain third-party certification for COMMUNITIES tions’ power energy needs with renewour conservation efforts in those quarOur Responsible Business strategy able sources. ries identified as high-risk sites based directly contributes to our vision of on a recent updated detailed environbuilding a better future and aims to mental and social assessment. understand and address our stakeAIR EMISSIONS holders’ expectations and needs. After Even though this is not mandatory In addition, although the building surpassing our 2020 goal of positively environmental regulation in all of the materials sector is responsible for less impacting at least 15 million individuals geographies where we operate, CEMEX than 1% of industrial water consumpthrough our social strategy, we are now decided to make a public commitment tion, CEMEX is aware of the invaluable doubling the ambition and aspire to to install Continuous Emissions Monimportance of this precious natural benefit 30 million individuals by 2030. itoring Systems in 100% of our kilns. resource, especially in geographies We are about to complete this task as where its availability is threatened. For Additionally, as part of our 2030 suspart of our 2020 targets. For 2030, we this reason, we are committed to pursue tainability ambitions, we we also preare raising the bar again. Our ambition 100% implementation of Water Mantend to establish Community Engageis to reach international environmental ment Plans in all priority sites across excellence levels for major air emissions our three business lines and impleAlthough we will keep monitoring and in all of our cement installations beyond ment stakeholder dialogues through reporting our Employee Engagement local requirements. formal Corporate Social Responsibility Index while doing our best to achieve multi-stakeholder committees. our challenging 2020 objective, we propose to focus our new target on the BIODIVERSITY AND WATER advocacy element of the engagement EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE equation. Our 2030 objective is to We seek to generate a net positive reach and maintain a specific KPI that impact from our mining operations. One of the pillars of our business stratreferences the percentage of employTo this end, CEMEX has a long hisegy is to Value Our People as Our Main ees that would recommend CEMEX as tory of rehabilitating extracted zones Competitive Advantage. Accordingly, a good place to work. We believe this and implementing Biodiversity Action we hire the best, and we take care of is a more robust and straightforward Plans (BAPs) in our quarries. For this them. When we support our employstatistic that ultimately reflects the latter purpose, we have worked in ees, our entire company flourishes. For positive net balance resulting from a partnership with BirdLife International some, that means offering opportuniholistic employee experience. GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 29 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Moreover, a key priority of our talent become the most relevant indicator for ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE attraction and retention strategy is this purpose. As of this year, CEMEX is to strengthen diversity and inclusion. not only publicly reporting our annual Our new ambition refers to the impleIn 2018, we launched CEMEX Global NPS figure, but also engaging with a mentation of a global program to Diversity and Inclusion Policy. With this very ambitious NPS objective for 2030. continuously strengthen Ethics and in mind, we plan to complement and Our plan is consistent with our strong Compliance throughout our organizasupport its implementation with a 2030 commitment to become the most custion. This effort includes: deployment plan among all of our busitomer-centric company in the building ness units through a set of key efforts, materials industry. 1 Active management of our Code including the following: of Ethics, which includes updating, disseminating, and promoting SUPPLIERS adherence, while managing › 50/50 Gender Balance in all entry level programs Since 2010, we have been rolling our system of complaints, out CEMEX Supplier Sustainability investigations, and conclusions › Perform bi-annual review of comOUR SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD: TRACKING OUR pensation parity in Global Audience Program, an effort that extends our 2 Reinforced compliance efforts with PROGRESS commitment to sustainable practices strategic action plans covering › Deploy unconscious bias training and policies to our business partners training and legal audits related to for “on-line” managers at all levels In 2018, we launched the CEMEX Sustainability Scorecard, an through an evaluation executed by a internal policies such as antitrust, internal management tool that aims to assess our regions and specialized independent firm, includanticorruption, insider trading, and countries’ performance in a similar way to how international CUSTOMER CENTRICITY ing criteria such as Health & Safety, conflict of interest. analysts evaluate our company’s ESG (environmental, social Community Relations, Human Rights, and governance) profile based on relevant methodologies. Our customer focus is one of our Employee Development and Divercompany’s core values. We put our sity, and Environmental Compliance, The scorecard will dynamically assess sustainability-related customers at the center of every action among others. initiatives and indicators among all our operations leading to we take and every decision we make. internal rankings for reference when defining new action plans Accordingly, we have organized our Although we have made progress to improve our ESG performance. Among other advantages, the company and redesigned our protoward our 2020 goal, considering feedscorecard will enable our countries to focus on KPIs for which cesses to ensure that we create the back from our stakeholders we have they are accountable and make a greater impact on our overall best possible experience for them. decided to strategically redirect our sustainability strategy; allow our business units to benchmark efforts and adjust the focus to critical their ESG maturity against others and identify best practices For several years, CEMEX has worked suppliers as the priority target group for that they can apply to improve; and provide a guide for all to implement and standardize across evaluation. As a result, our new 2030 operations to move forward toward our global sustainability all of our operations and different objective will transpose our former goal goals while achieving excellence in their performance. business lines an integral and fully beyond volume to a way in which our reliable methodology to measure and resources are more dedicated to manmonitor customer satisfaction. As a aging suppliers’ impact and risk. result, Net Promoter Score (NPS) has GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 30 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 96% OF OUR OPERATIONS were fatality and LTI free; our highest percentage of operations on record Our Performance A stronger execution to achieve our priorities 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 31 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Business Review FINANCIAL POSITION: A STRONGER CEMEX FIRST THIRD STRONGER TOGETHER In order to fortify our company’s posiWe sold assets for US$84 million, We reduced our total debt plus tion as a leading global heavy building including our operations in Brazil, properpetual notes by US$493 million, To further strengthen our customer-centric organization and improve our materials company, accelerate our path gressing toward our target of between advancing toward our total debt reduccommercial offering while achieving operational efficiencies, we began to investment grade, and enhance our US$1.5 and US$2.0 billion of asset tion target of US$3.5 billion by the end managing CEMEX Europe as one business unit, similar to CEMEX USA total shareholder return, we embarked sales by the end of 2020. By divesting of 2020. As divestments occur and the and CEMEX Mexico, effective October 1, 2018. We also manage our Euroon our strategic A Stronger CEMEX assets not fundamental to our strategy, benefits of our cost-reduction initiapean cement business, including our commercial, operational, and supply plan to streamline and reposition our we expect to free up more free cash tives are realized, we should accelchain areas, regionally, together with all of our support functions. We portfolio to maximize our company’s flow to de-lever faster and reduce our erate our deleveraging and expect to further manage our ready-mix concrete and aggregates businesses—now profitable growth. During the second financing costs sooner. This in turn be within metrics consistent with an called materials—in two regions: half of the year, we made significant should accelerate our operating cash investment-grade rating by the end of ■ WEST: UK, Spain, and France advances on our plan: flow generation and enable us to invest 2020. ■ CENTRAL: Germany, the Czech Republic, Poland, Latvia, and Croatia in more avenues for greater growth, ultimately delivering more value to our FOURTH US$150 shareholders. We included a proposed cash dividend that we will present for approval SECOND at our Ordinary General Shareholders We implemented US$230 million of Meeting to be held on March 28, 2019 MILLION cost-reduction initiatives—designed for an amount of US$150 million. to further improve our profitability, obtain higher returns, and deliver more All of these actions, taken together, are value for our stakeholders—US$170 expected to position CEMEX to be a PROPOSED CASH-DIVIDEND million of the benefit of these actions is stronger competitor and global leader for our shareholders expected to be reflected in our EBITDA in the heavy building materials industry. for 2019. Over the medium term, we expect to reach EBITDA margin levels of above 20 percent. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 32 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Operating EBITDA declined 1% to Following is a review of operational US$2.6 billion in 2018. On a like-to-like results and the financial condition of basis, operating EBITDA improved 1% the company. for the year. The increase on a liketo-like basis was mainly due to higher Consolidated net sales increased 5% contributions from Mexico and the U.S. to US$14.4 billion in 2018. On a like-toUS$14.4 like basis for our ongoing operations Operating EBITDA margin decreased and adjusting for foreign exchange 1.1 percentage points, from 18.9% in fluctuations, consolidated net sales 2017 to 17.8% in 2018, mainly due to the increased 6% for the year. The increase in energy costs. increase on a like-to-like basis was the BILLION result of higher prices for our prodWe reported a gain on financial instruucts in local currency terms in all of ments of US$25 million in 2018, resultour regions except our South, Central ing mainly from our derivatives related America and the Caribbean region, as to GCC shares. CONSOLIDATED NET SALES well as higher volumes in our Mexico in 2018, a 5% increase and U.S. regions. We reported a foreign exchange gain of US$18 million in 2018, resulting NET SALES AND FREE CASH FLOW AFTER Cost of sales as a percentage of net mainly from the fluctuation of the MexiOPERATING EBITDA MAINTENANCE CAPITAL sales increased 0.5 percentage points, can peso versus the U.S. dollar. (millions of US dollars) EXPENDITURES from 65.6% in 2017 to 66.1% in 2018. (millions of US dollars) The increase was mainly driven by We reported controlling interest net income of US$543 million in 2018 14,975 higher energy costs. 14,375 13,723 13,635 1,685 versus net income of US$806 million 13,327 Operating expenses as a percentage in 2017. The lower income primarof net sales increased 0.2 percentage ily reflects a lower gain on financial 1,290 points, from 21.7% in 2017 to 21.9% in instruments, higher other expenses, 918 2018. The increase was mainly driven net, higher income tax, and a negative by higher distribution and logistic variation in discontinued operations, 881 expenses, mitigated by our cost reducpartially offset by a positive variation tion initiatives. in foreign exchange fluctuations, and 2,664 2,596 2,753 2,574 2,558 401 lower financial expenses. Total debt plus perpetual notes decreased US$952 million to US$10.4 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 billion at the end of 2018 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 33 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report GLOBAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONS GLOBAL OPERATIONS SOUTH, CENTRAL SALES DISTRIBUTION BY PRODUCT AFRICA, MIDDLE (percentage) millions of US dollars as of MEXICO UNITED STATES EUROPE 1 AMERICA & THE OTHERS 4 TOTAL EAST & ASIA 3 December 31, 2018 CARIBBEAN 2 17 Net sales 3,299 3,748 3,757 1,781 1,434 356 14,375 Operating earnings before other 40 expenses, net 1,062 336 161 315 142 (293) 1,724 Operating EBITDA 1,176 644 363 404 206 (234) 2,558 43 Assets 5 3,483 13,7 15 5,360 2,799 1,558 1,208 28,124 l CEMENT l READY-MIX l AGGREGATES CAPACITY PER REGION as of December 31, 2018 Cement production capacity 29.5 15.4 23.9 13.9 9.9 92.6 SALES DISTRIBUTION BY REGION (million tons/year) (percentage) Cement plants (controlled) 15 11 17 10 3 56 27 Cement plants (minority part.) 3 7 1 0 0 11 23 Ready-mix plants 256 327 719 107 81 1,490 10 Aggregates quarries 12 64 177 22 9 284 13 27 Land distribution centers 80 39 69 39 31 258 l MEXICO l EUROPE l SCA&C Marine terminals 7 8 30 14 5 64 l AMEA l UNITED STATES 1. Includes operations in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Poland, Czech Republic, Croatia, Latvia, Scandinavia and Finland. 2. Includes operations in Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica, Caribbean TCL, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Nicaragua, Jamaica, the Caribbean, El Salvador and Guatemala. 3. Includes operations in Egypt, Israel, the Philippines, and the United Arab Emirates 4. Includes minor subsidiaries with different lines of business (See note 4.4 to the 2018 Annual Report’s Financial Statements). 5. Includes assets in associated participation. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 34 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Mexico and infrastructure construction activity, ready-mix concrete and aggregates In 2018, our Mexican operations’ net sales despite adverse weather conditions in volume growth partly reflected our introincreased 9% on a like-to-like basis year the first, third, and fourth quarters. In the duction of 10 new ready-mix concrete over year to US$3.3 billion, and operating residential sector, housing starts were plants and three new aggregates quarEBITDA improved 5% on a like-to-like up 3% year over year. In the industriries. Residential and industrial-and-combasis to US$1.2 billion. Our domestic gray al-and-commercial sector, construction mercial sector activity remained favorcement, ready-mix concrete, and aggrespending was up 4% for the year on the able for the year. The residential sector gates volumes increased by 1%, 10%, and strength of office, lodging, and commercontinued to benefit from favorable credit 10%, respectively, for the year. cial activity. In the infrastructure sector, conditions, low interest rates, positive street and highway spending continued income perspectives, and pent-up housDuring 2018, our cement volumes were to grow during the year, up 4% year ing demand, with double-digit growth in supported by the formal residential and over year on the back of increased state both housing permits and mortgages. industrial-and-commercial sectors, mitspending. Contract awards in our key igated by lower infrastructure activity. In states grew in the double digits and in In Germany, our operations’ domestic the formal residential sector, investment excess of the national average, driven gray cement, ready-mix concrete, and in mortgages for new home acquisitions aggregates volumes declined by 1%, 9%, continued to grow as INFONAVIT surby specific state infrastructure funding Europe and 2%, respectively, during the year. The passed its target for 2018. In the indusinitiatives. Our European operations’ net sales decline in our ready-mix concrete voltrial-and-commercial sector, favorable increased 3% on a like-to-like basis year umes partly reflected continued supply dynamics continued in the tourism, South, Central America and the Caribbean over year to US$3.8 billion, and operating constraints in the construction industry, office-space, and manufacturing-related In 2018, our net sales for the region EBITDA decreased 4% on a like-to-like which resulted in lower cement volumes construction segments. The economic declined 3% on a like-to-like basis to basis at US$363 million in 2018. For the supplied to our ready-mix concrete indicators that drive the self-construction US$1.8 billion. Our operating EBITDA full year, our domestic gray cement voloperations. sector—including employment levels, decreased 14% on a like-to-like basis to umes increased by 1%, while our readyconsumer confidence, and remittance US$404 million. As a whole, our regional mix concrete volumes declined by 1% and In Poland, our operations’ domestic gray inflows—remained solid during the year. operations’ domestic gray cement, readyour aggregates volumes remained flat. cement, ready-mix concrete, and aggremix concrete, and aggregates volumes gates volumes increased by 7%, 4%, and United States decreased by 2%, 11%, and 11%, respecIn the United Kingdom, our operations’ 8%, respectively for 2018. Our cement Our U.S. operations’ net sales increased tively, for the year. On a like-to-like basis, domestic gray cement, ready-mix volume growth during the year was mainly 9% on a like-to-like basis year over year including the regional operations of TCL, concrete, and aggregates volumes due to our participation in large infrastructo US$3.7 billion for 2018. Operating our domestic gray cement volumes in declined by 4%, 5%, and 1%, respecture projects—including the S17 expressEBITDA increased 7% to US$644 million the region declined by 3% for the year. tively, during the year. The decline in way—and solid residential sector activity. Above: Monterrey, Mexico during the year. Our U.S. operations’ cement volumes reflected continued Above right: Petroleum Coastal, DominOur Colombian operations’ domestic domestic gray cement, ready-mix conuncertainty around Brexit. In France, our operations’ domestic ican Republic gray cement and ready-mix concrete crete, and aggregates volumes increased aggregates volumes increased by 3%, by 5%, 8%, and 3%, respectively, for 2018. volumes decreased by 6% and 11%, In Spain, our operations’ domestic gray while our ready-mix concrete volumes respectively, for 2018. During the year, cement, ready-mix concrete, and aggreremained flat in 2018. Our volumes for Our volume growth during the year cement consumption was affected by a gates volumes increased by 4%, 34%, the full year reflected favorable infrawas supported mainly by residential weak demand environment. and 39%, respectively, during 2018. Our structure activity—including the “Grand 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 35 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report have been subject to significant volatility tively, regarding our operations in Costa in recent years. Our trading operations, Rica, the Dominican Republic, Israel, the however, have obtained significant savCzech Republic, Colombia, Nicaragua, ings by contracting maritime transporPanama, Guatemala, Jamaica, the Philiptation in due time and by using our own pines, The Netherlands, United Kingdom, and chartered fleet, which transported Trinidad and Tobago and Poland. approximately 62% of our cement and clinker traded volume during 2018. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, we received as grant a free assignment In addition, based on our spare fleet of CO2 allowances in the countries in capacity, we provide freight service which we operate in the European to third parties generating additional Union (EU) and that are part of the EU revenues. Emissions Trading System. For purposes of this paragraph, our operations in Other information Europe are mainly conformed by CroDuring the years-ended on December atia, Czech Republic, Germany, Latvia, White House, Croatia Kaia Homes, Philippines 31, 2018 and 2017, in terms of millions Spain and United Kingdom. For years Paris” project—as well as continued In Egypt, our operations’ domestic gray also provide us with the added flexibilof USD, in the countries in which we 2018 and 2017, we received a total of demand from the industrial-and-comcement volumes remained flat for 2018. ity to place contracted supplies in an operate we paid in cash a total amount European Union Allowances (EUAs) of mercial sector. Our volumes for the year mainly reflected optimal way. of taxes of 227 and 249, respectively, 9,960,483 and 10,531,690 respectively. weaker market demand in the second corresponding 178 to corporation income The EUAs allocated by country during Asia, Middle East and Africa half of the year and our focus on our In 2018, we enjoyed trading relationships taxes (197 in 2017). Out of the 178 million 2018 and 2017 respectively were 1,124,766 In the region, our operations’ net sales most profitable markets. in 102 countries. Our traded volume of corporation income taxes (197 in 2017), and 1,147,135 for Croatia; 408,335 and increased 7% on a like-to-like basis year totaled more than 12.4 million tons of 37 were paid by our operations in Europe 416,455 for Czech Republic; 1,256,094 over year to US$1.4 billion, while operatIn Israel, our ready-mix and aggregates cementitious and non-cementitious (26 in 2017), 141 by our operations in the and 1,281,075 for Germany; 881,901 ing EBITDA decreased 6% on a like-tovolumes increased by 4% and 3%, materials, including approximately 10.2 Americas and other countries (171 in and 899,440 for Latvia; 3,768,827 like basis to US$206 million during 2018. respectively, for the year. million tons of cement and clinker. 2017). For purposes of this paragraph, and 4,216,897 for Spain; 1,227,518 and As a whole, our regional operations’ Approximately 5.7 million tons of the our operations in Europe are mainly 1,251,930 for UK. The EUAs received were domestic gray cement increased by 3%, Trading traded cement and clinker consisted of conformed by the Netherlands, France, worth in millions of US dollars 93 and while our ready-mix concrete volumes Our global trading network is one of exports and the remaining approximately the Czech Republic and Switzerland; 68 in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Breakremained flat and our aggregates volthe largest in the industry. Our trading 4.4 million tons were purchased from our operations in Americas are mainly down by country of the EUAs worth in umes declined 2% for the year. operations help us to optimize our worldthird parties. We also maintained a sizeconformed by Mexico, the U.S., Colombia, millions of US dollars for 2018 and 2017 wide production capacity, deliver excess able trading position of 1.3 million tons of Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, respectively: 10 and 7 for Croatia; 4 and 3 In the Philippines, our operations’ cement to where it is most needed, granulated blast furnace slag, a non-clinGuatemala, Nicaragua and Panama. for Czech Republic; 12 and 8 for Gerdomestic gray cement volumes and explore new markets without the ker cementitious material, and 0.9 million many; 8 and 6 for Latvia; 35 and 27 for increased by 7% for 2018. Our increased necessity of making immediate capital tons of other products In addition, also for the years-ended on Spain; 11 and 8 for UK. cement volumes during the year were investments. Our worldwide network of December 31, 2018 and 2017, in terms of supported by continued infrastructure strategically located marine terminals Freight rates, which account for a large millions of USD, we had an aggregate activity and residential sector growth. and broad third-party customer base share of the total import supply cost, tax profit of 247 and 283 million, respec2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 36 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report BOLD STEPS ON OUR DIGITAL ducted its “Second CEMEX Ventures +1,500 TRANSFORMATION Ideas Challenge” with CEMEX employees. Furthermore, CEMEX Ventures CEMEX Ventures held its 2018 Construction Startup CEMEX Ventures, our open innovation Competition, its second start-up comand corporate venture capital unit, petition that concluded with four times plays a key part in our digital transforthe number of participants’ projects POTENTIAL BUSINESSES mation. Through CEMEX Ventures, we compared with 2017, featuring the most leverage our company’s knowledge of analyzed for investment by promising solutions to today’s global the business with new, leading-edge construction challenges. CEMEX Ventures in 2018 technologies and platforms, focusing Visit www.cemexventures.com INNOVATION AND EFFICIENCY IN OUR CEMENT PLANTS on solving the main challenges in the for more information > construction ecosystem through sustainable solutions. We became the first company in the cement industry to successfully operate Since our launch of CEMEX Ventures in 2017, we have built a broad portfolio our plants by remote control. From our central location in Monterrey, Mexico, CEMEX Ventures’ open, collaborative of innovative companies in which we invest: our innovative monitoring and remote control system, Cement Control Cenplatform leads the construction induster (or C3), operates in real time—24 hours a day, 365 days a year—tracking try’s revolution, engaging startups, live data for our operation of 14 cement plants, 25 kilns, and 86 grinding mills entrepreneurs, universities, and other in Mexico, as well as monitoring a cement plant in Colombia and another stakeholders to tackle current induscement plant in the U.S. try challenges and shape tomorrow’s value ecosystem. By more effectively leveraging the resources and technological innovation across our global operations network, C3 helps us to unify our cement In addition to the investments, CEMEX plants’ control systems, make real-time decisions, more conveniently share Ventures signed a collaborative agreebest practices, maximize operating efficiency, and manage energy and other ment with NEINOR Homes, a leading resources. The system’s uninterrupted monitoring provides information on real estate developer in Spain, to drive each stage of the production process, coupled with the performance of generation of new business models equipment installed in the cement plants. This enables our C3 operators and relationships with key players in to not only monitor and take immediate corrective actions in coordination the real estate development and conwith our local operations’ staff, but also access installed intelligent control struction ecosystems. systems to minimize any deviation from safety, environmental, efficiency, and product quality targets. In 2018, CEMEX Ventures analyzed more than 1,500 potential businesses, We are already reaping the benefits of our maintenance, processes, and invested in three startups, and consustainability departments’ teamwork through our C3 system. Among other advantages, we increased safety—achieving a 50% reduction in our number of operational incidents—reduced machine downtime, improved emissions monitoring, simplified decision-making, and increased our overall operating efficiency and reliability. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 37 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 2.2 TIMES UNDERSTANDING THE NET VALUE WE CEMEX Net Value to Society ECONOMIC IMPACT CREATE FOR SOCIETY Methodology As a company, we are aware that our The starting point for our analysis is › SALARIES AND BENEFITS value that our company creates for financial statements only partly reflect the retained benefit (EBITDA minus our employees. how our activities affect society; there taxes, interests and dividends; i.e., the › TAXES value through our contribution to government are both positive and negative impacts part of our value creation that remains that are not valued in the capital marNET VALUE CREATED BY funding. This item only contains income tax as shown in within our company). To this, several our profit and loss statement. kets and, therefore, do not appear in our economic, social, and environmental CEMEX in 2018 vs. retained traditional profit and loss calculation. impacts are added or subtracted to benefit › INTEREST AND DIVIDENDS value for shareholders and determine the total value that our comcreditors. In the past, CEMEX already develpany creates. oped its own model to quantify these SOCIAL IMPACT so-called externalities in monetary terms and, after successfully piloting in CEMEX 2018 NET VALUE TO SOCIETY STATEMENT l NET VALUE › TALENT DEVELOPMENT Value through our training programs the UK, we started its deployment at (in millions of US dollars) l ECONOMIC and other educational initiatives. This only includes the a global level. For the second year, we l SOCIAL value created outside our company (employee turnover). validated our methodology to estimate l ENVIRONMENTAL › SOCIAL INITIATIVES Value for our stakeholders through our the Net Value to Society with the corresocial initiatives and inclusive businesses. sponding True Value methodology from KPMG. 651 6 192 (14) (1,393) › HEALTH AND SAFETY Impact on employees and their families from accidents (injuries and fatalities). This exercise helps us to enhance 2,251 227 our understanding of the materiality, 3,641 (66) (65) 18 154 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT relevance, and interdependency of our company’s positive and negative › GHG EMISSIONS Impact from the emission of greenhouse impacts. We believe that it is an essengases (scopes 1, 2 and 3). tial step to informed management and 1,680 decision-making in order to improve › AIR EMISSIONS Impact from the emission of other potentially noxious substances (SOX , NOX , particles). the value that CEMEX contributes to our company, our society, and our planet. › WATER CONSUMPTION Impact from the use of a scarce Furthermore, it allows us to manage resource. risks, be more transparent, and achieve › BIODIVERSITY Impact from the disturbance of land by our sustainability ambitions. RETAINED BENEFITS SALARIES AND TAXES INTERESTS AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY OCCUPATIONAL H&S GHG EMISSIONS AIR EMISSIONS WATER CONSUMPTION BIODIVERSITY NET WASTE NET VALUE TO our mining operations. This item also includes the value INVESTMENT BALANCE BENEFITS DIVIDENDS SOCIETY created by our conservation project in El Carmen on the US-Mexican border. › NET WASTE BALANCE Value derived from coprocessing STARTING POINT: waste, minus the impact of waste generated in our RETAINED BENEFITS = EBITDA MINUS TAXES, INTEREST AND DIVIDENDS operations. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 38 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Our People We are a global, multicultural company with more than OUR ZERO4LIFE COMMITMENT TRANSFORMING INTO AN INJURY-FREE Health and Safety remains our top COMPANY 42,000 employees around the world. Our diverse workforce value and priority. Nothing is more In 2018, we continued to make progrepresent a wide range of countries, cultures, backgrounds, important than the health and safety ress in most countries, with 96% of our of our employees, contractors, and the operations achieving ZERO fatalities and experiences. Every role within our organization is unique and Lost-Time Injuries (LTIs). This is people with which we interact within and valuable. our communities and as we carry out both motivation and clear evidence We are proud and protective of our our day-to-day business. Quite simply, that our ZERO4Life objective is becomworkforce; they live our values every our guiding principle is to aspire that ing a reality across the vast majority day. Above all, we aspire to provide everyone always returns home safely of our sites. While clearly we still have our people with a safe, healthy work to their family. much more to do, we are absolutely environment—with zero incidents and committed to continue our positive injuries. Together, we are building a We constantly work towards our ultidirection on this important journey. better future for our families, our cusmate target of zero injuries worldwide tomers, and the communities in which at every location—our Zero4Life goal. Consistent with our Zero4Life goal, we we live and work. We continue our development of a are committed to the safety of all of our culture where everyone in our organiemployees, and we expect to continue LINK TO PRIORITY SDGS With this in mind, we continue to zation embraces this commitment. To to pay close attention to contractor contribute even more to the UN Susprevent harm to our people is the most safety. Although we achieved zero tainable Development Goals (SDGs), rewarding aspect of our business; this employee fatalities for the year, sadly focusing our efforts on the achievemoral imperative is the reason why we recorded five contractor fatalities, ment of those goals that are most health and safety is our company’s and although this figure has dropped relevant to our business. Our efforts foremost value and priority. by more than 70% from four years to provide our employees with comago, this stakeholder group remains a petitive compensation, while offering Our dedicated health and safety efforts key concern. Of these fatalities, 60% a safe, healthy, and respectful work and action plans are all about protectoccurred off-site and involved road environment, directly connect to our ing the lives and integrity of our peotraffic incidents. priority SDGs 8, 9 and 11. ple; nothing is more important when performing our day-to-day business. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 39 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Accordingly, we expect to continue to Each year, our results show improvement in most of our health and safety focus special attention on contractor KPIs, and 2018 was no exception with several new CEMEX records set: and driving safety, including contractors in our varied global campaigns ZERO LOWEST and initiatives. Each injury and fatality is analyzed deeply to identify root causes and required actions to prevent future incidents. By building and MAKING OUR STREETS SAFER FOR ALL USERS EMPLOYEE FATALITIES LEVEL EVER RECORDED implementing the best mobility policies for the first year ever of contractor fatalities and practices around our operations, Consistent with our culture of health and safety, we continually work with we strive to make roads a safe place our employees and contractors to enhance road safety for all users globally. where cyclists, motorcyclists, drivers, From defensive driving training to safety features for our trucks to innovative pedestrians, and all users can coexist branding campaigns, we aim to make streets a safe place for drivers, motor96% LOWEST peacefully without incidents. For examcyclists, cyclists, pedestrians, and other vulnerable road users. ple, our Global Supply Chain Network’s Health & Safety track further embedWe have invested on safety equipment for our company’s trucks to help OF OUR OPERATIONS EMPLOYEE AND ded our five-step Vulnerable Road improve road safety including additional mirrors to increase our drivers’ were fatality and LTI free CONTRACTOR TRIs Users program—focused on Education, scope of visibility, warning signs, vehicle sensors, and camera systems that our highest percentage of (Total Recordable Injury) Collaboration, Community, Awareness alert our drivers to potential dangers, among others. These features are operations on record Raising, and Vehicle Specifications— also being added to our regular contractors’ vehicles. and supported the rollout of a communication campaign focused on contract We also offer our drivers a range of defensive driving training around our drivers. For more information about operations. For instance, in the Philippines, more than 100 drivers have EMPLOYEE LOST TIME our Vulnerable Road User program’s graduated from Driver’s Academy, a third-party training program through INJURY FREQUENCY RATE community initiatives, please read our which participants expand their knowledge of road safety. Similarly, in the (per million hours worked) Sustainable Communities section. UAE, our employees not only attend regular “Toolbox Talks on Road Safety & Safe Driving Practices,” but also our drivers participate in Haulage Driver 0.5 1.2 Furthermore, we have invested over Training and Awareness of Vulnerable Road Users. US$13 million so far in specific safety features for our company’s trucks to Another example of our commitment to help protect road users is our launch EMPLOYEE LTI help improve road safety. Through of campaign in the UK, whereby some of our trucks are branded with a FREQUENCY RATE 0.6 these and other efforts, we continue design to help warn pedestrians to not take risks by stepping out into the 0.5 to work hard to pursue that all of our road when trying to cross to the other side. With this type of incident famila continued low level for our industry contractors become an integral part iar to many of our operations in recent years, we decided to adopt the same of our health and safety culture, while approach in other countries, with several trucks branded similarly in over 50 advancing toward our company’s ulticities and towns around the world by the end of the first quarter of 2019. mate target of zero injuries worldwide. To read more about our efforts to improve road safety in our communities, 14 16 18 please see page 66 of the Sustainable Communities section > 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 40 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report We continue focusing also in the › SIX GLOBAL NETWORK H&S TRACKS VFL involves the development of a contures in our mobile equipment across all mitigation of the potential occupainclude senior operational people stant, and positive leadership approach of our global operations. Moreover, our tional health effects through a range supported by at least one member of to H&S management, starting with Global Ready-Mix Track made further of workplace improvements, dedicated our corporate H&S team. those at the very top of our organizaprogress on our rigorous approach to training and campaigns. Being muscution. VFL encompasses engagement safety checklists and driver training. loskeletal disorders and hearing prob› GLOBAL HEALTH FORUM OF EXPERTS exercises with people in CEMEX operworks on various initiatives and lems the two most common conditions ations that aim to reinforce our safety We further continued to increase our materials to help our employees and that we have identified, we have seen culture and awareness as our compalocal wellness initiatives. Supported by contractors lead a healthy lifestyle. a reduction of 30% in the total occuny’s top priority. Our VFL approach is our Global Health Forum of Experts, pational illnesses reported cases. We H&S Policies and Procedures: designed to help everyone “feel” the we remain focused on our employees’ expect that with the controls we have Reinforcing Our Top Priority true commitment of every manager occupational health and wellbeing put in place, we will see further reducAs our top value and priority, we have to safety and to motivate and inspire by providing ongoing health checks, tions in reported cases going forward. strong policies in place to reinforce our others throughout our organization to further promoting CEMEX Health unwavering devotion to H&S throughbehave in the same positive way. Essentials, and better defining a health BUILDING A STRONG HEALTH & SAFETY out our organization. Consistent with recognition program for our operations. CULTURE our global Health and Safety Policy, For years, CEMEX has implemented Additionally, our countries of operation Across our operations, we continue we are fully committed to carrying our the Near Miss Hazard Alert System organized a range of health-related investing in initiatives to enhance our activities in a safe and efficient manacross all of our geographies and activities and events, often involving our healthy practices, reduce our safety ner and to caring for the wellbeing of business lines. Employees, contracemployees’ families to help raise awareWE WORK risks, and strengthen our culture of our employees, contractors, and other tors or anyone visiting a CEMEX site ness of and to encourage good health health and safety (H&S). Through people with whom we may interact. can use this tool to report identified habits. For example, we rolled out a standardized global programs and best This overarching policy is further risks. This reporting system has greatly smoking cessation program in the U.S.; practice sharing, we drive a consistent reinforced in our global Code of Ethics contributed to the improvement of we held healthy eating campaigns and approach across all of our operations. and Business Conduct and Code of working conditions and the elimination fitness workshops in Panama; and we TOGETHER Conduct When Doing Business With of potential hazards. invested in machinery improvements to Our robust interconnected global H&S Us—whereby we extend the high priorlower noise exposure levels to prevent organization structure pursues that we ity that we place on H&S to our conH&S Initiatives: Supporting Our potential harm in Egypt. work together through a coordinated, tractors, subcontractors, and service Zero4Life Commitment consistent, and collaborative approach providers. Throughout our Global Network H&S H&S Training: Achieving Our Goals TO REACH OUR GOAL to reach our companywide goal of zero Tracks, during 2018, we implemented At CEMEX, H&S training is a key part of zero injuries through a injuries: As we continue to improve our H&S diverse initiatives that support our of our strategy to achieve our Zerocoordinated, consistent, and culture, we must make all types of injuZero4Life commitment. Among our 4Life goal. We constantly aspire that all collaborative approach › THE H&S FUNCTIONAL NETWORK involves ries to our employees and contractors activities, our Global Cement Track proof our employees possess the correct all of our national H&S specialists. a thing of the past, especially fatalities vided a way to support ongoing safety knowledge, skills, and experience to and other high severity incidents. improvements through our “Change perform their jobs safely. › THE GLOBAL H&S COUNCIL is comprised of corporate and regional representaTo this end, our key proactive efforts Management” program. Our Global tives who interact with our extended include Visible Felt Leadership (VFL) Aggregates Track continued to focus on global H&S networks and Global and Near Miss/Hazard Alert Reporting. fully implementing minimum safety feaNetworks. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 41 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report GLOBAL WORKFORCE (percentage) BY POSITION BY GENDER As part of our manager-training at enhancing proficiency in key H&S EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE POWERS OUR 13 14 program, executives and supervisors topics. Each of our regions are expected BUSINESS STRATEGY must complete our H&S Academy. to begin to deploy this module in 2019. We are working to deliver a world29 86 The Academy is designed to enhance class employee experience, so our the leadership skills of our line manSince the launch of our H&S Academy, employees can enjoy an integrated, agers and supervisors and to pursue more than 7,800 line managers have seamless, and rewarding experience that H&S is our top priority across our completed our Foundation module, when they come to work. In order to while over 4,700 have concluded achieve our commitment to create a 58 Module 2. superior customer experience, we must l OPERATIONAL l MALE link these experiences to pursue we l NON-EXECUTIVE l FEMALE operate internally in a mutually prol EXECUTIVE In addition to our H&S Academy, we continued to provide a wide range of ductive way. training to our front-line workers on BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE BY CONTRACT various subjects, including safe drivAt CEMEX, we are committed to create ing, machinery isolation, emergency differentiated employee experiences, 3 2 management, and occupational health so our employees are enabled to work 97 98 and wellbeing. to the best of their abilities, unleashing their full potential. H&S Awards: Recognizing Those Who Excel Our employee experience embodOur Global H&S Awards provide us ies all of the interactions between with the opportunity to recognize our employees and our company. It those operations that excel at ensurencompasses our whole work environl FULL TIME l PERMANENT ment, including our physical, digital, l PART-TIME l TEMPORARY ing a safe workplace and promoting organization—from our production a healthy lifestyle among our employand organizational interactions. Physiplants to our corporate offices. ees and everyone involved with our cally, we are changing our workplaces, company. Presented annually, these creating collaborative environments BY AGE BY SENIORITY We launched the Academy in 2016 with awards acknowledge our operations’ where our employees want to be and our Foundation Module, which prepares outstanding H&S performance in four perform at their best. Digitally, we are 26 39 our line managers to lead by example categories: empowering our people, enabling 17 17 and play a fundamental role in ensurnew capabilities and agile processes, ing safety throughout our operations. › ZERO4LIFE CONTRIBUTION AWARDS while advancing an understanding of Launched in 2017 and further rolled out what is digital—how do we experiment 27 › SECTOR AWARDS (i.e., Cement, Aggrein 2018, our Module 2 enables our line and how we make our business more gates, Concrete, Road Transportation, managers to utilize the 14 tools of our efficient through new ways of working. 14 and Others) H&S Management System (HSMS) to Organizationally, we share a common 30 30 help achieve our Zero4Life objective › CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT AWARDS vision, values and a clear operative l UNDER 30 l LESS THAN 1 YEAR l 31-40 l 1 5 YEARS in their operations. In 2018, we also model. We work as One CEMEX › HEALTH CONTRIBUTION AWARDS l 41-50 l 5 10 YEARS launched our Module 3, which is aimed through our Global Networks, creating l 51 AND OVER l MORE THAN 10 YEARS 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 42 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report synergies and fostering innovation to Fostering Workplace Diversity and For example, since 2000, our Mexico ensure our talent’s knowledge enables Inclusion operations’ Congruencia program has us to do what we do best. We take great pride in our workforce focused on identifying and recruiting diversity. Our integration of people with people with disabilities who hold a As of 2018, we formalized an area dedidifferent backgrounds, perspectives, professional degree, with 45 currently cated to Employee Experience with the and life experiences makes our comactive employees. Moreover, in Croaobjective of accelerating and supportpany stronger. Our people are critical to tia, our operations formally and closely ing a people-driven culture. our long-term success, and their divercooperate with the Croatian Centre sity is what makes us more competitive, for Rehabilitation and Employment of As a globally diverse multicultural resilient and better able to adapt to an Persons with Disabilities (DES), promotand multinational group, we value ever-changing global environment. ing the integration of disabled people our workforce diversity, we embrace by engaging them in different activities employees from different cultures and Consistent with our commitment to in the labor market. During the year, we backgrounds, and ultimately, we strive build a truly diverse CEMEX team, in integrated 834 people with disabilities to build a great employee experience 2018, we developed and released our into our workforce through these and across our organization. Recognizing Workplace Diversity and Inclusion other programs. that our diversity is what makes us Policy. In conjunction with existing following up on women who leave employees with children under seven stronger, we take great pride in attractand future programs and initiatives, the company through exit interviews years of age to work from home in the Our company follows all applicaing, hiring, and developing the best this policy is expected to support our to understand the reasons behind afternoons. We also promote and duly ble local practices, regulations, and and the brightest talent—supporting continuous, constantly evolving jourthem leaving. Moreover, we have just respect family and medical leaves; in policies regarding overtime and work every one of our people, so we all grow ney to create a more inclusive, diverse launched the Unconscious Bias course, 2018, more than 500 male and female schedules. We are determined to pursuccessfully. workplace. It underscores our compawhich is one of the first steps towards employees took advantage of this bensue that forced labor is never a pracny’s serious commitment to cultivate an promoting gender parity, non-discrimiefit. Additionally, 33% of our business tice in any CEMEX site, and for that Guided by our values, we strive to environment that embraces possibilities nation and diversity in the organization. units grant employees parental leave purpose, we have implemented robust provide our people with ongoing for everyone and promotes an atmorights beyond the days established by systems to control shifts in each of our opportunities for growth and developsphere of openness, courageousness, We encourage our people to maintain local labor laws. operations and closely monitor workment through programs, benefits, and generosity, and respect, so all of our a healthy work-life balance and to this ing hours according to local laws. a work environment that enable them employees can perform at their best. end, we are progressively expanding CEMEX is respectful of all applicable to excel and achieve their potential. To our existing base of flexible work schedregulations and policies, including Creating A Dynamic, High-Performance truly offer a superior customer expeIn order to promote more women in ules. Some business units are expandnon-discriminatory recruitment proCulture rience, we must create an employee executive positions, we are creating ing flexibility for young parents and cesses, facilities and services adapted We foster a dynamic, high-perforexperience that promotes productivity, awareness of the gap and relevance of implementing dynamic work schedules. to suit the population’s needs, and mance environment, where open provides the right resources, supports a more diverse executive population, Our employees in our Headquarters specific programs in some of our busidialogue is encouraged and rewarded. capacity growth, and brings out the identifying women with potential for and Mexico operations can choose ness units. Moreover, consistent with In this way, we hear our employees’ best in them each and every day. growth and enabling them through between different work schemes to our company’s enhanced workforce needs and expectations, ensure they leadership development, exposure to select the one that best suits their diversity and inclusion strategy, we are feel engaged, and enable them to meet senior management and participation needs. As part of these efforts, some committed to integrating and developtheir career goals through our instituin executive forums. We are also closely of our business units are encouraging ing people with disabilities. tional processes. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 43 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report also invited all of our employees and Open communication keeps everyone developmental opportunities for our leadership to define and implement on the same page and our priorities on people and to reinforce our expected action plans using the Design Thinking track. Around 90% of our employees behaviors—in which we all believe. methodology, a different approach from with access to our online performance previous efforts. We further launched management system used it to set, Our evolving approach to talent man­ additional training initiatives in our evaluate, and discuss their individual agement aspires for a more efficient regions to adapt this methodology into goals for 2018 with their supervisors. and more connected talent cycle, offerour Voices into Actions process. All of them enjoyed the opportunity to ing clearer benefits and outcomes for receive feedback on their achievements. our employees’ career development. A multigenerational workforce, couEmployees without access to a personal Through our integrated performance, pled with a digital, disruptive, and computer worked with their supervisor talent review, and succession planning fast-moving environment, demand an directly to conduct evaluations and processes, we enable superior career enhanced way to listen to our employreceive input on their performance. decisions and professional growth. As ees, discover the insights we need, and a result, we help our employees and empower our organization to thrive. At CEMEX, performance is calculated supervisors to set and align team goals Therefore, in 2018, we explored and based on the goals our employees with our company’s business objec­ Voices into Actions is a two-year piloted a new people analytics platachieved during the year—what they tives. We also pursue that all of our structured global process through form in our U.S. operations that can did—as well as their adherence to our employees’ and managers’ behavior is which we gather, analyze, and react help us to better achieve our goals. core values—how they did it. Their aligned with our core values. Addition­ to our employees’ opinions in order Understanding that our employees resulting performance is then defined ally, we identify areas of opportunity 82% to improve not only our engagement, have a story to tell, this new platform is through the multiplication of the goals and development, while delivering but also other factors that support our expected to provide us with the caparated (1 to 5) with the percentage meaningful reviews that reinforce company’s priorities such as how our bility to deploy an agile communicaobtained in the adherence to values employee engagement and retention. people live our values, how enabled tion channel to gain valuable employee evaluation. they feel, their level of commitment, insights. This new way of accessing We constantly enhance our talent and their perception of leadership. information is expected to empower Our adherence to values evaluation management processes to adapt to our PARTICIPATION RATE More than 37,000 employees worldour leaders to make better-informed invites direct supervisors, direct reports, business context and provide valu­ in our Voices into Actions wide were invited to participate in the decisions through meaningful action and other employee stakeholders to able outputs. This continuous iteration world-wide survey among 2017 edition of our Voices into Actions plans that add value to our overall share their perception of specific behavleverages digital platforms to increase more than 37,000 employees survey with a participation rate of 82%. employee experience. iors aligned with each one of our core both our efficiency and effectiveness. values. The average of the responses During 2018, we launched a new digital For the first time, in 2018, we shared By early 2019, we expect to release per each behavior provides us with our platform to enable and connect differ­ the results of this survey with all of our a global action plans map that will employees’ alignment with each of our ent processes: performance manage­ employees worldwide using a global provide a view of more than 50 action values and, thus, the final percentage ment, talent reviews, and continuous result map accessible through interplans under implementation worldof adherence. Also, this addition to our feedback. Additionally, we launched a nal channels. This map enabled our wide—enabling increased visibility and performance evaluation process is a process to evaluate individual employ­ people to consult results per country enhanced sharing of best practices. great way to establish and work on ees’ adherence to our values. and per survey item. During 2018, we 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 44 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report ~15,000 We must always: Building A Stronger Work Environment them for key roles as they face critical CEMEX University: Embedding a Growth Through internal communications challenges in their professional develMindset and displays, face-to-face and online opment. Our succession management CEMEX University aims to become training, and related activities, we work process enables us to build a talented our company’s trusted learning adviTOTAL PARTICIPANTS to pursue that our employees act with pool of leaders with the skills and deep sor with a vision of developing a in 2018 across 30 business integrity each and every day. understanding of our business funcontinuous learning ecosystem for units in our CEMEX University LIVE UP TO OUR COMMITMENTS damentals to continue our pursuit of our employees and acting as a high do what we say we will do Competitive Compensation and excellence. impact catalyst for our transformation. Succession Management It integrates our leadership developWe know that, if our employees have CAPABILITIES TO CONFRONT ment programs and our institutional 5,432 the resources they need to live healthy, CHALLENGES, PURSUE EXCELLENCE academies—Commercial, Health & fulfilling lives, they will bring their best We craft career experiences for our Safety, Supply Chain, and Culture & to the workplace, and our competitive employees to develop their inner fire Values—under the concept of CEMEX compensation and employee benefit for CEMEX—espousing our values and University. PARTICIPANTS packages are key contributors to proliving by our mission and vision. Our completed the first two ACT WITH HONESTY AND vide much more than a living wage for success stems from our employees’ CEMEX University works together with modules of our Health TRANSPARENCY all of our people. hard work and dedication, so we are our Global Networks and our Regional in all of our interactions & Safety Academy committed to providing them with the Presidents as executive sponsors to We constantly seek to improve the best professional experience. Our work respond to our multi-region, multi-busiway we communicate these benefits is challenging, invigorating, and rewardness learning needs, supporting our to our employees—spanning all of our ing. Accordingly, we want our people employees by providing the concepts, 7,126 organizational levels— seeking they all to stay connected—aligned with our practices, and tools required to impleunderstand the value and opportunigoals—and to never stop learning. ment our strategy. CEMEX University ties available to them. Moreover, as our favors a blended approach to learning COMPLY WITH OUR CODE company constantly transforms and From firsthand experience, we know that leverages traditional in-person OF ETHICS that employees who are supported by PARTICIPANTS expands, one of our main objectives is training and new best-in-class digital do the right thing their company are inspired to excel. in our new Culture & Values to develop people with the potential to learning platforms. Through ongoing training and develAcademy fill key leadership positions—increasing their experience and capabilities to opment opportunities, we teach them Developing Effective Leaders equip them to succeed in even more new skills and deepen their expertise It takes sound, strong direction to challenging roles while strengthening in several critical areas, including propel a company our size forward our talent up and down our pipelines. Health and Safety, customer-centric and to ensure we meet our customers’ capabilities, environmental conservaCARE FOR OUR PEOPLE, Through this process, we make every needs. That’s why we invest in leadertion and awareness, leadership develCOMMUNITIES AND NATURAL effort to improve our employees’ comship development programs at different RESOURCES mitment to our company by helping opment, and stakeholder engagement. levels of our organization. them meet their own career develTo learn more, please see our opment expectations and preparing Ethics and Compliance section on pages 97 to 99. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 45 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report › IGNITE, a new leadership program capabilities. They are designed to work › Through our SUPPLY CHAIN ACADEMY, launched 2018, is specifically tartogether to drive CEMEX priorities and participants understand how to go geted to top-tier managers and newly help shape our “One CEMEX” culture. from strategy to execution; to take the appointed directors. Comprised of mindset and the way we think about two cornerstones—customer cen› Our HEALTH & SAFETY ACADEMY is our supply chain and turn it into realtricity and leadership capability—it designed to help assure the wellbeity; and to become customer centric is designed to cultivate essential ing of our team members by ensurevery day by working together— leadership capabilities and new ways ing participants understand their across the functional domains of our of working to drive success within a responsibility and duties as leaders supply chain to deliver a superior digital context. IGNITE provides new to transmit H&S practices to their customer experience. opportunities to learn and practice teams. During 2018, 5,432 participants All in all, 2018 represented a significant leadership skills on real work projcompleted the first two modules of year for CEMEX University, with a total ects and to foster peer relationships this program. of almost 15,000 participants underglobally. In 2018, 57 high-potential › Through our COMMERCIAL ACADEMY, going its different programs across leaders from across all of our regions participants learn how to deliver 30 business units, while expanding and business units participated in this against CEMEX’s commitment to our internal instructor network to 125 › First launched in 2016, ENVISION is a program. customer centricity through a combitrainers. CEMEX UNIVERSITY WINS highly immersive program that recog› LEADER-TO-LEADER is a unique inination of both instructor-led sessions nizes leaders who have already made EXCELLENCE IN LEARNING tiative that connects current and and digital content. During 2018, a During 2019, CEMEX University plans a significant impact on the organiAWARD future CEMEX leaders. During 2018, total of 1,360 participants underwent to continue its expansion: developing zation and encompasses two main 47 mentors from this program supthe different modules of our Commera new Digital Academy; launching themes: the leaders’ own personal CEMEX University was awarded ported employees who participated in cial Academy. CONNECT, a new leadership developcourse and their role in CEMEX’s the bronze medal for Best Advance IGNITE, providing their valuable expement program targeting new managcourse. ENVISION caters to the high › Currently under development, we in Creating a Learning Strategy rience and mentoring. We also take ers; and continuing to work with our potential leaders of our organization, launched the first components of our at the 2018 Brandon Hall Human advantage of this relevant leadership Global Networks to support them in enabling them to play a critical role CULTURE & VALUES ACADEMY, including Capital Management Excellence development program to connect it the development of new capabilities in defining CEMEX’s strategic objecan updated Ethics Module; a Digital Awards. with our ambition to promote more for their teams. tives. Along with deep introspection, Primer Program, which includes an women to higher positions. As part of overview of emerging technololeaders must develop specific skills to it, since 2012 more than 50 of our high gies and agile, design thinking; and manage the tension between capitalpotential female talent have particiTakeoff, an institutional onboarding izing on what is known and certain pated in the mentoring conversations program for new employees. The to maximize value for our business involved by LEADER-TO-LEADER. response to this new Academy was today and exploring opportunities to create new sources of value for our Building Strategic Capabilities impressive, with 7,126 participants in company in the future. During 2018, Our leadership development programs its modules. we launched the second generation and our institutional academies are the of ENVISION with the participation of vehicles through which we develop 14 global leaders. our company’s leadership and strategic 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 46 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Delivering a Superior Customer Experience We continue our journey to become the company within our tomers at the center of every action we LISTENING TO OUR CUSTOMERS take and every decision we make, while As a customer-centric company, we industry to offer the best customer experience. By placing our organizing our company and focusing begin by listening to our customers, customers at the center of everything we do, we continually our processes to ensure that we create identifying their pain points, and then the best possible experience for them. taking the right actions. As part of strive to build a better future for our stakeholders. our customer centricity initiatives, we Our strong global network, supare committed to understanding our Ultimately, we aim to create solid ported by our operating model, began customers’ perception of us from the LINK TO PRIORITY SDGS relationships with our customers working more than five years ago on beginning to the end of their customer by establishing the foundations for initiatives to shift our organization’s journey. This critical information allows long-lasting partnerships. We leverage center of gravity towards our customus to transform our client interactions our leading-edge innovation and agility ers. Through our Customer Centricity and define strategies, processes, to develop superior building prodGlobal Network, we have made importand policies that better enable us to ucts and solutions that perform at the ant progress on our customer cenachieve a superior customer expehighest standards across all applicatricity initiatives—now integrated into rience. By listening to their needs, tions. We enjoy a solid, wide reach in our ongoing operations—that focus on comprehending their challenges, and WE PUT OUR the markets where we operate, with customer segmentation, sales manappreciating what success means the facilities and logistical capabilities to serve our customers , so that they view us as reliable, easy to work with, agement, and the value proposition we offer to our customers. to them, we are devoted to ensuring that doing business with us is easy, delightful, and ultimately, surpasses our CUSTOMERS Aligned with UN SDG 8, we work to enable our customers to succeed. innovative, expert and professional; in short, an excellent partner that enables our customers to succeed. As part of these initiatives, and to support the acceleration of cultural change towards a more customer centric organization, we established in 2018 our customers’ expectations. We deliver on our promises to ensure our customers’ satisfaction. On top of AT THE CENTER of everything we do. By listening Delivering resilient and energy-efficient infrastructure to support growing FOSTERING CUSTOMER CENTRICITY Global Customer Experience Office. This our many day-to-day personal interto their needs and understanding urban populations contribute to SDG Our customer focus is a core organiglobal function works towards the stanactions, we gain valuable insights by their challenges, we always 11. Additionally, delivering solutions for zational value and priority built on a dardization of best practices in a faster carefully listening to our customers aim to surpass our customers’ affordable housing and energy-efficient comprehensive understanding of who way, as well as fostering innovation both through interviews, commercial events, expectations building contributes to SDG 9. our customers are, what is important to digital and non-digital spaces, to create service centers, help lines, and other them, and how we can best serve their and document value propositions for feedback channels. needs. To this end, we place our cusour customers. GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 47 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CONTINUOUS LEARNING TO SERVE OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER During 2018, we continued to impleBy virtue of our Commercial AcadDELIVERING A SUPERIOR CUSTOMER products and services, reaches all of Today, we are witnessing only the ment Net Promoter Score (NPS), a emy and related initiatives, we are EXPERIENCE ENABLED BY DIGITAL our markets, and is compatible with all beginning of the potential of CEMEX core KPI that helps us to systematically reinforcing our customer focus as a TECHNOLOGIES devices. Go and our other digital transformation measure our customer loyalty and satiscore organizational value and priorBeyond changing the way we behave initiatives—because by establishing faction. We have successfully advanced ity that meets both our customers’ internally, we are leveraging digital Additionally, we implemented our new better business relationships with cuswith its implementation globally, identiand our company’s need for growth technology to transform our comdigital customer relationship managetomers we all win. fying areas for improvement and taking and profitability. Over the course pany’s customer experience. We are ment (CRM) platform. This innovative concrete actions to achieve the best of 2018, a total of 1,360 professionembracing digital technology to not experience for our customers. als worldwide underwent training only streamline and simplify the way through our Commercial Academy, our customers engage with us, but also Today, we have successfully accomwhich is part of CEMEX University. enhance the way we operate. To this plished several milestones on our end, we launched our digital transforglobal NPS implementation program, mation strategy in 2016. including a streamlined collection process, strong data analytics, and a Consistent with this strategy, we closed loop approach. We are proud to continue to lead the industry’s dighave NPS-certified Customer Experiital transformation—embracing the ence Officers across our countries of power of evolving digital technology operation that are promoting a more to improve the way we live. With this customer-centric culture and spreadin mind, we keep working to provide a ing their knowledge of NPS. superior customer experience enabled For more information about CEMEX by digital technology. By the end of 2018, we not only pubUniversity and our institutional licly reported our annual NPS metric, academies, please refer to page 45 Digital commercial models provide the but also committed to a very ambiof this report. highest potential to transform our busiCRM platform enables our front-line tious NPS objective for 2030. Aligned ness and our industry. Thanks to the sales representatives and back-office with UN SDG 8—Decent Work and application of digital technology, we to manage our customer relationships 1,360 Economic Growth—our NPS target is are able to offer a customer experience more efficiently and systematically, designed to achieve higher levels of that is superior to what our company dedicating more quality time to their productivity and economies of scale or our competitors can offer today. core activities. With our CRM platform through diversification, technological we seek to further professionalize upgrading, and innovation through CEMEX Go: A Fully-Digital Suite for All our customer service delivery model, a focus on high value-added and PROFESSIONALS Products, All Markets through our sales representatives and labor-intensive sectors. Overall, our underwent training through CEMEX is leading the industry through service agents, and provide a superior plan is consistent with our strong our end-to-end integrated commercial customer experience, everywhere and our Commercial Academy commitment to become the most cusplatform—CEMEX Go—covering the every time. tomer-centric company in the building full customer journey. This first-of-its materials industry. kind digital platform includes all of our GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 48 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CEMEX GO: A WIN-WIN VALUE PROPOSITION Undoubtedly, one of the most significant steps to CONSTRURAMA GOES DIGITAL As part of our company’s CEMEX Go improve our customers’ experience is through our In 2001, CEMEX developed the Condigital platform, in 2018, we launched CEMEX Go digital platform. We are especially excited strurama network in order to unify the our new digital Construrama platform, about the acceptance that CEMEX Go has achieved. strength of its distributors, support the through which our distributors can development of local hardware store offer our clients the best construction To date, it is already being used by close to 30,000 owners, and expand its coverage in the solutions in an efficient, fast, and exclusatisfied customers in 21 countries. Representing construction industry. Now, Constrursive online purchasing experience. approximately 85% of our recurring customer base ama is positioned as the largest retail During the year, a total of 170 Conworldwide, those customers are currently conducting building materials distribution network strurama distributors incorporated our close to half of their purchases, or about 45% of our in the region with 2,296 stores in MexConstrurama Online Store into their total placed orders of our main products, through ico and other Latin American countries. business with approximately 2,000 this end-to-end digital platform. Among other benefits, Construrama clients starting to use this platform to dealers receive customer service trainplace their orders online. CEMEX Go is a win-win value proposition for our ing, sales strategies, loyalty programs, customers and our company. marketing materials support, and This digital tool is already transforming Our customers enjoy an extraordinarily useful tool— strategic alliances with suppliers to offer the global building materials industry. unique within our industry—that enables them to value-added commercial advantages. The Construrama Online Store is part select the products and services they need with ease; 85% make their purchases with total security; track their deliveries in real time; and manage their bills, invoices and payments in a way that best suits them, always supported by our specialized team of advisors, sales, and customer service representatives 365 days a year. OF OUR RECURRING CUSTOMERS WORLDWIDE Our company gains a valuable source of information that enables us to better understand our clients’ buying patterns; anticipate their requirements based on an analysis of a variety of variables; identify new areas 45% of opportunity by further focusing on our customers relationships; and work with our customers from the start of their projects to ensure that they have the most appropriate solutions, while optimizing our business processes, from billing to delivery and collection. OF OUR TOTAL ORDERS Thanks to the success of CEMEX Go in its first year, for our main products we have decided to offer this innovative digital platform to other industry participants around the world, creating more value for our company while generating additional income from this platform. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 49 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report of our company’s commercial digital As the only global building materivision which, together with digital als company with our own concrete platforms such as CEMEX Go, aims admixtures business, CEMEX is able to to offer our clients a seamless experidesign and develop novel, tailor-made ence for placing orders, live tracking of concrete technologies with our proprishipments, and managing invoices and etary chemicals. Moreover, our experts payments for our main products. in fields such as geology, chemistry, materials science, and various other Available on all digital devices, our engineering disciplines work alongside Construrama Online Store enables behavioral scientists, cultural anthroquicker, simpler order placement 24 pologists, and commercial strategists hours a day, together with exclusive to anticipate and understand society’s promotions and better building materitrends to create innovative, sustainable als’ supply management. Through this construction solutions that satisfy our transformative digital platform, our clicustomers’ current and future needs, ents now enjoy easy access to a wider catalog of products and are able to Architects constitute an influential INNOVATION: A KEY DRIVER OF OUR select, purchase, and follow up on their group of customers, who inspire and CUSTOMER CENTRICITY STRATEGY online order, generating significant constantly challenge the possibilities When our customers succeed, we savings in productivity for our Construof our cutting-edge building materisucceed. Accordingly, our core strarama network of retail stores, builders, als. Accordingly, we continually foster tegic goal is to become the most and final customers. collaborative relationships with this ­customer-oriented company in our important constituency, from academic industry—serving as our clients’ best CULTIVATING BETTER, CLOSER PERSONAL outreach to our annual CEMEX Buildoption. RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS ing Award. We invest considerable time and effort Led by Global Research & Develto building strong, personal partnerThroughout 2018, we collaborated with opment (R&D) in Switzerland, our ships with our stakeholders. Consistent universities and architecture firms team of experts works in close colwith this commitment, we strive to to identify and explore new ways in laboration with our customers to offer build transparent, open relationships which we can use concrete to continue them unique, integrated, cost-effecthat generate trust with our customers building a better society and creating tive solutions that fulfill their specific across every business in which we a symbiotic relationship with nature. performance requirements, including engage. Our collaborative relationships included a growing portfolio of value-added while truly challenging the current students from the University of Pennsylsolutions. state of the art. Among other benefits, vania, Syracuse University, the Univerour superior concrete solutions help sity of Turin, the California College of improve land use, increase water and the Arts, and the European Architectural energy efficiency, mitigate noise polStudents Assembly (EASA). lution, and lower buildings’ carbon footprint. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 50 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CEMEX GLOBAL VALUE-ADDED READY-MIX PRODUCTS The maturity and positive outcome of our R&D group’s customer relationships Rapid hardening concrete that is exemplified by our collaborative projallows for at least 90 minutes ects’ increasing recognition. This year workability. projects and customers working in collaboration with our R&D group earned recognition at different distinguished events such as Architect Magazine’s Fire-resistant concrete solution for Annual R+D Awards, Honorable Menthermal and acoustic insulation. tion at The Eduardo Torroja Foundation’s International AEC Conference in Spain, and AIA New York Design Award of Merit, which granted the collaborating team a fellowship to further develop Fiber-reinforced concrete with the awarded project at the Autodesk hyper strength and ductility. BUILD Space in Boston, U.S. +50 Following our Intellectual Property CONNECTING R&D TO SOLVE OUR Strategy, technologies developed by CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS Increasingly, our customers play an Global R&D are protected by more CEMEX’s customer interaction and integral part in our innovation process. than 50 international patent families, engagement are growing and evolving. Many of our products and construction Self-curing concrete that covering new cements, cementitious Our R&D group is exploring, adopting, INTERNATIONAL systems are developed through a co-crereduces the need of water and materials, concrete mix designs, admixand implementing new methodologies ation process in which an R&D team of external chemicals during the tures formulations, and construction to engage specific types of customers, experts and customers work symbioticuring process. systems—offering unique exclusive who are key decision-makers in the cally to achieve a building solution. solutions to our customers. very early stages of a construction PATENT FAMILIES project. Such novel dynamics are For example, in 2018, after full-scale PROTECTING In 2018, our R&D effort and model defining innovative approaches to experimentation at the Polytechnic Unitechnologies developed by continued to develop and evolve in involve and develop existing, potenversity of Turin, we finalized the technolour Global R&D Structural pervious concrete the area of customer centricity, with tial, and future customers, including ogy for a concrete façade that is able that can manage water permeincreasing emphasis on digitalization engineering and architectural students to reduce the temperature of currents ation to offer drainage solutions and socio-urban dynamics, as well as to our value-added cement, ready-mix traversing it by up to 8°C. Similarly, we for pavements. material innovations. concrete, aggregates, and admixtures collaborated with Pich Architects to products and construction solutions. launch our climate concrete, designed We aspire to create a unique customer to achieve zero net energy consumption experience in which they can see, at the future Wellness Hub in Monterrey, A highly flowable concrete that touch, interact with and even stimulate Mexico—the first application of its kind can spread into place under its the evolution of our technologies. in Latin America. own weight to achieve excellent consolidation without vibration. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 51 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report THE CONCRETE HOUSE: A COLLABORATIVE GRAND PARIS: EUROPE’S LARGEST DELIVERING TRAINING ON EARTHQUAKE JOURNEY ONGOING URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE RESILIENT BUILDING TECHNOLOGY IN EL PROJECT SALVADOR Showcased on the British TV program Grand Designs, the Corrigall “Concrete House” exemOur work on the Grand Paris project, earned El Salvador is highly vulnerable to earthplifies the spirit of collaboration between our an award for innovative urban solutions with quakes. That is why various technologies have R&D, customers, architects, and engineers. the potential to improve inhabitants’ living been introduced in recent years to make strucenvironment, correct territorial inequalities, tures safer and more resistant to earthquakes. and build a sustainable metropolitan area. However, small builders often do not have CEMEX’s award-winning proposal consisted of RESILIA FOLDING TECHNOLOGY: access to this information, so we are bringing an innovative paving solution for the area surINNOVATIVE FABRICATION TECHNIQUE knowledge about new construction trends rounding a public school in the heart of Paris, to them. In 2018, our department of techniwhich combined our concrete technologies in a Furthermore, our R&D team developed an cal advisors trained 70 construction material novel and creative way. The project exemplified innovative fabrication technique branded retailers who transferred this know-how to our ability to offer solutions that address cities’ Resilia Folding technology. This technology builders. social and sustainable development needs. Our folds Resilia ultra high-strength, hyper ductile Pervia concrete technology was used to enable concrete to create structural elements or even Following a visit to our Global R&D Center rainwater to filter through the natural soil and entire structures. Underlying Resilia Folding in Switzerland, our customer decided that avoid flooding, while our inclusion of phototechnological development is a material-fabrihe would go beyond conventional building luminescent aggregates provided a unique cation technique synergy that favors automamaterials and utilize innovative concrete techcharacter and night effect to the surroundings. tion and digitalization. A result of our collabnology to build the family house of his dreams. Beyond its innovative and sustainable urban oration with architects from Aptum, our joint His objective was to minimize, if not eliminate, solutions, the project also involved an importteam worked to explore and develop novel conventional steel reinforcement while achievant social component, focused on community methods to create construction elements that ing high thermal efficiency. engagement—specifically the school’s teachers are pro-automation, simple, minimize formand students. A workshop was organized to work, ensure uniform material properties, Using our Resilia ultra-high strength and hyper introduce teachers and students to the project, and are economically attractive. Together, we Our goal is to raise awareness among people ductile fiber-reinforced concrete, the outcome including the specific concrete technology are exploring and developing novel materials in the construction industry and to ensure they was the first building in the UK where steel utilized. To engage such a young audience and that can be best exploited through digital and know about the anti-seismic building technolreinforcement was reduced by 75%, embodyexplain the main concepts in simple terms, the automated processes. ogies that we offer. Accordingly, our plan is to ing a 39% reduction of CO2 in the concrete project was illustrated through a story that was expand this monthly training to more compastructure or the equivalent of 120 tCO2 . Our produced and published as a kids’ book entitled Engineering and design firms are already nies in order to replicate this expertise. Insularis concrete technology was also used “Arnaud the Tree.” exploring applications of Resilia Folding techto achieve high thermal insulation, reducing nology. As a result of this interest, our R&D For any construction project, it is imperative to the structure’s thermal bridges and its overall team was invited to exhibit this fabrication select the best building materials and soluenergy consumption by 17%. technique at a weekend of engineering with tions to reduce risks in the event of natural AKT II during Open House London 2018. disasters. A bad construction decision can In addition to these unique and innovative cause serious consequences. solutions, this collaborative project also underscores the types of issues that our R&D is addressing—from buildings’ energy efficiency, comfort, and novel, more efficient construction systems to their CO2 footprint. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 52 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report UTILIZING POWERFLOATING TECHNOLOGY FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THE UK CONCRETE’S MAKING CITIES MORE During the year, we completed our largest Roller-Compacted ConOUR READY-MIX CONCRETE SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT crete (RCC) project in the UK. For this big purpose-built storage area, TECHNOLOGIES Concrete plays a critical role in makwe supplied over 40,000 tons of RCC using our powerfloating techWe are strategically expanding our ing cities sustainable and resilient. Of nology for the first time. manufacturing and distribution capaall the construction materials used bilities to serve our customers’ and for buildings and other infrastructure, Powerfloating represents an evolution in the RCC pavement procommunities’ increasing demand for concrete is by far the most durable and cess, achieving an engineered solution that lays fast and features the high-quality public infrastructure, comdisaster-resistant. Factoring resilience According to the National Institute of Buildappearance and durability of a conventional concrete surface. This mercial buildings, and housing projects into a building’s design can help to ing Sciences1, every dollar spent on resilient technology provides our customer with a pavement solution that more efficiently, effectively, and reliably. reduce lifetime repair and maintebuilding and construction can save six combines the strength and durability of concrete with the ease of nance costs in hazard-prone areas and dollars in recovery costs. Clear evidence asphalt construction. Paving Solutions enable communities to recover more of concrete’s resilience and sustainability In 2018, our company enabled the quickly from a disaster. compared with other construction materiRCC alone delivers significant cost savings of up to 30% over tradiinstallation of close to 4 million m2 als has led builders and architects to rectional pavements, and now with powerfloating technology, RCC offers a of concrete pavement by supporting CEMEX is building a better future, ognize that infrastructure and homes built significantly harder wearing surface that’s more aesthetically pleasing. the construction of more than 370 enabling the development of durawith this material are not only more durable infrastructure projects throughout our ble infrastructure with quality prodand resistant to damage from natural To produce powerfloated RCC’s extremely hardwearing surface, a operations. ucts and construction practices with disasters, but also reduce the entire impact specially designed admixture is sprayed onto the RCC before powerreduced environmental impact. Our that communities have on our planet. This floating and curing. This creates a more closed, even surface than the Our concrete pavement solutions products and innovative technologies is critical to supporting the growth of urban more textured appearance of natural RCC. The smooth cement paste include: support in the development of energy populations, especially as climate change created during this process offers increased abrasion resistance— efficient buildings, resilient infrastruccreates more extreme weather. making it attractive for high stress areas. › CONVENTIONAL CONCRETE ture, and affordable housing, thus › THIN CONCRETE contributing to UN SDG 11. According to the MIT Concrete Sustainability Hub2 , a paving project’s future › ROLLER-COMPACTED CONCRETE (RCC) costs can comprise more than 50% of its › CONCRETE OVERLAY/WHITETOPPING total cost. As one the world’s leaders in concrete-based pavement solutions, we › CEMENT TREATED BASE help connect cities and surrounding com› SOLID CEMENT munities with safer, more durable, and energy-efficient highways, mass transit systems, airport runways, rural roadways, and city streets. 1 National Institute of Building Sciences Reference Info https://www.nibs.org/news/381874/National-Institute-of-Building-Sciences-Issues-New-Report-on-the-Value-of-Mitigation.html 2 MIT Concrete Sustainability Hub Reference https://cshub.mit.edu/infographics 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 53 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Housing Solutions PARTNERING WITH ICF ENABLING AND PROMOTING GREEN Beyond resilient structures, city planPERFORMANCE TO DEPLOY ITS BUILDING ners are constantly challenged to proTHERMOFORM® SOLUTION IN At CEMEX, we believe in leading by vide ways to efficiently and affordably FRANCE example. With this in mind, we estabhouse rapidly growing urban populalished a Green Building Management tions. With this in mind, we support To reinforce our market position for and Certification Policy to mitigate communities’ social and economic construction solutions of the future, potential environmental impacts assodevelopment and deliver housing for we partnered with ICF Performance, ciated with the design, construction, all socioeconomic markets. Our new U.S. headquarters complied with specific sustainable criteria to earn and operation of our buildings. The polwhich designs, develops, and sells a the LEED Gold Certificate, including: icy provides that the planning, design, next-generation insulated shuttering construction, management, renovation, 10 We integrate design, products, and 52% system with very high thermal perforwall systems into housing solutions mance. This partnership is dedicated and demolition activities of all comthat are flexible and replicable: to the commercial development of the pany-owned and leased facilities are THERMOFORM® constructive solution, carried out in a sustainable way. › INDUSTRIALIZED HOUSING: Fast, efficient, POWER REDUCTION AREAS FOR RECYCLING launched by CEMEX in 2013. and large-scale housing construction for the entire building paper, cardboard, glass, plastics, Consistent with this commitment, in metals, and food waste 2018, we earned LEED Gold Certifi› DISASTER RELIEF HOUSING: The best In France, we have already marketed nearly 25,000 m² of walls built with cation from the U.S. Green Building response for reconstruction after Council for our new U.S. headquarters 100% 32% natural disasters insulating formwork blocks. The synergy between the two manufacturers in Houston, Texas. › ENERGY-EFFICIENT HOUSING: Cost-comshould significantly increase the marpetitive solution for high-perforket penetration of this process, espeWe also work collaboratively across mance buildings cially in the individual and collective OF THE BUILDING’S WATER CONSUMPTION the construction value chain to optihousing sector where it can represent ELECTRONIC equipment meets reduction through efficient mize our results and maximize profits, › AFFORDABLE HOUSING: The lowest posthe future of low-carbon homes. ENERGY STAR certification water fixtures partnering with national and intersible cost without giving up quality national experts to complement our › VERTICAL HOUSING: Fast and efficient Innovative and unmatched in the skills and provide a complete array 20% 91% construction for high-rise and midof specialized services in sustainable market, the THERMOFORM® solution rise residential construction. combines the high performance of Our expertise with tailor-made, adapttwo building materials: polystyrene able systems contributed to the conand concrete. The system consists of OF THE BUILDING OF THE BUILDING struction of more than 2,600 affordable expanded polystyrene (EPS) insulated is constructed with recycled is illuminated by daylight housing units in 2018, representing formwork blocks, ready-mix concrete, materials that also meet ISO 14021 approximately 170,000 m2 of livable and pumping equipment. Thus, the space. resulting wall combines the indoor/ 88% outdoor insulation capacity of EPS with OF CONSTRUCTION WASTE the inertia and strength of reinforced was diverted from landfills concrete. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 54 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CEMEX Green Building Certification CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATION COMPLETION Service PROJECT LOCATION TYPE AREA (m2) TARGET STATUS In addition to Green Building Services, we provided sustainable building ICA Reserva Escondida Mexico City, Mexico Residential 22,584 LEED Certified Completed materials for the projects in the table. During 2018 we also provided prodSEMARNAT 223 Mexico City, Mexico Offices 32,000 LEED Certified Completed ucts and solutions for more than 1,000 projects that aim to achieve LEED or BREAM certifications, representing Esfera City Center Monterrey, Mexico Commercial 276,925 LEED Platinum Completed close to 6 million m2 of construction space. LEED Platinum Torre Cosmopolitan Tijuana, Mexico Offices 13,950 & ecoperating Completed PLUS San Pedro Garza ecoperating Lucena Residential 14,000 Completed García, Mexico PLUS URBAN GREEN BUILDING DEVELOPMENT CERTIFICATIONS CONSULTANCY Casas 199, 200, 201 and San Pedro Garza Residential 2,267 ecoperating Completed 202 Sorteo TEC García, Mexico Casas 203 and 204 San Pedro Garza ecoperating GREEN Residential 1,302 Completed Sorteo TEC García, Mexico PLUS BUILDING SERVICES CEMEX Corporate Offices Makati City, Philippines Offices 1,200 ecoperating Completed PLUS ECOPERATING BIOCLIMATIC BUILDING ARCHITECTURE CERTIFICATION CEMEX Corporate Offices Houston, USA Offices 7,620 LEED Gold Completed AND PRODUCT SEAL ecoperating CEMEX Corporate Offices Madrid, Spain Offices 6,900 Completed PLUS SUSTAINABLE ENERGY EFFICIENT MATERIALS AND ENGINEERING ecoperating SOLUTIONS CEMEX Corporate Offices Prague, Czech Republic Offices 2,686 Completed PLUS DEVELOPMENT San Pedro Garza Net Zero OUM Wellness Center Commercial 5,000 Ongoing García, Mexico Energy Building CEMEX Corporate Offices Kingston, Jamaica Offices 1,050 LEED Certified Ongoing 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 55 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report FIRST PLACE WINNERS FOR THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL EDITION CEMEX BUILDING AWARD: HONORING THE BEST OF THE BEST Through our annual CEMEX Building Award, one of the most renowned competitions in the construction field, we not only honor engineers, architects, and other building professionals, but also encourage creativity in the application of new concrete technolRESIDENTIAL HOUSING AFFORDABLE HOUSING BUILDING ogy to improve our communities. The Bruma House. Mexico City, Mexico Salvatierra 150. Mérida, Mexico House/Office in Landshut. Landshut, Germany CEMEX Building Award recognizes the best projects in Mexico and the rest of the world in five categories and with four special prizes. For the XXVII Edition, a total of 623 projects competed in the Mexico Edition, while 63 projects from 19 different countries competed in the International Edition. COLECTIVE SPACE INFRASTRUCTURE SPECIAL PRIZE: SUSTAINABLE BUILDING Revitalization of the Boulevard Upon the Oder in Mersey Gateway. Runcorn, England Salesfrce Tower. San Francisco, United States 623 Wroclaw, Wroclaw, Poland PROJECTS COMPETED IN MEXICO while 63 projects from 19 different countries competed in the International Edition SPECIAL PRIZE: CONSTRUCTION INNOVATION SPECIAL PRIZE: SOCIAL VALUE SPECIAL PRIZE: UNIVERSAL ACCESIBILITY Nueva Edificación Centro Médico Imbanaco, Cali, Foro Boca Concert Hall. Boca del Río, Mexico Revitalization of the Boulevard Upon the Oder in Colombia Wroclaw. Wroclaw, Poland 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 56 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Sustainable Communities CEMEX’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy As a company that makes a progressive impact through its innovative LINK TO PRIORITY SDGS contributes directly to our vision of building a better future, services and solutions, our ability to Through our CEPs, we contribute directly to our company’s five priority SDGs ensuring our society’s sustainability, wellbeing, and quality operate as a responsible business is upon which we can develop business opportunities that create shared value, fundamental to our business model. and also contribute directly to other underlying SDGs including 1, 3, 4, 5, 12, and of life. Our responsible business culture contributes to our This enables us to understand stake17 through our community initiatives. license to operate, enhances our stakeholders’ experience, holders’ material issues, map impacts, and identify risks and opportunities strengthens our reputation, and creates shared value. in order to create shared value for our company and society. We continue to listen and understand our stakeholders’ expectations by fully Community Engagement Plans (CEPs) managing our company’s impacts and creating value and wellbeing through Our Community Engagement Plans three strategic priorities: ensure that our efforts around our To date, we have 75 active plants with 75 ACTIVE operations are aligned with what is relCEPs covering most of our cement and evant from our communities’ perspecselected aggregates operations. By 1 2 3 tive, foster regular dialogue, and build 2019, we expect to continue increasing long-term relationships and trust. Each the number of our active plants with CO-DESIGN AND IMPLEMENT DESIGN AND CEPs and enhancing our stakeholders’ business unit develops a CEP that is PLANTS IMPLEMENT sustainable CO-CREATE experience. the product of our engagement with socially impactful community responsible local stakeholders—translating their inclusive busiengagement plans cross-functional needs, expectations, and our business Internal and External CSR Committees ness models with to improve quality practices within priorities into an annual schedule of Ensure Alignment customers and of life with our our operations and activities, projects, and programs that To ensure alignment of our efforts with entrepreneurs community our value chain. TO DATE WITH CEPs focus on people and environment. our community and business aims, we stakeholders have two types of committees: inward covering most of our cement facing and externally oriented. Both are and selected aggregates multi-disciplinary committees that conoperations tribute to the management of community issues, provide expert opinion on topics of concern to stakeholders, make GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-44 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 57 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report commitments to follow-up on issues positive impact on society. These related to their areas, and contribute to collaborative alliances have enabled the design, execution, and evaluation of joint projects, best practices documenour stakeholder engagement efforts. tation, and pilots of socially innovative solutions throughout different lines of Aware of our negative impacts, we action: resiliency, environment, educacollaborate with our stakeholders to tion, social integration, health, women’s increase value creation and wellbeeconomic empowerment in the comSTAKEHOLDER DIALOGUES AND CSR COMMITTEES ing and to enhance our stakeholders’ munities, development of employability IN POLAND AND SPAIN experience. By understanding their capabilities for youth and people in expectations and analyzing our matevulnerable situations in the communiEffective implementation of our CSR strategy requires a good understanding rial themes, we take action together. ties, inclusive businesses, affordable of our stakeholders’ needs. Thus, we continue our ongoing dialogues with housing, volunteering, and CEMEX stakeholders at our Chełm and Rudniki cement plants in Poland. To get to In 2018, our committees conducted Foundation activities. know them—while successfully and consistently implementing our strategic more than 400 stakeholder dialogues principles—since 2013, we have conducted social dialogues in accordance globally, through which we made and Our capacity to develop and continwith the AA1000 SES international standard. These dialogues enable us reviewed progress on our commitments, ually strengthen partnerships is key to better engage on social issues and follow-up on our agreed progress, contributing to the design, execution to our ability to face daily societal results, and commitments. Considering their strategic context, in 2018, we and evaluation of our CEPs. We take challenges and transform them into organized three stakeholder dialogue sessions in Poland that resulted in into account community interests when business opportunities that generate several proposed activities. Of these activities, the most highly rated are we determine the material themes that positive long-lasting impact. robotics classes for children and youth, development courses for adults, and are linked to the UN SDGs. In turn, the sports activities for senior citizens. SDGs are connected to our compaAccordingly, in 2019, we will continue ny’s ambitions and are reflected in our to strengthen our community engageIn Spain, our cement plants’ internal and external committees work together company’s 2030 sustainability targets. ment plans, enhance our stakeholders’ to build positive, sustainable relationships with our neighboring commuTo date, we have worked together with experience, partner with academia, nities. The committees are composed of our plant’s director and local more than 16 million community stakecivil society, the private sector, and environmental officials, trade union representatives, local mayors of nearby holders globally, positively impacting government to continue contributing towns, neighborhood representatives, and other local institutions. Consetheir wellbeing and improving condito the UN SDGS. Our leadership on quently, we co-create and implement actions that are of interest to our comtions in their communities and cities. the UN Global Compact in Mexico munities and connected to our CSR strategy. For example, in response to encourages more companies to partthe community of Morata’s interest in education, since 2016, we have carried Through cooperation, we can achieve ner, contribute, and explore business out the CEMEX Morata summer camp for kids, enabling them to learn about better results through the co-creation opportunities, while reducing negative other cultures and foreign language skills. of value for society. As our internal impacts. We will continue to partner collaboration has enabled a wide with our global alliances to foster our Our stakeholder dialogues and committees enhance multi-stakeholder variety of projects to thrive, our more communities’ transformation, share partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology, and than 500 partnerships and strategic globally scalable and replicable best financial resources to create shared value and support achievement of the alliances worldwide have proven a practices, and work together for a UN SDGs, contributing directly to SDG 17. key success factor in multiplying our more sustainable future. GRI 102-40, GRI 102-44 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 58 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report PROMOTING AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE IN SCHOOLS IN MEXICO +18,700 RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES ALIGNED WITH result, we foster more self-sufficient and In Mexico, our Inclusive Schools Program promotes the implementation COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PILLARS empowered communities. By increasing of sustainable, self-managed, inclusive, safe, and adaptable schools. In 2018, we continued to strengthen the number of youth and adults who These schools offer an example of sustainable public schools for the PEOPLE our CSR global network and collabohave access to relevant skills, including country, acting as social agents of change. The program creates a posrated cross-functionally with more than technical and vocational skills, we conitive impact through various initiatives in the areas of education, quality 1,200 employees to turn challenges tribute directly to SDG 4. infrastructure, urban safety, community development, environment, techinto opportunities and to facilitate best nology, accessibility, and ethics. CHILDREN AND YOUTH practice sharing. We support different education iniparticipated in cultural and tiatives—from formal education Beginning with basics such as infrastructure, we are changing paradigms sports academies Through our four community investscholarships to development of capaby integrating a culture of inclusiveness into the schools’ philosophies. ment pillars—which contribute directly bilities for employability—and foster To date, under this program, actions were carried out at six educational to the UN SDGs—we activate local education within our communities to centers in the state of Nuevo León, in Mexico, benefiting 2,500 people. actions that contribute to the transforcreate awareness on cultural topics Also, support programs and infrastructure works are in progress at four mation of communities globally and such as youth employability, women’s schools. Moreover, infrastructure projects have been successfully comcreate shared value via our CEPs: economic empowerment, and urban pleted at two sites. During December 2018, the program launched a call mobility. We are also committed to the under the central concept of total accessibility, through which educawellbeing of our neighboring commutional institutions will develop projects to adapt accessible routes on nities’ by providing health campaigns, their campuses. With more than 30 schools responding to this call, led by whenever access to such services is our global headquarters, we look to replicate this program globally. IMPROVING QUALITY OF LIFE AND WELL-BEING unavailable, and promoting healthy lifestyles for youth through sports programs that prevent violence and address children and youth in vulner2,500 able situations. By collaborating with government, community, and civil society, we have supported 28 sports EDUCATION AND SUSTAINABLE SOCIAL AND CULTURE OF academies in Mexico, Egypt, Spain, PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT OF AND RESILIENT ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENT CAPABILITIES FOR INFRASTRUCTURE INNOVATION AND PROTECTION, Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama, and EMPLOYABILITY AND MOBILITY ENTREPRENEURSHIP HEALTH & SAFETY Nicaragua. Community Centers BENEFITED WITH OUR 1. Education and Development of A significant part of our efforts is INCLUSIVE SCHOOL Capabilities for Employability concentrated on Community Centers, program at six educational Education is key to facing current and which offer a wide variety of courses centers in Nuevo León future challenges. Hence, we seek to develop the skills and capabilities Mexico to develop skills and capabilities that to foster sustainable communities. Our foster employability—strengthening Social Integration programs, includboth technical and soft skills—and, thus, ing football academies and integral ensure sustainable communities. As a development courses, further empower GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 59 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report SUPPORTING SAFE SCHOOLS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC With the support of the Ministry of Education, our Safe School program in the Dominican Republic grants certification to educational centers that develop actions to foster a safe education and implement improvements to different groups such as youth and Youth Employability and schools’ and their communities’ safe conditions. Designed to promote safety soft skills such as resilience, teamwork, women. To date, we have 20 CommuEntrepreneurial Skills in schools’ daily lives, our Safe School program follows our corporate value and communication. We also provide nity Centers that offer more than 1,700 Through New Employment Opportuniof pursuing safety and helping the most vulnerable populations through our guidance and employment services to workshops to over 285,000 annual ties (NEO), a multi-stakeholder alliance company’s most valuable safety and disaster response practices. This prograduates of the programs. In Mexico, participants in Panama, Puerto Rico, involving government, civil society, acagram seeks to strengthen the resilience and response capacities of schools together with our local partnerships, Costa Rica, Colombia, and Mexico. demia, and the private sector, we offer in communities neighboring our production plants by promoting safe pracNEO positively impacted almost 40,000 employment and training opportunities tices in schools and preparing them for vulnerable situations, contributing young people in 2018. Through our Under the Framework Cooperation to close the gap between youth’s skills directly to SDG 11. participation in the Global Alliance for and Technical Assistance Agreement and employer demands for a qualified Youth, we made a commitment to help between our company and Panama’s workforce in Latin America and the more than 65,000 by 2022. By supNational Vocational Training InstiCaribbean—providing high-impact, porting employment opportunities, we tute and Training for Development market-relevant training and services contribute directly to SDG 8. Human (INADEH), we create spaces to disadvantaged youth and mobilizing where knowledge and empowerment companies’ support. As a NEO leader Women’s Economic Empowerment are shared to drive the population’s and member, we work to generate and Our Community Diversity and Inclusion development. Operating for two years strengthen employment opportunities Strategy fosters women’s economic at our Community Development Cenfor young people between the ages empowerment through education and ter, 745 members participated in this of 18 and 29 through scholarships, capabilities development, enabling program’s courses during 2018. Course guidance, and employment training. them to become agents of social participants were awarded certificates Among our initiatives, we reinforce the change within their families and comin areas such as gastronomy, office quality of upper secondary technical munities through four pillars: automation, beauty, English, business education programs, including commanagement, civil construction, elecprehensive courses and workshops in 1 Self Esteem tricity, and plumbing, among others. By 2 Education providing certification for vocational TEACHING SUSTAINABILITY TO STUDENTS IN POLAND and employment skills, we foster vul3 Development of Technical nerable populations’ access to decent As part of our community activity programs in municipalities neighborCapabilities jobs and entrepreneurship, contributing our Chełm and Rudniki cement plants in Poland, for the first time, we 4 Development of Entrepreneurship ing directly to SDG 4. organized the Sustainability Academy for students. The academy’s objective and Employability Capabilities is to educate young people on subjects related to a circular economy and alternative fuels. Through modules conducted in the form of group activities, We foster social conditions that progames, and presentations, students learn about theoretical and practical vide opportunities for women and girls issues concerning sustainability, the UN SDGs, the circular economy, the by developing the technical and leadimportance of alternative fuel use in cement production, and the cement ership capabilities to empower them production process by visiting our plants. economically—either through employment or the development of their own business, thus contributing directly to SDG 5. GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 60 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report PROMOTING WOMEN’S INTEGRAL DEVELOPMENT THROUGH ANSPAC By sharing the importance of values, capacity building, and entreResiliency and Urban preneurial tools, we promote the Transformation Strategy PROVIDING COMPREHENSIVE NATURAL DISASTER RECOVERY We foster the sustainable development IN MEXICO integral development of women of our communities by making them through the ANSPAC program in more resilient, safe, and committed to Our integral reconstruction project is Latin America. In 2018, more than the environment. Through our Resilworking through the four phases of 2,100 women benefited from this iency and Urban Transformation Stratthe natural disaster recovery cycle— program’s workshops. egy, we transfer our knowledge of how immediate response, recovery, mitito promote a culture of prevention, gation, and preparation—to provide In Panama alone, we have operated as well as how to act upon a natural adequate housing for 62 families this program for 10 years—which is disaster. This is enhanced through affected by the 2017 earthquake in currently comprised of four groups: our participation in the Global Board Oaxaca, Mexico. beauty, pastry, embroidery, and of UNISDR Private Sector Alliance for crafts. In 2018, 90 women from Disaster Resilient Societies, as well as Overall, the project aims to: different communities received our leadership in the ARISE national their certificates of participation in › RECOVER their physical space network. Through our leadership, we through Construyo Contigo the ANSPAC program’s courses. 2. Sustainable and Resilient have mobilized more than 150 compaIn addition to values-based trainInfrastructure and Mobility nies in Mexico to support the imple› PROVIDE psychosocial support to ing for their integral growth, they all of the families in partnership 62 With the firm objective of contributing mentation of the Sendai Framework enhanced their personal skills and to improve the livelihoods of the cities for Disaster Risk Reduction, the global with a local university acquired useful life tools. or communities immediately surroundblueprint for reducing disaster losses. › SPREAD construction skills in the ing our operations, we have developed Moreover, through our reconstruction region for proper home expansion self-sustaining business models in the education programs in Guatemala, HOMES BUILT PARTNERING WITH THE OEA through Yo Construyo construction industry. Through these the Philippines, Trinidad and Tobago, TO ECONOMICALLY EMPOWER › RESTORE key public spaces 138 models, we support society by building Puerto Rico, and Mexico, we have benWOMEN durable infrastructure that contributes efited more than 8,100 people, rebuildthat promote the population’s to the resilience of our communities ing two roads and 113 houses, enabling wellbeing Through our partnership with the and society. We further bring together 11 relief centers, and contributing 170 › PREPARE the population on civil Organization of American States INTERVENTION SESSIONS our communities and local authorities tons of aid, while helping out with protection issues to better face (OEA) and the Trust for the AmeriAND COMMUNITY to tackle critical social issues such as heavy machinery, mini-light plants, and future events in partnership with cas, we continued to develop ecoWORKSHOPS credit, housing, employment, basic emergency equipment Civil Protection nomically empowering entrepreservices, resilient infrastructure, and neurship and soft skill capabilities 397 public spaces. › FACILITATE AND ENHANCE existing in women via VIVE (Ven, Inspírate production projects in partnery Vende). ship with local communities and associations In 2018, we trained 227 women PEOPLE POSITIVELY through our Community Centers in IMPACTED Mexico. GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 61 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Growing Platform Patrimonio Hoy tackles the lack of CONSTRUYO CONTIGO is a flexible YO CONSTRUYO is a commercial Our culture of innovation—together affordable housing in low-income business model that brings our buildand capability-building strategy that with the crucial support of our senior communities, enabling those with low ing products and solutions to low-inincreases demand for our products management—has led us to design new startup capital and income to afford come families who live in sub-standard by developing potential construction products and services, including some high-quality materials and technical housing and require a partial subsidy workers and masons’ technical and that address social and environmental assistance, contributing directly to and/or micro-loan in order to make entrepreneurial skills to foster housing challenges. To date, we have replicated SDG 11. Participants gain access to home improvements or build new upgrades and construction. It promotes some of our affordable housing initiaour company’s network of contractors, homes. It reduces the construction high-quality and cost-effective buildFACILITATING NORTHERN tives, including Patrimonio Hoy, Producsupport with land ownership, a microtime to build a 44-m2 house from 15 ing, as well as the use of sustainable MEXICO’S URBAN tive Centers for Self-Employment, and credit loan with a customized financial years to three to six months and develcriteria, including energy saving and TRANSFORMATION Clean Cook Stoves, in Mexico, Colomplan, and reduce the time and cost of ops skills that enable homeowners to affordable green technologies. Parbia, Costa Rica, and Guatemala through building a home by 30%. The program upgrade their homes. Through partnerticipants become new customers as As part of our Urban Transforour Growing Platform. is currently present in Mexico, Costa ships with governments, our Centers they improve their homes and provide mation Strategy, we support the Rica, Colombia, the Dominican Repubfor Self-Employment enables them services to others. urban polygons upgrade into Our Growing Platform is comprised lic, and Nicaragua. Its ultimate goal is to receive technical assistance and more resilient, safe, inclusive and of shared value projects across Latin to foster home safety and quality, while training regarding the production of sustainable communities, thus America: Patrimonio Hoy, Construyo positively impacting partners’ health, building materials, including concrete promoting the breaking of the Contigo, ConstruApoyo, Yo Construyo, wealth, and education. blocks that they can use to expand intergenerational chain of povand Clean Cook Stoves. This platform their homes. This program promotes 2.9 MILLION erty and enhancing stakeholders’ addresses the main problems inherent job creation and self-employment. experience. Our seven strategic to poverty and inequality in vulnerable pillars —social peace and secucommunities, such as housing, land 65,000 rity, social inclusion, urban incluownership, access to basic services, PEOPLE POSITIVELY sion, housing, economic inclusion, unemployment, and financial inclusion IMPACTED SINCE 1998 education, and health— are part through micro credits. Community of this strategy. programs are strengthened through FAMILIES PARTICIPATED ~75,000 our collaboration with local authorities, IN PRODUCTIVE CENTERS In the “La Campana” neighbor­ academic institutions, and non-governFOR SELF-EMPLOYMENT hood of Nuevo Leon, Mexico, we mental organizations (NGOs). Through CUMULATIVELY TO DATE have seen the local transformathe new jobs created under our GrowPEOPLE PARTICIPATED IN +274,000 tion, and how residents develop ing Platform initiatives, as well as the THE PROGRAM IN 2018 1,400 the ability to prevent and recover cost savings that result from access to from adverse situations by work­ affordable housing and services, we 4.6 MILLION ing together to strengthen their directly reduce the proportion of men, INDIVIDUALS BENEFITED communities’ resiliency and social women, and children of all ages living FROM PRODUCTIVE CENTERS GRADUATES OF THE foundations. in poverty in all of its dimensions, conFOR SELF-EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM TO DATE tributing directly to SDG 1 and 11. CUMULATIVELY TO DATE SQUARE METERS BUILT CUMULATIVELY TO DATE GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 62 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CONSTRUAPOYO is an inclusive CLEAN COOK STOVES is a business 3. Social Innovation and business that enables micro finance model that enables our company and Environmental Entrepreneurship entities and distributors from our value social entrepreneurs to reach new We provide sustainable solutions chain to offer financial solutions to DIY markets with cleaner, healthier cooking to address social and environmen(do it yourself) homeowners, so they solutions through the production and tal issues by providing support and can acquire construction materials to commercialization of concrete cook promoting or otherwise contributing improve their homes. ConstruApoyo stoves. By partnering with Microfito organizations and activities that utilizes flexible technology that allows nance Institutions (MFIs), government, focus on creating disruptive ideas. Our other entities, such as private compaand local women’s groups, we have social innovation and shared value nies and governments, to provide fundreached almost 23,000 households. creation position us as a benchmark in ing for upgrading housing, including The implementation of Clean Cook responsible business. By investing in relief projects, and to deliver building Stoves has not only mitigated 560,000 productive activities, entrepreneurship, materials clearly and efficiently. tons of CO2 , but also improved famiand innovation, we encourage the crelies’ quality of life—saving time in the ation and growth of micro, small, and +38,500 collection of firewood and cooking and medium-sized enterprises, contributing reducing the risk of lung diseases, eye directly to SDG 8. infections, and burns by open stoves. 1 KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER PROGRAMS: directly to SDG 11. Through these FAMILIES PARTICIPATED CEMEX-Tec Center for Sustainable The Center fosters self-employstudies, a multidisciplinary group IN THE PROGRAM During 2018, we installed 3,000 ecologDevelopment ment in the construction field and of researchers from the CEMEXCUMULATIVELY TO DATE ical stoves in 135 communities in the Since its foundation in Mexico in 2010, promotes local networks for the Tec Center for the Development of State of Quintana Roo, Mexico, while the goal of the CEMEX-Tec Center for generation of environmental initiaSustainable Communities gener+184,000 providing more than 10 awareness workSustainable Communities is to protives. For example, Yo Emprendo ate applied research and models shops for the adoption of these stoves. mote sustainable communities through aims to professionalize the workthat allow for the reconfiguration We reached more than 13,000 commuapplied research, innovation, and entreforce through skilled construction of urban and rural areas, creating nity partners by the end of the year. preneurship programs, creating opporworkers, promote the formality of proposals for the improvement of INDIVIDUALS POSITIVELY IMPACTED BY THE PROGRAM tunities for collaboration with academia, the sector, and raise the quality of communities with a sustainable CUMULATIVELY TO DATE civil society, and the public and private construction in the country. vision, involving the inhabitants sectors in order to raise the quality of of the study areas in this process. ~23,000 2 RESEARCH AND CONSULTING: By life in rural and urban environments. So far, the Center has conducted conducting Social Baseline Stud16 studies of the environment in The Center consists of several ies, we evaluate the sustainability communities surrounding our comHOMES WITH CLEAN multi-sectoral programs: of communities surrounding our pany’s plants in Mexico, Colombia, COOK STOVES TO DATE operations, and we look to improve Costa Rica, and Panama. Based urban and rural areas access to on these studies, we continue our safe, affordable, accessible and permanent stakeholder dialogues, sustainable services, while helping defining processes that can impact them to become more resilient our communities and offering input and self-sufficient, contributing for our CEPs. GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 63 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report FOSTERING ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN COSTA RICA AND COLOMBIA 3 PARTNERSHIPS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELThrough the CEMEX-Tec Award, The Rural Business Entrepreneurs program provides the necessary tools OPMENT: Through an active memwe help to establish and support to rural entrepreneurs in Costa Rica to commercially sell their products bership in RedEAmérica, the Center new micro, small, and medium directly to markets with greater potential. This program achieves its goal develops partnerships that make a enterprises (MSMEs) through through collaborative efforts between central and local government, positive impact on public and private training, financing, and networkacademia, media, and private enterprises. It boosts local economies and sector sustainable development. ing, contributing directly to SDG 8. generates a positive social impact in less developed areas of the country Founded in 2002 with the support of The CEMEX-TEC Award annually by increasing the income of small producers, generating employment, the Inter-American Foundation (IAF), recognizes entrepreneurs and empowering vulnerable groups, fostering direct marketing, and creatRedEAmérica is a thematic network students who develop high-impact STRENGTHENING LOCAL ing access to formal markets. In 2018, this program supported 12 rural comprised of more than 80 compaproposals and projects that foster businesses, with 200 entrepreneurs registered for the program. Local ENTREPRENEURSHIP WHILE nies and corporate foundations that sustainable development, innobusinesses produce and sell local products—from coffee to honey and PROTECTING BEES promote sustainable communities vation, and entrepreneurship. The bread—outside of the community and across the country. Consequently, in 14 countries of Latin America. The Award offers funding, specialized this program has positively impacted local social entrepreneurs’ ecoBees are crucial for protecting our network has invested in coaching workshops, and networking oppornomic wellbeing and sustainable growth. earth’s and our quarries’ biodiversity. and micro financing for more than tunities. In 2018, we expanded its With this in mind, a local beekeeper 200 projects that have indirectly scope globally; to date, we have The Entrepreneurship Facilitation program supports and strengthens is managing his 10 bee colonies at benefited more than 45,000 people 2,300 projects participating from local ventures in Payande, Colombia. Focused on people, teamwork, and our quarry site in Rüdersdorf, Gerand over 400 organizations in Latin 32 different countries. In 2019, in the creation of value networks, this program empowers entrepreneurs as many, for the robinia blossom. To America and the Caribbean. Led by addition to the Transforming Comthe main protagonists in their own development. The program consists of foster this entrepreneurial enterprise, Red SumaRSE in Mexico, we are partmunities and Social Entrepreneurs five differentiators: we designed and developed glasses nering to achieve our goals through categories, we will launch two new and branded the natural honey in more than 30 alliances worldwide categories: Community Entrepre› NETWORKING WITH CLIENTS AND RESOURCES order to offer it internally and donate with innovative institutions such as neurship and Collaborative Action. it for all kinds of events. We will use › MOTIVATIONAL, DEVELOPING LEADERSHIP AND INTERPERSONAL SKILLS Ashoka, MassChallenge, BlueBox the revenue generated from approxVentures, and Makesense. › PERSONAL, CUSTOM-MADE FOR EVERY ENTREPRENEUR AT NO COST TO THEM imately 400 glasses of this organic honey for further environmental › ENTERPRISE FACILITATION COMMITTEE, A MENTORING COMMITTEE OF EXPERTS projects in Rüdersdorf. AND PEOPLE FROM THE COMMUNITY › FACILITATOR, AN ENTREPRENEUR’S TUTOR THAT PROVIDES FOLLOW-UP AND This initiative not only conserves FEEDBACK and protects bees, but also supports productive business activities and During 2018, this program supported a total of 122 entrepreneurships, job creation, contributing directly to enabling them to increase their sales by 70% after participating in the SDG 8 and 15. program, while 90% met new potential clients. Moreover, by offering training, financing, and links to the supply chain through our entrepreneurship initiatives, more than 100 MSMEs achieved significant increases in revenue and employment generation. GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 64 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report ENABLING WASTE REDUCTION IN EGYPT Our garbage collection project serves the village of Mankabad in Egypt’s Assiut governorate. Because the government’s garbage trucks cannot access the village’s very narrow roads, we fund the rental of tractors to 4. Culture of Environmental accomplish necessary collection. We expect the availability of proper pergenerates employment opportunities Protection, Health, and Safety sonal protective equipment for employees responsible for collection, transthrough entrepreneurial projects that To achieve a more sustainable environportation to dump sites, and garbage sorting. We also fund the transportacreate handmade products such as ment, we promote a responsible use tion of waste to recycling plants, from which we purchase refuse-derived apple jam, which was recently introof resources, encourage a proactive fuel for our plant. By implementing circular business models, we substanduced for sale to local markets. By attitude to diversity conservation and tially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and partnering with other organizations to restoration, and reinforce a culture of reuse, contributing directly to SDG 12. protect and restore endangered areas, health and safety. With our employees and community partners, we create awareness and foster a culture of ENCOURAGING ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AMONG environmental protection, health, and CHILDREN IN SPAIN safety, which is key to the sustainable implementation of our initiatives. At our Buñol plant in Spain, we inaugurated a Practical Space for Agricultural and Forestry Techniques, where approximately 40 students from a local By partnering with other organizations institute carry out training practices. The trees and vegetation grown at this to protect and restore endangered facility contributes to the rehabilitation of our quarries and the reforestation of areas, we take significant action to public spaces where we operate. By integrating ecosystem and biodiversity reduce the degradation of natural habivalues into our youth educational programs, we contribute directly to SDG tats, halt the loss of biodiversity, and 15. Similarly, in collaboration with the environmental group GADMA and the protect and prevent the extinction of CEMEX Foundation, we enabled 350 schoolchildren from municipalities near threatened species. our cement plant in Lloseta, Spain, to discover and respect the environmental and cultural wealth of the Cabrera Archipelago under the “Cabrera ArchipelIn Mexico, the Community Environmenago, A Natural Paradise” environmental education campaign. tal Restoration Program seeks to train young people as environmental prowe take significant action to reduce the degradation of natural habitats, halt 1,200 moters and leaders within their communities—who can develop projects for the loss of biodiversity, and protect and environmental restoration and improveprevent the extinction of threatened ment. To date, more than 1,200 young species, contributing directly to SDG 15. leaders have received training as enviYOUNG ronmental promoters, and eight active Through our Health, Safety & Pregroups work within our operations. paredness program in the Philippines, we hold disaster preparedness sesFostering integral rural development sions for community members. We Our Integral Program for Rural Develfurther donate medical equipment LEADERS HAVE RECEIVED opment fosters and protects local flora for the community’s health center. By building the resilience of those in training as environmental and fauna that contribute to the preservation of endangered species such vulnerable situations, we reduce their promoters as the Mexican wolf. This program also exposure and vulnerability to disasters, GRI 102-43 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 65 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report WORKING TOGETHER TO ENHANCE ROAD SAFETY Consistent with our culture of health and safety, we operations, we work hand in hand with community contributing directly to SDG 3. Addicontinually engage with communities, organizations, authorities, politicians, and associations to promote tionally, our recently launched TSEK +3,500 and industry actors to enhance road safety for all understanding, peaceful coexistence, and respect on waste segregation program teaches users. From awareness raising initiatives for cyclists the road. household members how to segregate and pedestrians to our collaborative educational waste. By creating awareness of a efforts, we strive to make streets a safe place for › IN MEXICO, through 20,000 community members, product’s lifecycle, including sorting for cyclists, motorcyclists, drivers, pedestrians, and other Mission Zero strategic initiative provides intervenrecycling or reusing waste, we contribvulnerable road users. tions for unsafe roads, training for public servants ute directly to SDG 12. CYCLISTS AND PEDESTRIANS and the general public on mobility issues, and a attended our Exchanging One of our main goals is to increase road safety awarecommunication strategy to raise society’s general We encourage healthy lives and proPlaces safety events around ness through education. This year, more than 3,500 awareness. mote wellbeing in the communities, the world cyclists and pedestrians attended our Exchanging by fostering activities that promote › IN THE CZECH REPUBLIC, we provided practical road good health and safety. In Croatia, we Places safety events around the world, climbing aboard safety training to firstand second-year pupils at our trucks to appreciate what is visible from our drivers’ encourage positive employee teamthe local elementary school in Prachovice. Through perspective. Through targeted campaigns and action work and healthy lifestyles through our this training session, we showed children how the plans across our countries of operation, we aim to preparticipation in Croatia’s National Race driver of a big truck sees the road and the pedesing to our BAP and consistent with vent incidents by educating all relevant parties, enabling to Promote Healthcare. In the United trian zone, talked to pupils about the risks of irreour commitment to environmental them to understand each other’s point of view. States, we also promote employee sponsible behavior on the street, and demonstrated sustainability, we are undertaking the engagement and health safety through ways to reduce those risks. first project in the country focused on We focus on collaboration with communities, organia race. Moreover, we awarded funding zations, industry actors, and safety experts to improve To learn more about our efforts to improve road safety, for the construction of a mini-football the ecological restoration of an experroad safety. In France, Mexico, Spain, and many other please read page 40 of Our People section > field at the Broceni secondary school imental plot that benefits 40 families in Latvia, which officially opened on from communities close to our operDecember 5, 2018. In the Alcanar ation. By fostering land remediation Plant in Spain, for three years now, an and rehabilitation, habitat protection employee suggested a cycling race for and restoration, and biodiversity employees and families, it has been protection on our operational sites, a success and engages employees in while working with relevant public activities that contribute to their own and private stakeholders to promote health and well-being. ecosystem conservation, we contribute directly to SDG 15. Under our alliance with the National Association for the Conservation of Nature (ANCON) and Prisma and ACOCHA community organizations, our Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) in Panama protects and conserves our quarries’ biological diversity. Accord2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 66 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report visits to hospitals and painting public +320 buildings. During 2018, we earned seven awards for our company’s positive social VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES impact initiatives. We also continue to participate on more than 20 boards of international organizations, NGOs, +4,600 and academia. We further shared and replicated more than 40 of our organization’s most innovative practices globally, while collaborating with external EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATING partners to more positively impact and contribute to the 2030 UN SDG targets. In 2019, we will continue to strengthen +29,000 VOLUNTEERS ACT AS GLOBAL AGENTS In the UK, our employees keep lendour community engagement plans, OF CHANGE ing-a-hand to the community through enhance our stakeholders’ experience, Through our strategic global volunteer their volunteer activities, benefiting and partner with academia, civil society, EMPLOYEE HOURS DEDICATED program—CEMEX Volunteers—we proboth our employees and our commuthe private sector, and government to TO VOLUNTEERING vide the means for all of our employnities’ quality of life and wellbeing. continue contributing to the UN SDGS. ees to participate in opportunities to Employees dedicate from one day to Our leadership on the UN Global Comaddress challenges that better our longer-term support to help neighborpact in Mexico will encourage more communities and the world. Part of our ing communities by working with local companies to partner, contribute, and CLOSE TO responsible and sustainable busiinstitutions such as schools or new explore business opportunities, while 128,000 ness culture, this program aligns our startups. In 2018, our cement commerreducing negative impacts. Importantly, employees’ volunteer activities with cial and aggregates team worked as we expect to continue to partner with our company’s business strategy while One CEMEX to attach three fence rails our more than 500 global alliances to promoting the creation of shared value, to preinstalled posts over a staggering foster our communities’ transformation, TOTAL NUMBER OF PLANTS a core aim of our stakeholder engage350 meters of a fence. share globally scalable and replicable DONATED THROUGH OUR ment. We encourage our employees best practices, and work together for a NURSERY GARDENS to get involved with both skilled and Through our Hands On Program, more more sustainable future. hands-on volunteer projects, as facilithan 660 of our employees partici+32,000 tators of local efforts, that contribute to the community and their own wellbeing. We also hold periodic meetings with neighbors, schools, NGOs, govpated in over 50 events in Mexico, positively impacting our communities through reforestation activities and road safety initiatives. Moreover, in TOTAL NUMBER OF TREES PLANTED THROUGH ernments, and employees to listen to Israel, we volunteer in the community VOLUNTEER PROGRAMS them and address common topics. during Good Deeds Day, including 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 67 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Responsible Suppliers At CEMEX, our relationship with our suppliers is integral to › Guarantee our operations’ continuOur commitment to our values goes 1 Encourage suppliers to adhere ity by sourcing quality goods and beyond our own activities. We conto high ethical standards and our ultimate objective of serving our customers’ needs— services. tinually work to engage and align our practices achieving a superior customer experience—and creating suppliers with our core values, includ› Utilize a replicable set of standard ing our enduring emphasis on health 2 Seek equality and fairness in supvalue for all of our stakeholders. global policies, processes, and tools and safety, our unwavering pursuit of plier relations for our supply planning, negotiaexcellence, and our steadfast focus on 3 Honor contracts and proprietortions, purchasing, and inventory integrity. We further integrate sustainship, obeying the law, and complyLINK TO PRIORITY SDGS management functions. ability into our supplier engagement ing with regulations › Capitalize our knowledge and best and procurement processes, while 4 Comply with all anti-bribery laws practice sharing. taking account of local and diverse suppliers. Aligned with our company’s 5 Maintain standard business pracUnder this model, we aim to build principles, policies, and values, we are tices related to gifts, services, and strong relationships across our netcommitted to ensuring our suppliers other courtesies work of suppliers as we acquire the compliance with CEMEX Code of EthWe closely cooperate with our supply chain to foster our continuous innovation 6 Ensure basic labor conditions goods and services our company ics and Business Conduct and Suppliand implement the most sustainable techniques in our day-to-day operations. needs to operate, leveraging the ers Code of Conduct. 7 Generate environmental and biodiConsequently, we look to create a culture of communication that reflects the best knowledge and expertise of our team versity engagement relationship with our suppliers, while working towards our company’s objectives. at the local, regional, and global level SUPPLIERS CODE OF CONDUCT WHEN 8 Promote high priority on health These efforts support our five priority SDGs. to perform efficiently and effectively. At DOING BUSINESS WITH US and safety the same time, we capture economies Our company’s success depends on of scale from our negotiations through supplier relationships that are built on 9 Enhance diversity and equality BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS WITH such efforts as our Low-Cost Countries trust and mutual benefit. Accordingly, 10 Strengthen human rights OUR SUPPLIERS initiative, that manages our strategic we expect to manage our supplier Our worldwide Procurement Model supplier relationships to achieve the relationships with honesty, respect, Our Suppliers Code of Conduct is is designed to ensure a standard way best cost/benefit from our sources and integrity, offering equal opportuavailable in two different languages. of managing our company’s supplier of supply by certifying suppliers and nities to all concerned parties. When Please visit cemex.com to learn more >> network through a uniform strategic contractors in key areas. doing business with us, we expect our sourcing process at country, regional, suppliers to honor our Suppliers Code and global levels in order to: of Conduct’s 10 principles: 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 68 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY ENGAGEMENT PROGRESS SUPPLIERS' HEALTH & SAFETY AS A TOP › Identification of best practices in CEMEX countries PRIORITY 2009 › Program validated by Corporate Sustainability At CEMEX, we are committed to the health and safety of our employees, suppliers, and partners as a top › Launched Supplier Sustainability Program priority. For us, zero injuries and zero 2010 › Joined the UN Global Compact Advisory Group on fatalities are more than a goal; they are Supply Chain Sustainability a moral mandate. In addition to our Supplier Sustain› Implemented “Code of Conduct when Doing Buisness 2011 with Us” ability Program, our Contractor Health & Safety Certification Program is designed to have contractors that › Pilot suppliers evaluated by a third party on come into our facilities possess a valid 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility maturity certification. Certification requires liability policies, risk premiums, security › Joined the Cement Sustainability Initiative’s (CSI) manuals, and accreditations, among Supply Chain ENGAGING OUR SUPPLIERS other requirements. Valid for one year, We believe that fostering sustainable certification pursues that contractors › Established global contract with a specialized practices and innovation alongside 90% know the safety procedures and keep 2014 company to evaluate suppliers’ sustainability our suppliers is fundamental: a winsafe while working with us. practices win process that promotes continuous › Defined a 2020 global target to assess 55% of improvement for our supply chain, benStarting in 2018, we committed to procurement spend efiting both CEMEX and our suppliers. evaluate, through a third-party orgaOF THE PURCHASES IN nization that specializes in the evaluThrough various programs and pro› 250 suppliers invited to participate in assessment 2018 were sourced by ation of health and safety practices, 2015 cesses, we engage suppliers and locally-based suppliers at least 80% of our company’s pro› Evaluation of suppliers covered 8% of target spend recognize their contribution to our curement contractors’ spend. Thus business by maintaining sustainable far, we achieved certification of more practices and by delivering profitable than 4,700 contractors with access › Evaluation of suppliers covered 17% of target spend 2016 and innovative solutions and services to our operations’ facilities in which › Monitored yearly objectives to our company and our customers. they could be exposed to risks while performing their activities. › Evaluation of suppliers covered 25% of target spend 2017 › Definition of 2030 ambition to assess 80% of our 2018 spend on critical suppliers with sustainability criteria 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 69 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report EXTENDING OUR SUSTAINABILITY party firm analyses the information proAdditionally, we will continue to reinPromoting Our Suppliers’ Innovation COMMITMENT TO OUR SUPPLIERS vided, prepares a consolidated report, force our expectations of sustainability At CEMEX, we recognize that our perSince 2010, our Supplier Sustainability including findings and conclusions from by including Human Rights, Labor, formance is dependent on our ability Program has made an extensive comthe assessment and identified opporAntitrust, and Sustainability clauses in to partner with suppliers that share our mitment to sustainability across our tunity areas, and proposes an action our contracts and purchase orders. We passion for excellence. Fostering innovalue chain—communicating and proplan to close the gaps. This evaluation is are also fully committed to ensuring vation alongside our suppliers is funmoting responsible practices. Under periodically updated, and suppliers are that 100% of our procurement suppliers damental. It is a win-win process that expected to continuously improve their comply with our Suppliers Code of Conpromotes continuous improvement for score. This grade is integrated into the duct When Doing Business With Us. our supply chain, benefiting both our supplier’s scorecard to track and reward company and our suppliers. suppliers that demonstrate advanced Every year, we recognize our best-persustainability practices. forming suppliers of the Supplier Through our Supplier of the Year ProSustainability Program. For 2018, we gram, we recognize suppliers for their We constantly learn from our suppliers acknowledged the following compacontribution to our business by deliverand partners, gaining knowledge and nies for their outstanding performance ing profitable and innovative solutions experience from their sustainability and high level of engagement with and services to our company and our practices. We’ve made improvements their sustainability practices: customers. to our Supplier Sustainability Program based on these relevant insights, and, During 2018, we established two ediwith this in mind, we have also defined tions of this program: Global Procurenew 2030 goals for this program. ment and Procurement Croatia. We recognized suppliers for their outstandAs part of our Sustainability 2030 ing results in several categories: Health Enel Fortuna S.A. (Panama) Ambitions, we have decided to refine and Safety, Sustainability, Applied this program, this year we assessed our former supplier assessment focus. Innovation, Customer Focus, and The 1,066 suppliers who are key business Our new plan is to assess at least Supplier of the Year Award—which is partners within our company´s pro80% of the critical suppliers spend granted to a supplier that excels and curement and energy spend. under our company’s global procureachieves outstanding performance in ment scope. By critical we refer to more than at least one of the previous A third-party evaluator performs this those business partners who can have four categories. Maquinaria y Tractores Ltda assessment based on ISO 26000—covsignificant impact on our three core (Costa Rica) ering social, environmental, health and businesses (cement, ready-mix consafety (H&S), business ethics, stakecrete, and aggregates). Specifically, this holder relationships, and financial perinvolves those who could affect the formance standards. After our suppliers continuity of our operations, involve are evaluated, the specialized thirdenvironmental risks, and/or contribute the highest spend. Kao Chemicals GmbH (Germany) 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 70 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Supplier of the Year – Our “INTEGRATE Your Ideas” InnovaGlobal Procurement 2018 Edition tion Program encourages suppliers to share their disruptive ideas to continu› Supplier of the year: ously improve our products, processes, Volvo CE/SDLG and services. In 2018, we implemented (Sweden / China) the Global Edition of our “INTEGRATE Your Ideas” Innovation Program, recog› Health & Safety: nizing three global suppliers for their Volvo CE (Sweden) creative ideas that reflected process, › Sustainability: product or service efficiencies: Kao Chemicals (Japan / Germany) Volvo (Sweden) Idea: Competence development of › Applied Innovation: machine operators with simulators BillerudKorsnäs (Sweden) › Customer Focus: Klüber Lubrication (Germany) RHI Magnesita (Austria) Idea: First hydro lubricant for gears ENABLING DIGITAL PROCUREMENT CEMEX Supply is a digital tool Aligned with our company’s digital designed to serve as an industrial Refratechnik (Germany) transformation, we promoted two digipartner, supporting companies by Supplier of the Year – Idea: Counteract knowledge loss – tal initiatives—CEMEX Marketplace and supplying goods for their operations Procurement Croatia 2018 Edition special training on site CEMEX Supply. and maintenance, repair, and personal protective equipment for their employ› Health & Safety: CEMEX Marketplace is a digital platees. All of the products available on Wiena Grupa d.o.o. (Croatia) form that increases the visibility of this online store undergo a thorough INTEGRATE › Supplier of the Year/Small vendors, products, and prices across validation and negotiation process Companies: territories and business lines, enabling and aspires that they meet the highest HYMAK d.o.o. (Croatia) our company’s end users to efficiently quality and performance standards in YOUR IDEAS purchase the right product at the best the market. Importantly, we use these › Supplier of the Year/Large Companies: price. This initiative streamlines our materials in all of our plants to mainKnauf d.o.o. (Germany / Croatia) purchasing processes, shifting from tain our operational excellence. Our traditional procurement methods to an best-selling products are tires, oils and INNOVATION PROGRAM agile digital commercial space, prolubricants, batteries, road safety suprecognizes suppliers for viding cost savings, convenience, and plies, personal protection equipment, their creative ideas collaboration for our company and our and mixer trucks, among others. suppliers. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 71 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Our Commitment to the Planet Climate change mitigation is a top priority for our company relies on concrete to enable communieconomy, and collaborate to reach the AVOIDED DIRECT AND INDIRECT CO2 ties’ access to clean water, sanitation, temperature goal that science necessiEMISSIONS vs. 1990 BASELINE and our planet. Urgent action is required to combat global and energy services—from transportatates in the urgent fight to control global (million tons) warming and its consequences. tion systems to wind farms construction. warming’s devastating consequences. Thus, the concrete and cement sectors 4.8 0.5 face the need for significant expansion EMBRACING OUR COMMITMENT TO LINK TO PRIORITY SDGS to support the necessary development CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION of sustainable cities at a time when their There is no single alternative or techTOTAL 2018: emissions must fall fast. nology that will lead to the level of 7.9 emissions reduction required from the We recognize this responsibility, and cement sector as a key player in this global challenge. Only a combination 2.6 we are fully committed to maximize our positive contribution to society, of different paths can achieve substanThrough an integral sustainability strategy, we are firmly committed to reducing l RENEWABLE ENERGY minimize our environmental impact, tial progress. l ALTERNATIVE FUEL our environmental impact, enabling a low-carbon, resource-efficient circular contribute to a low-carbon circular l CLINKER FACTOR economy, and working together to support the world’s achievement of the Paris With this in mind, for almost two Agreement. All our efforts on this matter contribute to priority SDGs 8, 9, 11, 13 and decades, CEMEX has implemented an 15, as well as other linking SDGs 7 and 12. integral carbon emissions reduction strategy across our global operations. 7.9 As a key input for concrete production As a result of our efforts, this year we and the most widely used construction reduced our net CO2 emissions per material in the world, cement plays a ton of cementitious materials by 21.6% fundamental role in global efforts for and avoided 7.9 million tons of CO2 MILLION climate change mitigation. At the same compared with our 1990 baseline. This time, the cement sector is expected to is comparable to offsetting the carbon play a vital role in the expansion of the emissions from 1.4 million homes’ elecbuilt environment and the growth of tricity consumption in one year. countries, especially in emerging econTONS OF CO2 EMISSONS In 2018, CEMEX went a step further in omies. Moreover, demand for infrastrucavoided compared to our ture development and urbanization is its approach to climate change mitiga1990 baseline not limited to housing and buildings, but tion. We developed a CO2 Reduction 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 72 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CEMEX TO USE 100% RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY AT OVER 320 UK SITES IN 2019 Roadmap that was launched across EXPANDING OUR CLEAN ENERGY able sources starting in 2019. And our APO cement plant in the PhilipIn partnership with energy, services, all our cement sites to model and PORTFOLIO finally, in the Dominican Republic, pines is underway and is expected to and regeneration group ENGIE, we assess the carbon mitigation potential Our company is committed to idenwe entered into a long-term contract begin operations by 2020. Moreover, expect to consume 100% renewthat can be seized from each instaltify and develop energy procurement with AES for the development of a 20 in 2018, three of our U.S. cement able electricity in over 320 of our lation, considering local challenges, opportunities that not only contribute MW solar project to supply about one plants earned the EPA ENERGY STAR® sites in the UK in 2019. Through our regulations, materials supply, technito carbon emission mitigation, but also fourth of our electricity requirements Certification, recognizing their energy extended and revamped contract cal limitations, and market dynamics, represent sustainable, economically in the country, which is expected to be efficiency and sustainability efforts. with ENGIE, all of the electricity supamong other decisive factors. This attractive sources of energy for the operational in 2021. Notably, our Miami, Victorville, and plied to these sites will come from newly defined Roadmap considers five countries in which we operate. Brooksville South plants have ranked 100% renewable energy sources, strategic levers that cover the options As a result of our efforts to migrate to in the top 25% for energy conservaincluding wind energy. Because that are expected to enable the cement Beyond our previous renewable cleaner energy sources, 26% of our tion when compared to similar facilithese sources produce zero carbon sector to strengthen its contribution to energy agreements, in 2018, CEMEX cement operations’ power supply came ties for at least the past six years. emissions, this will make a signifithe fight against global warming: UK expanded the scope of its 10-years from renewable projects at year-end cant contribution to reducing our UK partnership with ENGIE to consume 2018. Based on public information, we operation’s carbon footprint. ENGIE’s 100% renewable energy. Additionally, in believe this makes CEMEX the comOur clean power projects and renewable electricity supply is Mexico, we signed a long-term agreepany with the highest share of renewrenewable energy purchase agreeunderpinned by Renewable Energy FIRST ment with the Tuli-Helios solar facility able electricity in its cement producments include the following projects: Guarantees of Origin (REGOs). that is expected to start operations in tion. On top of that, we are announcing Energy Sourcing and Efficiency the second half of 2019. On top of our our ambition is to increase this figure › 250 MW Eurus wind farm in “Cement manufacturing is inhercurrent supply from wind farms, this to 40% by 2030. Mexico ently energy-intensive, and we SECOND facility is expected to cover approxi› 7 MW wind portfolio in California work hard to minimize energy mately 18% of our cement operations’ Energy efficiency is also one of our key consumption within process conFuel Mix and Raw Meal power needs. Furthermore, in Spain, objectives in advancing best resource › 30 MW waste-to-energy facility in straints. Our switch to electricity Composition we entered into a long-term contract conservation practices. As a result of Germany from renewable sources is playing with Starkraft through Fortia for the our partnership with Sinoma Energy a key role in our carbon reduction › 30 MW plant from sugarcane supply of approximately 20% of our Conservation Ltd., construction of a 4.5 strategy.” THIRD bagasse in Colombia electricity requirements from renewMW Waste Heat Recovery facility at Clinker Substitutes › 6 MW hydropower portfolio in Martin Hills Colombia Head of Energy and Carbon, FOURTH › Enel Fortuna hydroelectric plant in CEMEX UK Panama Novel Cements › 1.5 MW solar project in the Dominican Republic FIFTH › Los Cocos wind farm in the Carbon Capture, Storage Dominican Republic and Utilization › 6 MW waste heat recovery facility in Solid, Philippines Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report ACCELERATING RENEWABLE ENERGY DEPLOYMENT FROM WASTE TO FUEL THROUGH INNOVATIVE ENERGY STORAGE Waste is produced all over the world at an exponential rate due to increasWe formed a technological and commercial partnership ing populations and urbanization. with Energy Vault, an IdeaLab company, to optimize conCement production is ideal for the crete and soil composite materials that form an integral sustainable and safe disposal of many part of its breakthrough energy storage solution. Innovative types of waste generated by cities and energy storage represents the largest, near-term opporresidues from other industries that tunity to accelerate renewable energy deployment, while cannot be recycled and can be used bringing us closer to replacing fossil fuels as the primary as a substitute for fossil-based fuels. resource to meet growing global energy demand. We have the know-how to source, Inspired by pumped hydroelectric plants’ utilization of gravprocess, store, and recover energy ity’s power and water’s movement to store and discharge from alternative fuels responsibly. We electricity, Energy Vault’s technological solution replaces are confident that our increasing use of water with our custom-made concrete bricks. These cusco-processed residues from other sectomized concrete bricks are combined with Energy Vault’s tors will further contribute to overcomresults this year. After some challengpatented system design and proprietary algorithm-based ing challenges such as climate change, ing years, we continued increasing our software, which calibrates energy storage and electricity waste management, and fossil fuel fossil fuels substitution from 26.2% in charge/discharge while accounting for various factors— depletion—while utilizing the principles 2017 to 27.1% in 2018—achieving our from power supply and demand volatility to wind and of a circular economy. highest rate in the past four years. weather. Consequently, Energy Vault can deliver all of the benefits of a pumped hydroelectric system at a much lower Our Alternative Fuels Strategy is one of Our alternative fuels substitution rate 3.3 cost with higher round trip efficiency, without the need for the main pillars to achieve a Stronger positively impacts both our company specific land topography or the negative environmental CEMEX. This initiative enables us to and society in many ways. In 2018, we impacts. become more independent from fossil generated fuel cost savings of US$150 fuels, while helping to overcome critimillion and more than US$30 million of MILLION Additionally, our collaboration focuses on carbon and CO2 cal challenges such as climate change additional savings thanks to avoided carreduction methodologies given the role that utility-scale and waste management. Moreover, we bon emissions in the regulated regions energy storage will now play in enabling various renewable are fostering local business creation where we operate. Moreover, 92% of our energy technologies. and employment by developing altercement plants co-processed a total of native fuels supply chains. Our strong 3.3 million tons of waste as alternative fuels, enabling the replacement of almost TONS OF WASTE commitment to waste management and our migration to cleaner energy 2 million tons of coal. Of these plants, were co-processed as sources to displace traditional fossil our cement operations with the highest alternative fuel in 92% fuels like petcoke and coal with low or share of alternative fuels included Chelm of our plants even zero-carbon alternatives—such as in Poland, Broceni in Latvia, Prachovmunicipal solid waste, tires, and biomass ice in the Czech Republic, Clinchfield residues—generated very successful in the U.S., and Rüdersdorf in Germany. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 74 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report TURNING TAR WASTE INTO FUEL IN LATVIA Although we face barriers that someIn Latvia, CEMEX helped to dispose of more than 6,000 tons of tar › LEILAC targets carbon capture as its times hinder our increased use of alterwaste per year in an environmentally friendly way. Before its use as main outcome by developing an indinative fuels in our different operating fuel, the waste is neutralized through a pre-process that mixes it with rect calciner that enables the capture regions—including waste availability other materials and fuels—resulting in a hard, loose, peat-like material. of pure CO2 as it is released from and quality, infrastructure and logistics, The ash from the fuel is further used in clinker production. After three limestone. co-processing regulations and permityears, we expect to convert the actual tar waste location into a green ting issues, market dynamics, econommeadow. › GENESIS explores the use of metallic organic frameworks to entrap CO2 ics of waste-derived alternative fuels, from flue gas. The CO2 can then be and technical limitations, among othstored but, in the GENESIS context, it ers—we continue to work to reach our will be fed into an algae bioreactor. targets, while remaining a prominent industry advocate and leading user of › DESTINY aims to employ microwave alternative fuels for cement production. energy in clay calcination for use in low clinker cements. The target is to CARBON CAPTURE, STORAGE, AND demonstrate the concept through a UTILIZATION TECHNOLOGIES microwave-powered plant targeted In addition to those conventional to a production rate of 20 kg of cal› Additionally, led by the National levers, we actively seek to develop new cined clay per hour. Petroleum Council (NPC) in the US, technologies to reduce our carbon we are collaborating to conduct a footprint. Notably, we are currently › eCOCO2 aims to set up a CO2 capstudy to provide the Department of ture and conversion process using involved in European research projects Energy (DOE) with advice on Carbon renewable electricity and water that aim to directly or indirectly reduce Capture, Use, and Storage (CCUS) steam to directly produce fuels, tarour company’s carbon emissions: geting a CO2 per-pass conversion of Furthermore, we are exploring alternaCEMEX LAUNCHES LOW-CARBON CEMENT IN EGYPT greater than 85%, energy efficiency tives to traditional clinker and cement › SOLPART intends to pilot a high-temof more than 85%, and net specific chemistry that enable the production perature (950°C) 24-hour/day solar Our R&D team successfully developed a novel cement product with demand of less than 6 MWh/t CO2 . of less CO2-intensive cements. process suitable for the calcination of 15% to 20% less carbon emissions, a new revolution in the Egyptian The demonstration phase intends to cement raw materials. cement industry. This new product uses clinker with approximately produce over 250 g of fuel per day. ADVANCING TOWARDS A CIRCULAR › EPOS main objective is to enable 20% natural pozzolanic material after it has been treated mechanically ECONOMY cross-sector industrial symbiosis and and chemically. Pozzolanic material also works to enhance cement and › OXYFUEL seeks to integrate and adapt Cement and concrete play a central concrete properties. It further complies with applicable Egyptian and technology for capturing pure CO2 to provide a wide range of technorole in the circular economy. Together European Standard Specifications. for use according to the current logical and organizational options with our industry, we are taking strong cement production process and for making business and operations actions to reduce our consumption of This innovative product can be used for all types of concrete infraequipment. more efficient, cost-effective, comtraditional inputs in both our manufacpetitive, and sustainable. structure projects, including reinforced buildings, water tanks, roads, turing process and our products use and any other construction that is not subject to the effects of sulfate. across our three core businesses. It can also be used for relevant construction sectors as hollow and solid blocks, tiles, and railway line concrete supports. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 75 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report For clinker production, we are gradually our reuse of clinker kiln dust in the switching from petcoke and coal as the production loop, largely avoiding its main fuels in the mix to alternative fuels landfill disposal. such as urban, industrial, and agricultural residues. We are also seizing the We have actually become a “waste mineral content of waste from other eater,” consuming 32 times more waste industries as alternative raw materials. than we sent for disposal in 2018. The We are further recycling material in the non-recyclable by-products that we cement production process by replacutilized from other sectors—including ing part of the clinker with by-products the power, iron, and steel industries, from other industries, including fly ash as well as agricultural and municipal and slag. Additionally, we are consumresidues—amounted to more than 13 ing waste and recycling material in the million tons for the year, equivalent to ready-mix concrete production process the waste close to 50 million people thanks to our use of cement substitutes generate a year. On top of that, we and alternative aggregates. Importantly, are committed to increase by 50% the WASTE concrete can be 100% recycled as alteramount of waste we seize as alterand biodiversity specialists. The system native aggregates in the construction native fuels and raw materials across meets ISO 14001 and EU Eco-ManageENHANCING OUR of transportation infrastructure or as a all of our business lines by 2030. ment and Audit Scheme (EMAS) certiENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT base for roads. This is clear evidence of our compafication and applies to substantially all SYSTEM WITH ISO 14001 EATER ny’s interest and significant potential of our business activities. Among all of these virtuous cycles, contribution to alleviating the waste Our cement operations in the U.S. our company’s main contribution to a management challenge that cities, At the end of 2018, close to 90% of our are committed to enhancing our circular economy is our transformagovernments, and communities face operations had implemented either Environmental Management System tion of discarded materials from other across the globe. CEMEX EMS or equivalent programs. (EMS) through their ongoing workWE CONSUMED 32 TIMES industries into valuable inputs for As we approach full implementation ing toward International OrganiMORE WASTE than we sent our cement, ready-mix concrete, and ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL of our global EMS by 2020, our goal zation for Standardization (ISO) for disposal in 2018 aggregates production processes. This MANAGEMENT is for all of our company’s facilities to 14001 certification. Our alignment contribution leads directly to natural We use CEMEX Environmental Manbe 100% compliant with our internal with ISO 14001 standards provides resource conservation. agement System (EMS) to evaluate and environmental management standards a framework to drive a systematic facilitate consistent, complete impleand having 100% of our cement sites approach to environmental manWith regard to the waste generated mentation of risk-based environmental ISO 14001 certified. agement in applicable day-to-day from our production processes, we management tools across our operoperations and decision-making, have managed to recover, reuse, and ations. CEMEX EMS consists of key MANAGING OUR AIR EMISSIONS enabling our continuous improverecycle almost all of this waste with mechanisms for environmental impact Through our internal EMS and our ment to achieve environmental only 5% of our waste going to landfill. assessment, stakeholder engagement, Atmospheric Emissions Global Proceexcellence. To minimize most of the waste generand accident response based upon dure, we are committed to reducing ated from our processes, we maximize input from a range of environmental our air emissions’ impact on the environment. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 76 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report The release of nitrogen oxides (NOX), establishing more stringent environin place,, and our target is to reach sulfur compounds (SOX), and dust mental standards for air emissions 100% by 2020, including our recently occurs during cement manufacturing. based on EU Best Available Techniques. acquired TCL plants in the Caribbean. Other emissions, including dioxins, furans, volatile organic compounds, During 2018, we invested more than ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENT FIRST PLANTS IN THE U.S. AND MANAGEMENT and heavy metals, are released in very US$83 million in sustainability initiaLATIN AMERICA TO EARN CSC small or negligible quantities, but we tives, including projects to monitor We permanently work to minimize our CERTIFICATION are committed to monitor them on and reduce our air emissions. These negative environmental and social a regular basis. To control our stack projects include our efforts to replace impacts, and we are well prepared to Five of our ready-mix concrete emissions and remain compliant with electro filters with bag filters, such as respond to any emergency that may plants in northern California or exceed local and national reguat our Solid cement plant in the Philippose a potential threat to our operabecame the first facilities of any lations, we have steadily expanded pines; and new abatement installations tions and local communities: company in the U.S. to earn responcontinuous emissions monitoring at or installation improvements to reduce sible sourcing certification from our manufacturing operations. our NOX and SOX emissions. › WE WORK WITH OUR NEIGHBORS, law the Concrete Sustainability Counenforcement officials, public agencies, cil (CSC). Moreover, our Panama To improve on these efforts, we have In 2018, 98% of our clinker was proand other stakeholders to develop Norte plant became the first readyfurther updated the minimum annual duced at plants with continuous contingency plans at each of our sites. mix concrete facility to attain CSC performance levels for major emissions, emissions monitoring systems (CEMs) certification in Latin America. › WE CREATED EMERGENCY RESPONSE TEAMS that are specifically trained to 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL AND Launched in 2017 by 11 founding address environmental incidents and SOCIAL INCIDENTS AND members—including the World hold annual emergency drills. COMPLAINTS REPORTING  (percentage) Business Council for Sustainable › WE CONSISTENTLY RECORD AND REPORT   Development, the Portland Cement INCIDENTS at every level of our   21 Association, and CEMEX—the CSC  business to identify recurring root acts as a responsible sourcing cer  causes and to share corrective tification system, grading building  actions. materials facilities on responsible 9 As of 2018, we have updated our environmental, social, and gover  Global Environmental Incident Report10 nance practices throughout supply  ing Tool to include social incidents, 37 chains. Through its certification sys10 consolidating our holistic approach 13 tem, the CSC aims to improve the  to the integral management of events transparency of the concrete sector, DUST  causing some impact to people or the l while highlighting the essential role    l FUELS & CHEMICALS   environment, as well as complaints AIR EMISSIONS that concrete plays in creating a l  coming from local communities. l NOISE, ODOUR & LIGHT sustainable construction sector by    l WATER getting recognition in green pro  l OTHERS curement government policies and  building rating systems. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 77 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report WATER MISSION IN THE U.S. MID-SOUTH – USE LESS, SAVE MORE As a result of this change in methodMANAGING WATER TO MINIMIZE USE To aspire the availability of this vital resource, ology, in 2018, total reported incidents Our operations benefit directly from our U.S. operations prioritized water-related increased by 40% year over year. We water, and we must take care of this opportunities by identifying the region that recognize that reporting environmental invaluable resource by optimizing its was most significantly contributing to water and social incidents is the first step to consumption and expecting discharge usage costs in our ready-mix concrete division reducing their occurrence and severity, quality. and working to increase water efficiency in this together with analyzing their main root region through the implementation of: 1) Maincauses and putting in place corrective Water availability is vital for the future tenance fixes, including unidentified leaks; 2) and preventive actions. of our operations and the sustainability Operational improvements, including recycling of our business. Equally important, our water when possible; 3) Increasing awareness From the incidents and complaints use, diversion, and discharge of water by conducting training and placing signs in registered for the year, almost 50% into the environment impacts people, strategic water use areas to remind drivers and were related to dust and other air nature, and the ecosystems on which plant management not to waste water; and 4) emissions. To remediate these cases we rely. That is why we are working to Setting water-related targets. and avoid their occurrence in the establish a water baseline, prioritizing future, we implemented an action plan, water-related risks and opportunities This ongoing project has already generated including: while following up on relevant key water measurement based on the Water cost savings, while positively contributing to performance indicators. Protocol developed in coordination with our communities through socially responsible › REINFORCED PREVENTIVE maintenance the International Union for Conservation water conservation. Our operations’ commuroutines in all sites This includes setting water-related tarof Nature (IUCN), together with our use nication campaign has also produced sucgets and recognizing the role our busiof the Global Water Tool for the Cement cessful efforts throughout the region that we › CONTINUED INVESTMENT and instalSector in order to prioritize our actions ness must play with local stakeholders plan to duplicate across CEMEX USA as water lation of Continuous Emissions to develop sustainable solutions to to reduce water consumption such as conservation plays a key role in our long-term Monitoring Systems (CEMS) in all of water management. To this end, underwater recycling systems and rain and resource management strategy. our kilns to reach our 100% goal by standing the way we use water in our storm water runoff collectors. Addition2020 business operations is a key step to ally, we provide guidance to our oper› REPLACEMENT OF ELECTROFILTERS with determining where future issues may ations through a holistic water manbag houses to increase dust control occur not only for our operational use, agement plan that prioritizes countries efficiency but also for the ecosystems and people and sites where the water-related risks who rely on flowing rivers and groundare highest, and the business impact is › CONTINUED CLOSE WORKING relationwater resources. most significant. ships with communities. At CEMEX, we maintain open commuTo protect this natural resource and In 2018, we defined the strategy that we nications to disclose our progress and enable our business to succeed, we are will follow to update our water stress continue to work with governments increasing our water efficiency through map, and we set a new long-term target and community groups that support the implementation of our Corporate to develop a specific water manageenvironmental improvement. Water Policy across our operations. ment plan for each of those operations This includes standardization of our overlapping water-scarce areas. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 78 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report PRESERVING LAND AND BIODIVERSITY extend our strategy to other quarries Some of our active conservation efforts during 2018 included: Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) are that do not overlap high value biodithe principal tool for our company versity areas, aiming to strengthen our GRASSLAND RESTORATION FOR LEPIDOPTERA IN THE UK to achieve a Net Positive Impact on conservation activity. To this end, we biodiversity. Since 2007, our operations expanded the scope of our strategy have worked closely with BirdLife to a selected group of 100 quarries at International, optimizing their unique which we plan to implement a BAP BUILDING ON A DECADE OF BIODIVERSITY local network of grassroots NGOs and or earn third-party certification from CONSERVATION their rich knowledge of biodiversity different environmental organizations and ecosystem services. This work is such as the Wildlife Habitat Council Capitalizing on 10 years of conservation guided by our Corporate Biodiversity and ­ECOCERT. We also continued to across several continents, in 2018, we renewed Policy—which is fully integrated into develop quarry rehabilitation plans for our global partnership with BirdLife for three our business model in all of our counall of our active cement and aggreyears to achieve our goal of implementing tries and operations and is aligned with gates quarries. Biodiversity Action Plans across the totality of the Convention on Biological Diversity our active quarries in high biodiversity areas (CBD) and its Aichi Biodiversity Targets. At year-end, 96% of our more than 280 by 2020, continuing our efforts to accomplish cement and aggregates quarries had a environmentally sustainable development. In 2018, we continued to enhance biorehabilitation plan in place. diversity in and around our quarries— Founded on an in-depth scoping study, this Southam Quarry is located close to our Rugby cement plant located in or close to high biodiversity Additionally, 91% of our active quarglobal alliance launched CEMEX-BirdLife and supplies shale used in the manufacturing process. A value areas—while starting new BAP ries located within or adjacent to high Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) Standard— decade ago, plans were made to move alkaline waste from the projects at other key quarries. We biodiversity value areas have implenow being implemented in 91% of our active cement plant and deposit it in cells constructed at Southam are making a tremendous effort to mented a BAP certified by a third party. quarries located in high biodiversity areas as Quarry. The area was then restored to a mixture of tree, scrub, of 2018. Through our joint efforts, we have not lime rich grassland, and wetland of marshy areas and ponds. only significantly improved the biodiversity of The aim of this project was to not only create suitable habitat our quarries, but also earned wide recognition for Lepidoptera, but also develop wildlife corridors that would for our national collaborations from organizaallow isolated colonies to connect and help reverse decreastions such as the European Aggregates Assoing population trends. Working closely with the local branch ciation, the World Business Council for Susof Butterfly Conservation, we ensured that the newly created tainable Development’s Cement Sustainability grassland was seeded to create an ideal habitat for the small Initiative, the European Union Natura 2000 blue butterfly. Recent surveys have identified 120 Lepidoptera Awards, the Mineral Products Association, and species on site at Southam, which has now become a regionthe Wildlife Habitat Council. ally important site. With a large colony of small blue butterflies now in residence, this project can point to this as a success in For more information on BirdLife, please visit: its effort to help reverse their decline. www.birdlife.org. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 79 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report MANGROVE RECOVERY IMPROVING PREY SPECIES FOR QUARRY REHABILITATION IN COSTA RICA ROCKY BIRDS IN SPAIN IN MEXICO In addition to our conservation efforts Importantly, CEMEX has now earned with BirdLife International, CEMEX the most WHC certifications out of any has also partnered with the Wildlife company in the U.S. Additionally, in Habitat Council (WHC). This syner2018, WHC awarded CEMEX the Gold This project aims to rescue 800 hectSince 2016, we have collaborated with As part of our initiatives to preserve gistic partnership provides a valuable Tier Program of the Year for biodiversity ares of mangrove at the Cipancí WildSEO/BirdLife on a project at our quarry biodiversity and ecosystems, we conopportunity to engage employees and conservation through our Las Salinas life Refuge, which is currently suffering in Morata de Jalón. Located within stantly undertake activities to conserve local communities in wildlife enhancey Laguna Cabral Biodiversity Action from deforestation linked to shrimp the “Desfiladeros del Río Jalón” zones, our natural spaces such as our quarry ment initiatives and foster awareness Plan in the Dominican Republic—the farming activities. The mangrove this quarry’s main conservation value rehabilitation program. Overall, we of how industry and natural habitats winner of special recognition its reptile ecosystem is of great importance to is its communities of rocky birds. One have 152,000 square meters of rehacan coexist. The WHC promotes and project. CEMEX also earned this presthe country’s environmental balance of these species is the endangered bilitated land that was once used as certifies habitat conservation and mantigious WHC award last year for our because it has the highest CO2 sink Bonelli’s eagle (Aquila fasciata), whose quarries, including lagoons that now agement on corporate lands through biodiversity conservation efforts at our rate in the world compared with any main threats include scarce prey, espeserve as sources of water for migrant partnerships and education. Through El Carmen Nature Reserve. other ecosystem and serves as a filter cially rabbit and red partridge. Through species and habitats that currently a focus on building collaboration for to prevent solid waste coming from the this collaborative project, we aim to serve as a refuge for several species of conservation with corporate employees, other conservation organizations, 47 rivers, reaching the sea. It also serves improve the availability of prey for this animals, as well as regional flora and as a crucial spawning site for a large species in the quarry and its surroundfauna. Moreover, through our vineyard government agencies, and community number of species and a bird refuge, ing environment. To this end, we have program, where we once extracted members, WHC programs focus on among other critical functions. CEMEX begun to execute a two-part plan: limestone, we now produce grapes. On healthy ecosystems and connected communities. ON SITE has been working on this and similar (1) indirect measures to improve the more than 90,000 square meters, we initiatives with the National System habitat for prey species of the Bonelnow harvest up to 40,000 kg of grapes, of Conservation Areas; a synergistic li’s eagle such as the growth of alfalfa which we share with more than 250 CEMEX currently maintains 47 on-site relationship that enables us to have a micro-cultures, the creation of rabbit families in Torreón, Sonora, and other conservation projects that have very positive impact on communities shelters, or the development of heat Mexican states. obtained WHC Certification, including through projects that help regenerate shelters for the red partridge; and (2) 18 quarries in the U.S., 13 in Mexico, six CONSERVATION PROJECTS in Panama, five in Nicaragua, two in ecosystems, promote responsible use direct measures such as the constructhat have obtained WHC of resources, foster a culture of envition of a fence for rabbits where the Costa Rica, and one in the Dominican Republic. During 2018, we also obtained Certification ronmental care and protection, and Bonelli’s eagle, as well as other raptors, create a proactive attitude to biodivercan easily hunt. our first WHC certifications in Europe sity conservation and restoration. for projects in Latvia and Poland. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 80 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CEMEX AWARDED HIGHEST CERTIFICATION BY THE WHC IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC The Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) awarded our operations in the Dominican Republic its EL CARMEN NATURE RESERVE students of the Agriculture University Gold Certification for a project led by our comLocated along the border between Antonio Narro, Mexico. pany in collaboration with Grupo Jaragua and Mexico and the United States, this priBirdLife International. Created five years ago, › COLLABORATION: Consistent with active vate cross-border conservation region the “Las Salinas and Laguna Cabral Biodiversity cooperation agreements with our is one of the most important biodiverAction Plan” mitigates environmental impacts neighboring communities, consersity hotspots and transboundary ecoand involves local communities in environmenvation NGOs, and Mexican and U.S. systems in the world. With over 140,000 tal conservation by playing the role of environgovernments, in April 2018, El Carhectares, El Carmen is equivalent to mental guardians. Conservation efforts include men staff conducted a workshop the size of Mexico City, including its 16 helping to safeguard two endangered species, on black bear conflict prevention delegations, the size of Houston, Texas, the Rhinoceros Iguana (the largest endemic and management to our community or close to half the size of Big Bend vertebrate in the area) and the Hispaniolan Slider neighbors and the wildlife monitorNational Park, Texas. It enables us to Turtle; protecting Laguna Cabral, an Important ing brigade of Maderas del Carmen, restore habitats and wildlife in an area Bird and Biodiversity Area and a Ramsar site; related to the Mexican Commisthat is more than eight times larger restoring the Lemba River’s native riverbank sion of Natural Protected Areas in size than the total sum of the areas vegetation; working to enhance the quality of life (CONANP), in order to train them impacted by our operations worldwide. of local communities; and empowering women, on how to live and interact without among other initiatives. conflict with the largest black bear Over the past 17 years, El Carmen population in Mexico. Nature Reserve has provided abunThe Gold Conservation Certification is the highdant wildlife management, including › FIRE PREVENTION: Regular fire workest distinction granted by the American NGO the recovery of several large mammal shops and live practices were  Wildlife Habitat Council. In addition, the project species, such as desert bighorn, prongconducted in March and November received three nominations in the categories of  horn antelope, and black bear. 2018, in which 40 representatives Forest Project, Wetland Project (Swamps) and from the Mexico Forestry CommisReptiles and Amphibians Project. El Carmen Nature Reserve also repsion (CONAFOR), the Mexican Comresents a live conservation promoter, mission of Natural Protected Areas  “Our collaborative project will not only guide a special outdoor classroom enabling (CONANP), Coahuila State SecreCEMEX quarry restoration efforts in the future,  national and international collaboration tary of the Environment (SEMA), but has provided a lifeline for two critical speopportunities. and conservation NGOs Pronatura cies threatened with local extinction. We are Noreste and the Mexican Fund for  thrilled that our team effort has been awarded › RESEARCH AND EDUCATION: In 2018, almost Nature Conservation participated in the highest recognition by the WHC.” 20 students from the University of brush management and forest fuel Nuevo Leon, Mexico, and Sul Ross reduction. Through these activities, Yolanda León State University, U.S., visited El El Carmen staff and our government President of Grupo Jaragua Carmen. During their visit, reptiles, and NGO partners received their birds and mammal populations were annual training, while 24 hectares of We invite you to view a video of this monitored. Additionally, a wildlife grasslands and 10 hectares of forest conservation project: management lecture was given to were restored. https://youtu.be/u63LnWpSSH0. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 81 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report A 26-YEAR JOURNEY: CEMEX CONSERVATION AND NATURE BOOKS › AWARDS AND RECOGNITION: El Carmen CEMEX CONSERVATION AND NATURE Since 1993, we have published a series of 26 hardbound books Nature Reserve’s U.S. section was BOOK SERIES and three electronic conservation books, with more than honored by “Texan by Nature,” a This year, we published the 26th 35,000 downloads. The series encompasses more than 7,600 non-profit conservation organization volume of CEMEX Nature and Conserpages and 2,800 photographs, involving the collaboration of founded by former First Lady Mrs. vation Book Series. The sixth edition 150 authors and photographers. Laura Bush, for its ongoing comof our celebrated Nature Series, this mitment to sustainability and land inspiring and brilliantly illustrated volThus far, 260,000 books have been distributed among CEMEX preservation. Specifically, Texan by ume continues the more than two-destakeholders in 20 countries, and 100,000 books have been Nature’s 2018 Conservation Wrancade tradition of our Conservation donated to conservation NGOs to generate funds for species glers program recognized El Carmen Book Series. protection and creation of natural protected areas in America, Nature Reserve’s U.S. section, a partEurope, Africa, and Asia. nership between CEMEX USA and J. The 2018 edition, “Islands,” is pubAustin Ranches, as one of the most lished with our new lead partner, For over 26 years, CEMEX has been honored to work with innovative and transformative conserIsland Conservation, together with some of the world’s most prestigious conservation organizavation projects in the state of Texas. Grupo de Ecología y Conservación tions such as Conservation International, IUCN, Wild Foundade Islas, Global Wildlife Conservation, “Islands” captures the spectacular tion, UNESCO, Wildlife Conservation Society, BirdLife InterSeaLegacy, American Bird Conserdiversity and singularity of many of our national, National Geographic, as well as Agrupación Sierra vancy, and our long-time partner the planet’s outstanding islands. Through Madre and Unidos por la Conservación. International Union for Conservation of a combination of impressive photograNature. With this book, we underscore phy and expert commentaries, this volEach volume has developed environmental awareness for the biodiversity richness of our world’s ume aims to inspire global audiences decision-making on conservation issues, while reinforcing our magnificent islands. to appreciate our islands’ many examcompany’s commitment to promote a culture of biodiversity ples of conservation successes and to conservation. Covering only five percent of the land create awareness of the importance of on our planet, islands are home to protecting the natural diversity of these an estimated 20% of the world’s bird, extraordinary places. reptile and plant species, as well as the most astonishing examples of species’ To learn more about “Islands,” please evolution. Importantly, islands are visit: www.cemexnature.com/libro/ home to almost 40% of all known critiislands cally endangered animals as a result of major threats such as invasive species, habitat loss, and climate change. To learn more about CEMEX Conservation and Nature Books go to www.cemexnature.com/books/ 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 82 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Risk Management CEMEX Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) function provides support to management to make better decisions by RISK OVERSIGHT AT BOARD LEVEL anticipating and coordinating management of of short-term, medium-term and long-term risks and opportunities that could prevent our company from achieving its strategic objectives. DISCUSSION ON RISK AND MITIGATION RISK Risk management is fundamental to bottom-up and top-down approach RISK RISK STRATEGY AT IDENTIFICATION ASSESSMENT MITIGATION reducing the impact of adverse events expects that perspectives from all levEXECUTIVE and for capitalizing on opportunities els are included. COMMITTEE resulting from a more complex and uncertain business environment. Risks are analyzed and assessed using quantitative and qualitative methods and RISK FOLLOW-UP Risk management is an institutional prothen prioritized based on their estimated cess present at global, regional, and local impact and probability of materialization. levels that emphasizes risk discussion A mitigation strategy with specific action audits, internal controls, compliance, standard forums like Mexico Delegates and mitigation at the top management plans is defined for each risk and a and financial risk management, comin ISO/TC 262 “Technical Committee and risk oversight at the board level. risk owner—main responsible for risk plement the surveillance and risk on Risk Management” (responsible for treatment—is assigned. Risk developmanagement function. ISO 31000) and ISO/TC 292 “Technical Risk and opportunity agendas are ments are continuously monitored and Committee on Security and Resilupdated at least on a biannual basis, changes in their status are promptly Our ERM process follows and repliience” (responsible for ISO 22301). considering all types of risks, trends, provided to management. cates best world standard practices Furthermore, we are also members of and emerging concerns that could like ISO 31000 “Risk Management global associations like London-based impact our company in the short (zero The Board of Directors, Executive ComGuidelines,” ISO 31010 “Risk AssessBusiness Continuity Institute and the to two years), medium (two to five mittee, the Corporate Practices and ment Techniques,” ISO 22301 “Business US-based RIMS Risk Management years), and long term (five to ten years). Finance Committee discuss the Global Continuity Management Systems” Society, with one of our ERM execuRisk Agenda at least twice a year. and the Business Continuity Institute tives presiding the local RIMS Mexico ERM uses several risk identification “Good Practices Guidelines” among Chapter as Board President. techniques that focus on both strategic Other risk management processes other certifications. Additionally, we and operational issues. A combined within our company, such as internal actively participate in several world 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 83 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report MAIN RISKS AND MITIGATION STRATEGIES The following is a brief description of 1. COMPLEX COMPETITIVE DYNAMICS 2. TIGHTER ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS 3. INCREASED REGULATORY OVERSIGHT some of the main short-term, mediumterm and long-term term risks faced RISKS: RISKS: RISKS: by CEMEX and their corresponding The markets in which we operate are highly comOur operations are subject to a broad range of We are subjected to the laws and regulations of mitigation strategies: petitive and are served by numerous established environmental laws and regulations which impose the countries where we operate, and any changes companies with recognized brand names, as well stringent standards regarding, among other things, in such laws and regulations and/or any delay as new market entrants, increasing imports, and air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use and in assessing the impact and/or adapting to such substitute products. New entrants, capacity expanhandling of hazardous waste or materials, waste dischanges may have an adverse effect on our busisions, and imports have caused and may continue posal practices and the remediation of environmental ness, financial condition, and result of operations. to cause supply-demand imbalances in several damage or contamination. These laws and regulaAny significant delays in assessing the impact or markets where we operate, affecting our prices and tions expose us to the risk of environmental costs and adapting to the changes could a material adverse sales. If we are not able to compete effectively, we liabilities. effect on our business, financial condition, and may lose substantial market share, our net sales result of operations. could decline or grow at a slower rate, which could Specially, CO2 emissions regulations and Emission have a material adverse effect on our business, Trading Systems are ramping-up worldwide. Efforts CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS financial condition, and result of operations. to reduce greenhouse gas emissions can create › Compliance with laws and regulations economic risks and uncertainties for our business, › Assessment and, if required, adjustment of our CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS as it could increase the cost of purchasing CO2 operations to comply with new laws › Deliver superior customer experience allowances in coming years. › Enhancement of our Code of Ethics and Busi› Leverage sales through our digital commercial CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS ness Conduct, which addresses anti-bribery, strategy › Carbon mitigation strategy focused on alterna­related-person transactions, health and safety, › Continue pursuing pricing strategy tive fuels and raw materials, clinker substitution, environmental responsibility, confidentiality, conrenewable energy, and novel cements. Ongoing flicts of interest, financial controls, and preserva› Drive operational excellence development of CO2 Reduction Roadmap by tion of assets installation › Active involvement in pilot projects and research efforts to assess potential technologies to reduce carbon footprint › Investment in equipment to monitor and control emission levels in all our kilns beyond compliance with local regulations › Implementation of an Environmental Management System (EMS) that meets ISO 14001 and EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) certification and applies to all our operations 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 84 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 4. EXPOSURE TO ANTI-CORRUPTION 5. UNCERTAIN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS 6. FINANCIAL RISKS AND ANTI-BRIBERY LAWS RISKS: RISKS: RISKS: We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, antiOur business, financial condition, and results of We are exposed to several financial risks, including debt level, money laundering, anti-trust, and other international operations are highly dependent on the economic access to favorable refinancing, financial covenants and restriclaws and are required to comply with the applicable conditions of the countries where we operate. We tions, foreign currency and interest rates, among others. laws and regulations of the countries in which we face risks particular to each region, as well as global operate. Given the large number of contracts that we economic risks.. Main potential sources of risk: We have debt and other financial obligations maturing in the next are party to around the world and the great variety of Slowing global economic growth, particularly due to several years, if we are unable to secure refinancing on favorable actors that we interact within the course of business, a shift toward protectionist policies; a possibly sharp terms or at all, we may not be able to comply with our future paywe are exposed to the risk that our affiliates, employees, tightening of financial conditions and its impact on ment obligations. Our main financial agreements contain several directors, officers, partners, agents and service providforeign exchange rates and financial markets; Ecorestrictions and covenants, our ability to comply with such may ers make improper payments or engage in corruption, nomic vulnerability of emerging market economies; depend on us implementing certain initiatives, which may include bribery or other illegal activity. If we fail to fully comply Elections and political turmoil in some Latin Amermaking asset sales, and there is no assurance that we will be able with applicable laws and regulations, the relevant govican countries and newly formed governments; to implement any such initiatives or execute such sales, if needed, ernment authorities of the countries where we operate Economic and political uncertainties in Europe on terms favorable to us or at all. We cannot assure you that in have the power and authority to impose fines and and the U.S.; China’s economic performance; and the future we will be able to comply with our financial obligations. other penalties. Any violations by us to anti-bribery and Other geopolitical risks. The materialization of any Any failure to comply with such obligations, including covenants anti-corruption laws or sanctions regulations could have of these risks may have a material adverse effect and limitations, could materially and adversely affect our business, a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, on our business, financial condition, and result of financial condition and results of operations. results of operations and financial conditions. operations. Additionally, we have to service our debt and other financial obligaCEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS tions denominated in Dollars with revenues generated in Mexican › Commitment to conduct all of our business › “A Stronger CEMEX” plan Pesos or other currencies. We do not generate sufficient revenue in activities with high ethical standards and in full Dollars from our operations to service all our debt and other financompliance with applicable laws › Deliver a superior customer experience enabled cial obligations denominated in Dollars. This could adversely affect by digital strategy our ability to service our obligations in the event of a devaluation or › Enhancing CEMEX’s anti-corruption and bribery policies and trainings › Maximize organic growth depreciation in the value of the Mexican Peso, or any of the other currencies of the countries in which we operate, compared to the › Continue pursuing pricing strategy › Acknowledgement and understanding of the U.S. Dollar. Code of Ethics by employees › Drive operational excellence CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS › Secured ETHOS lines to submit suggestions, inquiries and report alleged ethics, compliance › Focus on recovering investment grade credit metrics or governance violations › Drive prudent financial strategy › Continuous internal audits and internal con› Focus on EBITDA growth trols in place to prevent misconducts by our › Manage working capital efficiently employees 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 85 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 7. POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY 8. HIGH ENERGY AND FUEL COST 9. ADVERSE WEATHER AND AND SOCIAL INSTABILITY NATURAL DISASTERS RISKS: RISKS: RISKS: We are subject to the political and social enviElectric power and fuel costs represent an important Construction activity, and thus demand for our prodronment of the countries where we operate. Any part of our overall cost structure. The price of elecucts, decreases substantially during periods of cold political or social actions that significantly affects tric power and fuels is generally subject to market weather, when it snows or when heavy or sustained a country’s economic development or its business volatility and, therefore, may have an increase on our rainfalls occur. Such adverse weather conditions environment has the potential to materially affect costs which could affect our results of operations.. can negatively affect our results of operations if they our business, financial conditions, and result of Furthermore, if third-party suppliers fail to provide us occur with unusual intensity or last longer than usual operations. Newly formed governments and presithe required amounts of power or fuel under existing in our major markets, especially during peak condential, legislative, regional, and local elections that agreements, we may need to acquire energy or fuel struction periods. Additionally, adverse weather contake place in the countries where we operate, and at an increased cost from other suppliers. In addition, ditions (e.g., floods, typhoons, hurricanes) have had any other political events such as Brexit and turmoil governments in several of the countries in which and may continue to have the potential to damage in Latin American countries that have had and may we operate are working to reduce energy subsidies, our assets and disrupt our business operations. continue to have a negative impact on the economy, introduce clean energy obligations or impose new financial markets, social stability, and laws and regexcise taxes, which could increase our costs and CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS ulations could affect our results of operations and affect our results of operations. › Have business continuity plans to avoid major prospects for our business. disruptions to our business CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS › Insure assets – Some of our main operations and CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS › Increase use of alternative fuels assets are insured against such events. However, › Business continuity plans to minimize business › Secure long-term renewable contracts for power in most cases, the insurance policy does not disruption and fuel supply that not only provide clean cover the total impact that an adverse event could › Monitoring and scenario planning to anticipate energy, but also certainty in future energy costs have, which limits its effect. potential risks and opportunities › Develop processes and products to reduce heat consumption in our kilns › Executing hedging for coal and diesel in the financial markets in order to reduce volatility 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 86 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 10. LABOR ACTIVISM, TALENT SHORTAGE AND HEALTH 11. BUSINESS DISRUPTION DUE TO COMMUNITY AND SAFETY RISKS ACTIVISM AND SOCIAL EVENTS 12. CYBERATTACKS RISKS: RISKS: RISKS: Labor activism, unrest or disputes and the failure to mainSocial developments in the countries in which we We increasingly rely on a variety of information tain satisfactory labor relations may adversely affect our operate, such as civil disturbances, the rise of viotechnology and automated operating systems to operations and thereby adversely affect the results of our lence or perception of violence, increase in commumanage and support our operations, as well as to operations. Furthermore, increasing difficulties to retain and nity activism have the potential to impact our operaoffer our products to our customers. Our systems attract talent, particularly as it relates to technical skills which tions and our results. As any other competitor in the and technology, as well as those provided by our are highly sought in the job market, have the potential to industry, we are exposed to community protests and third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to increase our costs and increase the challenges that we face strikes that could have the capacity to difficult our damage, disruption or intrusion caused by circumto execute our business plan efficiently. Likewise, labor shortoperations or disrupt business continuity. stances beyond our control, such as physical or ages in the construction industry as a whole has the potential electronic break-ins, catastrophic events, power outto impact overall construction activity which could affect our CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS ages, natural disasters, computer system or network business and the results of our operations. › Adherence to high social responsibility failures, viruses or malware, unauthorized access, standards and cyber-attacks. Any significant disruption to our Additionally, activities in our business can be hazardous and systems, information leakages or theft of information › Implementation of sustainable community can cause injury to people or damage to property in certain engagement plans to build mutually beneficial could affect our compliance with data privacy laws, circumstances. Our production facilities require individuals to long-term relations with nearby districts and key damage our relationships with employees, cuswork with chemicals, equipment and other materials that may stakeholders tomers, and suppliers, and have a material adverse potentially cause harm, injury or fatalities when used withimpact on our business, financial condition, results out due care. Accidents or injuries that occur at our facilities › Business continuity plans to minimize business of operations, and reputation. could result in disruptions to our business and may have disruption legal and regulatory consequences. We also may be required CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS to compensate such individuals or incur other costs and › Enforce Information Security Policy and culture liabilities, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, › Have cybersecurity controls and monitoring business, and results of operations. services in place CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS › Have disaster recovery plans and rapid response › Engagement and development programs to improve talteams in place ent retention › Enhance insurance coverage › Efforts to increase the talent pool for highly demanded candidates › Full adherence to the highest Health & Safety standard and ensuring nothing comes before the health and safety of our employees, contractors and the community 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 87 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 13. POTENTIAL DISRUPTION BY 14. EXPOSURE TO HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES RISKS: RISKS: As in any other industry, new technologies or a disWe seek to align our strategy and operations with rupting innovation may have the capacity to affect universal principles on human rights and we expect our ability to compete. Digitalization may challenge all our employees and business partners to simtraditional ways to operate and could migrate value ilarly adhere to these principles. Even though we across the supply chain. It also opens new channels have a strict Human Rights Policy and a process of to our markets and provides access to new industry ongoing due diligence to monitor its adherence, it is players. As part of this technology trend, the buildpossible that an affiliate, employee, director, offiing materials industry has started to incorporate cer, partner or a third party related to us could be new construction technologies and products that accused or perceived to deviate from this policy. A could reduce the demand and prices for our prodsignificant deviation from our human rights prinucts, and therefore, it could impact our business ciples could impact our employees, communities, and results of operations. suppliers or customers related to our company, as well as our reputation, which in turn could cause CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS some actors to avoid business transactions with our › Deliver a superior customer experience enabled company, impact our capacity to operate without by digital technologies (e.g. CEMEX Go) disruptions and complicate talent retention and › Early detection, development and commercialattraction efforts, all of which could have an impact ization of disruptive and revolutionary construcon the results of our operations. tion projects (e.g. CEMEX Ventures) CEMEX MITIGATION ACTIONS › Mandatory compliance with CEMEX’s Human Rights Policy and ongoing due diligence to monitor compliance › Training to increase awareness on our Human Rights values › ETHOS line, managed by third party, available to report any perceived violation of Human Rights principles 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 88 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report VALUE CREATION IS OUR COMMITMENT and the guiding principle of our management and governance practices Governance A stronger commitment to transparency and accountability 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 89 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Our Board of Directors and management are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance. As a public company, it is imperative that we keep our investors informed of all activities and expect our financial disclosures meet high ethical standards. We are committed to abide by the laws Our financial culture and management While our Board of Directors is ultiand regulations of where we operate. style are open and transparent. Through mately responsible for supervising the CEMEX S.A.B. de C.V.’s shares are our regular meetings, reports, guidance, overall operation of our company, all INTEGRITY IN ACTION listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange conference calls, and personal interacof our employees play a critical role in O U R CO D E and on the New York Stock Exchange tions, we vigorously work to keep our enforcing good governance and finan(“NYSE”), and as such, we adhere investors informed of our activities and cial reporting practices. We, therefore, to applicable Mexican regulations to expect our financial disclosure meets encourage them to comment on our and NYSE and U.S. Securities and high ethical standards. reporting methods and processes and Exchange Commission requirements to voice any concerns. To this end, we for foreign private issuers, including the We know that to succeed we must not have created a collaborative enviSarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). just do the right things but do them ronment that includes: 1) A system to the right way. Hence, our Code of pursue relevant information reaches Nonetheless, we recognize that our Ethics works to pursue that all of our senior management in a timely manadherence to the law is not enough employees abide by the same high ner; 2) A system for anonymously and to run a growing, global organization. standards of conduct in their daily confidentially communicating to the Beyond compliance, our commitinteractions. The code—which reflects audit committee complaints and conOUR ment—to ourselves, our investors, and the requirements of SOX—governs our cerns regarding accounting and audit to all of our stakeholders—is to manrelationships with all of our stakeholdissues; 3) A process for anonymously age CEMEX with integrity. Everything ers, including such important areas and confidentially submitting comCODE we do rests on this foundation. as workplace safety, environmental plaints related to unethical conduct responsibility, confidentiality, conflicts and misuse of assets; and 4) A task of interest, financial controls, and presforce to follow legal requirements and ervation of assets. best corporate-governance practices and, when appropriate, propose further improvements. OF ETHICS works to pursue that all of our employees abide by the same high standards of conduct 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 90 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 Board of Directors NON-INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS Rogelio Zambrano Lozano Executive Chairman of the Board 2 Fernando A. González Olivieri Tomás Milmo Santos Our Board of Directors is Ian Christian Armstrong Zambrano BOARD OF DIRECTORS (members) ultimately responsible for Marcelo Zambrano Lozano Ramiro Gerardo Villarreal Morales 3 supervising the overall operation of our company. INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 6 Armando J. García Segovia Rodolfo García Muriel Our Board of Directors is composed of 9 qualified directors who provide approDionisio Garza Medina priate oversight and includes directors José Manuel Rincón Gallardo Purón that meet the independence criteria Francisco Javier Fernández Carbajal l INDEPENDENT under the laws of Mexico. In addition, Armando Garza Sada l NON-INDEPENDENT one member of our audit committee David Martínez Guzmán meets the requirements of a “financial Everardo Elizondo Almaguer expert” as defined by SOX. Gabriel Jaramillo Sanint Chaired by Rogelio Zambrano, our Board of Directors consists of 15 directors, nine of whom qualify as indepenSECRETARY Roger Saldaña Madero dent directors according to criteria (Not a member of the Board of Directors) specified under Mexican Securities Law. During the year, our board met four times to report on a wide range of relevant issues, including sustainability-related concerns and financial strategy, with average board meeting 1 As of December 31, 2018 attendance of approximately 95%. 2 Not independent because is on company’s payroll 3 Independent member from January 1, 2019 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 91 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Board Committees Our established governance and management practices are consistent with our relentless commitment to creating BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE sustainable, long-term stakeholder value. AUDIT COMMITTEE CORPORATE PRACTICES AND CEO FINANCE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE EVP OF SUSTAINABILITY AND OPERATIONS DEVELOPMENT Our External Advisory Panel annually provides support to GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY strengthen CEMEX reporting FUNCTIONAL NETWORK and sustainability practices 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 92 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CORPORATE PRACTICES AUDIT COMMITTEE* SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE* AND FINANCE COMMITTEE* The Audit Committee is responsible for evalThe Corporate Practices and Finance ComThe Sustainability Committee is responsible for ensuring sustainable development is uating our internal controls and procedures mittee is responsible for evaluating the embedded in our strategy; supporting our Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibiland identifying deficiencies; following up with hiring, firing and compensation of our Chief ity to shareholders regarding our company’s sustainable growth; evaluating the effeccorrective and preventive measures in response Executive Officer; reviewing the hiring and tiveness of our sustainability programs and initiatives; providing guidance to our Chief to any non-compliance with our operation and compensation policies for our executive Executive Officer and senior management team regarding our strategic direction on accounting guidelines and policies; evaluatofficers; reviewing related party transactions; sustainability; and endorsing our model of sustainability, priorities, and key indicators. ing the performance of our external auditors; reviewing policies regarding the use of corThe Committee also pursues CEMEX has board-level oversight on Climate Change and describing and valuing non-audit services porate assets; reviewing unusual or material CO2 Management Strategy. During 2018, the Sustainability Committee met four times with performed by our external auditors; reviewing transactions; evaluating waivers granted to meeting attendance of 100%. our financial statements; assessing the effects our directors or executive officers regarding of any modifications to the accounting policies seizure of corporate opportunities; identiSome of the most relevant topics in the 2018 Agenda included: approved during any fiscal year; and overfying, evaluating, and following up on the › CEMEX’s 2017 Integrated Report Structure and Content seeing measures adopted as a result of any operating risks affecting our company and its › Sustainability KPI’s Annual Performance and Improvement Plan observations made by our shareholders, direcsubsidiaries; evaluating our company’s finan› Health & Safety Overview and Action Plan for ZERO4Life Goal tors, executive officers, employees or any third cial plans; reviewing our company’s financial › Global and Regional Sustainability Risks Agenda Update parties with respect to accounting, internal constrategy and its implementation; and review› Climate Change Strategy and CO2 Management trols, and internal and external audits, as well as ing mergers, acquisitions, market information, › Human Rights Respect Strengthening Plan any complaints regarding management irreguand financial plans, including financing and › High-impact Social Initiatives larities, including anonymous and confidential related party transactions. methods for addressing concerns raised by The enriching Sustainability Committee discussions led to valuable outcomes such as: employees and analyzing the risks identified by In accordance with our company’s bylaws, › Launch of CEMEX Sustainability Scorecard to closely monitor performance of all counour company’s independent auditors, accountall members of the Corporate Practices and tries in core KPIs and ensure progress towards our global objectives ing, internal control, and process assessment Finance Committee, including its President, › Decision to have all contractors audited by a specialized firm to ensure compliance areas. must be independent directors. During 2018, with H&S policies the Corporate Practices and Finance Com› CEMEX CO2 Reduction Roadmap by cement installation kicked-off In accordance with our company’s bylaws, all mittee met four times with meeting atten› Highlights and lessons learned from Global Environmental and Social Incidents Report members of the Audit Committee, including dance of 100%. monthly shared by our CEO to all operations its President, must be independent directors. › Human Rights Policy Enhancement During 2018, the Audit Committee met four › Release of a Diversity and Inclusion Policy times with meeting attendance of 100%. José Manuel Rincón Gallardo Purón Dionisio Garza Medina Armando J. García Segovia President President President Rodolfo García Muriel Francisco Javier Fernández Carbajal Ian Christian Armstrong Zambrano Francisco Javier Fernández Carbajal Rodolfo García Muriel Francisco Javier Fernández Carbajal Everardo Elizondo Almaguer Armando Garza Sada Marcelo Zambrano Lozano *As of December 31, 2018 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 93 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Executive Committee Our commitment to deliver value to our stockholders rests on a clear recognition that, as a public company, we are stewards of other people’s FERNANDO A. GONZÁLEZ (64) MAHER AL-HAFFAR (60) MAURICIO DOEHNER (44) JAIME ELIZONDO (55) money. Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President of Investor Executive Vice President of Corporate Executive Vice President Global Relations, Corporate Communications Affairs and Enterprise Risk ManageSupply Chain Development and Public Affairs ment They invest with us to achieve superior Since joining CEMEX in 1989, Fernando Maher Al-Haffar joined CEMEX in 2000, Mauricio Doehner joined CEMEX in Jaime Elizondo joined CEMEX in 1985, long-term returns at acceptable risk. A. González has held several senior and has held several executive posi1996, and has held several executive and has held several executive posiWe have never—and will never—lose management positions, including tions, including Managing Director of positions in Strategic Planning and tions, including head of operations in sight of that fact. Corporate Vice President of Strategic Finance, Head of Investor Relations, Enterprise Risk Management at CEMEX Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, and Planning, head of operations in Veneand Vice President of Investor Relations, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, South Mexico, President of the CEMEX South, At the executive level, our CEO and zuela, President of CEMEX Asia, PresiCorporate Communications and Public America, and Mexico. He has also Central America and the Caribbean members of our Executive Committee dent of the CEMEX South America and Affairs. Currently, as part of his role, he worked in the public sector, at the Mexregion, and more recently as President oversee the day-to-day operation of the Caribbean region, President of the is also leader of the digital marketing ican Presidency. Mauricio holds a BA in of the CEMEX Europe region. He holds a our company. They develop, refine, CEMEX Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia effort at CEMEX and is member of the Economics from Tecnológico de MonBS in Chemical and Systems Engineerand direct the implementation of our and Australia region, and Executive Vice NYSE Advisory Board. Before joining terrey, an MBA from IESE/IPADE, and a ing and an MBA, both from Tecnológico business strategy President of Strategic Planning, Finance CEMEX, Maher spent nineteen years Professional Certification in Competitive de Monterrey. and Administration (CFO). Fernando was with Citicorp Securities Inc. and with Intelligence from the FULD Academy appointed Chief Executive Officer in 2014. Santander Investment Securities, as an of Competitive Intelligence in Boston, He also serves in the Board of Directors investment banker and capital marMassachusetts. of Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua, Axtel, kets professional. Maher holds a BS in and EGADE Business School of TecEconomics from the University of Texas, nológico de Monterrey. He earned his BA and a Master’s degree in International in Administration and an MBA, both from Relations and Finance from GeorgeTecnológico de Monterrey. town University. *As of February 1, 2019 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 94 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report JOAQUÍN ESTRADA (55) JESÚS GONZÁLEZ (53) JOSÉ ANTONIO GONZÁLEZ (48) LUIS HERNÁNDEZ (55) IGNACIO MADRIDEJOS (53) President CEMEX Asia, Middle East Executive Vice President of Executive Vice President of Finance Executive Vice President of Digital President CEMEX USA and Africa Sustainability and Operations and Administration and Organization Development Development Joaquín Estrada joined CEMEX in 1992, Jesús González joined CEMEX in 1998, José Antonio González joined CEMEX Luis Hernández joined CEMEX in 1996, Ignacio Madridejos joined CEMEX in and has held several executive posiand has held several senior positions, in 1998, and has held several executive and has held senior management posi1996, and has held senior management tions, including head of operations in including Corporate Director of Stratepositions in the Finance, Strategic Plantions in Strategic Planning and Human positions in the Strategic Planning Egypt and Spain, and more recently gic Planning, Vice President of Strategic ning, and Corporate Communications Resources. In his current position, he area, as well as head of operations in as President of CEMEX Asia. Currently, Planning in CEMEX USA, President and Public Affairs areas. In his current heads the areas of Organization and Egypt, Spain, Western Europe, and more as President of the CEMEX Asia, Midof CEMEX Central America, and more position, José Antonio heads the areas Human Resources, Information Technolrecently, Northern Europe. Ignacio holds dle East and Africa region, he is also recently as President of CEMEX UK. In of Finance, Legal, Controllership, Tax, ogy, Digital Innovation, as well as Neoa MSc in Civil Engineering from the responsible of Global Trading. Joaquín his current position, Jesús heads the Global Service Organization, and Proris. Luis holds a BS in Civil Engineering Polytechnic University of Madrid, and holds a BA in Economics from the Uniareas of Health and Safety, Operations cess Assessment. Jose Antonio holds from Tecnológico de Monterrey, and a an MBA from Stanford University. versity of Zaragoza, Spain, and an MBA and Technology, Energy, Procurement, a BS in Industrial Engineering from Master’s degree in Civil Engineering from the Instituto de Empresa. Sustainability, Research and DevelopTecnológico de Monterrey, and an MBA and an MBA, both from the University of ment, and Vendor Management Office. from Stanford University. Texas at Austin. He holds a MSc in Naval Engineering from the Polytechnic University of Madrid and an MBA from IESE University of Navarra, Barcelona. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 95 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report SERGIO MENÉNDEZ (48) JAIME MUGUIRO (50) RICARDO NAYA (46) JUAN ROMERO (62) JUAN PABLO SAN AGUSTÍN (50) President CEMEX Europe President CEMEX South, Central President CEMEX Mexico Executive Vice President of Global Executive Vice President of Strategic America and the Caribbean Commercial Development Planning and New Business Development Sergio Menéndez joined CEMEX in Jaime Muguiro joined CEMEX in 1996, Ricardo Naya joined CEMEX in 1996. Juan Romero joined CEMEX in 1989, Juan Pablo San Agustín joined CEMEX 1993. He has held several executive and has held several executive posiHe has held several executive positions, and has held several senior positions, in 1994, and has held senior positions positions, including Director of Plantions in the Strategic Planning, Business including Vice President of Strategic including head of operations in in the Strategic Planning, Continuous ning and Logistics in Asia, Corporate Development, Ready-Mix Concrete, Planning for South, Central America and Colombia and Mexico, President of Improvement, e-Business, and MarketDirector of Commercial Development, Aggregates, and Human Resources the Caribbean region, Vice President of the CEMEX South America and the ing areas. Currently, he is also President President of CEMEX Philippines, Vice areas, and also headed CEMEX operaStrategic Planning for Europe, Middle Caribbean region, President of the of CEMEX Ventures. He holds a BS in President of Strategic Planning for tions in Egypt and our operations in the East, Africa and Asia region, President CEMEX Europe, Middle East, Africa Administration from the Metropolitan Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Mediterranean region. He holds a BA of CEMEX Poland and Czech Republic, and Asia region, and more recently University, Spain, and an MBA from the region, President of CEMEX Egypt, Vice in Management from San Pablo CEU Vice President of Commercial and Maras President of CEMEX Mexico. Juan Instituto de Empresa. President of Infrastructure Segment and University, Spain, a Law degree from the keting in Mexico, Vice President of DisRomero holds BA and BS degrees in Government Sales in Mexico, and more Universidad Complutense of Madrid, tribution Segment Sales in Mexico, and Law, Economics and Management from recently as Vice President of Distribuand an MBA from the Massachusetts more recently as President of CEMEX the University of Comillas, Spain. tion Segment Sales in Mexico. Sergio Institute of Technology. Colombia. Ricardo holds a BA in Ecoholds a BS in Industrial Engineering nomics from Tecnológico de Monterrey, from Tecnológico de Monterrey, and an and an MBA from the Massachusetts MBA from Stanford University. Institute of Technology. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 96 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Ethics and Compliance STRENGTHENING BUSINESS ETHICS AND CEMEX’S CODE OF ETHICS › Easy to read for a multigenerational topics. Accessible through our comTRANSPARENCY We established our enhanced Code of workforce (removed redundancies) pany website, this secure, confidential, At CEMEX, we are committed to Ethics and Business Conduct that seeks and independent portal is available 24 conducting our business in compli› Addition of relevant items (e.g. cap that all of our employees abide by the hours a day, seven days a week. It is on gifts & courtesies, sexual harassance with applicable laws, rules, and same high standards of conduct. The open and free for all to use. ment, conflict of interest clarity) regulations and in accordance with Code governs our relationships with high ethical standards. As our industry all of our stakeholders and addresses › Provide clarity on whether it is Our main goal is to get to the bottom evolves, our values continue to serve anti-bribery, antitrust compliance, accepted or not of every report; all cases are looked at. as the pillars upon which we base our prevention of money laundering, We carry out a review, then if needed, › Provide answers to most common actions. They express who we are, how related-person transactions, workplace an investigation to handle it according inquiries. we behave, and what we believe in. health and safety, environmental responto our ETHOS Manual, and if applicasibility, confidentiality terms, conflicts of ble, apply consequences if our Code of For its official presentation to all A culture of integrity is critical to interest, financial controls and records, Ethics is violated. of our employees, our CEO hosted achieving our sustainable growth. High and preservation of assets. Through our a global webcast, highlighting the levels of trust, together with a strong local ethics committees, training proCode’s importance and seeking that business reputation, make it easier to grams, global integrity campaigns, and CASES REPORTED THROUGH ETHOSline we all remain aware of the right ethical operate; help attract and retain our secure internal communication channels, behaviors and of the guidelines and people, customers, and suppliers; we create awareness and enforcement 630 controls in place. contribute to good relationships in of the Code. We periodically evaluate 568 our local communities; and pave the and update its provisions as needed; in OUR REPORTING MECHANISM – way to confidently enter new markets. fact, this year we decided to enhance it. 453 ETHOSLINE Compliance is an essential element of The main updates to the Code are: If there are concerns or suspected ethour company’s culture of integrity— ics, governance or compliance viola› A reference that guides our actions, requiring responsible conduct from all tions, it’s important that our employees, inspires choices, and helps us live of our employees, directors, and thirdour stakeholders, and the general pubup to our ethical principles in the party business partners in accordance lic have a trusted place to which they day-today activities with all applicable laws, internal codes, can turn. Managed by an autonomous and policies. › Emphasizes the role that each of third party, our ETHOSline provides us plays in building trust, and the an online portal and phone line for 16 17 18 approach we should take in making sending comments, requesting advice, decisions. and submitting complaints on these 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 97 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 2018 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE RELATED TRAINING Overall, from a total of 630 cases During 2018, close to 8,400 employees TOTAL reported through our official reporting received training related to business EMPLOYEES TOPIC TRAINING TRAINED channels in 2018, 483 were closed, of ethics, human rights and legal compliHOURS which 187 were found to be true and ance dedicating for this purpose 14,400 166 disciplinary actions were taken. hours in total. As a special effort, this Antitrust, Anti-corruption 6,346 10,942 From the true cases reported, 78 year, our CEO sent a dedicated invitaemployees were dismissed as a result tion to all executive position employees ETHOS Awareness Sessions 903 1,806 of investigations. to complete an Anti-Corruption online 2018 REPORTED ETHICS course. Data Protection 387 924 BREACHES BY CATEGORY BUSINESS ETHICS TRAINING AND (number of cases) COMMUNICATION Moreover, 903 employees, including Code of Ethics and Business Our employees are informed of CEMEX top management, participated in our Conduct 275 286 75 business ethics principles in various ETHOS Awareness sessions, designed 56 ways, including our Code of Ethics, and launched in 2017 to create awareConflict of Interest 227 247 222 internal communication channels, ness about our ethics program and its TOTAL face-to-face and online legal training, Workplace behavior / Workplace composition, the expected way each harassment 191 191 630 as well as through our Policy Center employee should embrace integrity in our intranet, legal audits, relevant daily, and discuss possible scenarios. global policies, and other related Anti-Money Laundering 31 19 Employees from different organiza277 activities. In 2018, we designed and tional levels and backgrounds were rolled out two global communication able to participate in an open converTOTAL 8,360 14,414 l HUMAN RESOURCES, DIVERSITY, AND WORKPLACE RESPECT campaigns in relation to ETHOSline sation about ethics topics. l BUSINESS INTEGRITY awareness and our ethics framework. l ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY Additionally, more than 1,000 commuCEMEX ETHOS GLOBAL PROGRAM COMPLAINTS nication actions to strengthen employCEMEX abides by fair trade and +14,000 l MISUSE AND MISAPPROPRIATION OF CORPORATE ASSETS ees’ awareness of business ethics and competition principles, and we do not human rights issues were deployed tolerate price-fixing, market allocaacross our business units, reaching our tion, predatory pricing or other illegal online and offline employees. These market practices. Our Anti-Bribery/ HOURS campaigns and actions also help to Anti-Corruption Global Policy, Global promote our company values, policies Antitrust Policy, Global Conflict of Interand procedures and to inform our est Policy, Related Person Transactions employees about unacceptable behavPolicy, and Insider Trading Policy outior such as discrimination, improper line our procedures and commitment OF BUSINESS ETHICS treatment, mobbing, theft, rules for to global expectations and standards. and Human Rights gifts and courtesies, and workplace training to our employees harassment, as well as to reinforce our in 2018. institutional reporting mechanisms. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 98 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report To further foresee that our employees 3. INTERNAL CONTROL responsible for 6. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) act in a manner consistent with our implementing controls and compliresponsible for analyzing local and values, CEMEX Global Compliance ENTERPRISE LEGAL ance with policies; and deploying global compliance risks; performing Program evolved into a more integratRISK MGMT. an internal control model in order to risk oversight, includes risk identified approach: CEMEX ETHOS Global reduce risk exposure and the likecation, monitoring, assessment, reProgram. With a worldwide focus, led lihood of significant and/or severe porting, and mitigation; and followby our ETHOS Group and local ETHOS deficiencies in the processes and ing up on risk mitigation measures. Committees, the program consists of a ETHOS procedures governing our compaset of principles, rules, controls, proceGLOBAL ny’s operations. As part of the Legal function’s program dures, guidelines, and bodies designed PROGRAM responsibilities, special attention is to comply with the laws and standards 4. GLOBAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION (GSO) given to the most sensitive countries of conduct applicable to our company. PROCESS OHR responsible for delivering business concerning corruption risks to our CEMEX ETHOS Global Program works ASSESSMENT services to CEMEX operations, while business system process. With a focus as an internal network coordinating six complying with both our internal on such relevant policies as insider core corporate functions with ethics and external control requirements trading, anticorruption, antitrust, conand compliance-related responsibilities: and corporate governance model; flicts of interest, information retention, GLOBAL SERVICE INTERNAL and performing internal control and privacy, among others, in 2018, we 1. LEGAL responsible for developing ORGANIZATION CONTROL responsibilities, such as performing conducted 250 internal legal audits and updating relevant policies; carSOX testing, following up on rein 19 countries. Our Code of Ethics rying out trainings and legal audits; mediation plans, advising process reflects the requirements of the Sarsetting and carrying out proper owners on items related to internal banes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). oversight of third-party managecontrol, performing change management; and managing compliance-rement tests, and promoting complilated complaints. ance with policies. 2. OHR responsible for defining and 5. PROCESS ASSESSMENT responsible enhancing CEMEX Code of Ethics; for overseeing internal audits of deploying the ethics training procontrols and compliance with poligram; administering ETHOSline; cies; conducting worldwide internal coordinating and administering audits; conducting special fraud local ETHOS Committees; investiinvestigations; performing SOX audit gating cases within their responsicompliance; conducting CAPEX bilities; assuming co-responsibility audits; and monitoring risk. for CEMEX ETHOS Global Program; promoting a culture of ethics and reporting; and providing end-to-end case management. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 99 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights CEMEX becomes a signatory to 2004 the UN Global Compact. CEMEX approaches Shift for expert advice on the UN Guiding 2014 Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and key PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR COMMITMENT to these principles, we annually submit gaps in policies and processes. TO HUMAN RIGHTS an Advanced Communication of ProgHuman rights are the fundamental ress (COP) to the UNGC. CEMEX releases its first Human rights, freedoms, and standards of 2014 Rights Policy Statement. treatment to which all people are During 2018, we worked to enhance entitled. Respecting human rights is our Human Rights Policy based on reinforced in our core value of “Acting a Human Rights Compliance Self CEMEX executes a Human Rights with Integrity,” which is embedded in Assessment conducted in over 30 Compliance Assessment in 30 the way we do business. countries. This bottom-up exercise 2017 countries to identify risks to enabled us to upgrade and integrate people. At CEMEX, we aim to align our strategy our 2014 Human Rights Policy. and operations with universal principles of human rights. We understand Our 2018 Human Rights Policy reflects CEO signs enhanced Human that these principles constitute a global our support and respect for the pro2018 Rights Policy. standard of expected corporate contection of internationally proclaimed duct applicable to all our operations. human rights principles, as expressed in the International Bill of Human Accordingly, we are actively and Rights and the International Labor Release of Diversity and Inclusion continuously determined to meet our Organization’s Declaration on Funda2018 Global Policy. responsibility to respect all human mental Principles and Rights at Work. rights while fostering their respect In addition, it recognizes employees, among our business partners. communities, contractors, and supIN TE GR IT Y IN AC TI ON pliers as main areas of impact and OU R CO DE As a signatory and active participant in CEMEX Code of Ethics is reaffirms our commitment to the pro2018 enhanced the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since motion of and respect for human rights 2004, we reaffirm our support of its throughout our worldwide operations, 10 principles on Human Rights, Labor, local communities, and supply chain. Environment, and Anti-Corruption. To CEMEX enrollment in the UN demonstrate our strong commitment 2018 Global Compact changes to participant 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 100 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY IMPLEMENTATION EXISTING CEMEX The implementation of our Human HUMAN RIGHTS COMPONENTS GLOBAL POLICY Rights Policy is focused on estab■ Zero injuries is not only possible but our moral responsibility lishing the right controls throughout ■ Provide a safe and healthy workplace for our employees and contractors our existing governance processes ■ Comply with companies’ policies, Health and Safety Management System, HEALTH AND and tools. Human Rights is currently procedures and all applicable local laws SAFETY POLICY included in both our Code of Ethics ■ Develop a positive health and safety culture whereby individuals look after and Business Conduct and our Supplithe health and safety of each other and share our belief that the achievement of ZERO injuries is possible. ers Code of Conduct. ■ We strive to build mutually beneficial relationships with our stakeholder and Policies that govern our day-to-day communities STAKEHOLDER ■ CEMEX is committed to engage its stakeholders in an ongoing and transparoperations enable us to implement and ENGAGEMENT POLICY ent way safeguard our Human Rights commit■ We seek to create value to society through our core business activities ments, including our Health and Safety Policy, Stakeholder Engagement Policy, ■ Actively pursue a policy of pollution prevention, applying best available techniques (BAT) to minimize the impact of our operations. Environmental Policy, Water Policy, and ■ Comply with company policies and procedures and all applicable local laws Biodiversity Policy, among others. and regulations. ENVIRONMENTAL ■ Make strategic efforts to maximize our energy and resource efficiency, lower POLICY We expect all of our policies and our carbon intensity and reduce emissions by managing our usage of energy, procedures to be applied consistently water consumption and waste generation. ■ Responsibly manage the land within our operations to protect ecosystems wherever we operate by our employand biodiversity and to maximize our contribution to nature conservation. ees, suppliers, contractors, and other business partners. ■ CEMEX is fully committed to carrying out our business activities in a sustainable manner, minimizing pressure on water resources and covering three WATER POLICY essential aspects such as resource availability, resource quality and ecosysAs a result of our Human Rights port our continuous, constantly evolvtem integrity. Compliance Self-Assessment, we also ing journey to create a more inclusive, reinforced our expectations for our diverse workplace. ■ Align our biodiversity initiatives with our business model so that the identifiBIODIVERSITY cation, assessment and management of biodiversity values is considered in suppliers by including Human Rights, POLICY our decision-making process and management systems, throughout the life Labor, Antitrust, and other SustainThis new policy underscores our sericycle of our sites ability clauses in their contracts and ous commitment to cultivate an envi■ Our people represent a great range of different countries and cultures, as well purchase orders. ronment that embraces possibilities for as a broad range of backgrounds and experience; making CEMEX a stronger everyone and promotes an atmosphere and more inclusive environment Consistent with our commitment to of openness, courageousness, gener■ The company aligns its values with the principles of the United Nations Globbuild a truly diverse CEMEX team in osity, and respect, so all of our employGLOBAL DIVERSITY al Compact conjunction with existing and future ees can perform at their best. AND INCLUSION POLICY ■ CEMEX aims to be a great place to work for all our employees ■ Decisions are made without regard to gender, race, color, age, religion, programs and initiatives, our Global mental or physical disability, pregnancy and maternity/paternity, marriage or Diversity and Inclusion Policy will supcivil partnership, sexual orientation or preference, political affiliation or nation origin 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 101 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report EXISTING CEMEX HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE Management Committee, comprised HUMAN RIGHTS COMPONENTS CEMEX Human Rights due diligence of CEMEX Executive Committee. GLOBAL POLICY ■ CEMEX is fully committed to international compliance with data protection process is embedded in our existing Additionally, key material risks are laws for protecting personal data of customers, suppliers, business partners approach to risk management with evaluated and tracked by the Boardand employees. a special focus on potential human level Corporate Practices and Finance ■ Processing of personal data must be done lawfully, fairly and in a transparent rights risks to people. It is integrated Committee. Other risk management manner in order to protect the rights of data subjects from whom CEMEX into our company’s regularly running processes within CEMEX, including processes personal data. Collection, processing and sharing of personal data should always be based on lawful purposes. formal processes, including: internal controls and audits, compleGLOBAL DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY POLICY ■ Data can be processed following consent by the data subject. Before giving ment the ERM function. consent, the data subject must be informed how his/her data is being used › ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM): and for what purpose. › GLOBAL COMPLIANCE PROGRAM (GCP): This dedicated corporate function ■ Only people who have a need to know and are authorized to use the personLegal compliance audits mostly permanently executes a process of al data can access it. focused on antitrust, anti-bribery, risk detection and analysis at global, ■ Data subjects are entitled to a reasonable expectation of privacy in the proand insider trading issues are concessing of their personal data. regional, and local levels by enabling ducted throughout the year in all of the deployment of corresponding ■ This Global Policy applies to all CEMEX directors, officers and employees, the geographies where we operate, monitoring, mitigation, and reporting regardless of where they reside or conduct business, CEMEX subsidiaries, afespecially in the most sensitive ANTI-BRIBERY/ filiates and third party relationships over which CEMEX has control, including measures in a timely manner. As part ANTI-CORRUPTION GLOBAL countries relative to transparency joint ventures, as well as all agents, consultants, business partners and other of this process, a Global Risk Agenda POLICY and risks. third-party representatives when they act on CEMEX’s behalf. is bi-annually presented to the Risk ■ Seeks compliance with anti-bribery/ anti-corruption laws. › SUPPLIERS ASSESSMENT: We partner ■ Supplier Sustainability with specialized independent firms to › Strengthen Human Rights perform sustainability assessments CODE OF CONDUCT WHEN › Encourages supplier to adhere to the highest ethical standards and pracof our suppliers across the globe. As DOING BUSINESS WITH US tices part of their scope, these assessments › Comply with all antibribery laws include respect and promotion of › Seek for equality and fairness in supplier relations human rights in their workforce and supply chain. › CONTRACTORS ASSESSMENT: This program is designed to pursue that those contractors with which we engage are equally committed to respect human rights aligned with the health and safety of their employees, clients, and the communities in which they operate. To support CEMEX in this important program, we rely on leading global technology and applications development firms. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 102 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report › GRIEVANCE MECHANISM: In addition to enables us to identify human rights d. LOCAL CORPORATE SOCIAL tolerance and inclusion, civil and politithe above processes, our global grievrelated risks not only in our opera­RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEES: Comcal rights, and environmental quality. ance mechanisms enable us to maintions, but also in the communities posed of our plant’s director and tain permanent communication with where we work. local environmental officials, trade CEMEX Human Rights Compliance our key stakeholder groups, especially union representatives, local mayors of Assessment was deployed in more b. GLOBAL AND LOCAL ETHICS those that might be vulnerable under nearby towns, neighborhood reprethan 30 business units representing ­COMMITTEES: Composed of represencertain circumstances. Moreover, sentatives, and other local institutions, all of the countries in which we have tatives from different functions in each these open communication channels these groups aim to build positive, cement, ready-mix concrete, and of the countries in which we operate, enable us to obtain valuable feedback sustainable relationships with our aggregates operations, maritime termithese dedicated taskforces seek to to evaluate the effectiveness of impleneighboring communities. nals, and our largest corporate offices, ensure awareness and enforcement mented mitigation actions based on including CEMEX Global Headquarters. of our Code of Ethics. All of them IDENTIFYING, PRIORITIZING, AND identified risks to people. Our main MITIGATING HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS The human rights impacts evaluation receive, investigate, and collaborate grievance mechanisms include: CEMEX Human Rights Compliance in each country was executed through to resolve reported ethics breaches, Complementary with our due diligence Assessment led to the overall identia joint effort coordinated by the local a. ETHOSLINE: We seek to pursue that including those related to human efforts, last year we carried out an fication of the main potential impacts Ethics Committee, supported by a our values remain alive and our Code rights. internal Human Rights Compliance on people in our operations and value dedicated multidisciplinary group of of Ethics is properly managed. ThereSelf-Assessment to identify and assess c. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUES: Aimed at chain. After classifying these issues experts from key functions, including fore, we encourage our employees, potential human rights impacts and getting to know and understand our based on their likelihood of occurrence Human Resources, Legal, Enterprise stakeholders, and the general public prioritize them according to their likelistakeholders’ needs and concerns, and impact severity, we prioritized Risk Management, Procurement, Susto submit suggestions, inquiries, and hood and impact severity. these dialogues enable us to identhem and confirmed that the assesstainability, Health & Safety, Communipossible violations through our ETHOtify potential impacts on people and ment indicated CEMEX five potential cation, and Social Responsibility. SLine communication channel availOur internal Human Rights Compliance properly address these risks. salient human rights impacts are: able 24/7. This reporting mechanism Self-Assessment was performed using our existing 2014 Human Rights Policy The Assessment encompassed approxand was mainly complemented by imately 100 questions focused on six the Danish Institute for Human Rights main dimensions, which were defined HEALTH AND SAFETY Quick Check methodology. It also considering the potential human rights included best practices from the Global impacts associated with our organizaENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT tion’s core business, as well as relaCompact Self-Assessment tool and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and tionships linked to these activities. For Human Rights, among others. To make COMMUNITY IMPACTS this purpose, the potentially vulnerable the process more robust, we consulted groups targeted not only included our international risk maps—compiled and employees, but was also extended to DIVERSITY AND DISCRIMINATION contractors and communities surpublished for consultation by globally recognized organizations—showing the rounding our operations segregated by level of vulnerability or the likelihood WORK-LIFE BALANCE children, women, disabled individuals, of human rights violations by country indigenous people, and migrant labor. in areas such as working conditions, modern slavery, freedom of association, 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 103 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Considering the findings of the Human Rights Compliance Assessment, as a follow-up step, the identified impacts were discussed with each of the 30 evaluated countries and a basic remediation and mitigation plan was set to start working on the correction and prevention of those situations where human rights could be breached. POTENTIALLY IMPACTED STAKEHOLDERS MAIN FUNCTIONS LEADING SALIENT HUMAN RIGHTS SUPPLIERS AND LOCAL RELATED ACTIVITIES EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS MITIGATION ACTIONS CONTRACTORS COMMUNITIES › H&S ■ Employee and contractor’ awareness and training foresee their decisions and actions › OPERATIONS align with safe and healthy behavior. During 2018, we dedicated about 70,000 hours to HEALTH AND SAFETY › PROCUREMENT H&S training. › HUMAN RESOURCES ■ Open-door policy for our employees, contractors, and community members to share relat› SUSTAINABILITY ed complaints or suggestions ■ Continuous assessment of our environmental impacts and risks to manage them proac› SUSTAINABILITY tively ENVIRONMENTAL › OPERATIONS ■ Our global environmental policies seek to avoid, prevent, mitigate, and remediate impacts › CSR related to our activities. FOOTPRINT › PROCUREMENT ■ A Monthly Environmental and Social Incidents Report details all events in the period. › LEGAL Besides statistics, it results in a direct message from our CEO requesting our operations to address and remediate identified situations. ■ CSR multi-stakeholder committees across all geographies foster empathy with our neighboring communities and enable us to incorporate insights into our human rights promo› CSR tion and respect strategy. › PUBLIC AFFAIRS ■ Implementation of our Social and Environmental Model strengthens our responsible › LEGAL COMMUNITY IMPACTS business strategy by deeply understanding and addressing our stakeholders’ conditions, › OPERATIONS needs, and concerns. › ERM ■ Our inclusive business models tackle the many side effects of poverty, providing families › SUSTAINABILITY with the space and privacy all humans need to live in harmony and children with healthy living and learning conditions. ■ Development and launch of CEMEX Diversity and Inclusion Policy ■ Creation of Diversity Committees in our different business units help to shape and imple› HUMAN RESOURCES ment CEMEX inclusion strategy. DIVERSITY AND › CSR ■ Recruitment personnel are trained on our non-discrimination policies. Furthermore, our DISCRIMINATION › LEGAL employees receive training on how to identify and report discrimination issues. › SUSTAINABILITY ■ In 2018, 58% of our business units implemented initiatives for women empowerment and 47% to create opportunities for those with disabilities. A total of 834 collaborators with some type of disability were integrated into our workforce by year-end. ■ Full implementation of time attendance systems and overtime policies ■ All of our business units have formal channels for employees to communicate needs and concerns regarding work-life balance and define actions for implementation based on this › HUMAN RESOURCES feedback. WORK-LIFE BALANCE › LEGAL ■ In 2018, 580 initiatives to improve work-life balance were implemented across our business › SUSTAINABILITY units, reaching 85% of our total employees. Examples include programs that support child and/or elderly care, allow sabbaticals, parental leave, and other benefits such as flex-time, home office, work time reduction on Fridays, and activities for families’ integration, among others. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 104 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report MOVING FORWARD TO CLOSE THE GAP Moreover, our 2030 sustainability During 2018, we made significant targets—closely aligned with the UN progress in identifying and implementSDGs—reflect our clear commitment ing preventive measures to avoid any to positively contribute to the most human rights impacts in our operarelevant themes of the Global United tions. Through our operations’ identiNations Agenda. Our SDG strategy is fication of their top five human rights human rights driven and integrates all impacts, we are developing a culture of our efforts to positively excel in our of awareness and accountability with contributions to society the implementation of the UN Guiding OUR TOP Principles on Business and Human Rights. CEMEX Human Rights Compliance FIVE Assessment enabled us to discuss and define action plans by country in order to proactively anticipate any potential human rights impacts. Nonetheless, we continue to work very closely with our operations to build their capabiliHUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS ties and maintain a robust mitigation are addressed through and remediation model that enables us the development of a to prioritize and address human rights culture of awareness and issues, while working to maximize our accountability. positive impacts. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 105 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report US$2.6 BILLION OPERATING EBITDA in 2018, an increase of 1% on a like-to-like basis. Our Performance in Detail SALES DISTRIBUTION BY PRODUCT (percentage) 17 A stronger position to maximize opportunities 40 43 l CEMENT l READY-MIX l AGGREGATES 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 106 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report SELECT CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS (1) 2014 (I,1,2) 2015 (I,1) 2016 (I,1) 2017 (I,1) 2018 (I,1) Financial Information* Net sales 14,975 13,723 13,327 13,635 14,375 Cost of sales (3) (10,096) (9,043) (8,544) (8,944) (9,500) Gross profit 4,879 4,680 4,783 4,691 4,875 Operating expenses (3,241) (2,998) (2,880) (2,964) (3,151) CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and Subsidiaries (in millions of US Operating earnings before other expenses, net 1,638 1,682 1,903 1,727 1,724 dollars, except ADSs and per ADS amounts) Other expenses, net (350) (190) (89) (202) (303) Financial expense (1,609) (1,238) (1,148) (1,022) (654) Financial income (expense) and other items, net (4) 194 (83) 239 192 5 Earnings (loss) before income taxes (105) 217 941 725 805 Discontinued Operations, net of tax 9 64 38 183 11 Non-controlling interest net income (5) (85) 58 63 75 41 Controlling interest net income (loss) (490) 75 750 806 543 Millions of average ADSs outstanding (6,7) 1,256 1,353 1,431 1,517 1,543 Controlling interest basic earnings (losses) per ADS (6,8) (0.39) 0.06 0.53 0.53 0.35 Controlling interest basic earnings (losses) per ADS from continuing operations (6,8) 0.02 0.49 0.41 0.36 Controlling interest basic earnings (losses) per ADS from discontinued operations (6,8) 0.04 0.04 0.12 0.01 Dividends per ADS (6,7,8,9) n.a n.a n.a n.a n.a STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION INFORMATION (2) Cash and cash equivalents 854 887 561 699 309 Net working capital (10) 1,377 974 387 153 33 Assets from operations held for sale 313 1,015 70 107 Property, plant, and equipment, net (11) 13,767 12,428 11,107 11,815 11,422 Total assets 34,936 31,472 28,949 28,890 28,124 Liabilities from operations held for sale 39 51 16 Short-term debt & other financial obligations (12) 1,765 917 622 1,849 693 Long-term debt & other financial obligations (12) 14,818 14,648 12,596 9,663 9,878 Total liabilities 24,884 21,967 19,455 18,182 16,951 Non-controlling interest and perpetual debentures (5) 1,158 1,178 1,397 1,571 1,572 Total controlling interest 8,894 8,327 8,097 9,137 9,601 Total stockholders’ equity 10,052 9,505 9,494 10,708 11,172 Book value per ADS (6,7) 7.08 6.15 5.66 6.02 6.22 OTHER FINANCIAL DATA Operating margin 10.9% 12.3% 14.3% 12.7% 12.0% Operating EBITDA margin (10) 17.8% 18.9% 20.7% 18.9% 17.8% Operating EBITDA (10) 2,664 2,596 2,757 2,574 2,558 Free cash flow after maintenance capital expenditures (10) 401 881 1,685 1,290 918 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 107 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report NOTES TO SELECT CONSOLIDATED 1 In connection with the latest financial expenses of raw material in plants and 8 For purposes of the selected financial 10 In 2014 this item was not restated to FINANCIAL INFORMATION statements issued as of December 31, delivery expenses of CEMEX’s ready-mix information for the periods ended Decemreverse the presentation of Croatian Oper2018, the financial information of 2018, 2017 concrete business. ber 31, 2014 through 2018, the controlling ations in discontinued operations. Please and 2016 presents as discontinued operinterest basic earnings (losses) per ADS refer to page 213 for the definition of terms. ations CEMEX’s operations in Brazil sold 4 Financial income (expense) and other amounts were determined by considering in September 2018, the Pacific Northwest items, net, includes financial income, the average amount of balance number of 11 In 2018 excludes the assets of central Materials Business in the United States sold realized and unrealized gains and losses ADS equivalent units outstanding during region of France; that were classified as in June 2017, the Concrete Pipe Business in from financial instruments, foreign exchange each year. These numbers of ADSs outheld for sale. In 2017 excludes the assets of the United States sold in January 2017, the results and the effects of net present value standing were not restated retrospectively Andorra, Spain; that were classified as held Bangladesh and Thailand operations sold in on assets and liabilities. neither to give effect to stock dividends for sale. In 2016 excludes the assets of FairMay 2016. In addition, the financial informaoccurring during the period nor to present born cement plant, United States; Concrete tion of 2015 and 2014 presents as discon5 From 2014 through 2018, non-conthe controlling earnings (loss)-per-ADS of pumping equipment, Mexico; and Andorra, tinued operations CEMEX’s operations in trolling interest includes US$466 million, continuing and discontinuing operations, as Spain that were classified as held for sale. In Austria and Hungary sold in October 2015. US$440 million, US$438 million, US$448 it is required under IFRS for their disclosure 2015, excludes the assets of Andorra, Spain The information of 2014 was not restated to million and US$444 million, respectively; of in the consolidated financial statements. (See note 12.1 to the 2018 Annual Report’s reflect the discontinued operations in Brazil aggregate notional amounts of perpetual Financial Statements). and the Pacific Northwest Materials Busidebentures issued by consolidated entities. 9 Dividends declared at each year’s ness and the Concrete Pipe Business in the For accounting purposes, these debentures annual stockholders’ meeting for each 12 From 2014 through 2018, other financial United States but includes as discontinued represent equity instruments (See note period are reflected as dividends for the obligations include the liability components operations CEMEX’s operations in Croatia, 20.4 to the 2018 Annual Report’s Financial preceding year. We did not declare a diviassociated with CEMEX’s financial instruincluding assets in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Statements). dend for fiscal years 2014 to 2017. Instead, ments convertible into CEMEX’s CPOs, which were available for sale in 2014 but at our annual shareholders’ meetings liabilities secured with accounts receivable that CEMEX decided to retain in 2017 after 6 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.’s CPOs are listed held on years 2015 through 2017, CEMEX’s as well as CEMEX’s capital leases (See note the European Commission ruled in that on the Mexican Stock Exchange. CEMEX, stockholders approved a capitalization 16.2 to the 2018 Annual Report’s Financial year against the sale. See note 4.2 in our S.A.B. de C.V.’s ADSs, each of which curof retained earnings. New CPOs issued Statements). consolidated financial statements included rently represents ten CPOs, are listed on pursuant to the capitalization were allocated elsewhere in this annual report. the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). to shareholders on a pro-rata basis. As a I As a result of requirements by the National In the Consolidated Financial Statements, result, shares equivalent to approximately Banking and Exchange Commission, CEMEX 2 Selected financial information of the earnings (loss) per share are presented on 500 million CPOs, 539 million CPOs, and prepares its consolidated financial statements statement of financial position of 2014 a per-share basis (See note 22 to the 2018 562 million CPOs were issued and paid using International Financial Reporting presents CEMEX’s operations in Austria Annual Report’s Financial Statements). each year from 2015 through 2017, respecStandards (“IFRS”), as issued by the Internaand Hungary as held for sale and was tively. CPO holders received one new CPO tional Accounting Standards Board. not restated to reverse the discontinued 7 The number of ADSs outstanding, stated for each 25 CPOs held, and ADS holders operations in Croatia. The amounts are not in millions of ADSs, represents: (i) the total received one new ADS for each 25 ADSs * The effects associated with newly issued material. average amount of ADS equivalent units held. There was no cash distribution and IFRS are recognized in the year when outstanding of each year, (ii) includes the no entitlement to fractional shares. In our they become mandatory and are applied 3 Cost of sales includes depreciation, total number of ADS equivalents issued in annual shareholders’ meeting held in 2018, retrospectively only for comparative prior amortization and depletion of assets underlying derivative transactions, and (iii) there was no capitalization of retained periods presented in the set of financial involved in the production, expenses related excludes the total number of ADS equivaearnings. (See note 20.1 to the 2018 Annual statements issued in the year of adoption. to storage in producing plants, freight lents issued by CEMEX and owned by its Report’s Financial Statements). Earlier periods are not restated to give retrosubsidiaries. active effect to such new standards. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 108 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Consolidated Years ended December 31, Notes 2018 2017 2016 Income Revenues Cost of sales 3 2.16 $ 276,855 (182,965) 257,437 (168,858) 249,477 (159,946) Statements Gross profit Operating expenses 2.16, 5 93,890 (60,694) 88,579 (55,967) 89,531 (53,913) Operating earnings before other expenses, net 2.1 33,196 32,612 35,618 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and Subsidiaries Other expenses, net 6 (5,837) (3,815) (1,670) (Millions of Mexican pesos, except for earnings per share) Operating earnings 27,359 28,797 33,948 Financial expense 16 (12,597) (19,301) (21,487) Financial income and other items, net 7 96 3,616 4,467 Share of profit of equity accounted investees 13.1 653 588 688 Earnings before income tax 15,511 13,700 17,616 Income tax 19 (4,467) (520) (3,125) Net income from continuing operations 11,044 13,180 14,491 Discontinued operations 4.2 212 3,461 713 CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME 11,256 16,641 15,204 Non-controlling interest net income 789 1,417 1,173 CONTROLLING INTEREST NET INCOME $ 10,467 15,224 14,031 Basic earnings per share 22 $ 0.22 0.34 0.32 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 22 $ 0.22 0.26 0.30 Diluted earnings per share 22 $ 0.22 0.34 0.32 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 22 $ 0.22 0.26 0.30 The accompanying notes are part of these consolidated financial statements. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 109 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Consolidated Years ended December 31, Notes 2018 2017 2016 Statements of CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME $ 11,256 16,641 15,204 Comprehensive Income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement Net actuarial gains (losses) from remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans 18 3,404 3 (4,019) CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and Subsidiaries (Millions of Mexican pesos) Income tax recognized directly in other comprehensive income 19 (530) (1) 788 2,874 2 (3,231) Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement Effects from available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges 13.2, 16.4 (2,285) 275 36 Currency translation results of foreign subsidiaries 20.2 (1,700) (9,519) 11,630 Income tax recognized directly in other comprehensive income 19 752 233 (696) (3,233) (9,011) 10,970 Total items of other comprehensive income, net (359) (9,009) 7,739 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 10,897 7,632 22,943 Non-controlling interest comprehensive income 9 1,928 5,164 CONTROLLING INTEREST COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ 10,888 5,704 17,779 The accompanying notes are part of these consolidated financial statements. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 110 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Consolidated December 31, Note 2018 2017 Statements of ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 8 $ 6,068 13,741 Financial Position Trade accounts receivable, net 9 29,248 30,588 Other accounts receivable 10 6,149 4,970 Inventories, net 11 21,248 18,852 Assets held for sale 12.1 2,100 1,378 Other current assets 12.2 2,447 1,946 Total current assets 67,260 71,475 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and Subsidiaries NON-CURRENT ASSETS (Millions of Mexican pesos) Equity accounted investees 13.1 9,492 8,572 Other investments and non-current accounts receivable 13.2 5,271 5,758 Property, machinery and equipment, net 14 224,440 232,160 Goodwill and intangible assets, net 15 234,598 234,909 Deferred income tax assets 19.2 11,567 14,817 Total non-current assets 485,368 496,216 TOTAL ASSETS $ 552,628 567,691 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES Short-term debt 16.1 $ 883 16,973 Other financial obligations 16.2 12,739 19,362 Trade payables 49,846 46,428 Income tax payable 4,169 5,129 Other current liabilities 17 22,200 24,396 Liabilities directly related to assets held for sale 12.1 314 – Total current liabilities 90,151 112,288 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Long-term debt 16.1 182,074 177,022 Other financial obligations 16.2 12,028 12,859 Employee benefits 18 18,937 23,653 Deferred income tax liabilities 19.2 14,900 15,801 Other non-current liabilities 17 15,005 15,649 Total non-current liabilities 242,944 244,984 TOTAL LIABILITIES 333,095 357,272 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Controlling interest: Common stock and additional paid-in capital 20.1 145,322 144,654 Other equity reserves 20.2 11,869 13,483 Retained earnings 20.3 20,992 6,179 Net income 10,467 15,224 Total controlling interest 188,650 179,540 Non-controlling interest and perpetual debentures 20.4 30,883 30,879 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 219,533 210,419 The accompanying notes are part of these TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY $ 552,628 567,691 consolidated financial statements. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 111 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Consolidated Years ended December 31, Notes 2018 2017 2016 Statements of OPERATING ACTIVITIES Consolidated net income $ 11,256 16,641 15,204 Discontinued operations 212 3,461 713 Cash Flows Net income from continuing operations $ 11,044 13,180 14,491 Non-cash items: Depreciation and amortization of assets 5 16,070 15,988 15,987 Impairment losses 6 1,188 2,936 2,518 Share of profit of equity accounted investees 13.1 (653) (588) (688) Results on sale of subsidiaries, other disposal groups and others (239) (4,340) (2,128) Financial income and other items, net 12,501 15,685 17,020 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and Subsidiaries Income taxes 19 4,467 520 3,125 Changes in working capital, excluding income taxes (1,062) 8,039 11,017 (Millions of Mexican pesos) Net cash flow provided by operating activities from continuing operations before financial expense, coupons on perpetual debentures and income taxes 43,316 51,420 61,342 Financial expense and coupons on perpetual debentures paid 20.4 (12,846) (15,759) (18,129) Income taxes paid (3,935) (4,664) (5,183) Net cash flow provided by operating activities from continuing operations 26,535 30,997 38,030 Net cash flow provided by operating activities from discontinued operations 10 108 1,192 Net cash flows provided by operating activities 26,545 31,105 39,222 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Property, machinery and equipment, net 14 (11,631) (10,753) (4,563) Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries and other disposal groups, net 4.1, 13.1 (481) 23,841 1,424 Intangible assets and other deferred charges 15 (3,627) (1,607) (1,427) Non-current assets and others, net 52 126 (914) Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities from continuing operations (15,687) 11,607 (5,480) Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities from discontinued operations – – 1 Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities (15,687) 11,607 (5,479) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Sale of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries 20.4 – (55) 9,777 Derivative instruments 392 246 399 Repayment of debt, net 16.1 (9,260) (37,826) (41,044) Other financial obligations, net 16.2 (7,082) (1,473) (5,779) Share repurchase program 20.1 (1,520) – – Securitization of trade receivables 644 169 (999) Non-current liabilities, net (2,716) (3,745) (1,972) Net cash flows used in financing activities (19,542) (42,684) (39,618) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations (8,694) (80) (7,068) Increase in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 10 108 1,193 Cash conversion effect, net 1,011 2,097 2,169 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 13,741 11,616 15,322 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD 8 $ 6,068 13,741 11,616 Changes in working capital, excluding income taxes: Trade receivables, net $ 207 1,489 (4,386) Other accounts receivable and other assets (1,670) 1,120 (286) Inventories (2,970) 526 (1,239) Trade payables 4,680 3,635 13,729 The accompanying notes are part of these Other accounts payable and accrued expenses (1,309) 1,269 3,199 consolidated financial statements. Changes in working capital, excluding income taxes $ (1,062) 8,039 11,017 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 112 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Statements Additional Other Total Total Common paid-in equity Retained controlling Non-controlling stockholders’ Note stock capital reserves earnings interest interest equity of Changes in Balance as of December 31, 2015 Net income $ 4,158 – 115,466 – 15,273 – 8,582 14,031 143,479 14,031 20,289 1,173 163,768 15,204 Stockholders’ Total other items of comprehensive income 20.2 – – 3,748 – 3,748 3,991 7,739 Capitalization of retained earnings 20.1 4 6,966 – (6,970) – – – Share-based compensation 21 – 742 – – 742 – 742 Equity Effects of perpetual debentures Changes in non-controlling interest 20.4 – 20.4 – – – (507) 6,279 – – (507) 6,279 3,498 – (507) 9,777 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and Subsidiaries (Millions of Mexican pesos) Balance as of December 31, 2016 4,162 123,174 24,793 15,643 167,772 28,951 196,723 Net income – – – 15,224 15,224 1,417 16,641 Total other items of comprehensive income, net 20.2 – – (9,520) – (9,520) 511 (9,009) Capitalization of retained earnings 20.1 5 9,459 – (9,464) – – – Effects of early conversion of convertible subordinated notes 16.2 4 7,059 (1,334) – 5,729 – 5,729 Share-based compensation 21 – 791 26 – 817 – 817 Effects of perpetual debentures 20.4 – – (482) – (482) – (482) Balance as of December 31, 2017 4,171 140,483 13,483 21,403 179,540 30,879 210,419 Effects from adoption of IFRS 9 2.1 – – – (411) (411) (5) (416) Balance as of January 1, 2018 4,171 140,483 13,483 20,992 179,129 30,874 210,003 Net income – – – 10,467 10,467 789 11,256 Total other items of comprehensive income, net 20.2 – – 421 – 421 (780) (359) Own shares purchased under share repurchase program 20.1 – – (1,520) – (1,520) – (1,520) Share-based compensation 21 – 668 38 – 706 – 706 Effects of perpetual debentures 20.4 – – (553) – (553) – (553) Balance as of December 31, 2018 $ 4,171 141,151 11,869 31,459 188,650 30,883 219,533 The accompanying notes are part of these consolidated financial statements. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 113 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Notes to the 1) DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Consolidated CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V., founded in 1906, is a public stock corporation with variable capital (S.A.B. de C.V.) organized under the laws of the United Mexican States, or Mexico, holding company (parent) of entities whose main activities are oriented to the construction industry, Financial through the production, marketing, sale and distribution of cement, ready-mix concrete, aggregates and other construction materials and services. In addition, in order to facilitate the acquisition of financing and to run its operations in Mexico more efficiently, CEMEX, S.A.B. de Statements C.V. carries out all businesses and operational activities of the cement, ready-mix concrete and aggregates sectors in Mexico. The shares of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. are listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange (“MSE”) as Ordinary Participation Certificates (“CPOs”) under the symbol “CEMEXCPO.” Each CPO represents two series “A” shares and one series “B” share of common stock of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. In CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and Subsidiaries addition, CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.’s shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) as American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) under As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 the symbol “CX.” Each ADS represents ten CPOs. (Millions of Mexican pesos) The terms “CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.” and/or the “Parent Company” used in these accompanying notes to the financial statements refer to CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. without its consolidated subsidiaries. The terms the “Company” or “CEMEX” refer to CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. together with its consolidated subsidiaries. The issuance of these consolidated financial statements was authorized by the Board of Directors of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. on January 30, 2019 considering the favorable recommendation of its Audit Committee. These financial statements will be submitted for authorization to the Annual General Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of the Parent Company on March 28, 2019. 2) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1) Basis of presentation and disclosure The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). Presentation currency and definition of terms During the reported periods, the presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements was the Mexican peso. When reference is made to “pesos” or “$” it means Mexican pesos. The amounts in the financial statements and the accompanying notes are stated in millions, except when references are made to earnings per share and/or prices per share. When reference is made to “US$” or “dollars,” it means dollars of the United States of America (“United States”). When reference is made to “€” or “euros,” it means the currency in circulation in a significant number of European Union (“EU”) countries. When reference is made to “£” or “pounds,” it means British pounds sterling. When it is deemed relevant, certain amounts in foreign currency presented in the notes to the financial statements include between parentheses a convenience translation into dollars and/or into pesos, as applicable. Previously reported convenience translations of prior years are not restated unless the transaction is still outstanding, in which case those are restated using the closing exchange rates as of the reporting date. These translations should not be construed as representations that the amounts in pesos or dollars, as applicable, represent those peso or dollar amounts or could be converted into pesos or dollars at the rate indicated. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, translations of pesos into dollars and dollars into pesos, were determined for statement of financial position amounts using the closing exchange rate of $19.65 for both years, and for statements of operations amounts, using the average exchange rates of $19.26, $18.88 and $18.72 pesos per dollar for 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. When the amounts between parentheses are the peso and the dollar, the amounts were determined by translating the euro amount into dollars using the closing exchange rates at year-end and then translating the dollars into pesos as previously described. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 114 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Amounts disclosed in the notes in connection with tax and/or legal proceedings (notes 19.4 and 24), which are originated in jurisdictions where currencies are different from the peso or the dollar, are presented in dollar equivalents as of the closing of the most recent year presented. Consequently, without any change in the original currency, such dollar amounts will fluctuate over time due to changes in exchange rates. Newly issued IFRS adopted in 2018 IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: classification and measurement (“IFRS 9”) (note 2.6) Effective beginning January 1, 2018, IFRS 9 sets forth the guidance relating to the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, the accounting for expected credit losses of financial assets and commitments to extend credits, as well as the requirements for hedge accounting; and replaced IAS 39, Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement (“IAS 39”). CEMEX applied IFRS 9 prospectively. The accounting policies were changed to comply with IFRS 9. The changes required by IFRS 9 are described as follows: Among other aspects, IFRS 9 changed the classification categories for financial assets under IAS 39 and replaced them with categories that more closely reflect the measurement method, the contractual cash flow characteristics and the entity’s business model for managing the financial asset: • Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other accounts receivable and other financial assets, which were classified as “Loans and receivables” and measured at amortized cost under IAS 39, are now classified as “Held to collect” under IFRS 9 and continue to be measured at amortized cost. • Investments and non-current accounts receivable that were classified as “Held to maturity” and measured at amortized cost under IAS 39, are now classified as “Held to collect” under IFRS 9 and continue to be measured at amortized cost. • Investments that were classified as “Held for trading” and measured at fair value through profit or loss under IAS 39, are now classified as “Other investments” under IFRS 9 and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. • Certain investments that were classified as “Held for sale” and measured at fair value through other comprehensive income under IAS 39, are now considered as strategic investments under IFRS 9 and continue to be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Debt instruments and other financial obligations continue to be classified as “Loans” and measured at amortized cost under IFRS 9 and derivative financial instruments continue to be measured at fair value through profit or loss under IFRS 9. CEMEX assessed which business models applied to its financial assets and liabilities as of the date of initial application of IFRS 9 and classified its financial instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 categories. As of January 1, 2018, the changes due to the classification and measurement requirements under IFRS 9 did not impact either the measurement or carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities and there was no effect on CEMEX´s retained earnings. In addition, under the new impairment model under IFRS 9 based on expected credit losses, impairment losses for the entire lifetime of financial assets, including trade accounts receivable, are recognized on initial recognition, and at each subsequent reporting period, even in the absence of a credit event or if a loss has not yet been incurred, considering for their measurement past events and current conditions, as well as reasonable and supportable forecasts affecting collectability. CEMEX developed an expected credit loss model applicable to its trade accounts receivable that considers the historical performance and economic environment, as well as the credit risk and expected developments for each group of customers and applied the simplified approach upon adoption of IFRS 9. The effects of the adoption of IFRS 9 on January 1, 2018 related to the expected credit loss model represented an increase in the allowance for expected credit losses of $570 recognized against retained earnings, net of a deferred income tax asset of $154. The balances of such allowance and deferred tax assets increased from the reported amounts as of December 31, 2017 of $2,145 and $14,817, respectively, to $2,715 and $14,971 as of January 1, 2018, respectively, after the adoption effects. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 115 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report In connection with hedge accounting under IFRS 9, among other changes, there is a relief for entities in performing: a) the retrospective effectiveness test at inception of the hedging relationship; and b) the requirement to maintain a prospective effectiveness ratio between 0.8 and 1.25 at each reporting date for purposes of sustaining the hedging designation, both requirements of IAS 39. Under IFRS 9, a hedging relationship can be established to the extent the entity considers, based on the analysis of the overall characteristics of the hedging and hedged items, that the hedge will be highly effective in the future and the hedge relationship at inception is aligned with the entity’s reported risk management strategy. IFRS 9 maintains the same hedge accounting categories of cash flow hedge, fair value hedge and hedge of a net investment established in IAS 39, as well as the requirement of recognizing the ineffective portion of a cash flow hedge immediately in the income statement. CEMEX performed an analysis of its derivative financial instruments upon adoption of IFRS 9 on January 1, 2018 and determined that the changes in hedge accounting described above did not impact either the measurement or carrying amount of the assets and liabilities related to its derivative financial instruments and there was no effect on CEMEX´s retained earnings. IFRS 15, Revenues from contracts with customers (“IFRS 15”) (note 2.15) Under IFRS 15, an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, following a five step model: Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer (agreement that creates enforceable rights and obligations); Step 2: Identify the different performance obligations (promises) in the contract and account for those separately; Step 3: Determine the transaction price (amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services); Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling prices of each distinct good or service; and Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a promised good or service to the customer. A performance obligation may be satisfied at a point in time (typically for the sale of goods) or over time (typically for the sale of services and construction contracts). IFRS 15 also includes disclosure requirements to provide comprehensive information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from the entity’s contracts with customers. IFRS 15 was effective on January 1, 2018 and supersedes all existing guidance on revenue recognition. After an extensive analysis of its contracts with customers, business practices and operating systems for all the reported periods in all the countries in which the Company operates in order to review the different performance obligations and other promises (discounts, loyalty programs, rebates, etc.) included in such contracts, aimed to determine the differences in the accounting recognition of revenue with respect to prior IFRS, CEMEX adopted IFRS 15 on January 1, 2018 using the retrospective approach, without any significant effects on its operating results and financial situation, and restated the previously reported amounts of revenues for 2017 and 2016, resulting in an initial reclassification of other provisions to contract liabilities of $660 as of January 1, 2016, and a subsequent net decrease in revenue of $2 in 2016 and a net decrease in revenue of $8 in 2017 related to IFRS 15 (note 3). These changes in revenues refer to certain discounts and rebates included in certain contracts and were recognized against deferred revenue as contract liabilities in the statement of financial position after IFRS 15 effects (note 17). Changes in equity upon adoption were not significant. Discontinued operations (note 4.2) Considering the disposal of entire reportable operating segments, CEMEX’s income statements present in the single line item of “Discontinued Operations,” the results of: a) its construction materials operations in Brazil sold on September 27, 2018 for the years 2016, 2017 and the period from January 1 to September 27, 2018; b) its Pacific Northwest Materials Business operations in the United States sold on June 30, 2017 for the year 2016 and the six-months ended June 30, 2017; c) its Concrete Pipe Business operations in the United States sold on January 31, 2017 for the year 2016 and the one-month ended January 31, 2017; and d) its operations in Bangladesh and Thailand sold on May 26, 2016 for the period from January 1 to May 26, 2016. Discontinued Operations are presented net of income tax. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 116 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Income statements CEMEX includes the line item titled “Operating earnings before other expenses, net” considering that it is a relevant operating measure for CEMEX’s management. The line item “Other expenses, net” consists primarily of revenues and expenses not directly related to CEMEX’s main activities, including impairment losses of long-lived assets, results on disposal of assets and restructuring costs, among others (note 6). Under IFRS, the inclusion of certain subtotals such as “Operating earnings before other expenses, net” and the display of the statement of operations vary significantly by industry and company according to specific needs. Considering that it is an indicator of CEMEX’s ability to internally fund capital expenditures and to measure its ability to service or incur debt under its financing agreements, for purposes of notes 4.4 and 16, CEMEX presents “Operating EBITDA” (operating earnings before other expenses, net, plus depreciation and amortization). This is not an indicator of CEMEX’s financial performance, an alternative to cash flows, a measure of liquidity or comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. This indicator is used by CEMEX’s management for decision-making purposes. Statements of cash flows The statements of cash flows exclude the following transactions that did not represent sources or uses of cash: Financing activities: • In 2017 and 2016, in connection with the capitalization of retained earnings (note 20.1), the increases in common stock and additional paid-in capital associated against retained earnings for $9,464 and $6,970, respectively; and in connection with the CPOs issued as part of the executive share-based compensation programs (note 21), the total increases in equity for $706 in 2018, $817 in 2017 and $742 in 2016; • In 2017, in connection with the early conversion of part of the 2018 optional convertible subordinated notes (note 16.2), the decrease in debt for $5,468, the net decrease in “Other equity reserves” for $1,334, the increase in common stock for $4 and the increase in additional paid-in capital for $7,059; and • In 2016, the increase in debt and in other current accounts receivable for $148, in connection with a structure pursuant to which CEMEX Colombia, S.A. (“CEMEX Colombia”) guarantees the debt of a trust committed to the development of housing projects in Colombia. CEMEX Colombia in turn holds a beneficial interest in the assets of such trust, which are comprised by titles to land (note 10). Investing activities: • In 2018, 2017 and 2016, in connection with the finance leases negotiated during the year, the increases in property, plant and equipment for $88, $2,096 and $7, respectively (note 14). 2.2) Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include those of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and those of the entities in which the Parent Company exercises control, including structured entities (special purposes entities), by means of which the Parent Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee’s relevant activities. Balances and operations between related parties are eliminated in consolidation. Investments are accounted for by the equity method when CEMEX has significant influence which is generally presumed with a minimum equity interest of 20%. The equity method reflects in the financial statements, the investee’s original cost and CEMEX’s share of the investee’s equity and earnings after acquisition. The financial statements of joint ventures, which relate to those arrangements in which CEMEX and other third-party investors have joint control and have rights to the net assets of the arrangements, are recognized under the equity method. During the reported periods, CEMEX did not have joint operations, referring to those cases in which the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights over specific assets and obligations for specific liabilities relating to the arrangements. The equity method is discontinued when the carrying amount of the investment, including any long-term interest in the investee or joint venture, is reduced to zero, unless CEMEX has incurred or guaranteed additional obligations of the investee or joint venture. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 117 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 2.3) Use of estimates and critical assumptions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements; as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. These assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis using available information. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The items subject to significant estimates and assumptions by management include impairment tests of long-lived assets, recognition of deferred income tax assets, as well as the measurement of financial instruments at fair value, and the assets and liabilities related to employee benefits. Significant judgment is required by management to appropriately assess the amounts of these concepts. 2.4) Foreign currency transactions and translation of foreign currency financial statements Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of their execution. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing at the statement of financial position date, and the resulting foreign exchange fluctuations are recognized in earnings, except for exchange fluctuations arising from: 1) foreign currency indebtedness associated with the acquisition of foreign entities; and 2) fluctuations associated with related parties’ balances denominated in foreign currency, whose settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and as a result, such balances are of a permanent investment nature. These fluctuations are recorded against “Other equity reserves,” as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment (note 20.2) until the disposal of the foreign net investment, at which time, the accumulated amount is recycled through the statement of operations as part of the gain or loss on disposal. The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries, as determined using their respective functional currency, are translated to pesos at the closing exchange rate for statement of financial position accounts and at the closing exchange rates of each month within the period for statements of operations accounts. The functional currency is that in which each consolidated entity primarily generates and expends cash. The corresponding translation effect is included within “Other equity reserves” and is presented in the statement of other comprehensive income for the period as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment (note 20.2) until the disposal of the net investment in the foreign subsidiary. Considering its integrated activities, for purposes of functional currency, the Parent Company is considered to have two divisions, one related with its financial and holding company activities, in which the functional currency is the dollar for all assets, liabilities and transactions associated with these activities, and another division related with the Parent Company’s operating activities in Mexico, in which the functional currency is the peso for all assets, liabilities and transactions associated with these activities. The most significant closing exchange rates and the approximate average exchange rates for statement of financial position accounts and statement of operations accounts as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Currency Closing Average Closing Average Closing Average Dollar 19.6500 19.2583 19.6500 18.8800 20.7200 18.7200 Euro 22.5169 22.7036 23.5866 21.4122 21.7945 20.6564 British Pound Sterling 25.0557 25.6059 26.5361 24.4977 25.5361 25.0731 Colombian Peso 0.0060 0.0065 0.0066 0.0064 0.0069 0.0062 Egyptian Pound 1.0943 1.0806 1.1082 1.0620 1.1234 1.8261 Philippine Peso 0.3737 0.3655 0.3936 0.3747 0.4167 0.3927 The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are initially translated from their functional currencies into dollars and subsequently into pesos. Therefore, the foreign exchange rates presented in the table above between the functional currency and the peso represent the implied exchange rates resulting from this methodology. The peso to U.S. dollar exchange rate used by CEMEX is an average of free market rates available to settle its foreign currency transactions. No significant differences exist, in any case, between the foreign exchange rates used by CEMEX and those exchange rates published by the Central Bank of Mexico. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 118 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 2.5) Cash and cash equivalents (note 8) The balance in this caption is comprised of available amounts of cash and cash equivalents, mainly represented by highly-liquid short-term investments, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash, and which are not subject to significant risks of changes in their values, including overnight investments, which yield fixed returns and have maturities of less than three months from the investment date. These fixed-income investments are recorded at cost plus accrued interest. Accrued interest is included in the income statement as part of “Financial income and other items, net.” The amount of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position includes restricted cash and investments, comprised of deposits in margin accounts that guarantee certain of CEMEX’s obligations, to the extent that the restriction will be lifted in less than three months from the statement of financial position reporting date. When the restriction period is greater than three months, such restricted cash and investments are not considered cash equivalents and are included within short-term or long-term “Other accounts receivable,” as appropriate. When contracts contain provisions for net settlement, these restricted amounts of cash and cash equivalents are offset against the liabilities that CEMEX has with its counterparties. 2.6) Financial instruments As mentioned in note 2.1, IFRS 9 was adopted prospectively by CEMEX for the period starting January 1, 2018. The accounting policies under IFRS 9 are described as follows: Classification and measurement of financial instruments The financial assets that meet both of the following conditions and are not designated as at fair value through profit or loss: a) are held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows; and b) its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, are classified as “Held to collect” and measured at amortized cost. Amortized cost represents the net present value (“NPV”) of the consideration receivable or payable as of the transaction date. This classification of financial assets comprises the following captions: • Cash and cash equivalents (notes 2.5 and 8). • Trade receivables, other current accounts receivable and other current assets (notes 9 and 10). Due to their short-term nature, CEMEX initially recognizes these assets at the original invoiced or transaction amount less expected credit losses, as explained below. • Trade receivables sold under securitization programs, in which certain residual interest in the trade receivables sold in case of recovery failure and continued involvement in such assets is maintained, do not qualify for derecognition and are maintained in the statement of financial position (notes 9 and 16.2). • Investments and non-current accounts receivable (note 13.2). Subsequent changes in effects from amortized cost are recognized in the income statement as part of “Financial income and other items, net.” Certain strategic investments are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income within “Other equity reserves” (note 13.2). CEMEX does not maintain financial assets “Held to collect and sell” whose business model has the objective of collecting contractual cash flows and then selling those financial assets. The financial assets that are not classified as “Held to collect” or that do not have strategic characteristics fall into the residual category of held at fair value through the income statement as part of “Financial income and other items, net” (note 13.2). Debt instruments and other financial obligations are classified as “Loans” and measured at amortized cost (notes 16.1 and 16.2). Interest accrued on financial instruments is recognized within “Other accounts payable and accrued expenses” against financial expense. During the reported periods, CEMEX did not have financial liabilities voluntarily recognized at fair value or associated with fair value hedge strategies with derivative financial instruments. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 119 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Derivative financial instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position at their estimated fair values, and the changes in such fair values are recognized in the income statement within “Financial income and other items, net” for the period in which they occur, except in the case of hedging instruments as described below (note 16.4). Impairment of financial assets Impairment losses of financial assets, including trade accounts receivable, are recognized using the expected credit loss model for the entire lifetime of such financial assets on initial recognition, and at each subsequent reporting period, even in the absence of a credit event or if a loss has not yet been incurred, considering for their measurement past events and current conditions, as well as reasonable and supportable forecasts affecting collectability. Costs incurred in the issuance of debt or borrowings Direct costs incurred in debt issuances or borrowings, as well as debt refinancing or non-substantial modifications to debt agreements that did not represent an extinguishment of debt by considering that the holders and the relevant economic terms of the new instrument are not substantially different to the replaced instrument, adjust the carrying amount of the related debt and are amortized as interest expense as part of the effective interest rate of each instrument over its maturity. These costs include commissions and professional fees. Costs incurred in the extinguishment of debt, as well as debt refinancing or modifications to debt agreements, when the new instrument is substantially different from the old instrument according to a qualitative and quantitative analysis, are recognized in the income statement as incurred. Finance leases Finance leases are recognized as financing liabilities against a corresponding fixed asset for the lesser of the market value of the leased asset and the NPV of future minimum lease payments, using the contract’s implicit interest rate to the extent available, or the incremental borrowing cost. The main factors that determine a finance lease are: a) ownership title of the asset is transferred to CEMEX at the expiration of the contract; b) CEMEX has a bargain purchase option to acquire the asset at the end of the lease term; c) the lease term covers the majority of the useful life of the asset; and/or d) the NPV of minimum payments represents substantially all the fair value of the related asset at the beginning of the lease. Financial instruments with components of both liabilities and equity (note 16.2) Financial instruments that contain components of both liability and equity, such as notes convertible into a fixed number of the issuer’s shares and denominated its same functional currency, are accounted for by each component being recognized separately in the statement of financial position according to the specific characteristics of each transaction. In the case of instruments mandatorily convertible into shares of the issuer, the liability component represents the NPV of interest payments on the principal amount using a market interest rate, without assuming early conversion, and is recognized within “Other financial obligations,” whereas the equity component represents the difference between the principal amount and the liability component, and is recognized within “Other equity reserves,” net of commissions. In the case of instruments that are optionally convertible into a fixed number of shares, the liability component represents the difference between the principal amount and the fair value of the conversion option premium, which reflects the equity component (note 2.14). When the transaction is denominated in a currency different than the functional currency of the issuer, the conversion option is accounted for as a derivative financial instrument at fair value in the income statement. Hedging instruments (note 16.4) A hedging relationship is established to the extent the entity considers, based on the analysis of the overall characteristics of the hedging and hedged items, that the hedge will be highly effective in the future and the hedge relationship at inception is aligned with the entity’s reported risk management strategy (note 16.5). The accounting categories of hedging instruments are: a) cash flow hedge, b) fair value hedge of an asset or forecasted transaction; and c) hedge of a net investment in a subsidiary. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 120 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report In cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair value of derivative instruments are recognized in stockholders’ equity within “Other equity reserves” and are reclassified to earnings as the interest expense of the related debt is accrued, in the case of interest rate swaps, or when the underlying products are consumed in the case of contracts on the price of raw materials and commodities. In hedges of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, changes in fair value are recognized in stockholders’ equity as part of the foreign currency translation result within “Other equity reserves” (note 2.4), whose reversal to earnings would take place upon disposal of the foreign investment. During the reported periods, CEMEX did not have derivatives designated as fair value hedges. Derivative instruments are negotiated with institutions with significant financial capacity; therefore, CEMEX believes the risk of non-performance of the obligations agreed to by such counterparties to be minimal. Embedded derivative financial instruments CEMEX reviews its contracts to identify the existence of embedded derivatives. Identified embedded derivatives are analyzed to determine if they need to be separated from the host contract and recognized in the statement of financial position as assets or liabilities, applying the same valuation rules used for other derivative instruments. Put options granted for the purchase of non-controlling interests and investees Represent agreements by means of which a non-controlling interest has the right to sell, at a future date using a predefined price formula or at fair market value, its shares in a subsidiary of CEMEX. When the obligation should be settled in cash or through the delivery of another financial asset, CEMEX recognizes a liability for the NPV of the redemption amount as of the reporting date against the controlling interest within stockholders’ equity. A liability is not recognized under these agreements when the redemption amount is determined at fair market value at the exercise date and CEMEX has the election to settle using its own shares. In respect of a put option granted for the purchase of an investee, CEMEX would recognize a liability against a loss in the statements of operations whenever the estimated purchase price exceeds the fair value of the net assets to be acquired by CEMEX, had the counterparty exercised its right to sell. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no written put options. Fair value measurements (note 16.3) Under IFRS, fair value represents an “Exit Value” which is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, considering the counterparty’s credit risk in the valuation. The concept of Exit Value is premised on the existence of a market and market participants for the specific asset or liability. When there are no market and/or market participants willing to make a market, IFRS establishes a fair value hierarchy that gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to measurements involving significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: • Level 1.represent quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that CEMEX has the ability to access at the measurement date. A quoted price in an active market provides the most reliable evidence of fair value and is used without adjustment to measure fair value whenever available. • Level 2.are inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, and are used mainly to determine the fair value of securities, investments or loans that are not actively traded. Level 2 inputs included equity prices, certain interest rates and yield curves, implied volatility and credit spreads, among others, as well as inputs extrapolated from other observable inputs. In the absence of Level 1 inputs, CEMEX determined fair values by iteration of the applicable Level 2 inputs, the number of securities and/or the other relevant terms of the contract, as applicable. • Level 3.inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. CEMEX used unobservable inputs to determine fair values, to the extent there are no Level 1 or Level 2 inputs, in valuation models such as Black-Scholes, binomial, discounted cash flows or multiples of Operative EBITDA, including risk assumptions consistent with what market participants would use to arrive at fair value. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 121 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 2.7) Inventories (note 11) Inventories are valued using the lower of cost or net realizable value. The cost of inventories includes expenditures incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition. CEMEX analyzes its inventory balances to determine if, as a result of internal events, such as physical damage, or external events, such as technological changes or market conditions, certain portions of such balances have become obsolete or impaired. When an impairment situation arises, the inventory balance is adjusted to its net realizable value, whereas, if an obsolescence situation occurs, the inventory obsolescence reserve is increased. In both cases, these adjustments are recognized against the results of the period. Advances to suppliers of inventory are presented as part of other current assets. 2.8) Property, machinery and equipment (note 14) Property, machinery and equipment are recognized at their acquisition or construction cost, as applicable, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation of fixed assets is recognized as part of cost and operating expenses (note 5) and is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, except for mineral reserves, which are depleted using the units-of-production method. As of December 31, 2018, the average useful lives by category of fixed assets were as follows: Years Administrative buildings 32 Industrial buildings 29 Machinery and equipment in plant 16 Ready-mix trucks and motor vehicles 8 Office equipment and other assets 6 CEMEX capitalizes, as part of the related cost of fixed assets, interest expense from existing debt during the construction or installation period of significant fixed assets, considering CEMEX’s corporate average interest rate and the average balance of investments in process for the period. All waste removal costs or stripping costs incurred in the operative phase of a surface mine in order to access the mineral reserves are recognized as part of the carrying amount of the related quarries. The capitalized amounts are further amortized over the expected useful life of exposed ore body based on the units-of-production method. Costs incurred in respect of operating fixed assets that result in future economic benefits, such as an extension in their useful lives, an increase in their production capacity or in safety, as well as those costs incurred to mitigate or prevent environmental damage, are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related assets. The capitalized costs are depreciated over the remaining useful lives of such fixed assets. Periodic maintenance on fixed assets is expensed as incurred. Advances to suppliers of fixed assets are presented as part of other long-term accounts receivable. The useful lives and residual values of property, machinery and equipment are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. 2.9) Business combinations, goodwill and other intangible assets (notes 4.1 and 15) Business combinations are recognized using the acquisition method, by allocating the consideration transferred to assume control of the entity to all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Intangible assets acquired are identified and recognized at fair value. Any unallocated portion of the purchase price represents goodwill, which is not amortized and is subject to periodic impairment tests (note 2.10). Goodwill may be adjusted for any correction to the preliminary assessment given to the assets acquired and/or liabilities assumed within the twelve-month period after purchase. Costs associated with the acquisition are expensed in the income statement as incurred. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 122 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CEMEX capitalizes intangible assets acquired, as well as costs incurred in the development of intangible assets, when probable future economic benefits associated are identified and there is evidence of control over such benefits. Intangible assets are recognized at their acquisition or development cost, as applicable. Indefinite life intangible assets are not amortized since the period in which the benefits associated with such intangibles will terminate cannot be accurately established. Definite life intangible assets are amortized on straightline basis as part of operating costs and expenses (note 5). Startup costs are recognized in the income statement as they are incurred. Costs associated with research and development activities (“R&D activities”), performed by CEMEX to create products and services, as well as to develop processes, equipment and methods to optimize operational efficiency and reduce costs are recognized in the operating results as incurred. Direct costs incurred in the development stage of computer software for internal use are capitalized and amortized through the operating results over the useful life of the software, which on average is approximately 5 years. Costs incurred in exploration activities such as payments for rights to explore, topographical and geological studies, as well as trenching, among other items incurred to assess the technical and commercial feasibility of extracting a mineral resource, which are not significant to CEMEX, are capitalized when probable future economic benefits associated with such activities are identified. When extraction begins, these costs are amortized during the useful life of the quarry based on the estimated tons of material to be extracted. When future economic benefits are not achieved, any capitalized costs are subject to impairment. CEMEX’s extraction rights have maximum useful lives that range from 30 to 100 years, depending on the sector and the expected life of the related reserves. As of December 31, 2018, except for extraction rights and/or as otherwise indicated, CEMEX’s intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives that range on average from 3 to 20 years. 2.10) Impairment of long-lived assets (notes 14 and 15) Property, machinery and equipment, intangible assets of definite life and other investments These assets are tested for impairment upon the occurrence of a significant adverse event, changes in CEMEX’s operating business model or in technology that affect the asset, or expectations of lower operating results, to determine whether their carrying amounts may not be recovered. An impairment loss is recorded in the income statement for the period within “Other expenses, net” for the excess of the asset’s carrying amount over its recoverable amount, corresponding to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell the asset, as determined by external appraiser, and the asset’s value in use, the latter represented by the NPV of estimated cash flows related to the use and eventual disposal of the asset. The main assumptions utilized to develop estimates of NPV are a discount rate that reflects the risk of the cash flows associated with the assets and the estimations of generation of future income. Those assumptions are evaluated for reasonableness by comparing such discount rates to available market information and by comparing to third-party expectations of industry growth, such as governmental agencies or industry chambers. When impairment indicators exist, for each intangible asset, CEMEX determines its projected revenue streams over the estimated useful life of the asset. To obtain discounted cash flows attributable to each intangible asset, such revenue is adjusted for operating expenses, changes in working capital and other expenditures, as applicable, and discounted to NPV using the risk adjusted discount rate of return. The most significant economic assumptions are: a) the useful life of the asset; b) the risk adjusted discount rate of return; c) royalty rates; and d) growth rates. Assumptions used for these cash flows are consistent with internal forecasts and industry practices. The fair values of these assets are significantly sensitive to changes in such relevant assumptions. Certain key assumptions are more subjective than others. In respect of trademarks, CEMEX considers that the most subjective key assumption is the royalty rate. In respect of extraction rights and customer relationships, the most subjective assumptions are revenue growth rates and estimated useful lives. CEMEX validates its assumptions through benchmarking with industry practices and the corroboration of third-party valuation advisors. Significant judgment by management is required to appropriately assess the fair values and values in use of the related assets, as well as to determine the appropriate valuation method and select the significant economic assumptions. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 123 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Impairment of long-lived assets – Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment when required due to significant adverse changes or at least once a year, during the last quarter of such year. CEMEX determines the recoverable amount of the group of cash-generating units (“CGUs”) to which goodwill balances were allocated, which consists of the higher of such group of CGUs fair value less cost to sell and its value in use, the latter represented by the NPV of estimated future cash flows to be generated by such CGUs to which goodwill was allocated, which are generally determined over periods of 5 years. However, in specific circumstances, when CEMEX considers that actual results for a CGU do not fairly reflect historical performance and most external economic variables provide confidence that a reasonably determinable improvement in the mid-term is expected in their operating results, CEMEX uses cash flow projections over a period of up to 10 years, to the point in which future expected average performance resembles the historical average performance, to the extent CEMEX has detailed, explicit and reliable financial forecasts and is confident and can demonstrate its ability, based on past experience, to forecast cash flows accurately over that longer period. If the value in use of a group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated is lower than its corresponding carrying amount, CEMEX determines the fair value of such group of CGUs using methodologies generally accepted in the market to determine the value of entities, such as multiples of Operating EBITDA and by reference to other market transactions. An impairment loss is recognized within “Other expenses, net,” if the recoverable amount is lower than the net book value of the group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. Impairment charges recognized on goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods. The reportable segments reported by CEMEX (note 4.4), represent CEMEX’s groups of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, considering: a) that after the acquisition, goodwill was allocated at the level of the reportable segment; b) that the operating components that comprise the reported segment have similar economic characteristics; c) that the reported segments are used by CEMEX to organize and evaluate its activities in its internal information system; d) the homogeneous nature of the items produced and traded in each operative component, which are all used by the construction industry; e) the vertical integration in the value chain of the products comprising each component; f) the type of clients, which are substantially similar in all components; g) the operative integration among components; and h) that the compensation system of a specific country is based on the consolidated results of the geographic segment and not on the particular results of the components. In addition, the country level represents the lowest level within CEMEX at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Impairment tests are significantly sensitive to the estimation of future prices of CEMEX’s products, the development of operating expenses, local and international economic trends in the construction industry, the long-term growth expectations in the different markets, as well as the discount rates and the growth rates in perpetuity applied. For purposes of estimating future prices, CEMEX uses, to the extent available, historical data plus the expected increase or decrease according to information issued by trusted external sources, such as national construction or cement producer chambers and/or in governmental economic expectations. Operating expenses are normally measured as a constant proportion of revenues, following experience. However, such operating expenses are also reviewed considering external information sources in respect of inputs that behave according to international prices, such as oil and gas. CEMEX uses specific pre-tax discount rates for each group of CGUs to which goodwill is allocated, which are applied to discount pre-tax cash flows. The amounts of estimated undiscounted cash flows are significantly sensitive to the growth rate in perpetuity applied. Likewise, the amounts of discounted estimated future cash flows are significantly sensitive to the weighted average cost of capital (discount rate) applied. The higher the growth rate in perpetuity applied, the higher the amount of undiscounted future cash flows by group of CGUs obtained. Conversely, the higher the discount rate applied, the lower the amount of discounted estimated future cash flows by group of CGUs obtained. 2.11) Provisions CEMEX recognizes provisions when it has a legal or constructive obligation resulting from past events, whose resolution would require cash outflows, or the delivery of other resources owned by the Company. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, some significant proceedings that gave rise to a portion of the carrying amount of CEMEX’s other current and non-current liabilities and provisions are detailed in note 24.1. Considering guidance under IFRS, CEMEX recognizes provisions for levies imposed by governments until the obligating event or the activity that triggers the payment of the levy has occurred, as defined in the legislation. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 124 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Restructuring CEMEX recognizes provisions for restructuring when the restructuring detailed plans have been properly finalized and authorized by management and have been communicated to the third parties involved and/or affected by the restructuring prior to the statement of financial position’s date. These provisions may include costs not associated with CEMEX’s ongoing activities. Asset retirement obligations (note 17) Unavoidable obligations, legal or constructive, to restore operating sites upon retirement of long-lived assets at the end of their useful lives are measured at the NPV of estimated future cash flows to be incurred in the restoration process and are initially recognized against the related assets’ book value. The increase to the assets’ book value is depreciated during its remaining useful life. The increase in the liability related to adjustments to NPV by the passage of time is charged to the line item “Financial income and other items, net.” Adjustments to the liability for changes in estimations are recognized against fixed assets, and depreciation is modified prospectively. These obligations are related mainly to future costs of demolition, cleaning and reforestation, so that quarries, maritime terminals and other production sites are left in acceptable condition at the end of their operation. Costs related to remediation of the environment (notes 17 and 24) Provisions associated with environmental damage represent the estimated future cost of remediation, which are recognized at their nominal value when the time schedule for the disbursement is not clear, or when the economic effect for the passage of time is not significant; otherwise, such provisions are recognized at their discounted values. Reimbursements from insurance companies are recognized as assets only when their recovery is practically certain. In that case, such reimbursement assets are not offset against the provision for remediation costs. Contingencies and commitments (notes 23 and 24) Obligations or losses related to contingencies are recognized as liabilities in the statement of financial position only when present obligations exist resulting from past events that are probable to result in an outflow of resources and the amount can be measured reliably. Otherwise, a qualitative disclosure is included in the notes to the financial statements. The effects of long-term commitments established with third parties, such as supply contracts with suppliers or customers, are recognized in the financial statements on an incurred or accrued basis, after taking into consideration the substance of the agreements. Relevant commitments are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. The Company recognizes contingent revenues, income or assets only when their realization is virtually certain. 2.12) Pensions and other post-employment benefits (note 18) Defined contribution pension plans The costs of defined contribution pension plans are recognized in the operating results as they are incurred. Liabilities arising from such plans are settled through cash transfers to the employees’ retirement accounts, without generating future obligations. Defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefits The costs associated with employees’ benefits for: a) defined benefit pension plans; and b) other post-employment benefits, basically comprised of health care benefits, life insurance and seniority premiums, granted by CEMEX and/or pursuant to applicable law, are recognized as services are rendered, based on actuarial estimations of the benefits’ present value with the advice of external actuaries. For certain pension plans, CEMEX has created irrevocable trust funds to cover future benefit payments (“plan assets”). These plan assets are valued at their estimated fair value at the statement of financial position date. The actuarial assumptions and accounting policy consider: a) the use of nominal rates; b) a single rate is used for the determination of the expected return on plan assets and the discount of the benefits obligation to present value; c) a net interest is recognized on the net defined benefit liability (liability minus plan assets); and d) all actuarial gains and losses for the period, related to differences between the projected and real actuarial assumptions at the end of the period, as well as the difference between the expected and real return on plan assets, are recognized as part of “Other items of comprehensive income, net” within stockholders’ equity. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 125 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report The service cost, corresponding to the increase in the obligation for additional benefits earned by employees during the period, is recognized within operating costs and expenses. The net interest cost, resulting from the increase in obligations for changes in NPV and the change during the period in the estimated fair value of plan assets, is recognized within “Financial income and other items, net.” The effects from modifications to the pension plans that affect the cost of past services are recognized within operating costs and expenses over the period in which such modifications become effective to the employees or without delay if changes are effective immediately. Likewise, the effects from curtailments and/or settlements of obligations occurring during the period, associated with events that significantly reduce the cost of future services and/or reduce significantly the population subject to pension benefits, respectively, are recognized within operating costs and expenses. Termination benefits Termination benefits, not associated with a restructuring event, which mainly represent severance payments by law, are recognized in the operating results for the period in which they are incurred. 2.13) Income taxes (note 19) The effects reflected in the income statement for income taxes include the amounts incurred during the period and the amounts of deferred income taxes, determined according to the income tax law applicable to each subsidiary. Consolidated deferred income taxes represent the addition of the amounts determined in each subsidiary by applying the enacted statutory income tax rate to the total temporary differences resulting from comparing the book and taxable values of assets and liabilities, considering tax assets such as loss carryforwards and other recoverable taxes, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilized. The measurement of deferred income taxes at the reporting period reflects the tax consequences that follow the way in which CEMEX expects to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred income taxes for the period represent the difference between balances of deferred income taxes at the beginning and the end of the period. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities relating to different tax jurisdictions are not offset. According to IFRS, all items charged or credited directly in stockholders’ equity or as part of other comprehensive income or loss for the period are recognized net of their current and deferred income tax effects. The effect of a change in enacted statutory tax rates is recognized in the period in which the change is officially enacted. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced when it is not deemed probable that the related tax benefit will be realized, considering the aggregate amount of self-determined tax loss carryforwards that CEMEX believes will not be rejected by the tax authorities based on available evidence and the likelihood of recovering them prior to their expiration through an analysis of estimated future taxable income. If it is probable that the tax authorities would reject a self-determined deferred tax asset, CEMEX would decrease such asset. When it is considered that a deferred tax asset will not be recovered before its expiration, CEMEX would not recognize such deferred tax asset. Both situations would result in additional income tax expense for the period in which such determination is made. In order to determine whether it is probable that deferred tax assets will ultimately be recovered, CEMEX takes into consideration all available positive and negative evidence, including factors such as market conditions, industry analysis, expansion plans, projected taxable income, carryforward periods, current tax structure, potential changes or adjustments in tax structure, tax planning strategies, future reversals of existing temporary differences. Likewise, CEMEX analyzes its actual results versus the Company’s estimates, and adjusts, as necessary, its tax asset valuations. If actual results vary from CEMEX’s estimates, the deferred tax asset and/or valuations may be affected, and necessary adjustments will be made based on relevant information in CEMEX’s income statement for such period. The income tax effects from an uncertain tax position are recognized when is probable that the position will be sustained based on its technical merits and assuming that the tax authorities will examine each position and have full knowledge of all relevant information, and they are measured using a cumulative probability model. Each position has been considered on its own, regardless of its relation to any other broader tax settlement. The high probability threshold represents a positive assertion by management that CEMEX is entitled to the economic benefits of a tax position. If a tax position is considered not probable of being sustained, no benefits of the position are recognized. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recorded as part of the income tax in the consolidated income statements. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 126 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report The effective income tax rate is determined dividing the line item “Income Tax” by the line item “Earnings before income tax.” This effective tax rate is further reconciled to CEMEX’s statutory tax rate applicable in Mexico (note 19.3). A significant effect in CEMEX’s effective tax rate and consequently in the reconciliation of CEMEX’s effective tax rate, relates to the difference between the statutory income tax rate in Mexico of 30% against the applicable income tax rates of each country where CEMEX operates. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the statutory tax rates in CEMEX’s main operations were as follows: Country 2018 2017 2016 Mexico 30.0% 30.0% 30.0% United States 21.0% 35.0% 35.0% United Kingdom 19.3% 19.3% 20.0% France 34.4% 34.4% 34.4% Germany 28.2% 28.2% 28.2% Spain 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% Philippines 30.0% 30.0% 30.0% Colombia 37.0% 40.0% 40.0% Egypt 22.5% 22.5% 22.5% Others 7.8% 39.0% 7.8% 39.0% 7.8% 39.0% CEMEX’s current and deferred income tax amounts included in the income statement for the period are highly variable, and are subject, among other factors, to taxable income determined in each jurisdiction in which CEMEX operates. Such amounts of taxable income depend on factors such as sale volumes and prices, costs and expenses, exchange rates fluctuations and interest on debt, among others, as well as to the estimated tax assets at the end of the period due to the expected future generation of taxable gains in each jurisdiction. 2.14) Stockholders’ equity Common stock and additional paid-in capital (note 20.1) These items represent the value of stockholders’ contributions, and include increases related to the capitalization of retained earnings and the recognition of executive compensation programs in CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.’s CPOs as well as decreases associated with the restitution of retained earnings. Other equity reserves (note 20.2) Groups the cumulative effects of items and transactions that are, temporarily or permanently, recognized directly to stockholders’ equity, and includes the comprehensive income, which reflects certain changes in stockholders’ equity that do not result from investments by owners and distributions to owners. The most significant items within “Other equity reserves” during the reported periods are as follows: Items of “Other equity reserves” included within other comprehensive income: • Currency translation effects from the translation of foreign subsidiaries, net of: a) exchange results from foreign currency debt directly related to the acquisition of foreign subsidiaries; and b) exchange results from foreign currency related parties’ balances that are of a non-current investment class (note 2.4); • The effective portion of the valuation and liquidation effects from derivative instruments under cash flow hedging relationships, which are recorded temporarily in stockholders’ equity (note 2.6); • Changes in fair value of other investments in strategic securities (note 2.6); and • Current and deferred income taxes during the period arising from items whose effects are directly recognized in stockholders’ equity. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 127 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Items of “Other equity reserves” not included in comprehensive income: • Effects related to controlling stockholders’ equity for changes or transactions affecting non-controlling interest stockholders in CEMEX’s consolidated subsidiaries; • Effects attributable to controlling stockholders’ equity for financial instruments issued by consolidated subsidiaries that qualify for accounting purposes as equity instruments, such as the interest expense paid on perpetual debentures; • The equity component of securities which are mandatorily or optionally convertible into shares of the Parent Company (notes 2.6 and 16.2). Upon conversion, this amount will be reclassified to common stock and additional paid-in capital; and • The cancellation of the Parent Company’s shares held by consolidated entities. Retained earnings (note 20.3) Retained earnings represent the cumulative net results of prior years, net of: a) dividends declared; b) capitalization of retained earnings; c) restitution of retained earnings when applicable; and d) cumulative effects from adoption of new IFRS. Non-controlling interest and perpetual debentures (note 20.4) This caption includes the share of non-controlling stockholders in the results and equity of consolidated subsidiaries. This caption also includes the nominal amounts of financial instruments (perpetual notes) issued by consolidated entities that qualify as equity instruments considering that there is: a) no contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset; b) no predefined maturity date; and c) a unilateral option to defer interest payments or preferred dividends for indeterminate periods. 2.15) Revenue recognition (note 3) As mentioned in note 2.1, CEMEX adopted IFRS 15 on January 1, 2018 using the retrospective approach. CEMEX policies under IFRS 15 are as follows: Revenue is recognized at a point in time or over time in the amount of the price, before tax on sales, expected to be received by CEMEX’s subsidiaries for goods and services supplied as a result of their ordinary activities, as contractual performance obligations are fulfilled, and control of goods and services passes to the customer. Revenues are decreased by any trade discounts or volume rebates granted to customers. Transactions between related parties are eliminated in consolidation. Variable consideration is recognized when it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized for the contract will not occur and is measured using the expected value or the most likely amount method, whichever is expected to better predict the amount based on the terms and conditions of the contract. Revenue and costs from trading activities, in which CEMEX acquires finished goods from a third party and subsequently sells the goods to another third-party, are recognized on a gross basis, considering that CEMEX assumes ownership risks on the goods purchased, not acting as agent or broker. When revenue is earned over time as contractual performance obligations are satisfied, which is the case of construction contracts, CEMEX apply the stage of completion method to measure revenue, which represents: a) the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs; b) the surveys of work performed; or c) the physical proportion of the contract work completed, whichever better reflects the percentage of completion under the specific circumstances. Revenue and costs related to such construction contracts are recognized in the period in which the work is performed by reference to the contract’s stage of completion at the end of the period, considering that the following have been defined: a) each party’s enforceable rights regarding the asset under construction; b) the consideration to be exchanged; c) the manner and terms of settlement; d) actual costs incurred and contract costs required to complete the asset are effectively controlled; and e) it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the entity. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 128 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Progress payments and advances received from customers do not reflect the work performed and are recognized as a short-term or longterm advanced payments, as appropriate. 2.16) Cost of sales and operating expenses (note 5) Cost of sales represents the production cost of inventories at the moment of sale. Such cost of sales includes depreciation, amortization and depletion of assets involved in production, expenses related to storage in production plants and freight expenses of raw material in plants and delivery expenses of CEMEX’s ready-mix concrete business. Administrative expenses represent the expenses associated with personnel, services and equipment, including depreciation and amortization, related to managerial activities and back office for the Company’s management. Sales expenses represent the expenses associated with personnel, services and equipment, including depreciation and amortization, involved specifically in sales activities. Distribution and logistics expenses refer to expenses of storage at points of sales, including depreciation and amortization, as well as freight expenses of finished products between plants and points of sale and freight expenses between points of sales and the customers’ facilities. 2.17) Executive share-based compensation (note 21) Share-based payments to executives are defined as equity instruments when services received from employees are settled by delivering shares of the Parent Company and/or a subsidiary; or as liability instruments when CEMEX commits to make cash payments to the executives on the exercise date of the awards based on changes in the Parent Company and/or subsidiary’s own stock (intrinsic value). The cost of equity instruments represents their estimated fair value at the date of grant and is recognized in the income statement during the period in which the exercise rights of the employees become vested. In respect of liability instruments, these instruments are valued at their estimated fair value at each reporting date, recognizing the changes in fair value through the operating results. 2.18) Emission rights In certain countries where CEMEX operates, such as EU countries, mechanisms aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions (“CO2”) have been established by means of which, the relevant environmental authorities have granted certain number of emission rights (“certificates”) free of cost to the different industries releasing CO2 , which must submit to such environmental authorities at the end of a compliance period, certificates for a volume equivalent to the tons of CO2 released. Companies must obtain additional certificates to meet deficits between actual CO2 emissions during the compliance period and certificates received, or they can dispose of any surplus of certificates in the market. In addition, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (“UNFCCC”) grants Certified Emission Reductions (“CERs”) to qualified CO2 emission reduction projects. CERs may be used in specified proportions to settle emission rights obligations in the EU. CEMEX actively participates in the development of projects aimed to reduce CO2 emissions. Some of these projects have been awarded with CERs. CEMEX does not maintain emission rights, CERs and/or enter into forward transactions with trading purposes. CEMEX accounts for the effects associated with CO2 emission reduction mechanisms as follows: • Certificates received for free are not recognized in the statement of financial position. Revenues from the sale of any surplus of certificates are recognized by decreasing cost of sales. In forward sale transactions, revenues are recognized upon physical delivery of the emission certificates. • Certificates and/or CERs acquired to hedge current CO2 emissions are recognized as intangible assets at cost and are further amortized to cost of sales during the compliance period. In the case of forward purchases, assets are recognized upon physical reception of the certificates. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 129 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report • CEMEX accrues a provision against cost of sales when the estimated annual emissions of CO2 are expected to exceed the number of emission rights, net of any benefit obtained through swap transactions of emission rights for CERs. • CERs received from the UNFCCC are recognized as intangible assets at their development cost, which are attributable mainly to legal expenses incurred in the process of obtaining such CERs. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, there were no sales of emission rights to third parties. In addition, in certain countries, the environmental authorities impose levies per ton of CO2 or other greenhouse gases released. Such expenses are recognized as part of cost of sales as incurred. 2.19) Concentration of credit CEMEX sells its products primarily to distributors in the construction industry, with no specific geographic concentration within the countries in which CEMEX operates. As of and for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, no single customer individually accounted for a significant amount of the reported amounts of sales or in the balances of trade receivables. In addition, there is no significant concentration of a specific supplier relating to the purchase of raw materials. 2.20) Newly issued IFRS not yet adopted IFRS issued as of the date of issuance of these financial statements which have not yet been adopted are described as follow: IFRS 16, Leases (“IFRS 16”) IFRS 16 defines leases as any contract or part of a contract that conveys to the lessee the right to use an asset for a period in exchange for consideration and the lessee directs the use of the identified asset throughout that period. IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model, and requires a lessee to recognize, for all leases, allowing exemptions in case of the leases with a term of less than 12 months or when the underlying asset is of low value, assets for the right-of-use the underlying asset against a corresponding financial liability, representing the NPV of estimated lease payments under the contract, with a single income statement model in which a lessee recognizes amortization of the right-of-use asset and interest on the lease liability. A lessee shall present either in the statement of financial position, or disclose in the notes, right-of-use assets separately from other assets, as well as, lease liabilities separately from other liabilities. IFRS 16 is effective beginning January 1, 2019 and will supersede all current standards and interpretations related to lease accounting. As of December 31, 2018, by means of analyses of its outstanding lease contracts and other contracts that may have embedded the use of an asset and the assessment of the most relevant characteristics of such contracts (types of assets, committed payments, maturity dates, renewal clauses, etc.), CEMEX has substantially concluded the inventory and measurement of its leases for purposes of adopting IFRS 16 and is in its final review. Moreover, CEMEX has defined its accounting policy under IFRS 16 and will apply the recognition exception for shortterm leases and low-value assets, as well as the practical expedient to not separate the non-lease component from the lease component included in the same contract. CEMEX will adopt IFRS 16 using the full retrospective approach pursuant to which prior periods will be restated. Upon adoption of IFRS 16 beginning on January 1, 2019, CEMEX has estimated a range for its opening statement of financial position effects as of January 1, 2017, as follows: As of January 1, 2017 Low High Assets for the right-of-use US$ 920 942 Financial liabilities (1,030) (1,060) Retained earnings 1 US$ (110) (118) 1 The effect refers to a timing difference between depreciation expense of the assets calculated under the straight-line method and the interest expense from the liability determined under the effective interest rate method since the beginning of the contracts. This difference will reverse over the remaining life of the contracts. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 130 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report In addition to IFRS 16, there are several amendments or new IFRS issued but not yet effective which are under analysis and the Company’s management expects to adopt in their specific effective dates considering preliminarily without any significant effect in the Company’s financial position or operating results, and which are summarized as follows: Standard Main topic Effective date Amendments to IFRS 9 Prepayment features with negative compensation do not automatically preclude January 1, 2019 amortized cost accounting. IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over income tax When an entity concludes that it is not probable that a particular tax treatment January 1, 2019 treatments is accepted, the decision should be based on which method provides better predictions of the resolution of the uncertainty. Amendments to IAS 28, Long-term interests The amendment clarifies that IFRS 9, including its impairment requirements, January 1, 2019 in associates and joint ventures (“IAS 28”) applies to long‑term interests. Amendments to IAS 12, Income taxes Clarify that an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of dividends January 1, 2019 in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or equity according to where the entity originally recognized the transactions that generated the distributable profits. Amendments to IAS 23, Borrowing costs Clarify that if any specific borrowing remains outstanding after the related asset is January 1, 2019 ready for its intended use or sale, that borrowing becomes part of the funds that an entity borrows generally when calculating the capitalization rate on general borrowings. Amendments to IFRS 3, Business combinations Clarify that when an entity obtains control of a business that is a joint operation, January 1, 2019 the entity applies the requirements for a business combination achieved in stages, including remeasuring its previously held interest in the joint operation at fair value. Amendments to IAS 19, Employee benefits Clarify that the past service cost (or of the gain or loss on settlement) is calculated January 1, 2019 by measuring the defined benefit liability (asset) using updated assumptions and comparing benefits offered and plan assets before and after the plan amendment (or curtailment or settlement) but ignoring the effect of the asset ceiling (that may arise when the defined benefit plan is in a surplus position). Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated Clarify the recognition of gains or losses in the Parent’s financial statements for Has yet to be set financial statements and IAS 28 the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture IFRS 17, Insurance contracts The new Standard establishes the principles for the recognition, measurement, January 1, 2021 presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts and supersedes IFRS 4, Insurance contracts. The Standard outlines a General Model, which is modified for insurance contracts with direct participation features, described as the Variable Fee Approach. The General Model is simplified if certain criteria are met by measuring the liability for remaining coverage using the Premium Allocation Approach. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 131 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 3) REVENUE AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS CEMEX’s revenues are mainly originated from the sale and distribution of cement, ready-mix concrete, aggregates and other construction materials and services. CEMEX grants credit for terms ranging from 15 to 90 days depending of the type and risk of each customer. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, revenue, after eliminations between related parties resulting from consolidation, is as follows: 2018 2017 2016 From the sale of goods associated to CEMEX’s main activities 1 $ 265,584 246,135 239,230 From the sale of services 2 3,064 3,313 3,110 From the sale of other goods and services 3 8,207 7,989 7,137 $ 276,855 257,437 249,477 1 Includes in each period revenue generated under construction contracts that are presented in the table below. 2 Refers mainly to revenues generated by Neoris N.V. and its subsidiaries, involved in providing information technology solutions and services. 3 Refers mainly to revenues generated by subsidiaries not individually significant operating in different lines of business. Information of revenues by reportable segment and line of business for the years 2018, 2017 and 2016 is presented in note 4.4. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, amounts receivable for progress billings to customers of construction contracts and/or advances received by CEMEX from these customers were not significant. For 2018, 2017 and 2016, revenues and costs related to construction contracts in progress were as follows: Accrued 1 2018 2017 2016 Revenue from construction contracts included in consolidated revenues 2 $ 1,063 1,383 992 1,033 Costs incurred in construction contracts included in consolidated cost of sales 3 (1,055) (1,312) (1,205) (1,133) Construction contracts gross operating profit (loss) $ 8 71 (213) (100) 1 Revenues and costs recognized from inception of the contracts until December 31, 2018 in connection with those projects still in progress. 2 Revenues from construction contracts during 2018, 2017 and 2016, were mainly obtained in Mexico and Colombia. 3 Refers to actual costs incurred during the periods. Under IFRS 15, some commercial practices of CEMEX, in the form of certain promotions and/or discounts and rebates offered as part of the sale transaction, result in that a portion of the transaction price should be allocated to such commercial incentives as separate performance obligations, recognized as contract liabilities with customers, and deferred to the income statement during the period in which the incentive is exercised by the customer or until it expires. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 changes in the balance of contract liabilities with customers are as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Opening balance of contract liabilities with customers $ 770 645 660 Increase during the period for new transactions 1,070 1,156 1,040 Decrease during the period for exercise or expiration of incentives (890) (1,148) (1,038) Currency translation effects (175) 117 (17) Closing balance of contract liabilities with customers $ 775 770 645 For the years 2018, 2017 and 2016, CEMEX did not identify any costs required to be capitalized as contract fulfilment assets and released over the contract life according to IFRS 15. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 132 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 4) BUSINESS COMBINATIONS, DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, SALE OF OTHER DISPOSAL GROUPS AND SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY REPORTABLE SEGMENT AND LINE OF BUSINESS 4.1) Business combinations On December 5, 2016, through its subsidiary Sierra Trading (“Sierra”), CEMEX presented an offer and take-over bid, which was amended on January 9, 2017 (the “Offer”), to all shareholders of Trinidad Cement Limited (“TCL”), a company publicly listed in Trinidad and Tobago, to acquire up to 132,616,942 ordinary shares in TCL (equivalent to approximately 30.2% of TCL’s common stock). TCL’s main operations are in Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica and Barbados. TCL shares deposited in response to the Offer together with Sierra’s then existing 39.5% shareholding in TCL represented approximately 69.8% of the outstanding shares of TCL. The total consideration paid by Sierra for the TCL shares under the Offer was US$86 ($1,791). CEMEX started consolidating TCL on February 1, 2017. CEMEX determined a fair value of TCL’s assets as of February 1, 2017 of US$531 ($11,061), which considered a price of TT$5.07 per share for the percentage acquired in the Offer and TT$4.15 per share, or the market price before the Offer, for the remaining shares, and US$113 ($2,354) of debt assumed, among other effects. The purchase of TCL represented a step acquisition. As a result, the remeasurement of CEMEX’s previous held ownership interest in TCL of 39.5% generated a gain of US$32 ($623) in 2017 as part of “Financial income and other items, net.” All convenience translations to pesos above consider an exchange rate of 20.83 pesos per dollar as of February 1, 2017. After concluding in 2018 the allocation of TCL’s fair value to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the statement of financial position of TCL at the acquisition date of February 1, 2017 was as follows: As of February 1, 2017 Current assets US$ 84 Property, machinery and equipment 331 Intangible assets and other non-current assets (includes goodwill of US$106) 116 Total assets 531 Current liabilities (includes debt of US$47) 122 Non-current liabilities (includes debt of US$97 and deferred tax liabilities of US$19) 160 Total liabilities 282 Net assets US$ 249 Non-controlling interest net assets 70 Controlling interest net assets US$ 179 In addition, in August 2018, a subsidiary of CEMEX in the United Kingdom acquired all the shares of the ready-mix producer Procon Readymix Ltd (“Procon”) for an amount in pounds sterling equivalent to US$22, considering the pound sterling to dollar exchange rate as of August 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2018, based on the preliminary valuation of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the net assets of Procon amount to US$10 ($196) and goodwill was determined in the amount of US$12 ($244). 4.2) Discontinued operations On September 27, 2018, CEMEX concluded the sale of its construction materials operations in Brazil (the “Brazilian Operations”) through the sale to Votorantim Cimentos N/NE S.A. of all the shares of CEMEX’s Brazilian subsidiary Cimento Vencemos Do Amazonas Ltda, consisting of a fluvial cement distribution terminal located in Manaus, Amazonas province, as well as the operation license. The sale price was US$31 ($580). CEMEX determined a net gain on sale of US$12 ($234), including a withholding tax expense of US$3 and the reclassification of a foreign currency translation loss accrued in equity of US$7 ($140). CEMEX’s Brazilian Operations for the period from January 1 to September 27, 2018 and the years 2017 and 2016 were reclassified to the single line item “Discontinued Operations.” 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 133 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report On June 30, 2017, CEMEX concluded the sale of its Pacific Northwest Materials Business consisting of aggregate, asphalt and ready-mix concrete operations in Oregon and Washington to Cadman Materials, Inc., a subsidiary of HeidelbergCement Group, for US$150. CEMEX determined a net gain on disposal of these assets of US$22 ($399), which included a proportional allocation of goodwill of US$73 ($1,324). Considering the disposal of its Pacific Northwest Materials Business, the operations of that business for the six-month period ending June 30, 2017 and for the year 2016 were reclassified to the single line item “Discontinued Operations.” On January 31, 2017, CEMEX concluded the sale of its Concrete Reinforced Pipe Manufacturing Business (“Concrete Pipe Business”) in the United States to Quikrete Holdings, Inc. for US$500 plus an additional US$40 contingent consideration based on future performance. CEMEX determined a net gain on disposal of these assets for US$148 ($3,083), which included a proportional allocation of goodwill of US$260 ($5,369). Considering the disposal of the entire Concrete Pipe Business, its operations for the one-month period ending January 31, 2017 and the year 2016 were reclassified to the single line item “Discontinued Operations.” On May 26, 2016, CEMEX closed the sale of its operations in Bangladesh and Thailand to Siam City Cement Public Company Ltd. for US$70 ($1,450). CEMEX determined a gain on sale of US$24 ($424) net of the reclassification of foreign currency translation gains accrued in equity of US$7 ($122). The operations in Bangladesh and Thailand for the period from January 1 to May 26, 2016, included in CEMEX’s income statements, were reclassified to the single line item “Discontinued Operations.” The following table presents condensed combined information of the statement of operations of CEMEX’s discontinued operations in Brazil for the period from January 1 to September 27, 2018 and for the years 2017 and 2016, in the Pacific Northwest Materials Business in the United States for the six-months period ended June 30, 2017 and for the year 2016; the Concrete Pipe Business operations in the United States for the one-month period ended January 31, 2017 and for the year 2016, and the operations in Bangladesh and Thailand for the period from January 1 to May 26, 2016: 2018 2017 2016 Sales $ 503 2,235 9,445 Cost of sales and operating expenses (495) (2,257) (8,983) Other products (expenses), net (1) 14 (3) Financial expenses, net and others (5) – (32) Earnings before income tax 2 (8) 427 Income tax (6) (1) (102) Result of discontinued operations (4) (9) 325 Disposal result, withholding taxes and reclassification of currency translation effects 216 3,470 388 Net result of discontinued operations $ 212 3,461 713 As of December 31, 2017, the condensed information of the statement of financial position of the Brazilian Operations was as follows: 2017 Current assets $ 148 Property, machinery and equipment, net and other non-current assets 140 Total assets 288 Current liabilities 66 Non-current liabilities – Total liabilities 66 Net assets $ 222 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 134 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 4.3) Other disposal groups As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX is in negotiations for the sale of its ready-mix and aggregates business in the central region of France. The transaction is subject to several customary authorizations and CEMEX expects to conclude this sale in the short-term. The assets and liabilities of this business are presented as assets held for sale and liabilities directly related in the statement of financial position as of December 31, 2018, including a proportional allocation of goodwill related to this reporting segment of US$22 ($439). On November 18, 2016, a subsidiary of CEMEX in the United States closed the sale to an affiliate of Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua, S.A.B. de C.V. (“GCC”) of certain assets consisting of CEMEX’s cement plant in Odessa, Texas, two cement terminals and the building materials business in El Paso, Texas and Las Cruces, New Mexico, for an amount of US$306 ($6,340). The Odessa plant had an annual production capacity of approximately 537 thousand metric tons (unaudited). The transfer of control was effective on November 18, 2016. As a result of the sale of these assets, CEMEX recognized in 2016 a gain of US$104 ($2,159) as part of “Other expenses, net” in the income statement of 2016, net of an expense for the proportional write-off of goodwill associated to CEMEX’s reporting segment in the United States based on their relative fair values for US$161 ($3,340) and the reclassification of proportional foreign currency translation gains associated with these net assets accrued in equity until disposal for US$65 ($1,347). On September 12, 2016, CEMEX announced that one of its subsidiaries in the United States signed a definitive agreement for the sale of its Fairborn, Ohio cement plant and cement terminal in Columbus, Ohio to Eagle Materials Inc. (“Eagle Materials”) for US$400 ($8,288). Fairborn plant had an annual production capacity of approximately 730 thousand metric tons (unaudited). On February 10, 2017, CEMEX closed the divestment of these assets, and recognized in 2017 a gain on disposal for US$188 ($3,694) as part of “Other expenses, net” in the income statement, net of an expense for the proportional write-off of goodwill associated to CEMEX’s reporting segment in the United States based on their relative fair values for US$211 ($4,365). The operations of the net assets in the central region of France and those sold to GCC and Eagle Materials, mentioned above, did not represent discontinued operations and were consolidated by CEMEX line-by-line in the income statements for the year 2018, 2017 and 2016, until their disposal. In arriving at this conclusion, CEMEX evaluated: a) the Company’s ongoing operations in France and cement operations of its CGUs in Texas and the Mid-West; and b) the relative size of the net assets sold and held for sale in respect to the Company’s remaining overall ongoing operations in France and the United States. Moreover, as a reasonability check, CEMEX measured the materiality of such net assets as a percentage of consolidated net sales, operating earnings before other expenses, net, net income and total assets. The percentage was not material in any case. For the year 2018, 2017 and 2016, selected combined income statement information of the net assets in the central region of France and those sold to GCC and Eagle Materials, until their disposal, was as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Net sales $ 1,169 1,194 4,544 Operating costs and expenses (1,205) (1,201) (4,064) Operating earnings (losses) before other expenses, net $ (36) (7) 480 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 135 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018, the condensed balance sheet of the net assets expected to be sold in the central region of France was as follows: 2018 Current assets $ 189 Non-current assets 763 Total assets of the disposal group 952 Current liabilities 211 Non-current liabilities 103 Total liabilities directly related to disposal group 314 Total net assets of disposal group $ 638 In addition, on April 28, 2017, CEMEX concluded the sale of its assets and activities related to the ready-mix concrete pumping business in Mexico to Cementos Españoles de Bombeo, S. de R.L., subsidiary in Mexico of Pumping Team S.L.L. (“Pumping Team”), specialist in the supply of ready-mix concrete pumping services based in Spain, for an aggregate price of $1,649, which included the sale of fixed assets for $309, plus administrative and client and market development services, as well as the lease of facilities in Mexico that CEMEX will supply to Pumping Team over a period of ten years with the possibility to extend for three additional years, for an aggregate initial amount of $1,340, which are recognized each period as services are rendered. There is the possibility of a contingent revenue subject to results for up to $557 linked to annual metrics beginning in the first year and up to the fifth year of the agreement. For the first year of operation under the agreements from May 2017 to April 2018, CEMEX received $25 of this contingent revenue. 4.4) Selected financial information by reportable segment and line of business Reportable segments represent the components of CEMEX that engage in business activities from which CEMEX may earn revenues and incur expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s top management to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and assess their performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. CEMEX operates geographically and by business on a regional basis. For the reported periods, the Company’s operations were organized in five geographical regions, each under the supervision of a regional president, as follows: 1) Mexico, 2) United States, 3) Europe, 4) South, Central America and the Caribbean (“SCA&C”), and 5) Asia, Middle East and Africa (“AMEA”). The accounting policies applied to determine the financial information by reportable segment are consistent with those described in note 2. Considering similar regional and economic characteristics and/or materiality, certain countries have been aggregated and presented as single line items as follows: a) “Rest of Europe” refers mainly to CEMEX’s operations and activities in Croatia, Latvia, Scandinavia and Finland; b) “Rest of South, Central America and the Caribbean” refers mainly to CEMEX’s operations and activities in Puerto Rico, Nicaragua, Jamaica, the Caribbean, Guatemala and El Salvador, excluding the acquired operations of TCL; c) “Caribbean TCL” refers to TCL’s operations mainly in Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Guyana and Barbados; and d) “Rest of Asia, Middle East and Africa” refers mainly to CEMEX’s operations in the United Arab Emirates. The segment “Others” refers to: 1) cement trade maritime operations, 2) Neoris N.V., CEMEX’s subsidiary involved in the business of information technology solutions, 3) the Parent Company, other corporate entities and finance subsidiaries, and 4) other minor subsidiaries with different lines of business. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 136 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Selected information of the consolidated income statements by reportable segment for the years 2018, 2017 and 2016, excluding the share of profits of equity accounted investees by reportable segment that is included in the note 13.1, was as follows: Revenues Less: Operating (including Less: Depreciation earnings Other Other intragroup Intragroup Operating and before other expenses, Financial financing 2018 transactions) transactions Revenues EBITDA amortization expenses, net net expense items, net Mexico $ 63,543 (1,759) 61,784 22,204 2,198 20,006 (626) (469) (29) United States 72,345 – 72,345 12,069 5,917 6,152 (362) (571) (217) Europe United Kingdom 20,431 – 20,431 2,071 1,064 1,007 133 (67) (406) France 18,308 – 18,308 1,272 577 695 (959) (62) (3) Germany 10,836 (1,450) 9,386 748 531 217 (152) (14) (79) Spain 7,627 (898) 6,729 220 662 (442) (303) (43) 58 Poland 6,989 (80) 6,909 783 390 393 8 (4) 7 Czech Republic 3,796 (31) 3,765 867 300 567 16 (2) (36) Rest of Europe 6,365 (869) 5,496 747 375 372 (447) (10) (10) SCA&C Colombia 1 10,088 – 10,088 1,845 533 1,312 (251) (132) (483) Panama 1 4,490 (226) 4,264 1,234 313 921 (52) (4) 3 Costa Rica 1 2,674 (274) 2,400 873 91 782 (5) (2) 148 Caribbean TCL 3 4,893 (99) 4,794 1,080 375 705 (316) (48) (28) Dominican Republic 4,218 (310) 3,908 1,153 180 973 (17) (7) (64) Rest of SCA&C 1 7,781 (393) 7,388 1,427 170 1,257 (128) (15) 70 AMEA Philippines 2 8,612 – 8,612 1,183 523 660 54 (20) (50) Egypt 4,586 – 4,586 529 303 226 (176) (29) (70) Israel 12,128 – 12,128 1,548 292 1,256 8 (36) (8) Rest of AMEA 2,263 – 2,263 352 88 264 (4) (3) (5) Others 24,667 (13,396) 11,271 (2,939) 1,188 (4,127) (2,258) (11,059) 1,298 Continuing operations 296,640 (19,785) 276,855 49,266 16,070 33,196 (5,837) (12,597) 96 Discontinued operations 503 – 503 11 3 8 (1) – (5) Total $ 297,143 (19,785) 277,358 49,277 16,073 33,204 (5,838) (12,597) 91 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 137 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Revenues Less: Operating (including Less: Depreciation earnings Other Other intragroup Intragroup Operating and before other expenses, Financial financing 2017 transactions) transactions Revenues EBITDA amortization expenses, net net expense items, net Mexico $ 58,442 (1,075) 57,367 21,215 2,246 18,969 (687) (409) (534) United States 65,536 – 65,536 10,652 6,200 4,452 3,202 (631) (177) Europe United Kingdom 20,179 – 20,179 2,763 997 1,766 450 (77) (397) France 16,162 – 16,162 855 549 306 (129) (61) 18 Germany 10,056 (1,339) 8,717 743 509 234 (11) (14) (63) Spain 6,870 (990) 5,880 344 638 (294) (711) (34) 12 Poland 5,552 (74) 5,478 647 361 286 (140) (30) (8) Czech Republic 3,450 (33) 3,417 815 333 482 37 44 53 Rest of Europe 5,989 (831) 5,158 648 355 293 (168) (68) 18 SCA&C Colombia 1 10,685 – 10,685 2,166 507 1,659 (642) (129) (36) Panama 1 5,112 (98) 5,014 2,007 319 1,688 (20) (5) 7 Costa Rica 1 2,805 (379) 2,426 1,000 99 901 – (5) 29 Caribbean TCL 3 4,332 (49) 4,283 1,059 610 449 (139) (215) (25) Dominican Republic 3,913 (339) 3,574 1,073 191 882 (23) (10) (5) Rest of SCA&C 1 7,803 (533) 7,270 1,529 258 1,271 (1,046) (13) (7) AMEA Philippines 2 8,296 – 8,296 1,394 528 866 89 (3) (24) Egypt 3,862 – 3,862 594 299 295 (210) (60) 574 Israel 11,377 – 11,377 1,469 287 1,182 (15) 3 21 Rest of AMEA 2,139 – 2,139 386 76 310 (159) (31) (9) Others 21,820 (11,203) 10,617 (2,759) 626 (3,385) (3,493) (17,553) 4,169 Continuing operations 274,380 (16,943) 257,437 48,600 15,988 32,612 (3,815) (19,301) 3,616 Discontinued operations 2,235 – 2,235 39 61 (22) 14 – – Total $ 276,615 (16,943) 259,672 48,639 16,049 32,590 (3,801) (19,301) 3,616 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 138 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Revenues Less: Operating (including Less: Depreciation earnings Other Other intragroup Intragroup Operating and before other expenses, Financial financing 2016 transactions) transactions Revenues EBITDA amortization expenses, net net expense items, net Mexico $ 53,579 (848) 52,731 19,256 2,390 16,866 (608) (339) 2,695 United States 66,554 – 66,554 10,973 6,400 4,573 2,919 (487) (212) Europe United Kingdom 21,153 – 21,153 3,606 1,047 2,559 711 (63) (393) France 14,535 – 14,535 669 484 185 (110) (53) 2 Germany 9,572 (1,385) 8,187 553 464 89 (64) (15) (85) Spain 6,563 (841) 5,722 814 663 151 (112) (37) (9) Poland 4,799 (88) 4,711 579 330 249 6 (11) 123 Czech Republic 3,027 (30) 2,997 622 328 294 (117) (4) 2 Rest of Europe 4,908 (511) 4,397 519 332 187 14 (29) 75 SCA&C Colombia 1 12,415 (1) 12,414 3,975 489 3,486 (575) 46 38 Panama 1 4,906 (124) 4,782 2,170 340 1,830 (7) (27) 5 Costa Rica 1 2,818 (351) 2,467 1,127 116 1,011 (23) (11) 27 Dominican Republic 4,223 (525) 3,698 1,210 199 1,011 (67) (6) 34 Rest of SCA&C 1 7,155 (253) 6,902 1,665 238 1,427 (1,159) (22) (216) AMEA Philippines 2 9,655 – 9,655 2,687 530 2,157 21 (1) (24) Egypt 6,950 (5) 6,945 2,454 539 1,915 (213) (78) (253) Israel 9,650 – 9,650 1,346 232 1,114 5 (24) 6 Rest of AMEA 2,208 (12) 2,196 271 67 204 (117) (3) 21 Others 18,381 (8,600) 9,781 (2,891) 799 (3,690) (2,174) (20,323) 2,631 Continuing operations 263,051 (13,574) 249,477 51,605 15,987 35,618 (1,670) (21,487) 4,467 Discontinued operations 9,652 (207) 9,445 1,159 697 462 (3) (10) (22) Total $ 272,703 (13,781) 258,922 52,764 16,684 36,080 (1,673) (21,497) 4,445 1 CEMEX Latam Holdings, S.A. (“CLH”), a company incorporated in Spain, trades its ordinary shares on the Colombian Stock Exchange. CLH is the indirect holding company of CEMEX’s operations in Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Nicaragua and El Salvador. At year end 2018 and 2017, there is a non-controlling interest in CLH of approximately 26.75% and 26.72%, respectively, of its ordinary shares, excluding shares held in CLH’s treasury (note 20.4). 2 CEMEX’s operations in the Philippines are mainly conducted through CEMEX Holdings Philippines, Inc. (“CHP”), a Philippine company whose shares trade on the Philippines Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there is a non-controlling interest in CHP of 45.0% of its ordinary shares (note 20.4). 3 As mentioned in note 4.1, in February 2017, CEMEX’s acquired a controlling interest in TCL, whose shares trade on the Trinidad and Tobago Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there is a non-controlling interest in TCL of approximately 30.2% of its ordinary shares in both years (note 20.4). 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 139 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Debt by reportable segment is included in note 16. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, selected statement of financial position information by reportable segment was as follows: Equity Other accounted segment Total Total Net assets Additions to 2018 investees assets assets liabilities by segment fixed assets 1 Mexico $ – 68,449 68,449 17,906 50,543 2,285 United States 2,485 267,011 269,496 33,756 235,740 4,611 Europe United Kingdom 118 32,248 32,366 19,220 13,146 908 France 927 16,316 17,243 7,111 10,132 441 Germany 85 8,350 8,435 6,546 1,889 314 Spain 6 25,134 25,140 2,957 22,183 499 Poland 8 5,523 5,531 2,605 2,926 564 Czech Republic 157 4,195 4,352 1,224 3,128 169 Rest of Europe – 11,299 11,299 2,250 9,049 226 South, Central America and the Caribbean Colombia – 24,514 24,514 8,721 15,793 428 Panama – 7,156 7,156 1,187 5,969 231 Costa Rica – 1,640 1,640 580 1,060 61 Caribbean TCL – 11,230 11,230 4,954 6,276 535 Dominican Republic – 4,010 4,010 1,182 2,828 150 Rest of South, Central America and the Caribbean 29 6,430 6,459 2,621 3,838 183 Asia, Middle East and Africa Philippines 6 12,235 12,241 2,929 9,312 544 Egypt 1 4,795 4,796 1,906 2,890 176 Israel – 9,592 9,592 6,712 2,880 412 Rest of Asia, Middle East and Africa – 3,991 3,991 1,451 2,540 103 Others 5,670 16,918 22,588 206,963 (184,375) 129 Continuing operations 9,492 541,036 550,528 332,781 217,747 12,969 Assets held for sale and related liabilities (note 12.1) 29 2,071 2,100 314 1,786 – Total $ 9,521 543,107 552,628 333,095 219,533 12,969 Equity Other accounted segment Total Total Net assets Additions to 2017 investees assets assets liabilities by segment fixed assets 1 Mexico $ 241 71,280 71,521 23,574 47,947 2,133 United States 1,573 266,769 268,342 32,366 235,976 3,498 Europe United Kingdom 107 34,774 34,881 24,160 10,721 1,010 France 1,055 18,481 19,536 7,360 12,176 372 Germany 85 9,010 9,095 6,848 2,247 441 Spain – 25,731 25,731 3,543 22,188 553 Poland 9 5,477 5,486 3,086 2,400 230 Czech Republic 149 4,867 5,016 1,338 3,678 157 Rest of Europe 9 11,256 11,265 2,289 8,976 164 South, Central America and the Caribbean Colombia – 24,406 24,406 11,307 13,099 1,178 Panama – 7,232 7,232 1,029 6,203 152 Costa Rica – 1,869 1,869 646 1,223 42 Caribbean TCL – 11,004 11,004 4,917 6,087 584 Dominican Republic – 4,362 4,362 1,132 3,230 172 Rest of South, Central America and the Caribbean 31 6,936 6,967 3,234 3,733 185 Asia, Middle East and Africa Philippines 6 11,548 11,554 2,617 8,937 518 Egypt 1 4,602 4,603 1,776 2,827 418 Israel – 9,760 9,760 6,838 2,922 391 Rest of Asia, Middle East and Africa – 3,911 3,911 1,189 2,722 58 Others 5,306 24,466 29,772 218,023 (188,251) 163 Continuing operations 8,572 557,741 566,313 357,272 209,041 12,419 Assets held for sale and related liabilities (note 12.1) – 1,378 1,378 – 1,378 – Total $ 8,572 559,119 567,691 357,272 210,419 12,419 1 In 2018 and 2017, the column “Additions to fixed assets” includes capital expenditures of $12,141 and $9,514, respectively (note 14). 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 140 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Revenues by line of business and reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2018 Cement Concrete Aggregates Others Eliminations Revenues Mexico $ 44,295 17,277 4,051 12,358 (16,197) 61,784 United States 30,518 40,249 16,393 7,581 (22,396) 72,345 Europe United Kingdom 4,837 7,441 8,139 8,102 (8,088) 20,431 France – 15,092 7,321 176 (4,281) 18,308 Germany 3,608 4,841 2,353 2,732 (4,148) 9,386 Spain 6,010 1,365 377 609 (1,632) 6,729 Poland 3,864 3,066 960 299 (1,280) 6,909 Czech Republic 1,555 2,377 835 362 (1,364) 3,765 Rest of Europe 5,263 565 221 24 (577) 5,496 South, Central America and the Caribbean Colombia 6,792 3,631 1,065 1,769 (3,169) 10,088 Panama 3,285 1,368 445 355 (1,189) 4,264 Costa Rica 2,126 427 120 114 (387) 2,400 Caribbean TCL 4,712 199 91 1,716 (1,924) 4,794 Dominican Republic 3,441 526 171 470 (700) 3,908 Rest of South, Central America and the Caribbean 7,668 782 150 122 (1,334) 7,388 Asia, Middle East and Africa Philippines 8,549 4 59 43 (43) 8,612 Egypt 3,993 511 14 225 (157) 4,586 Israel – 10,026 3,061 2,127 (3,086) 12,128 Rest of Asia, Middle East and Africa 943 1,763 – – (443) 2,263 Others – – – 24,667 (13,396) 11,271 Continuing operations 141,459 111,510 45,826 63,851 (85,791) 276,855 Discontinued operations 503 – – – – 503 Total $ 141,962 111,510 45,826 63,851 (85,791) 277,358 2017 Cement Concrete Aggregates Others Eliminations Revenues Mexico $ 42,195 14,672 3,416 11,211 (14,127) 57,367 United States 27,804 35,400 14,436 6,235 (18,339) 65,536 Europe United Kingdom 4,879 7,459 7,758 8,067 (7,984) 20,179 France – 13,367 6,373 205 (3,783) 16,162 Germany 3,595 4,668 2,134 2,335 (4,015) 8,717 Spain 5,499 944 259 676 (1,498) 5,880 Poland 3,230 2,532 701 226 (1,211) 5,478 Czech Republic 1,287 2,148 880 334 (1,232) 3,417 Rest of Europe 4,949 567 175 128 (661) 5,158 South, Central America and the Caribbean Colombia 7,043 4,024 1,224 1,960 (3,566) 10,685 Panama 3,876 1,725 452 180 (1,219) 5,014 Costa Rica 2,095 386 122 120 (297) 2,426 Caribbean TCL 4,097 29 19 215 (77) 4,283 Dominican Republic 3,193 564 191 117 (491) 3,574 Rest of South, Central America and the Caribbean 7,534 744 77 190 (1,960) 6,585 Asia, Middle East and Africa Philippines 8,093 67 159 52 (75) 8,296 Egypt 3,347 479 16 173 (153) 3,862 Israel – 9,400 2,875 2,146 (3,045) 11,376 Rest of Asia, Middle East and Africa 928 1,678 – 2 (468) 2,140 Others – – – 22,505 (11,203) 11,302 Continuing operations 133,644 100,853 41,267 57,077 (75,404) 257,437 Discontinued operations 686 525 340 687 (3) 2,235 Total $ 134,330 101,378 41,607 57,764 (75,407) 259,672 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 141 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 2016 Cement Concrete Aggregates Others Eliminations Revenues Mexico $ 37,647 13,664 3,156 11,773 (13,509) 52,731 United States 28,585 35,843 14,565 7,107 (19,546) 66,554 Europe United Kingdom 5,267 7,830 8,195 7,889 (8,028) 21,153 France – 11,883 5,640 278 (3,266) 14,535 Germany 3,416 4,539 2,112 2,262 (4,142) 8,187 Spain 5,478 823 196 472 (1,247) 5,722 Poland 2,811 2,237 579 219 (1,135) 4,711 Czech Republic 1,118 1,871 796 336 (1,124) 2,997 Rest of Europe 4,168 383 115 2 (271) 4,397 South, Central America and the Caribbean Colombia 8,814 4,522 1,364 1,761 (4,047) 12,414 Panama 3,794 1,577 413 139 (1,141) 4,782 Costa Rica 2,144 390 179 126 (372) 2,467 Dominican Republic 3,255 620 210 124 (511) 3,698 Rest of South, Central America and the Caribbean 7,276 906 112 174 (2,032) 6,436 Asia, Middle East and Africa Philippines 9,405 143 164 70 (127) 9,655 Egypt 6,076 943 26 217 (317) 6,945 Israel – 8,016 2,519 1,372 (2,258) 9,649 Rest of Asia, Middle East and Africa 961 1,519 – 7 (290) 2,197 Others – – – 18,849 (8,602) 10,247 Continuing operations 130,215 97,709 40,341 53,177 (71,965) 249,477 Discontinued operations 889 1,366 785 6,665 (260) 9,445 Total $ 131,104 99,075 41,126 59,842 (72,225) 258,922 5) OPERATING EXPENSES, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION Consolidated operating expenses during 2018, 2017 and 2016 by function are as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Administrative expenses 1 $ 22,387 21,053 20,733 Selling expenses 6,315 6,429 6,945 Distribution and logistics expenses 31,992 28,485 26,235 $ 60,694 55,967 53,913 1 All significant R&D activities are executed by several internal areas as part of their daily activities. In 2018, 2017 and 2016, total combined expenses of these departments recognized within administrative expenses were $758 (US$38), $754 (US$38) and $712 (US$38), respectively. Depreciation and amortization recognized during 2018, 2017 and 2016 are detailed as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Included in cost of sales $ 14,181 14,143 14,177 Included in administrative, selling and distribution and logistics expenses 1,889 1,845 1,810 $ 16,070 15,988 15,987 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 142 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 6) OTHER EXPENSES, NET The detail of the line item “Other expenses, net” in 2018, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Results from the sale of assets and others, net 1 $ (2,994) 91 1,719 Restructuring costs 2 (1,382) (843) (778) Impairment losses 3 (1,188) (2,936) (2,518) Remeasurement of pension liabilities 4 (168) – – Charitable contributions (105) (127) (93) $ (5,837) (3,815) (1,670) 1 In 2018, includes $1,080 in connection with property damages and natural disasters. In 2017, includes an expense of $491 (US$25) related to a penalty in connection with a market investigation in Colombia (note 24.2). 2 In 2018, 2017 and 2016, restructuring costs mainly refer to severance payments and the definite closing of operating sites. 3 In 2018, 2017 and 2016, among others, includes impairment losses of fixed assets for $445, $984 and $1,899, respectively, as well in 2018 losses in the valuation of assets held for sale of $439 and impairment losses of goodwill in 2017 of $1,920 (notes 13.2, 14 and 15). 4 Refers to a remeasurement of the employee benefits liability in connection with CEMEX’s defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom determined in 2018 as a result of a recently enacted gender parity law. 7) FINANCIAL INCOME AND OTHER ITEMS, NET The detail of financial income and other items, net in 2018, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Results in the sale of associates and remeasurement of previously held interest before change in control of associates (notes 4.1 and 13.1) $ (204) 4,164 – Financial income 355 338 402 Results from financial instruments, net (notes 13.2 and 16.4) 692 161 113 Foreign exchange results 341 (26) 4,982 Effects of amortized cost on assets and liabilities and others, net (1,088) (1,021) (1,030) $ 96 3,616 4,467 8) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, consolidated cash and cash equivalents consisted of: 2018 2017 Cash and bank accounts $ 5,071 9,292 Fixed-income securities and other cash equivalents 997 4,449 $ 6,068 13,741 Based on net settlement agreements, the balance of cash and cash equivalents excludes deposits in margin accounts that guarantee several obligations of CEMEX of $234 in 2018 and $196 in 2017, which were offset against the corresponding obligations of CEMEX with the counterparties, considering CEMEX’s right, ability and intention to settle the amounts on a net basis. 9) TRADE ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, consolidated trade accounts receivable consisted of: 2018 2017 Trade accounts receivable $ 31,584 32,733 Allowances for expected credit losses (2,336) (2,145) $ 29,248 30,588 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 143 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, trade accounts receivable include receivables of $13,048 (US$664) and $12,713 (US$647), respectively, sold under outstanding trade receivables securitization programs and/or factoring programs with recourse, established in Mexico, the United States, France and the United Kingdom, in which CEMEX effectively surrenders control associated with the trade accounts receivable sold and there is no guarantee or obligation to reacquire the assets; nonetheless, in such programs, CEMEX retains certain residual interest in the programs and/or maintains continuing involvement with the accounts receivable. Therefore, the trade accounts receivable sold were not removed from the statement of financial position and the funded amounts to CEMEX of $11,770 (US$599) in 2018 and $11,313 (US$576) in 2017, were recognized within the line item of “Other financial obligations,” the difference in each year against the trade receivables sold was maintained as reserves. Trade accounts receivable qualifying for sale exclude amounts over certain days past due or concentrations over certain limits to any one customer, according to the terms of the programs. The discount granted to the acquirers of the trade accounts receivable is recorded as financial expense and amounted to $446 in 2018, $308 in 2017 and $258 in 2016. CEMEX’s securitization programs are negotiated for periods of one to two years and are usually renewed at their maturity. Allowances for doubtful accounts were established until December 31, 2017 based on incurred loss analyses over delinquent accounts considering aging of balances, the credit history and risk profile of each customer and legal processes to recover accounts receivable. Beginning in 2018 such allowances are determined and recognized upon origination of the trade accounts receivable based on a model that calculates the expected credit loss (“ECL”) of the trade accounts receivable (note 2.1). Under this ECL model, CEMEX segments its accounts receivable in a matrix by country, type of client or homogeneous credit risk and days past due and determines for each segment an average rate of ECL, considering actual credit loss experience over the last 24 months and analyses of future delinquency, that is applied to the balance of the accounts receivable. The average ECL rate increases in each segment of days past due until the rate is 100% for the segment of 365 days or more past due. As of December 31, 2018, the balances of trade accounts receivable and the allowance for ECL were as follows: Accounts ECL average receivable ECL allowance rate Mexico $ 5,185 717 13.8% United States 8,432 78 0.9% Europe 9,087 618 6.8% South, Central America and the Caribbean 2,817 550 19.5% Asia, Middle East and Africa 5,327 272 5.1% Others 736 101 13.7% $ 31,584 2,336 Changes in the allowance for expected credit losses in 2018, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Allowances for expected credit losses at beginning of period $ 2,145 2,196 2,152 Adoption effects of IFRS 9 charged to retained earnings (note 2.1) 570 – – Charged to selling expenses 156 252 556 Additions through business combinations – 141 – Deductions (385) (449) (867) Foreign currency translation effects (150) 5 355 Allowances for expected credit losses at end of period $ 2,336 2,145 2,196 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 144 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 10) OTHER ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, consolidated other accounts receivable consisted of: 2018 2017 Non-trade accounts receivable 1 $ 2,712 1,918 Interest and notes receivable 2 895 1,125 Current portion of valuation of derivative financial instruments 8 1,056 Loans to employees and others 243 233 Refundable taxes 2,291 638 $ 6,149 4,970 1 Non-trade accounts receivable are mainly attributable to the sale of assets. 2 In 2018 and 2017, includes CEMEX Colombia’s residual interest in a trust oriented to promote housing projects, which its only asset is land in the municipality of Zipaquira, Colombia and its only liability is a bank credit for $129 and $141, respectively, obtained to purchase the land, guaranteed by CEMEX Colombia. The estimated realizable value of the land as determined by external appraiser covers the amount of the loan. Related to this structure, on December 17, 2018, CEMEX Colombia and the other partner in the project accepted the binding offer of a local construction firm, pending of execution, whom, pursuant to the agreements, will join the trust as beneficiary and joint obligor of the debt and will acquire the project through the full repayment of the trust’s debt by means of a repayment of approximately 50% during 2019 and the remaining portion in November 2020. Once the respective agreements are formalized in 2019, the construction firm will sign promissory notes to CEMEX Colombia securing its obligations and additionally the firm and the other partner will pledge their beneficial interest in the trust in favor of CEMEX Colombia. 11) INVENTORIES, NET As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the consolidated balance of inventories was summarized as follows: 2018 2017 Finished goods $ 6,777 5,933 Work-in-process 3,818 3,814 Raw materials 3,813 3,237 Materials and spare parts 5,964 4,996 Inventory in transit 876 872 $ 21,248 18,852 For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, CEMEX recognized within “Cost of sales” in the income statement, inventory impairment losses of $114, $23 and $52, respectively. 12) ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS 12.1) Assets held for sale As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, assets held for sale, which are measured at the lower of their estimated realizable value, less costs to sell, and their carrying amounts, as well as liabilities directly related with such assets are detailed as follows: 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Net assets Assets Liabilities Net assets Assets in the central region of France (note 4.3) $ 952 314 638 $ – – – Idle assets in Spain 1 – – – 580 – 580 Other assets held for sale 1,148 – 1,148 798 – 798 $ 2,100 314 1,786 $ 1,378 – 1,378 1 During December 2018, considering the withdrawal of potential buyers and the absence of new offers, CEMEX reclassified these assets to fixed assets. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 145 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 12.2) Other current assets As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, other current assets are mainly comprised of advance payments. In addition, as of December 31, 2018, the balance of other current assets includes cash for US$12 ($236) of CEMEX Colombia subject to a temporary restriction on its availability due to a seizure order issued by a civil court in Colombia within an executory proceeding initiated by a supplier in connection with a commercial dispute over an amount being claimed of approximately US$2 ($39). CEMEX Colombia considers that such seizure order was excessive in relation to the amount claimed, and as of the reporting date, because of the nature of the proceeding, CEMEX Colombia’s defense arguments that were put forth in its negotiations with the supplier have not yet been evaluated. As of the issuance date of these consolidated financial statements, CEMEX Colombia is following required legal procedures in the civil court and considers probable that the cash amounts will be released in 2019. 13) EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES, OTHER INVESTMENTS AND NON-CURRENT ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 13.1) Equity accounted investees As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the investments in common shares of associates were as follows: Activity Country % 2018 2017 Camcem, S.A. de C.V. Cement Mexico 40.1 $ 4,087 3,618 Concrete Supply Co. LLC Concrete United States 40.0 1,306 1,192 Lehigh White Cement Company Cement United States 36.8 1,172 375 Akmenes Cementas AB Cement Lithuania 37.8 527 585 ABC Capital, S.A. Institución de Banca Múltiple Financing Mexico — – 228 Société Méridionale de Carrières Aggregates France 33.3 318 367 Société d’Exploitation de Carrières Aggregates France 50.0 306 318 Cemento Interoceánico S.A. Cement Panama 25.0 160 168 Other companies — — — 1,616 1,721 $ 9,492 8,572 Out of which: Book value at acquisition date $ 7,218 6,957 Changes in stockholders’ equity $ 2,274 1,615 In April 2018, CEMEX entered into an agreement for the sale of its 33.9% equity interest to the controlling shareholders of ABC Capital, S.A. Institución de Banca Múltiple for $105, recognizing a loss of $157 as part of “Financial income and other items, net.” The transaction is pending for authorization from the Mexican authorities. As of December 31, 2018, the investment is presented within assets held for sale in the statement of financial position (note 12.1). During 2018, a subsidiary of CEMEX in the United States invested a total of US$36 ($707) and increased the Company’s ownership over the Lehigh White Cement Company investee from 24.5% to 36.8%. This deal also includes an agreement in which the Company contributed all of its rights, title and interest in the white cement business in Florida to the investee and entered into an agreement in which a Company’s terminal will receive and pack white cement for Lehigh White Cement Company to sell and distribute in the Florida market. On January 25, 2017, in a public offering to investors in Mexico conducted through the BMV and in a concurrent private placement to eligible investors outside of Mexico, the Parent Company and Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua, S.A.B. de C.V. announced the offering of up to 76,483,332 shares (then all the shares of GCC owned by CEMEX). During 2017, after conclusion of the public offering and the private placement, CEMEX sold 45 million shares, 13.53% of the common stock of GCC, at a price of 95.00 pesos per share receiving $4,094 after deducting commissions and offering expenses and recognized a gain on sale in 2017 of $1,859 as part of “Financial income and other items, net” in the income statement. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 146 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report In addition, on September 28, 2017, CEMEX announced the definitive sale to two financial institutions of the remaining 31,483,332 shares of GCC, which represented approximately 9.47% of the equity capital of GCC. Proceeds from the sale were $3,012 and generated a gain on sale of $1,682 in 2017 recognized as part of “Financial income and other items, net” in the income statement. CEMEX continues to have an approximate 20% indirect interest in GCC through Camcem, S.A. de C.V., GCC’s parent company. Combined condensed statement of financial position information of CEMEX’s associates as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is set forth below: 2018 2017 Current assets $ 16,677 21,527 Non-current assets 32,901 32,071 Total assets 49,578 53,598 Current liabilities 5,685 10,863 Non-current liabilities 17,272 17,730 Total liabilities 22,957 28,593 Total net assets $ 26,621 25,005 Combined selected information of the statements of operations of CEMEX’s associates in 2018, 2017 and 2016 is set forth below: 2018 2017 2016 Sales $ 28,487 28,158 29,791 Operating earnings 4,401 4,458 4,730 Income before income tax 2,182 2,451 3,111 Net income 1,711 1,891 1,860 The share of equity accounted investees by reportable segment in the income statements for 2018, 2017 and 2016 is detailed as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Mexico $ 254 269 452 United States 297 266 253 Europe 134 108 54 Corporate and others (32) (55) (71) $ 653 588 688 13.2) Other investments and non-current accounts receivable As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, consolidated other investments and non-current accounts receivable were summarized as follows: 2018 2017 Non-current accounts receivable 1 $ 4,329 4,248 Investments at fair value through the income statement 2 428 441 Non-current portion of valuation of derivative financial instruments (note 16.4) 297 794 Investments in strategic equity securities 3 217 275 $ 5,271 5,758 1 Includes, among other items: a) accounts receivable from investees and joint ventures of $1,273 in 2018 and $1,301 in 2017; b) advances to suppliers of fixed assets of $886 in 2018 and $55 in 2017; c) employee prepaid compensation of $114 in 2018 and $112 in 2017; d) refundable taxes of $263 in 2018 and $261 in 2017; and e) warranty deposits of $246 in 2018 and $240 in 2017. 2 Refers to investments in private funds and investments related to employee’ savings funds. In 2018 and 2017, no contributions were made to such private funds. 3 This line item refers mainly to a strategic investment in CPOs of Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Axtel”). This investment is recognized at fair value through other comprehensive income. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 147 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 14) PROPERTY, MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT, NET As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, consolidated property, machinery and equipment, net and the changes in such line item during 2018, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: 2018 Land and Machinery mineral and Construction reserves 1 Building 1 equipment 2 in progress Total Cost at beginning of period $ 95,495 53,927 242,636 19,457 411,515 Accumulated depreciation and depletion (16,842) (26,225) (136,288) – (179,355) Net book value at beginning of period 78,653 27,702 106,348 19,457 232,160 Capital expenditures 525 578 11,038 – 12,141 Additions through capital leases – – 88 – 88 Stripping costs 740 – – – 740 Total capital expenditures 1,265 578 11,126 – 12,969 Disposals 4 (258) (116) (597) – (971) Reclassifications 5 (353) (45) (81) 580 101 Business combinations 83 – 133 – 216 Depreciation and depletion for the period (3,618) (2,001) (8,400) – (14,019) Impairment losses (121) (33) (291) – (445) Foreign currency translation effects 210 (349) (5,733) 301 (5,571) Cost at end of period 94,692 53,292 242,740 20,338 411,062 Accumulated depreciation and depletion (18,831) (27,556) (140,235) – (186,622) Net book value at end of period $ 75,861 25,736 102,505 20,338 224,440 2017 Land and Machinery mineral and Construction reserves 1 Building 1 equipment 2 in progress Total 2016 3 Cost at beginning of period $ 97,218 51,740 229,717 17,247 395,922 360,089 Accumulated depreciation and depletion (16,301) (24,224) (125,263) – (165,788) (143,395) Net book value at beginning of period 80,917 27,516 104,454 17,247 230,134 216,694 Capital expenditures 547 802 8,165 – 9,514 12,676 Additions through capital leases – – 2,096 – 2,096 7 Capitalization of financial expense – – – – – 175 Stripping costs 809 – – – 809 421 Total capital expenditures 1,356 802 10,261 – 12,419 13,279 Disposals 4 (347) (223) (1,274) – (1,844) (1,841) Reclassifications 5 (784) (82) (768) – (1,634) (4,549) Business combinations 2,179 749 3,136 428 6,492 – Depreciation and depletion for the period (2,571) (1,967) (9,413) – (13,951) (14,037) Impairment losses (202) (1) (763) (18) (984) (1,899) Foreign currency translation effects (1,895) 908 715 1,800 1,528 22,487 Cost at end of period 95,495 53,927 242,636 19,457 411,515 395,922 Accumulated depreciation and depletion (16,842) (26,225) (136,288) – (179,355) (165,788) Net book value at end of period $ 78,653 27,702 106,348 19,457 232,160 230,134 1 Includes corporate buildings and related land sold to financial institutions in previous years, which were leased back. The aggregate carrying amount of these assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $1,602 and $1,690, respectively. 2 Includes assets, mainly mobile equipment, acquired through finance leases, which carrying amount as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $88 and $2,096, respectively. 3 In 2016, CEMEX Colombia concluded the construction of a cement plant in the municipality of Maceo in the Antioquia department in Colombia with an annual capacity of approximately 1.1 million tons. The plant has not initiated commercial operations. As of the reporting date, the works related to the access road to the plant remain suspended and the beginning of commercial operations is subject to the successful conclusion of several ongoing processes related to certain operating permits and other legal proceedings (note 24.1). As a result internal audits of the project, in 2016, CEMEX Colombia reduced construction in progress for $483 (US$23), of which, $295 (US$14) were recognized as impairment losses against “Other expenses, net” in connection with the write off of certain advances for the purchase of land through a representative have low probability for their recoverability due to deficiencies in the legal processes, and $188 (US$9) were decreased against “Other accounts payable” in connection with the cancellation of the portion payable of such assets (note 24.1). As of December 31, 2018, the carrying amount of the plant, net of adjustments, is for an amount in Colombian pesos equivalent to US$280 ($5,502). 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 148 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 4 In 2018, includes sales of non-strategic fixed assets in the United States, Spain and Mexico for $371, $158 and $125, respectively. In 2017, includes sales of non-strategic fixed assets in Mexico, the United States and Spain for $343, $223 and $220, respectively. In 2016, includes sales of non-strategic fixed assets in the United States, Mexico, and France for $317, $281 and $165, respectively. 5 In 2018, refers mainly to the reclassification of the assets in Spain for $580 (note 12.1). In 2017, refers mainly to those assets of the Pacific Northwest Materials Business in the United States for $1,634 (note 4.2). In 2016, refers mainly to those assets of the Concrete Pipe Business in the United States for $2,747, as well as other disposal groups in the United States reclassified to assets available for sale for $1,386. As a result of impairment tests conducted on several CGUs considering certain triggering events, mainly: a) the closing and/or reduction of operations of cement and ready-mix concrete plants resulting from adjusting the supply to current demand conditions, such as the situation in Puerto Rico in the last quarter of 2016 due to the adverse outlook and the overall uncertain economic conditions in such country; b) the transferring of installed capacity to more efficient plants, such as the change in operating model of a cement mill to distribution center in Colombia; as well as c) the recoverability of certain investments in Colombia as described above, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, CEMEX adjusted the related fixed assets to their estimated value in use in those circumstances in which the assets would continue in operation based on estimated cash flows during the remaining useful life, or to their realizable value, in case of permanent shut down, and recognized impairment losses within the line item of “Other expenses, net” (notes 2.10 and 6). During the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 impairment losses of fixed assets by country are as follows: 2018 2017 2016 United States $ 252 153 277 Poland 94 – – Colombia 37 – 454 Spain 35 452 – Mexico 25 45 46 Czech Republic – 157 – Panama – 56 – France – 50 – Latvia – 46 – Puerto Rico – – 1,087 Others 2 25 35 $ 445 984 1,899 15) GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET 15.1) Balances and changes during the period As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, consolidated goodwill, intangible assets and deferred charges were summarized as follows: 2018 2017 Accumulated Carrying Accumulated Carrying Cost amortization amount Cost amortization amount Intangible assets of indefinite useful life: Goodwill $ 194,779 – 194,779 $ 195,474 – 195,474 Intangible assets of definite useful life: Extraction rights 38,881 (7,017) 31,864 39,603 (6,480) 33,123 Industrial property and trademarks 864 (397) 467 929 (364) 565 Customer relationships 3,859 (3,859) – 3,859 (3,852) 7 Mining projects 834 (107) 727 797 (96) 701 Others intangible assets 18,048 (11,287) 6,761 14,941 (9,902) 5,039 $ 257,265 (22,667) 234,598 $ 255,603 (20,694) 234,909 The amortization of intangible assets of definite useful life was $2,051 in 2018, $2,037 in 2017 and $1,950 in 2016, and was recognized within operating costs and expenses. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 149 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Goodwill Changes in consolidated goodwill in 2018, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Balance at beginning of period $ 195,474 206,319 184,156 Business combinations 309 1,965 – Disposals, net (note 4.3) – – (3,340) Reclassification to assets held for sale and other current assets (notes 4.2, 4.3 and 12) (439) (1,804) (9,734) Impairment losses – (1,920) – Foreign currency translation effects (565) (9,086) 35,237 Balance at end of period $ 194,779 195,474 206,319 Intangible assets of definite life Changes in intangible assets of definite life in 2018, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: 2018 Industrial Extraction property and Customer Mining rights trademarks relations projects Others 1 Total Balance at beginning of period $ 33,123 565 7 701 5,039 39,435 Additions (disposals), net 1 (219) (32) – 120 2,913 2,782 Reclassifications (notes 4.1, 4.2 and 12) (223) – – – 6 (217) Amortization for the period (626) (93) (7) (12) (1,313) (2,051) Impairment losses (186) – – – – (186) Foreign currency translation effects (5) 27 – (82) 116 56 Balance at the end of period $ 31,864 467 – 727 6,761 39,819 2017 Industrial Extraction property and Customer Mining rights trademarks relations projects Others 1 Total 2016 Balance at beginning of period $ 35,047 357 259 877 4,648 41,188 36,566 Additions (disposals), net 1 278 (783) – (148) 424 (229) (598) Business combinations (note 4.1) – – – 4 72 76 – Reclassifications (notes 4.1, 4.2 and 12) – – (27) – – (27) – Amortization for the period (716) (110) (225) (12) (974) (2,037) (1,950) Impairment losses (38) – – – (12) (50) (25) Foreign currency translation effects (1,448) 1,101 – (20) 881 514 7,195 Balance at the end of period $ 33,123 565 7 701 5,039 39,435 41,188 1 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, “Others” includes the carrying amount of internal-use software of $4,459 and $2,981, respectively. Capitalized direct costs incurred in the development stage of internal-use software, such as professional fees, direct labor and related travel expenses, amounted to $2,583 in 2018, $1,422 in 2017 and $769 in 2016. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 150 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 15.2) Analysis of goodwill impairment As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, goodwill balances allocated by operating segment were as follows: 2018 2017 Mexico $ 7,371 7,371 United States 152,486 152,486 Europe Spain 10,270 10,000 United Kingdom 6,367 6,335 France 4,154 4,796 Czech Republic 589 709 South, Central America and the Caribbean Colombia 5,874 6,146 Dominican Republic 264 279 Caribbean TCL 2,042 2,027 Others South, Central America and the Caribbean 1 972 985 Asia, Middle East and Africa Philippines 1,751 1,817 United Arab Emirates 1,885 1,769 Egypt 232 232 Others Other reporting segments 2 522 522 $ 194,779 195,474 1 This caption refers to the operating segments in the Caribbean, Costa Rica and Panama. 2 This caption is primarily associated with Neoris N.V., CEMEX’s subsidiary involved in the sale of information technology and services. For purposes of goodwill impairment tests, all cash-generating units within a country are aggregated, as goodwill is allocated at that level. Considering materiality for disclosure purposes, certain balances of goodwill were presented for Others of South, Central America and the Caribbean, but this does not represent that goodwill was tested at a higher level than for operations in an individual country. During the last quarter of each year, CEMEX performs its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on these analyses, during 2017, in connection with the operating segment in Spain, considering the uncertainty over the improvement indicators affecting the country’s construction industry, and consequently in the expected consumption of cement, ready-mix and aggregates, partially a result of the then country’s complex prevailing political environment, which had limited expenditure in infrastructure projects, as well as the uncertainty in the expected price recovery and the effects of increased competition and imports, CEMEX’s management determined that the net book value of such operating segment in Spain, exceeded in $1,920 (US$98) the amount of the net present value of projected cash flows. As a result, CEMEX recognized an impairment loss of goodwill for such amount as part of “Other expenses, net” in the income statement on 2017 against the related goodwill balance. During 2018 and 2016, CEMEX did not determine impairment losses of goodwill. Impairment tests are significantly sensitive to, among other factors, the estimation of future prices of CEMEX’s products, the development of operating expenses, local and international economic trends in the construction industry, the long-term growth expectations in the different markets, as well as the discount rates and the long-term growth rates applied. CEMEX’s cash flow projections to determine the value in use of its CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated considering the use of long-term economic assumptions. CEMEX believes that its discounted cash flow projections and the discount rates used reasonably reflect current economic conditions at the time of the calculations, considering, among other factors that: a) the cost of capital reflects current risks and volatility in the markets; and b) the cost of debt represents the average of industry specific interest rates observed in recent transactions. Other key assumptions used to determine CEMEX’s discounted cash flows are volume and price increases or decreases by main product during the projected periods. Volume increases or decreases generally reflect forecasts issued by trustworthy external sources, occasionally adjusted based on CEMEX’s actual backlog, experience and judgment considering its concentration in certain sectors, while price changes normally reflect the expected inflation in the respective country. Operating costs and expenses during all periods are maintained as a fixed percent of revenues considering historic performance. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 151 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CEMEX’s pre-tax discount rates and long-term growth rates used to determine the discounted cash flows in the group of CGUs with the main goodwill balances were as follows: Discount rates Growth rates Groups of CGUs 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 United States 8.5% 8.8% 8.6% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% Spain 8.8% 9.5% 9.5% 1.7% 1.7% 1.6% Mexico 9.4% 10.2% 9.8% 3.0% 2.7% 2.9% Colombia 9.5% 10.5% 10.0% 3.6% 3.7% 4.0% France 8.4% 9.0% 9.1% 1.6% 1.8% 1.8% United Arab Emirates 11.0% 10.4% 10.2% 2.9% 3.1% 3.4% United Kingdom 8.4% 9.0% 8.8% 1.6% 1.7% 1.9% Egypt 10.8% 11.8% 11.4% 6.0% 6.0% 6.0% Range of rates in other countries 8.5% 13.3% 9.1% 11.7% 9.1% 12.8% 2.5% 6.9% 2.3% 6.8% 2.2% 7.0% As of December 31, 2018, the discount rates used by CEMEX in its cash flows projections in the countries with the most significant goodwill balances decreased slightly in most cases in a range of 0.3% up to 1 percentage point, except for United Arab Emirates and the Caribbean, as compared to the values determined in 2017. This reduction was mainly attributable to a decrease in the Parent Company’s stock volatility (beta) and general decreases in the country specific sovereign yields in the majority of the countries where CEMEX operates and the weighing of debt in the calculation, effects that were partially offset for increases during 2018 in the funding cost observed in the industry that changed from 6.1% in 2017 to 7.3% in 2018 and the risk free rate associated with CEMEX which increased from 2.8% in 2017 to 2.9% in 2018. As of December 31, 2017, the discount rates increased slightly in most cases as compared to the values determined in 2016. Among other factors, the funding cost observed in industry decreased from 6.2% in 2016 to 6.1% in 2017 and the risk-free rate increased from approximately 2.7% in 2016 to 2.8% in 2017. Nonetheless, these decreases were offset by increases in 2017 in the country specific sovereign yields in most of the countries where CEMEX operates. As of December 31, 2016, the discount rates remained almost flat in most cases as compared to the values determined in the previous year. With respect to long-term growth rates, following general practice under IFRS, CEMEX uses country specific rates, which are mainly obtained from Consensus Economics, a compilation of analysts’ forecasts worldwide, or from the International Monetary Fund when the former is not available for a specific country. In connection with the assumptions included in the table above, CEMEX performed sensitivity analyses to changes in assumptions, affecting the value in use of all groups of CGUs with an independent reasonably possible increase of 1% in the pre-tax discount rate, and an independent possible decrease of 1% in the long-term growth rate. In addition, CEMEX performed cross-check analyses for reasonableness of its results using multiples of Operating EBITDA. To arrive at these multiples, which represent a reasonableness check of the discounted cash flow models, CEMEX determined a weighted average multiple of Operating EBITDA to enterprise value observed in the industry and/ or in recent mergers and acquisitions in the industry. The average multiple was then applied to a stabilized amount of Operating EBITDA and the result was compared to the corresponding carrying amount for each group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated. CEMEX considered an industry weighted average Operating EBITDA multiple of 11.1 times in 2018 and multiple of 9.0 times in 2017 and 2016. The lowest multiple observed in CEMEX’s benchmark was 6.7 times in 2018, 6.5 times in 2017 and 5.9 times in 2016, and the highest being 14.9 times in 2018, 18.9 times in 2017 and 18.3 times in 2016. As of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, except for the operating segment in Spain described above, in which CEMEX determined an impairment loss of goodwill in 2017, none of the other CEMEX’s sensitivity analyses resulted in a potential impairment risk in CEMEX’s operating segments. CEMEX continually monitors the evolution of the specific CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated that have presented relative goodwill impairment risk in any of the reported periods and, in the event that the relevant economic variables and the related cash flows projections would be negatively affected, it may result in a goodwill impairment loss in the future. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 152 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, goodwill allocated to the United States accounted in both years for approximately 78%, of CEMEX’s total amount of consolidated goodwill. In connection with CEMEX’s determination of value in use relative to its groups of CGUs in the United States in the reported periods, CEMEX has considered several factors, such as the historical performance of such operating segment, including the operating results in recent years, the long-term nature of CEMEX’s investment, the signs of recovery in the construction industry over the last years, the significant economic barriers for new potential competitors considering the high investment required, and the lack of susceptibility of the industry to technology improvements or alternate construction products, among other factors. CEMEX has also considered recent developments in its operations in the United States, such as the decrease in ready-mix concrete volumes of approximately 1% in 2017, affected by the hurricanes occurred in Texas and Florida during the year, and the increase of 1% in 2016, and the increases in ready-mix concrete prices of approximately 2% in 2018, 1% in 2017 and 1% in 2016, which are key drivers for cement consumption and CEMEX’s profitability, and which trends are expected to continue over the next few years, as anticipated in CEMEX’s cash flow projections. 16) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 16.1) Short-term and long-term debt As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX´s consolidated debt summarized by interest rates and currencies, was as follows: 2018 2017 Short-term Long-term Total Short-term Long-term Total Floating rate debt $ 262 66,819 67,081 $ 7,282 53,389 60,671 Fixed rate debt 621 115,255 115,876 9,691 123,633 133,324 $ 883 182,074 182,957 $ 16,973 177,022 193,995 Effective rate 1 Floating rate 7.8% 3.6% 6.1% 3.0% Fixed rate 4.2% 5.6% 4.8% 5.7% 2018 2017 Currency Short-term Long-term Total Effective rate 1 Short-term Long-term Total Effective rate 1 Dollars $ 589 114,696 115,285 5.8% $ 6,206 107,508 113,714 5.9% Euros 12 52,368 52,380 3.3% 9,705 54,906 64,611 3.5% Pounds – 8,631 8,631 2.9% – 9,141 9,141 2.6% Philippine pesos 52 5,041 5,093 4.6% – 5,408 5,408 4.6% Other currencies 230 1,338 1,568 5.9% 1,062 59 1,121 6.2% $ 883 182,074 182,957 $ 16,973 177,022 193,995 1 In 2018 and 2017, represents the weighted-average nominal interest rate of the related debt agreements. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 153 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX’s consolidated debt summarized by type of instrument, was as follow: ShortLongShortLong2018 term term 2017 term term Bank loans Bank loans Loans in foreign countries, 2019 to 2024 $ 614 6,436 Loans in foreign countries, 2018 to 2022 $ 910 5,439 Syndicated loans, 2020 to 2022 – 62,460 Syndicated loans, 2018 to 2022 – 50,132 614 68,896 910 55,571 Notes payable Notes payable Medium-term notes, 2023 to 2026 – 110,157 Medium-term notes, 2018 to 2026 224 133,949 Other notes payable, 2019 to 2025 140 3,150 Other notes payable, 2018 to 2025 154 3,187 140 113,307 378 137,136 Total bank loans and notes payable 754 182,203 Total bank loans and notes payable 1,288 192,707 Current maturities 129 (129) Current maturities 15,685 (15,685) $ 883 182,074 $ 16,973 177,022 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, discounts, fees and other direct costs incurred in the issuance of CEMEX’s outstanding notes payable and bank loans for US$65 and US$84, respectively, reduce the balance of notes payable and are amortized to financing expense over the maturity of the related debt instruments under the amortized cost method. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, from total debt of $182,957 and $193,995, respectively, approximately 79% in 2018 and 80% in 2017 was held in the Parent Company, 15% in 2018 and 15% in 2017 was in finance subsidiaries in the Netherlands and the United States, and 6% in 2018 and 5% in 2017 was in other countries. Changes in consolidated debt for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Debt at beginning of year $ 193,995 236,238 229,343 Proceeds from new debt instruments 43,765 93,620 48,748 Debt repayments (53,025) (131,446) (89,792) Foreign currency translation and accretion effects (1,778) (4,417) 47,939 Debt at end of year $ 182,957 193,995 236,238 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, as presented in the table above of debt by type of instrument, approximately 38% and 29%, respectively, of CEMEX’s total indebtedness, was represented by bank loans, of which the most significant portion corresponded to those balances under CEMEX’s facilities agreement entered into with 20 financial institutions on July 19, 2017 for an amount in different currencies equivalent to approximately US$4,050 at the origination date (the “2017 Credit Agreement”), as described elsewhere in this note. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 154 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, non-current notes payable for $113,307 and $137,136, respectively, was detailed as follows: Repurchased Outstanding Date of Principal Maturity amount amount 3 Description issuance Issuer 1, 2 Currency amount Rate 1 date US$ US$ 2018 2017 April 2026 Notes 8 16/Mar/16 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Dollar 1,000 7.75% 16/Apr/26 – 1,000 $ 19,575 19,568 July 2025 Notes 02/Apr/03 CEMEX Materials LLC Dollar 150 7.70% 21/Jul/25 – 150 3,042 3,061 March 2025 Notes 03/Mar/15 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Dollar 750 6.125% 05/May/25 – 750 14,696 14,691 January 2025 Notes 11/Sep/14 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Dollar 1,100 5.70% 11/Jan/25 (29) 1,071 20,994 20,988 December 2024 Notes 7 05/Dec/17 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Euro 650 2.75% 05/Dec/24 – 745 14,572 15,257 June 2024 Notes 8 14/Jun/16 CEMEX Finance LLC Euro 400 4.625% 15/Jun/24 – 458 8,968 9,390 April 2024 Notes 01/Apr/14 CEMEX Finance LLC Dollar 1,000 6.00% 01/Apr/24 (10) 990 18,995 18,924 March 2023 Notes 03/Mar/15 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Euro 550 4.375% 05/Mar/23 – 630 12,356 12,938 October 2022 Notes 6 12/Oct/12 CEMEX Finance LLC Dollar 1,500 9.375% 12/Oct/22 (1,500) – – – January 2022 Notes 4 11/Sep/14 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Euro 400 4.75% 11/Jan/22 (480) – – 9,434 April 2021 Notes 8 01/Apr/14 CEMEX Finance LLC Euro 400 5.25% 01/Apr/21 (480) – – – January 2021 Notes 5, 8 02/Oct/13 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Dollar 1,000 7.25% 15/Jan/21 (1,000) – – 6,606 December 2019 Notes 6, 8 12/Aug/13 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Dollar 1,000 6.50% 10/Dec/19 (1,000) – – – October 2018 Variable Notes 5, 8 02/Oct/13 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Dollar 500 L+475bps 15/Oct/18 (500) – – 6,154 Other notes payable 109 125 $ 113,307 137,136 1 The letter “L” included above refers to LIBOR, which represents the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate, variable rate used in international markets for debt denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, 3-Month LIBOR rate was 2.8076% and 1.6943%, respectively. The contraction “bps” means basis points. One hundred basis points equal 1%. 2 Unless otherwise indicated, all issuances are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V., CEMEX México, S.A. de C.V., CEMEX Concretos, S.A. de C.V., Empresas Tolteca de México, S.A. de C.V., New Sunward Holding B.V., CEMEX España, S.A., CEMEX Asia B.V., CEMEX Corp., CEMEX Africa & Middle East Investments B.V., CEMEX Finance LLC, CEMEX France Gestion, (S.A.S.), CEMEX Research Group AG and CEMEX UK. In March 2018, CEMEX Egyptian Investments B.V. changed its legal name to CEMEX Africa & Middle East Investments B.V. 3 Presented net of all outstanding notes repurchased and held by CEMEX’s subsidiaries. 4 On January 10, 2018, CEMEX completed the purchase of the outstanding amount of the January 2022 Notes for an aggregate principal amount of €400 using available funds from the issuance of the December 2024 Notes by means of an offer communicated on November 28, 2017. 5 In March 2018, CEMEX early redeemed the outstanding amount of the October 2018 Variable Notes and the January 2021 Notes for US$313 and US$341, respectively. 6 In December 2017, CEMEX repurchased the outstanding amount of the December 2019 Notes for an aggregate principal amount of US$611. During September and October 2017, CEMEX repurchased US$1,044 aggregate principal amount of the October 2022 Notes that remained outstanding. 7 On December 5, 2017, CEMEX issued €650 of 2.75% senior secured notes due December 5, 2024 (the “December 2024 Notes”). The proceeds were used to repay other indebtedness. 8 In May 2017, CEMEX redeemed the remaining €400 of aggregate principal amount of the April 2021 Notes. Moreover, in February 2017, CEMEX repurchased US$385 aggregate principal amount of the January 2021 Note and US$90 of the December 2019 Notes. In addition, during 2016, using available funds from the issuance of the April 2026 Notes, the June 2024 Notes, the sale of assets and cash flows provided by operating activities, CEMEX completed the purchase of US$178 principal amount of the October 2018 Variable Notes and US$242 principal amount of the January 2021 Notes, among other debt repurchases incurred that year with those resources. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, as a result of the debt transactions incurred including exchange offers and tender offers to replace and/or repurchase existing debt instruments, CEMEX paid premiums, fees and issuance costs for a combined amount of US$51 ($1,006), US$251 ($4,930) and US$196 ($4,061), respectively, of which US$51 ($1,006) in 2018, US$212 ($4,160) in 2017 and US$151 ($3,129) in 2016, associated with the extinguished portion of the exchanged or repurchased notes, were recognized in the income statement in each year within “Financial expense”. In addition, US$39 ($770) in 2017 and US$45 ($932) in 2016, corresponding to issuance costs of new debt and/or the portion of the combined premiums, fees and issuance costs treated as a refinancing of the old instruments, adjusted the carrying amount of the new debt instruments, and are amortized over the remaining term of each instrument. Moreover, proportional fees and issuance costs related to the extinguished debt instruments for US$4 ($87) in 2018, US$16 ($310) in 2017 and US$37 ($767) in 2016 that were pending for amortization were recognized in the income statement of each year as part of “Financial expense.” 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 155 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report The maturities of consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2018, were as follows: 2018 2020 $ 11,523 2021 23,603 2022 30,175 2023 15,342 2024 and thereafter 101,431 $ 182,074 As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX had the following lines of credit, of which, the only commited portion referes to the revolving credit facility, at annual interest rates ranging between 0.75% and 8.50%, depending on the negotiated currency: Lines of credit Available Other lines of credit in foreign subsidiaries $ 9,440 7,286 Other lines of credit from banks 11,294 8,956 Revolving credit facility 22,303 16,211 $ 43,037 32,453 2017 Credit Agreement and 2014 Credit Agreement On July 19, 2017, the Parent Company and certain subsidiaries entered into the 2017 Credit Agreement with 20 financial institutions for an amount in different currencies equivalent to US$4,050 at the origination date, the proceeds from which were used to refinance in full the US$3,680 then outstanding under the 2014 Credit Agreement and other debt repayments, allowing CEMEX to increase the average life of its syndicated bank debt with a final maturity in July 2022. All tranches under the 2017 Credit Agreement have substantially the same terms, including an applicable margin over the benchmark interest rate of between 125 to 350 basis points, depending on CEMEX’s consolidated debt leverage ratio; and the tranches share the same guarantors and collateral package as the original tranches under the 2014 Credit Agreement and other secured debt obligations of CEMEX. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, total commitments under the 2017 Credit Agreement included US$2,746, €741 and £344, in both years, out of which about US$1,135 in both years were in a revolving credit facility. All tranches under the 2017 Credit Agreement amortize in five equal semi-annual payments beginning in July 2020, except for the commitments under the revolving credit which have a five-year maturity. All tranches under the 2017 Credit Agreement have substantially the same terms, including an applicable margin over LIBOR or EURIBOR, as applicable, of between 125 to 350 basis points, depending on the Leverage Ratio (as defined below) of CEMEX, as follows: Consolidated Leverage Ratio Applicable margin > = 5.50x 350 bps < 5.00x > 4.50x 300 bps < 4.50x > 4.00x 250 bps < 4.00x > 3.50x 212.5 bps < 3.50x > 3.00x 175 bps < 3.00x > 2.50x 150 bps < 2.50x 125 bps The 2017 Credit Agreement also modified the consolidated Leverage Ratio and consolidated Coverage Ratio limits as described below in the financial covenants section. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 156 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report The balance of debt under the 2017 Credit Agreement and previously under the 2014 Credit Agreement is guaranteed by CEMEX México, S.A. de C.V., CEMEX Concretos, S.A. de C.V., Empresas Tolteca de México, S.A. de C.V., New Sunward Holding B.V., CEMEX España, S.A., CEMEX Asia B.V., CEMEX Corp., CEMEX Africa & Middle East Investments B.V., CEMEX Finance LLC, CEMEX France Gestion, (S.A.S.), CEMEX Research Group AG and CEMEX UK. In addition, the debt under these agreements (together with all other senior capital markets debt issued or guaranteed by CEMEX, and certain other preceding facilities) is also secured by a first-priority security interest in: (a) substantially all the shares of CEMEX México, S.A. de C.V., CEMEX Operaciones México, S.A. de C.V., New Sunward Holding B.V., CEMEX Trademarks Holding Ltd. and CEMEX España, S.A. (the “Collateral”); and (b) all proceeds of such Collateral. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, under both the 2017 Credit Agreement and the 2014 Credit Agreement, CEMEX was required to comply with the following thresholds: (a) the aggregate amount allowed for capital expenditures cannot exceed US$1,000 per year excluding certain capital expenditures, and, joint venture investments and acquisitions by CHP and its subsidiaries and CLH and its subsidiaries, which capital expenditures, joint venture investments and acquisitions at any time then incurred are subject to a separate aggregate limit for each of CHP and CLH of US$500 (or its equivalent); and (b) the amounts allowed for permitted acquisitions and investments in joint ventures cannot exceed US$400 per year. Nonetheless, such limitations do not apply if capital expenditures or acquisitions do not exceed free cash flow generation or are funded with proceeds from equity issuances or asset disposals. In addition to the restrictions mentioned above, and subject in each case to the permitted negotiated amounts and other exceptions, CEMEX is also subject to a number of negative covenants that, among other things, restrict or limit its ability to: (i) create liens; (ii) incur additional debt; (iii) change CEMEX’s business or the business of any obligor or material subsidiary (in each case, as defined in the 2017 Credit Agreement); (iv) enter into mergers; (v) enter into agreements that restrict its subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or repay intercompany debt; (vi) acquire assets; (vii) enter into or invest in joint venture agreements; (viii) dispose of certain assets; (ix) grant additional guarantees or indemnities; (x) declare or pay cash dividends or make share redemptions while the Leverage Ratio remains above 4.0 times; and (xi) enter into speculative derivatives transactions. The 2017 Credit Agreement contains several affirmative covenants that, among other things, require CEMEX to provide periodic financial information to its lenders. However, a number of those covenants and restrictions will automatically cease to apply or become less restrictive if CEMEX so elects when: (i) CEMEX’s Leverage Ratio (as defined hereinafter) for the two most recently completed quarterly testing periods is less than or equal to 3.75 times; and (ii) no default under the 2017 Credit Agreement is continuing. At that point the Leverage Ratio must not exceed 3.75 times. Restrictions that will cease to apply when CEMEX satisfies such conditions include the capital expenditure limitations mentioned above and several negative covenants, including limitations on CEMEX’s ability to declare or pay cash dividends and distributions to shareholders, limitations on CEMEX’s ability to repay existing financial indebtedness, certain asset sale restrictions, and restrictions on exercising call options in relation to any perpetual bonds CEMEX issues. At such time, several baskets and caps relating to negative covenants will also increase, including permitted financial indebtedness, permitted guarantees and limitations on liens. However, CEMEX cannot assure that it will be able to meet the conditions for these restrictions to cease to apply prior to the final maturity date under the 2017 Credit Agreement. In addition, the 2017 Credit Agreement, and previously the 2014 Credit Agreement, contains events of default, some of which may occur and are outside of CEMEX’s control such as expropriation, sequestration and availability of foreign exchange. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX was not aware of any event of default. CEMEX cannot assure that in the future it will be able to comply with the restrictive covenants and limitations contained in the 2017 Credit Agreement. CEMEX’s failure to comply with such covenants and limitations could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect CEMEX’s business and financial condition. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 157 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Financial Covenants The 2017 Credit Agreement and previously the 2014 Credit Agreement requires CEMEX to comply with financial ratios, which mainly include: a) the consolidated ratio of debt to Operating EBITDA (the “Leverage Ratio”); and b) the consolidated ratio of Operating EBITDA to interest expense (the “Coverage Ratio”). These financial ratios are calculated according to the formulas established in the debt contracts using the consolidated amounts under IFRS. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX must comply with a Coverage Ratio and a Leverage Ratio for each period of four consecutive fiscal quarters as follows: Period Coverage Ratio Period Leverage Ratio For the period ending on December 31, 2018 up to and For the period ending on December 31, 2018 up to and including the period ending on March 31, 2020 > = 2.50 including the period ending on March 31, 2019 < = 4.75 For the period ending on June 30, 2019 up to and including the period ending on March 31, 2020 < = 4.50 For the period ending on June 30, 2020 and each For the period ending on June 30, 2020 and each subsequent reference period > = 2.75 subsequent reference period < = 4.25 CEMEX’s ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by economic conditions and volatility in foreign exchange rates, as well as by overall conditions in the financial and capital markets. For the compliance periods ended as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, under the 2017 Credit Agreement and the 2014 Credit Agreement, as applicable, the main consolidated financial ratios were as follows: Consolidated financial ratios 2018 2017 2016 Leverage Ratio 1, 2 Limit < = 4.75 < = 5.25 < = 6.00 Calculation 3.84 3.85 4.22 Coverage Ratio 3 Limit > = 2.50 > = 2.50 > = 1.85 Calculation 4.41 3.46 3.18 1 The Leverage Ratio is calculated in pesos by dividing “Funded debt” by pro forma Operating EBITDA for the last twelve months as of the calculation date. Funded debt equals debt, as reported in the statement of financial position, excluding finance leases, components of liability of convertible subordinated notes, plus perpetual debentures and guarantees, plus or minus the fair value of derivative financial instruments, as applicable, among other adjustments. 2 Pro forma Operating EBITDA represents, all calculated in pesos, Operating EBITDA for the last twelve months as of the calculation date, plus the portion of Operating EBITDA referring to such twelve-month period of any significant acquisition made in the period before its consolidation in CEMEX, minus Operating EBITDA referring to such twelvemonth period of any significant disposal that had already been liquidated. 3 The Coverage Ratio is calculated in pesos using the amounts from the financial statements, by dividing the pro forma Operating EBITDA by the financial expense for the last twelve months as of the calculation date. Financial expense includes interest accrued on the perpetual debentures. CEMEX will classify all of its outstanding debt as current debt in its statement of financial position if: 1) as of any measurement date CEMEX fails to comply with the aforementioned financial ratios; or 2) the cross default clause that is part of the 2017 Credit Agreement is triggered by the provisions contained therein; 3) as of any date prior to a subsequent measurement date CEMEX expects not to be in compliance with such financial ratios in the absence of: a) amendments and/or waivers covering the next succeeding 12 months; b) high probability that the violation will be cured during any agreed upon remediation period and be sustained for the next succeeding 12 months; and/or c) a signed refinancing agreement to refinance the relevant debt on a long-term basis. Moreover, concurrent with such classification of debt as short-term, the noncompliance of CEMEX with the financial ratios agreed upon pursuant to the 2017 Credit Agreement or, in such event, the absence of a waiver of compliance or a negotiation thereof, after certain procedures upon CEMEX’s lenders’ request, they would call for the acceleration of payments due under the 2017 Credit Agreement. That scenario would have a material adverse effect on CEMEX’s operating results, liquidity or financial position. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 158 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 16.2) Other financial obligations As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, other financial obligations in the consolidated statement of financial position are detailed as follows: 2018 2017 Short-term Long-term Total Short-term Long-term Total I. Convertible subordinated notes due 2020 $ – 10,097 10,097 $ – 9,985 9,985 II. Convertible subordinated notes due 2018 – – – 7,115 – 7,115 III. Mandatorily convertible securities due 2019 374 – 374 323 371 694 IV. Liabilities secured with accounts receivable 11,770 – 11,770 11,313 – 11,313 V. Finance leases 595 1,931 2,526 611 2,503 3,114 $ 12,739 12,028 24,767 $ 19,362 12,859 32,221 Financial instruments convertible into CEMEX’s shares contain components of liability and equity, which are recognized differently depending upon the currency in which the instrument is denominated and the functional currency of the issuer (note 2.6). I. Optional convertible subordinated notes due 2020 During 2015, the Parent Company issued US$521 aggregate principal amount of 3.72% convertible subordinated notes due in March 2020 (the “2020 Convertible Notes”) as a result of exchanges or settlements of other convertible notes. The 2020 Convertible Notes, which are subordinated to all of CEMEX’s liabilities and commitments, are convertible into a fixed number of the Parent Company’s ADSs at any time at the holder’s election and are subject to antidilution adjustments. The aggregate fair value of the conversion option as of the issuance dates which amounted to $199 was recognized in “Other equity reserves.” As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the conversion price per ADS for the 2020 Convertible Notes was approximately 11.01 dollars in both years. After antidilution adjustments, the conversion rate for the 2020 Convertible Notes as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 was 90.8592 ADS per each 1 thousand dollars principal amount of such notes in both years. II. Optional convertible subordinated notes due in 2018 On March 15, 2011, the Parent Company closed the offering of US$690 principal amount of 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due in 2018 (the “2018 Convertible Notes”). The notes were subordinated to all of CEMEX’s liabilities and commitments. The notes were convertible into a fixed number of the Parent Company ADSs and are subject to antidilution adjustments. On June 19, 2017, the Parent Company agreed with certain institutional holders on the early conversion of US$325 of the 2018 Convertible Notes in exchange for the issuance of approximately 43 million ADSs, which included the number of additional ADSs issued to the holders as non-cash inducement premiums. As a result of the early conversion, the liability component of the converted notes of $5,468 was reclassified from other financial obligations to “Other equity reserves.” In addition, the Parent Company increased common stock for $4 and additional paid-in capital for $7,059 against “Other equity reserves,” and recognized expense for the inducement premiums paid in shares of $769, recognized within “Financial income and other items, net” in the income statement for 2017. After the early conversion of notes described above, the US$365 of the 2018 Convertible Notes that remained outstanding, were repaid in cash at their maturity on March 15, 2018. Concurrent with the offering of the 2018 Convertible Notes, a portion of the net proceeds from this transaction was used to fund the purchase of capped call options, which, when purchased, were generally expected to reduce the potential dilution cost to CEMEX upon the potential conversion of such notes (note 16.4). 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 159 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report III. Mandatorily convertible securities due in 2019 In December 2009, the Parent Company exchanged debt into US$315 principal amount of 10% mandatorily convertible securities in pesos with maturity in 2019 (the “2019 Mandatorily Convertible Securities”). Reflecting antidilution adjustments, the notes will be converted at maturity or earlier if the price of the CPO reaches $26.22 into approximately 236 million CPOs at a conversion price of $17.48 per CPO. Holders have an option to voluntarily convert their securities on any interest payment date into CPOs. The conversion option embedded in these securities is treated as a stand-alone derivative liability at fair value through the statement of operations (note 16.4). IV. Liabilities secured with accounts receivable As mentioned in note 9, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, in connection with CEMEX’s sale of trade accounts receivable under securitization programs and/or factoring programs with recourse, the funded amounts of such receivables sold are recognized in “Other financial obligations” in the statement of financial position. V. Finance leases CEMEX has several operating and administrative assets, including buildings and mobile equipment, under finance lease contracts. Future payments associated with these contracts are presented in note 23.5. 16.3) Fair value of financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities The carrying amounts of cash, trade accounts receivable, other accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, other accounts payable and accrued expenses, as well as short-term debt, approximate their corresponding estimated fair values due to the short-term maturity and revolving nature of these financial assets and liabilities. The estimated fair value of CEMEX’s long-term debt is level 2 and is either based on estimated market prices for such or similar instruments, considering interest rates currently available for CEMEX to negotiate debt with the same maturities, or determined by discounting future cash flows using market-based interest rates currently available to CEMEX. The fair values determined by CEMEX for its derivative financial instruments are level 2. There is no direct measure for the risk of CEMEX or its counterparties in connection with the derivative instruments. Therefore, the risk factors applied for CEMEX’s assets and liabilities originated by the valuation of such derivatives were extrapolated from publicly available risk discounts for other public debt instruments of CEMEX and its counterparties. The estimated fair value of derivative instruments fluctuates over time and is determined by measuring the effect of future relevant economic variables according to the yield curves shown in the market as of the reporting date. These values should be analyzed in relation to the fair values of the underlying transactions and as part of CEMEX’s overall exposure attributable to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The notional amounts of derivative instruments do not represent amounts of cash exchanged by the parties, and consequently, there is no direct measure of CEMEX’s exposure to the use of these derivatives. The amounts exchanged are determined on the basis of the notional amounts and other terms included in the derivative instruments. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 160 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their respective fair values were as follows: 2018 2017 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets Derivative instruments (notes 13.2 and 16.4) $ 297 297 $ 794 794 Other investments and non-current accounts receivable (note 13.2) 4,974 4,974 4,964 4,964 $ 5,271 5,271 $ 5,758 5,758 Financial liabilities Long-term debt (note 16.1) $ 182,074 179,740 $ 177,022 184,220 Other financial obligations (note 16.2) 12,028 11,924 12,859 13,381 Derivative instruments (notes 16.4 and 17) 406 406 402 402 $ 194,508 192,070 $ 190,283 198,003 Fair Value Hierarchy As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, assets and liabilities carried at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial position are included in the following fair value hierarchy categories: 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets measured at fair value Derivative instruments (notes 13.2 and 16.4) $ – 297 – 297 Investments in strategic equity securities (note 13.2) 217 – – 217 Other investments at fair value through earnings (note 13.2) – 428 – 428 $ 217 725 – 942 Liabilities measured at fair value Derivative instruments (notes 16.4 and 17) $ – 406 – 406 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets measured at fair value Derivative instruments (notes 13.2 and 16.4) $ – 794 – 794 Investments in strategic equity securities (note 13.2) 275 – – 275 Other investments at fair value through earnings (note 13.2) – 441 – 441 $ 275 1,235 – 1,510 Liabilities measured at fair value Derivative instruments (notes 16.4 and 17) $ – 402 – 402 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 161 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 16.4) Derivative financial instruments During the reported periods, in compliance with the guidelines established by its Risk Management Committee, the restrictions set forth by its debt agreements and its hedging strategy (note 16.5), CEMEX held derivative instruments, with the objectives of, as the case may be of: a) changing the risk profile or fixed the price of fuels and electric energy; b) foreign exchange hedging; c) hedge of forecasted transactions; and d) other corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the notional amounts and fair values of CEMEX’s derivative instruments were as follows: 2018 2017 Notional Fair Notional Fair amount value amount value I. Net investment hedge US$ 1,249 2 1,160 47 II. Foreign exchange forwards related to forecasted transactions – – 381 3 III. Equity forwards on third party shares 111 2 168 7 IV. Interest rate swaps 1,126 (8) 137 16 V. Fuel price hedging 122 (14) 72 20 VI. 2019 Mandatorily Convertible Securities – (1) – (20) US$ 2,608 (19) 1,918 73 The caption “Financial income and other items, net” includes gains and losses related to the recognition of changes in fair values of the derivative instruments during the applicable period and that represented net gains of US$38 ($692) in 2018, net gains of US$9 ($161) in 2017 and net gains of US$17 ($317) in 2016. I. Net investment hedge As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there are US$/MXP foreign exchange forward contracts under a program planned to be up to US$1,250, with monthly revolving settlement dates from 1 to 24 months. The average life of these contracts is approximately one year. For accounting purposes under IFRS, CEMEX has designated this program as a hedge of CEMEX’s net investment in Mexican pesos, pursuant to which changes in fair market value of these instruments are recognized as part of other comprehensive income in equity. For the years 2018 and 2017, these contracts generated losses of US$59 ($1,157) and gains of US$6 ($110), respectively. II. Foreign exchange forwards related to forecasted transactions As of December 31, 2017, CEMEX held US$/Euro foreign exchange forward contracts maturing on January 10, 2018, negotiated to maintain the euro value of a portion of proceeds from debt issuances maintained in U.S. dollars that were used to repurchase debt denominated in euros (note 16.1). In addition, in February 2017 CEMEX settled US$/MXP foreign exchange forward contracts negotiated to hedge the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds from the expected sale of pumping assets in Mexico (note 4.3). For the years 2018, 2017 and 2016, the aggregate results of these instruments, including the effects resulting from positions entered and settled during the year, generated losses of US$1 ($21) in 2018, losses of US$17 ($337) in 2017 and gains of US$10 ($186) in 2016, recognized within “Financial income and other items, net” in the income statement. III. Equity forwards on third party shares As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX maintained equity forward contracts with cash settlement in March 2020 and March 2019, respectively, over the price of 20.9 million shares of GCC in 2018 and 31.5 million in 2017, in connection with the sale of CEMEX’s remaining GCC shares in September 2017 (note 13.1). During 2018, CEMEX early settled a portion of these contracts for 10.6 million shares. Changes in the fair value of these instruments and early settlement effects generated gains of US$25 ($436) in 2018 and losses of US$24 ($463) in 2017 recognized within “Financial income and other items, net” in the income statement. In addition, until October 2016, CEMEX maintained a forward contract over the price of 59.5 million CPOs of Axtel in connection with the Company’s investment at fair value through the income statement (note 13.2). Changes in the fair value of this instrument generated a loss of US$2 ($30) in 2016 recognized within “Financial income and other items, net” in the income statement. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 162 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report IV. Interest rate swap contracts As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX held interest rate swaps for a notional amount of US$1,000 the fair value of which represented a liability of US$19 ($373), negotiated in June 2018 to fix interest payments of existing bank loans bearing floating rates. The contracts mature in June 2023. For accounting purposes under IFRS, CEMEX designated these contracts as cash flow hedges, pursuant to which, changes in fair value are initially recognized as part of other comprehensive income in equity and are subsequently recycled through financial expense as interest expense on the related bank loans is accrued. For the year 2018, changes in fair value of these contracts generated losses of US$19 ($364) in the income statement. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX had an interest rate swap for a notional amount of US$126 and US$137, respectively. maturing in September 2022 associated with an agreement entered by CEMEX for the acquisition of electric energy in Mexico, the fair value of which represented assets of US$11 ($216) and US$16 ($314), respectively. Pursuant to this instrument, during the tenure of the swap and based on its notional amount, CEMEX receives fixed rate of 5.4% and pays LIBOR. Changes in the fair value of this interest rate swap generated losses of US$6 ($114) in 2018, US$6 ($114) in 2017 and US$6 ($112) in 2016, recognized in the income statement for each period. V. Fuel price hedging As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX maintained forward contracts negotiated to hedge the price of certain fuels, including diesel, gas and coal, as solid fuel, in several operations for aggregate notional amounts of US$122 ($2,398) and US$72 ($1,415), respectively, with an estimated aggregate fair value representing liabilities of US$14 ($275) in 2018 and assets of US$20 ($394) in 2017. By means of these contracts, for its own consumption only, CEMEX fixed the price of these fuels over certain volumes representing a portion of the estimated consumption of such fuels in several operations. These contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges of diesel, gas or coal consumption, and as such, changes in fair value are recognized temporarily through other comprehensive income and are recycled to operating expenses as the related fuel volumes are consumed. For the years 2018, 2017 and 2016, changes in fair value of these contracts recognized in other comprehensive income represented losses of US$35 ($697), gains of US$4 ($76) and gains of US$15 ($311), respectively. VI. 2019 Mandatorily Convertible Securities and options on the Parent Company’s own shares In connection with the 2019 Mandatorily Convertible Securities (note 16.2); considering that the securities are denominated in pesos and the functional currency of the Parent Company’s division that issued the securities is the dollar (note 2.4), CEMEX separated the conversion option embedded in such instruments and recognized it at fair value through the income statement, which as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, resulted in a liability of US$1 ($20) and US$20 ($393), respectively. Changes in fair value generated a gain of US$20 ($391) in 2018, a gain of US$19 ($359) in 2017 and a loss of US$29 ($545) in 2016. In addition, on March 15, 2011, the Parent Company entered into a capped calls, considering antidilution adjustments, over 80 million CEMEX’s ADSs maturing in March 2018 in connection with the 2018 Convertible Notes, by means of which, at maturity of the notes, originally CEMEX would receive in cash the excess between the market price and the strike price of approximately 8.57 dollars per ADS, with a maximum appreciation per ADS of 5.27 dollars. CEMEX paid aggregate premiums of US$104. During August 2016, CEMEX amended 58.3% of the total notional amount of the capped calls to lower the exercise price in exchange for reducing the number of underlying options. As a result, CEMEX retained capped calls over 71 million ADSs. Changes in the fair value of these instruments generated gains of US$37 ($725) in 2017 and gains of US$44 ($818) in 2016, recognized within “Financial income and other items, net” in the income statement. During 2017, CEMEX unwound and settled all its capped calls receiving in exchange US$103 in cash. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 163 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 16.5) Risk management Enterprise risks may arise from any of the following situations: i) the potential change in the value of assets owned or reasonably anticipated to be owned, ii) the potential change in value of liabilities incurred or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, iii) the potential change in value of services provided, purchase or reasonably anticipated to be provided or purchased in the ordinary course of business, iv) the potential change in the value of assets, services, inputs, products or commodities owned, produced, manufactured, processed, merchandised, leased or sell or reasonably anticipated to be owned, produced, manufactured, processed, merchandising, leasing or selling in the ordinary course of business, or v) any potential change in the value arising from interest rate or foreign exchange rate exposures arising from current or anticipated assets or liabilities. In the ordinary course of business, CEMEX is exposed to commodities risk, including the exposure from inputs such as fuel, coal, petcoke, fly-ash, gypsum and other industrial materials which are commonly used by CEMEX in the production process, and expose CEMEX to variations in prices of the underlying commodities. To manage this and other risks, such as credit risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, equity risk and liquidity risk, considering the guidelines set forth by the Parent Company’s Board of Directors, which represent CEMEX’s risk management framework and that are supervised by several Committees, CEMEX’s management establishes specific policies that determine strategies oriented to obtain natural hedges to the extent possible, such as avoiding customer concentration on a determined market or aligning the currencies portfolio in which CEMEX incurred its debt, with those in which CEMEX generates its cash flows. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, these strategies are sometimes complemented with the use of derivative financial instruments as mentioned in note 16.4, such as the commodity forward contracts on fuels negotiated to fix the price of these underlying commodities. The main risk categories are mentioned below: Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss faced by CEMEX if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument does not meet its contractual obligations and originates mainly from trade accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the balance of financial assets. Management has developed policies for the authorization of credit to customers. Exposure to credit risk is monitored constantly according to the payment behavior of debtors. Credit is assigned on a customer-by-customer basis and is subject to assessments which consider the customers’ payment capacity, as well as past behavior regarding due dates, balances past due and delinquent accounts. In cases deemed necessary, CEMEX’s management requires guarantees from its customers and financial counterparties with regard to financial assets. The Company’s management has established a policy of low risk tolerance which analyzes the creditworthiness of each new client individually before offering the general conditions of payment terms and delivery. The review includes external ratings, when references are available, and in some cases bank references. Thresholds of purchase limits are established for each client, which represent the maximum purchase amounts that require different levels of approval. Customers that do not meet the levels of solvency requirements imposed by CEMEX can only carry out transactions by paying cash in advance. As of December 31, 2018, considering CEMEX’s best estimate of potential expected losses based on the ECL model developed by CEMEX (note 9), the allowance for expected credit losses was $2,336. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates, which only affects CEMEX’s results if the fixed-rate long-term debt is measured at fair value. All of CEMEX’s fixed-rate longterm debt is carried at amortized cost and therefore is not subject to interest rate risk. CEMEX’s accounting exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to its long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates, which, if such rates were to increase, may adversely affect its financing cost and the results for the period. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 164 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Nonetheless, it is not economically efficient to concentrate on fixed rates at a high point when the interest rates market expects a downward trend. That is, there is an opportunity cost for continuing to pay a determined fixed interest rate when the market rates have decreased and the entity may obtain improved interest rate conditions in a new loan or debt issuance. CEMEX manages its interest rate risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable rates while attempting to reduce its interest costs. In addition, when the interest rate of a debt instrument has turned relatively high as compared to current market rates, CEMEX intends to renegotiate the conditions or repurchase the debt, to the extent the net present value of the expected future benefits from the interest rate reduction would exceed the cost and commissions that would have to be paid in such renegotiation or repurchase of debt. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, approximately 37% and 31%, respectively, of CEMEX’s long-term debt was denominated in floating rates at a weighted-average interest rate of LIBOR plus 241 basis points in 2018 and 268 basis points in 2017. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, if interest rates at that date had been 0.5% higher, with all other variables held constant, CEMEX’s net income for 2018 and 2017 would have reduced by US$19 ($366) and US$18 ($353), respectively, as a result of higher interest expense on variable rate denominated debt. This analysis does not include the effect of interest rate swaps held by CEMEX during 2018 and 2017. Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. CEMEX’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to its operating activities. Due to its geographic diversification, CEMEX’s revenues and costs are generated and settled in various countries and in different currencies. For the year ended December 31, 2018, approximately 22% of CEMEX’s net sales, before eliminations resulting from consolidation, were generated in Mexico, 26% in the United States, 8% in the United Kingdom, 6% in France, 4% in Germany, 2% in Spain, 2% in Poland, 2% in the Rest of Europe region, 4% in Colombia, 2% in Panama, 1% in Costa Rica, 1% Caribbean TCL, 2% in the Rest of South, Central America and the Caribbean region, 2% in Philippines, 1% in Egypt, 1% in the Rest of Asia, Middle East and Africa and 7% in CEMEX’s other operations. Foreign exchange gains and losses occur through monetary assets or liabilities in a currency different from its functional currency, and are recorded in the consolidated income statements, except for exchange fluctuations associated with foreign currency indebtedness directly related to the acquisition of foreign entities and exchange fluctuations in related parties’ long-term balances denominated in foreign currency that are not expected to be settled in the foreseeable future, which are reported in the statement of other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, excluding from the sensitivity analysis the impact of translating the net assets of foreign operations into CEMEX’s reporting currency, considering a hypothetic 10% strengthening of the dollar against the Mexican peso, with all other variables held constant, CEMEX’s net income for 2018 and 2017 would have decreased by US$63 ($1,240) and US$119 ($2,343), respectively, as a result of higher foreign exchange losses on CEMEX’s dollar-denominated net monetary liabilities held in consolidated entities with other functional currencies. Conversely, a hypothetic 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Mexican peso would have the opposite effect. As of December 31, 2018, approximately 63% of CEMEX’s financial debt was Dollar-denominated, 29% was Euro-denominated, 5% was Pound-denominated and 3% was Philippine peso-denominated. Therefore, CEMEX had a foreign currency exposure arising mainly from the Dollar-denominated and Euro-denominated financial debt versus the several currencies in which CEMEX’s revenues are settled in most countries in which it operates. The amounts of Pound-denominated financial debt and Philippine peso-denominated financial debt outstanding as of December 31, 2018, are closely related to the amount of revenues generated in such currencies and/or, in the case of the Euro-denominated financial debt, the amount of CEMEX’s net assets denominated in such currencies; therefore, CEMEX considers that the foreign currency risk related to these amounts of debt is low. Nonetheless, CEMEX cannot guarantee that it will generate sufficient revenues in Dollars, Euros, Pounds and Philippine pesos from its operations to service these obligations. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX had not implemented any derivative financing hedging strategy to address this foreign currency risk. Nonetheless, CEMEX may enter into derivative financing hedging strategies in the future if either of its debt portfolio currency mix, interest rate mix, market conditions and/or expectations changes. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 165 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX’s consolidated net monetary assets (liabilities) by currency are as follows: 2018 South, Central Asia, Middle America and East and Mexico United States Europe the Caribbean Africa Others 1 Total Monetary assets $ 8,400 9,961 13,163 6,046 10,216 2,997 50,783 Monetary liabilities 19,798 33,464 40,153 10,841 12,223 200,731 317,210 Net monetary assets (liabilities) 2 $ (11,398) (23,503) (26,990) (4,795) (2,007) (197,734) (266,427) Out of which: Dollars $ (560) (23,507) 153 (947) 22 (117,677) (142,516) Pesos (10,838) 4 – (6) – (5,469) (16,309) Euros – – (10,571) 13 40 (52,942) (63,460) Pounds – – (18,241) – – (8,609) (26,850) Other currencies – – 1,669 (3,855) (2,069) (13,037) (17,292) $ (11,398) (23,503) (26,990) (4,795) (2,007) (197,734) (266,427) 2017 South, Central Asia, Middle America and East and Mexico United States Europe the Caribbean Africa Others 1 Total Monetary assets $ 11,798 9,453 14,182 7,347 9,780 5,163 57,723 Monetary liabilities 17,505 32,158 45,675 12,016 11,522 221,579 340,455 Net monetary assets (liabilities) 2 $ (5,707) (22,705) (31,493) (4,669) (1,742) (216,416) (282,732) Out of which: Dollars $ (1,097) (22,710) 39 (126) 221 (133,530) (157,203) Pesos (4,610) 4 24 – – (7,745) (12,327) Euros – – (10,155) 2 – (58,452) (68,605) Pounds – – (19,358) – – (9,119) (28,477) Other currencies – 1 (2,043) (4,545) (1,963) (7,570) (16,120) $ (5,707) (22,705) (31,493) (4,669) (1,742) (216,416) (282,732) 1 Includes the Parent Company, CEMEX’s financing subsidiaries, as well as Neoris N.V., among other entities. 2 Includes assets held for sale and liabilities directly related with these assets considering that such items will be realized in the short term. In addition, considering that the Parent Company’s functional currency for all assets, liabilities and transactions associated with its financial and holding company activities is the dollar (note 2.4), there is foreign currency risk associated with the translation of subsidiaries’ net assets denominated in different currencies (peso, euro, pounds and other currencies) into dollars. When the dollar appreciates, the value of CEMEX’s net assets denominated in other currencies decreases in terms of dollars, generating negative foreign currency translation and reducing stockholders’ equity. Conversely, when the dollar depreciates, the value of CEMEX’s net assets denominated in other currencies would increase in terms of dollars generating the opposite effect. As mentioned in note 16.4, CEMEX has implemented a long-term program for up to US$1,250 to hedge foreign currency translation in connection with its net assets denominated in pesos. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 166 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Equity risk Equity risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in the market price of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.’s and/or third party’s shares. As described in note 16.4, considering specific objectives, CEMEX has entered into equity forward contracts on third-party shares, as well as capped calls based on the price of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.’s own ADSs. Under these equity derivative instruments, there is a direct relationship from the change in the fair value of the derivative with the change in price of the underlying share. All changes in fair value of such derivative instruments are recognized in the income statement as part of “Financial income and other items, net.” During 2017, all outstanding capped calls based on the price of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.´s own ADSs were early settled. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the potential change in the fair value of CEMEX’s forward contracts in GCC shares that would result from a hypothetical, instantaneous decrease of 10% in the market price of GCC shares in dollars, with all other variables held constant, CEMEX’s net income would have reduced by US$11 ($210) in 2018 and US$14 ($283) in 2017, as a result of additional negative changes in fair value associated with these forward contracts. A 10% hypothetical increase in the price of GCC shares would have generated approximately the opposite effect. In addition, even though the changes in fair value of CEMEX’s embedded conversion option in the Mandatorily Convertible Notes 2019 denominated in a currency other than the functional issuer’s currency affect the income statement, this do not imply any risk or variability in cash flows, considering that through their exercise, CEMEX will settle a fixed amount of debt with a fixed number of shares. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the potential change in the fair value of the embedded conversion options in the Mandatorily Convertible Notes 2019 that would result from a hypothetical, instantaneous increase of 10% in the market price of CEMEX’s CPOs, with all other variables held constant, would have decreased CEMEX’s net income by US$1 ($16) in 2018 and decreased by US$9 ($180) in 2017 as a result of additional negative changes in fair value associated with this option. A 10% hypothetical decrease in the CEMEX CPO price would generate approximately the opposite effect. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that CEMEX will not have sufficient funds available to meet its obligations. In addition to cash flows provided by its operating activities, in order to meet CEMEX’s overall liquidity needs for operations, servicing debt and funding capital expenditures and acquisitions, CEMEX relies on cost-cutting and operating improvements to optimize capacity utilization and maximize profitability, as well as borrowing under credit facilities, proceeds of debt and equity offerings, and proceeds from asset sales. CEMEX is exposed to risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, prices and currency controls, interest rates, inflation, governmental spending, social instability and other political, economic and/or social developments in the countries in which it operates, any one of which may materially affect CEMEX’s results and reduce cash from operations. The maturities of CEMEX’s contractual obligations are included in note 23.5. As of December 31, 2018, current liabilities, which included $13,622 of current maturities of debt and other financial obligations, exceed current assets by $22,891. For the year ended December 31, 2018, CEMEX generated net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations of $26,545, after payments of interest and income taxes. The Company’s management considers that CEMEX will generate sufficient cash flows from operations. In addition, as of December 31, 2018, CEMEX has committed available lines of credit under its 2017 Credit Agreement, which includes the revolving credit facility and an undrawn tranche for a combined amount of $16,211 (US$825), as well as CEMEX’s proven capacity to continually refinance and replace its short-term obligations, will enable CEMEX to meet any liquidity risk in the short term. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the potential requirement for additional margin calls under our different commitments is not significant. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 167 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 17) OTHER CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, consolidated other current liabilities were as follows: 2018 2017 Provisions 1 $ 10,509 12,121 Interest payable 1,856 2,496 Advances from customers 3,838 3,886 Other accounts payable and accrued expenses 2 5,222 5,123 Contract liabilities with customers (note 3) 775 770 $ 22,200 24,396 1 Current provisions primarily consist of accrued employee benefits, insurance payments, accruals for legal assessments and others. These amounts are revolving in nature and are expected to be settled and replaced by similar amounts within the next 12 months. 2 In 2017, includes an account payable in Colombian pesos equivalent to $491 (US$25) settled on January 5, 2018 related to a penalty imposed by the Commerce and Industry Superintendence in Colombia in connection with a market investigation (note 24.2). As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, consolidated other non-current liabilities were as follows: 2018 2017 Asset retirement obligations 1 $ 8,013 7,906 Accruals for legal assessments and other responsibilities 2 879 1,599 Non-current liabilities for valuation of derivative instruments 406 402 Environmental liabilities 3 573 991 Other non-current liabilities and provisions 4 5,134 4,751 $ 15,005 15,649 1 Provisions for asset retirement include future estimated costs for demolition, cleaning and reforestation of production sites at the end of their operation, which are initially recognized against the related assets and are depreciated over their estimated useful life. 2 Provisions for legal claims and other responsibilities include items related to tax contingencies. 3 Environmental liabilities include future estimated costs arising from legal or constructive obligations, related to cleaning, reforestation and other remedial actions to remediate damage caused to the environment. The expected average period to settle these obligations is greater than 15 years. 4 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, includes $981 and $1,498, respectively, of the non-current portion of taxes payable in Mexico recognized in connection with the termination of the tax consolidation regime in 2014. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, $590 and $958, respectively, were included within current taxes payable. Changes in consolidated other current and non-current liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, were as follows: 2018 Asset Accruals for Valuation of Other retirement Environmental legal derivative liabilities and obligations liabilities proceedings instruments provisions Total 2017 Balance at beginning of period $ 7,906 991 1,599 421 17,623 28,540 28,937 Business combinations – – – – – – 345 Additions or increase in estimates 1,355 11 136 275 25,379 27,156 41,137 Releases or decrease in estimates (916) (4) (807) – (26,841) (28,568) (41,700) Reclassifications (22) (384) – (96) 124 (378) (1,148) Accretion expense (186) – – – (902) (1,088) (1,021) Foreign currency translation (124) (41) (49) 78 763 627 1,990 Balance at end of period $ 8,013 573 879 678 16,146 26,289 28,540 Out of which: Current provisions $ 297 – – 272 10,715 11,284 12,891 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 168 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 18) PENSIONS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Defined contribution pension plans The consolidated costs of defined contribution plans for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 were $863, $922 and $865, respectively. CEMEX contributes periodically the amounts offered by the pension plan to the employee’s individual accounts, not retaining any remaining liability as of the financial statements’ date. Defined benefit pension plans Most of CEMEX’s defined benefit plans have been closed to new participants for several years. Actuarial results related to pension and other post-retirement benefits are recognized in earnings and/or in “Other comprehensive income” for the period in which they are generated, as appropriate. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the effects of pension plans and other post-employment benefits are summarized as follows: Pensions Other benefits Total Net period cost (income): 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Recorded in operating costs and expenses Service cost $ 193 221 151 35 33 25 228 254 176 Past service cost 168 (55) 8 – – – 168 (55) 8 361 166 159 35 33 25 396 199 184 Recorded in other financial expenses Net interest cost 691 693 711 84 74 57 775 767 768 Recorded in other comprehensive income Actuarial (gains) losses for the period (3,415) 20 3,985 11 (23) 34 (3,404) (3) 4,019 $ (2,363) 879 4,855 130 84 116 (2,233) 963 4,971 For the years 2018, 2017 and 2016, actuarial (gains) losses for the period were generated by the following main factors as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Actuarial (gains) losses due to experience $ (1,110) 121 (511) Actuarial (gains) losses due to demographic assumptions (1,104) (46) (231) Actuarial (gains) losses due financial assumptions (1,190) (78) 4,761 $ (3,404) (3) 4,019 In 2018, net actuarial gains due to financial assumptions were mainly generated by a general increase in the discounts rates applied for the calculation of the pension benefit obligations in the United Kingdom, Germany, United States and Mexico, among others, resulting from the increase in market interest rates after several years in which such rates reached historically low levels. In 2017, net actuarial gains due to financial assumptions were mainly driven by an increase in the discount rates applicable to the benefits’ obligations in Germany and Mexico and by actual returns higher than estimated in the United States, partially offset by a decrease in the discount rate in the United Kingdom. Net actuarial losses due to financial assumptions during 2016 were mainly generated by a significant reduction in the discount rates applicable to the benefit obligations in the United Kingdom, Germany and other European countries, considering macroeconomic and political uncertainty prevailing at that time, partially offset by an increase in the discount rate in Mexico. These actuarial losses originated by the reduction in the discount rates in 2016 were also partially offset by actual returns higher than estimated in some of the plan assets related to CEMEX’s defined benefit plans. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 169 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the reconciliation of the actuarial benefits’ obligations and pension plan assets, are presented as follows: Pensions Other benefits Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Change in benefits obligation: Projected benefit obligation at beginning of the period $ 54,910 51,055 1,436 1,164 56,346 52,219 Service cost 193 221 35 33 228 254 Interest cost 1,608 1,625 87 76 1,695 1,701 Actuarial (gains) losses (5,126) 727 8 (24) (5,118) 703 Additions through business combinations – 2,801 111 271 111 3,072 Reduction from disposal of assets (9) – – – (9) – Plan amendments 168 (55) – – 168 (55) Benefits paid (2,807) (2,920) (102) (81) (2,909) (3,001) Foreign currency translation (2,226) 1,456 (30) (3) (2,256) 1,453 Projected benefit obligation at end of the period 46,711 54,910 1,545 1,436 48,256 56,346 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the period 32,665 28,828 28 26 32,693 28,854 Return on plan assets 917 932 3 2 920 934 Actuarial (gains) losses (1,711) 707 (3) (1) (1,714) 706 Employer contributions 1,562 1,494 102 81 1,664 1,575 Additions through business combinations – 2,841 – – – 2,841 Reduction for disposal of assets – (4) – – – (4) Benefits paid (2,807) (2,920) (102) (81) (2,909) (3,001) Foreign currency translation (1,335) 787 – 1 (1,335) 788 Fair value of plan assets at end of the period 29,291 32,665 28 28 29,319 32,693 Net projected liability in the statement of financial position $ 17,420 22,245 1,517 1,408 18,937 23,653 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, based on the hierarchy of fair values, plan assets are detailed as follows: 2018 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash $ 701 – – 701 $ 579 – – 579 Investments in corporate bonds 131 6,720 – 6,851 144 6,067 1 6,212 Investments in government bonds 1,649 6,786 – 8,435 1,701 9,407 – 11,108 Total fixed-income securities 2,481 13,506 – 15,987 2,424 15,474 1 17,899 Investment in marketable securities 5,089 1,557 – 6,646 6,212 1,735 – 7,947 Other investments and private funds 973 4,172 1,541 6,686 991 3,279 2,577 6,847 Total variable-income securities 6,062 5,729 1,541 13,332 7,203 5,014 2,577 14,794 Total plan assets $ 8,543 19,235 1,541 29,319 $ 9,627 20,488 2,578 32,693 The most significant assumptions used in the determination of the benefit obligation were as follows: 2018 2017 United United Range of rates in United United Rates ranges in Mexico States Kingdom other countries Mexico States Kingdom other countries Discount rates 10.8% 4.5% 2.9% 1.3% – 7.5% 9.3% 3.9% 2.4% 1.3% – 6.3% Rate of return on plan assets 10.8% 4.5% 2.9% 1.3% – 7.5% 9.3% 3.9% 2.4% 1.3% – 6.3% Rate of salary increases 4.0% – 3.3% 2.3% – 6.0% 4.0% – 3.2% 1.5% – 6.0% 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 170 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018, estimated payments for pensions and other post-employment benefits over the next 10 years were as follows: 2018 2019 $ 2,904 2020 2,663 2021 2,641 2022 2,662 2023 – 2028 15,714 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the aggregate projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) for pension plans and other post-employment benefits and the plan assets by country were as follows: 2018 2017 PBO Assets Deficit PBO Assets Deficit Mexico $ 3,300 582 2,718 $ 3,213 840 2,373 United States 5,619 3,428 2,191 6,378 4,031 2,347 United Kingdom 1 28,771 20,775 7,996 35,602 23,145 12,457 Germany 3,973 195 3,778 4,362 213 4,149 Other countries 6,593 4,339 2,254 6,791 4,464 2,327 $ 48,256 29,319 18,937 $ 56,346 32,693 23,653 1 Applicable regulation in the United Kingdom requires to maintain plan assets at a level similar to that of the obligations. Beginning in 2012, the pension fund receives annual dividends of approximately US$20, increasing at a 5% rate per year, from a limited partnership (the “Partnership”), whose assets transferred by CEMEX UK of an approximate value of US$553, are leased back to CEMEX UK. The Partnership is owned, controlled and consolidated by CEMEX UK. In 2037, on expiry of the arrangement, the Partnership will be terminated and under the terms of the agreement, the remaining assets will be distributed to CEMEX UK. Distributions from the Partnership to the pension fund are considered as employer contributions to plan assets in the period in which they occur. In some countries, CEMEX has established health care benefits for retired personnel limited to a certain number of years after retirement. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the projected benefits obligation related to these benefits was $1,133 and $1,080, respectively. The medical inflation rates used to determine the projected benefits obligation of these benefits in 2018 and 2017 for Mexico were 7.0% in both years, for Puerto Rico 6.2% and 6.9%, respectively, and for the United Kingdom were 6.8% and 6.7%, respectively. In connection with the acquisition of TCL (note 4.1), CEMEX integrated TCL’s consolidated health care benefits into its operations. For 2018 and 2017, the medical inflation rate used to determine the projected benefits obligation was 5.0% in both years. Significant events related to employees’ pension benefits and other post-employment benefits during the reported periods During 2017, CEMEX in Spain removed certain increases in pension benefits which resulted in an adjustment to past service cost generating gains of $99 (US$5) in 2017, recognized in the income statement for the year. In addition, due to the acquisition of TCL (note 4.1), CEMEX integrated its consolidated pensions plans, which were fully funded, as well as TCL’s consolidated health care benefits which represented an increase in the net projected liability of $271 (US$14) in 2017 and $111 (US$6) in 2018 upon conclusion of the purchase price allocation. Sensitivity analysis of pension and other post-employment benefits For the year ended December 31, 2018, CEMEX performed sensitivity analyses on the most significant assumptions that affect the PBO, considering reasonable independent changes of plus or minus 50 basis points in each of these assumptions. The increase (decrease) that would have resulted in the PBO of pensions and other post-employment benefits as of December 31, 2018 are shown below: Pensions Other benefits Total Assumptions: +50 bps -50 bps +50 bps -50 bps +50 bps -50 bps Discount Rate Sensitivity $ (3,074) 3,303 (71) 83 (3,145) 3,386 Salary Increase Rate Sensitivity 205 (177) 46 (37) 251 (214) Pension Increase Rate Sensitivity 1,902 (1,698) – – 1,902 (1,698) 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 171 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 19) INCOME TAXES 19.1) Income taxes for the period The amounts of income tax expense in the statements of operations for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are summarized as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Current income taxes $ (1,898) (3,458) (3,456) Deferred income tax revenue (expense) (2,569) 2,938 331 $ (4,467) (520) (3,125) 19.2) Deferred income taxes As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the main temporary differences that generated the consolidated deferred income tax assets and liabilities are presented below: 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets: Tax loss carryforwards and other tax credits $ 13,796 15,900 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 6,638 7,083 Intangible assets and deferred charges, net 2,794 4,175 Total deferred tax assets, gross 23,228 27,158 Presentation offset regarding same legal entity (11,661) (12,341) Total deferred tax assets, net in the statement of financial position 11,567 14,817 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, machinery and equipment (25,972) (27,268) Investments and other assets (589) (874) Total deferred tax liabilities, gross (26,561) (28,142) Presentation offset regarding same legal entity 11,661 12,341 Total deferred tax liabilities, net in the statement of financial position (14,900) (15,801) Net deferred tax liabilities $ (3,333) (984) Out of which: Net deferred tax liability in Mexican entities 1 $ (4,414) (3,978) Net deferred tax asset in Foreign entities 2 1,081 2,994 Net deferred tax liabilities $ (3,333) (984) 1 Net deferred tax liabilities in Mexico mainly refer to a temporary difference resulting when comparing at the reporting date the carrying amount of property, machinery and equipment, as per IFRS, and their corresponding tax values (remaining tax-deductible amount), partially offset by certain deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards that are expected to be recovered in the future against taxable income. When the book value is greater than the related tax value results in a deferred tax liability. In 2011, upon transition to IFRS, CEMEX elected to measure its fixed assets at fair value, which resulted in a significant increase in book value, mainly associated with the revaluation of mineral reserves. Such restated amounts are depleted to the income statement in a period over 35 years, generating accounting expense that is not tax-deductible; hence the temporary difference will gradually reverse over time but does not represent a payment obligation to the tax authority at the reporting date. 2 Net deferred tax assets in foreign entities are mainly related to tax loss carryforwards recognized in recent years, mainly in the United States, that are expected to be recovered in the future against taxable income. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 172 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, balances of the deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the statement of financial position are located in the following entities: 2018 2017 Asset Liability Net Asset Liability Net Mexican entities $ 3,079 (7,493) (4,414) $ 3,212 (7,190) (3,978) Foreign entities 8,488 (7,407) 1,081 11,605 (8,611) 2,994 $ 11,567 (14,900) (3,333) $ 14,817 (15,801) (984) The breakdown of changes in consolidated deferred income taxes during 2018, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Deferred income tax (charged) credited to the income statement 1 $ (2,569) 2,938 331 Deferred income tax (charged) credited to stockholders’ equity 2 193 200 514 Reclassification to other captions in the statement of financial position and in the income statement 3 27 (560) 531 Change in deferred income tax during the period $ (2,349) 2,578 1,376 1 In 2017, includes net income tax revenue related to the recognition of deferred income tax assets in CEMEX’s operations in the United States (note 19.4). 2 In 2018, includes a deferred income tax revenue of $154 in connection with the adoption of IFRS 9 on January 1, 2018. 3 In 2018, 2017 and 2016, includes the effects of business combinations (note 4.2). Current and/or deferred income tax relative to items of other comprehensive income during 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Tax effects relative to foreign exchange fluctuations from debt (note 20.2) $ – – (410) Tax effects relative to foreign exchange fluctuations from intercompany balances (note 20.2) 29 32 (12) Tax effects relative to actuarial (gains) and losses (note 20.2) (530) (1) 788 Foreign currency translation and other effects 723 201 (274) $ 222 232 92 As of December 31, 2018, consolidated tax loss and tax credits carryforwards expire as follows: Amount of Amount of Amount of unrecognized recognized carryforwards carryforwards carryforwards 2019 $ 1,809 1,636 173 2020 8,749 8,483 266 2021 3,984 3,170 814 2022 6,576 6,389 187 2023 and thereafter 276,089 222,179 53,910 $ 297,207 241,857 55,350 As of December 31, 2018, in connection with CEMEX’s deferred tax loss carryforwards presented in the table above, in order to realize the benefits associated with such deferred tax assets that have not been reserved, before their expiration, CEMEX would need to generate $55,350 in consolidated pre-tax income in future periods. Based on the same forecasts of future cash flows and operating results used by CEMEX’s management to allocate resources and evaluate performance in the countries in which CEMEX operates, along with the implementation of feasible tax strategies, CEMEX believes that it will recover the balance of its tax loss carryforwards that have been recognized before their expiration. In addition, CEMEX concluded that, the deferred tax liabilities that were considered in the analysis of recoverability of its deferred tax assets will reverse in the same period and tax jurisdiction of the related recognized deferred tax assets. Moreover, a certain amount of CEMEX’s deferred tax assets refers to operating segments and tax jurisdictions in which CEMEX is currently generating taxable income or in which, according to CEMEX’s management cash flow projections, will generate taxable income in the relevant periods before the expiration of the deferred tax assets. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 173 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report The Parent Company does not recognize a deferred income tax liability related to its investments in subsidiaries considering that CEMEX controls the reversal of the temporary differences arising from these investments and management is satisfied that such temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. 19.3) Reconciliation of effective income tax rate For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the effective consolidated income tax rates were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Income before income tax $ 15,511 13,700 17,616 Income tax expense (4,467) (520) (3,125) Effective consolidated income tax rate 1 (28.8)% (3.8)% (17.7)% 1 The average effective tax rate equals the net amount of income tax revenue or expense divided by income or loss before income taxes, as these line items are reported in the income statement. Differences between the financial reporting and the corresponding tax basis of assets and liabilities and the different income tax rates and laws applicable to CEMEX, among other factors, give rise to permanent differences between the statutory tax rate applicable in Mexico, and the effective tax rate presented in the consolidated statements of operations, which in 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 % $ % $ % $ Mexican statutory tax rate (30.0) (4,653) (30.0) (4,110) (30.0) (5,285) Non-taxable dividend income 0.8 124 0.1 14 0.2 32 Difference between accounting and tax expenses, net (15.4) (2,394) (20.8) (2,855) 82.3 14,507 Unrecognized effects during the year related to applicable tax consolidation regimes (0.7) (109) 0.9 123 (3.6) (632) Non-taxable sale of equity securities and fixed assets 4.6 713 15.0 2,049 3.7 650 Difference between book and tax inflation (19.5) (3,024) (31.1) (4,261) (11.0) (1,932) Differences in the income tax rates in the countries where CEMEX operates 1 16.0 2,482 21.8 2,991 11.0 1,932 Changes in deferred tax assets 2 14.7 2,286 39.6 5,433 (69.9) (12,320) Changes in provisions for uncertain tax positions 1.8 279 (0.4) (55) 0.7 123 Others (1.1) (171) 1.1 151 (1.1) (200) Effective consolidated tax rate (28.8) (4,467) (3.8) (520) (17.7) (3,125) 1 Refers mainly to the effects of the differences between the statutory income tax rate in Mexico of 30% against the applicable income tax rates of each country where CEMEX operates. In 2018 and 2017, includes the effect related to the change in statutory tax rate in Colombia and the United States, respectively (note 19.4). 2 Refers to the effects in the effective income tax rate associated with changes during the period in the amount of deferred income tax assets related to CEMEX’s tax loss carryforwards. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 174 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report The following table compares variations between the line item “Changes in deferred tax assets” as presented in the table above against the changes in deferred tax assets in the statement of financial position for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017: 2018 2017 Changes in the Changes in the statement of statement of financial Amounts in financial Amounts in position reconciliation position reconciliation Tax loss carryforwards generated and not recognized during the year $ – 2,676 – 6,092 Derecognition related to tax loss carryforwards recognized in prior years (1,770) (56) (5,221) (5,221) Recognition related to unrecognized tax loss carryforwards 98 98 9,694 9,694 Foreign currency translation and other effects (432) (432) (6,087) (5,132) Changes in deferred tax assets $ (2,104) 2,286 (1,614) 5,433 19.4) Uncertain tax positions and significant tax proceedings Uncertain tax positions As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, as part of short-term and long-term provisions and other liabilities (note 17), CEMEX has recognized provisions related to unrecognized tax benefits in connection with uncertain tax positions taken, in which it is deemed probable that the tax authority would differ from the position adopted by CEMEX. As of December 31, 2018, the tax returns submitted by some subsidiaries of CEMEX located in several countries are under review by the respective tax authorities in the ordinary course of business. CEMEX cannot anticipate if such reviews will result in new tax assessments, which would, should any arise, be appropriately disclosed and/or recognized in the financial statements. A summary of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, excluding interest and penalties, is as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Balance of tax positions at beginning of the period $ 1,571 1,132 1,190 Additions for tax positions of prior periods 119 663 200 Additions for tax positions of current period 15 16 90 Reductions for tax positions related to prior periods and other items (44) (32) (131) Settlements and reclassifications (129) (119) (163) Expiration of the statute of limitations (624) (138) (126) Foreign currency translation effects (49) 49 72 Balance of tax positions at end of the period $ 859 1,571 1,132 During 2017, considering recoverability analyses and cash flow projections, CEMEX recognized deferred income tax assets related to its operations in the United States for US$700 considering the then applicable income tax rate of 35%. However, regarding the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) enacted on December 22, 2017, the U.S. statutory federal tax rate was reduced from 35% to 21%. For this reason, CEMEX reduced its net deferred tax assets by US$124. The reduction in the U.S. statutory federal tax rate is expected to positively impact CEMEX’s future after-tax earnings in the United States. Tax examinations can involve complex issues, and the resolution of issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation. Although CEMEX believes its estimates of the total unrecognized tax benefits are reasonable, uncertainties regarding the final determination of income tax audit settlements and any related litigation could affect the amount of total unrecognized tax benefits in future periods. It is difficult to estimate the timing and range of possible changes related to uncertain tax positions, as finalizing audits with the income tax authorities may involve formal administrative and legal proceedings. Accordingly, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the expected changes to the total unrecognized tax benefits over the next 12 months, although any settlements or statute of limitations expirations may result in a significant increase or decrease in the total unrecognized tax benefits, including those positions related to tax examinations being currently conducted. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 175 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Significant tax proceedings As of December 31, 2018, the Company’s most significant tax proceedings are as follows: • As part of an audit process, the tax authorities in Spain have challenged part of the tax loss carryforwards reported by CEMEX España covering the tax years from and including 2006 to 2009. During 2014, the tax authorities in Spain notified CEMEX España of fines in the aggregate amount of US$547 ($10,755). CEMEX España filed appeals against such resolution. On September 20, 2017, CEMEX España was notified about an adverse resolution to such appeals. CEMEX España challenged this decision and applied for the suspension of the payment before the National Court (Audiencia Nacional) until the case is finally resolved. On November 6, 2018 CEMEX España obtained a favorable resolution to this request from the National Court through the pledge of certain fixed assets. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX believes an adverse resolution in this proceeding is not probable and no accruals have been created in connection with this proceeding. Nonetheless, as of December 31, 2018, is difficult to assess with certainty the likelihood of an adverse result, and the appeals that CEMEX España has filed could take an extended amount of time to be resolved, but if adversely resolved, this proceeding could have a material adverse impact on CEMEX’s results of operations, liquidity or financial position. • On April 6, 2018, CEMEX Colombia received a special proceeding from the Colombian Tax Authority (the “Tax Authority”), where certain deductions included in the 2012 income tax return were rejected. The Tax Authority assessed an increase in the income tax payable by CEMEX Colombia and imposed an inaccuracy penalty for amounts in Colombian pesos equivalent to approximately US$38 ($747) of income tax and US$38 ($747) of penalty. On June 22, 2018, CEMEX Colombia filed a response to the special proceeding within the legal term. On December 28, 2018, CEMEX Colombia received an official review settlement ratifying the rejected deductible items and amounts. CEMEX Colombia will file a reconsideration request within the next two months. If the proceeding would be adversely resolved in the final stage, CEMEX Colombia must pay the amounts determined in the official settlement plus interest accrued on the amount of the income tax adjustment until the payment date. As of December 31, 2018, in this stage of the proceeding, CEMEX believes an adverse resolution in this proceeding after conclusion of all available defense procedures is not probable, however, it is difficult to assess with certainty the likelihood of an adverse result in the proceeding; but if adversely resolved, CEMEX believes this proceeding should not have a material adverse impact on the operating results, liquidity or financial position of CEMEX. • In September 2012, the Tax Authority requested CEMEX Colombia to amend its income tax return for the year 2011 in connection with several deductible expenses including the amortization of goodwill. CEMEX Colombia rejected the arguments of the ordinary request and filed a motion requesting the case to be closed. The 2011 income tax return was under audit of the Tax Authority from August 2013 until September 5, 2018, when CEMEX Colombia was notified of a special requirement in which the Tax Authority rejects certain deductions included in such income tax return of the year 2011 and determined an increase in the income tax payable and imposed a penalty for amounts in Colombian pesos equivalent to approximately US$26 ($511) of income tax and US$26 ($511) of penalty. CEMEX Colombia filed a response to the special requirement on November 30, 2018. If the proceeding would be adversely resolved in its final stage, CEMEX Colombia would have to pay the amounts determined in the official settlement plus interest accrued on the amount of the income tax adjustment until the date of payment. As of December 31, 2018, in this stage of the proceeding, CEMEX believes an adverse resolution in this proceeding after conclusion of all available defense procedures is not probable, however, it is difficult to assess with certainty the likelihood of an adverse result in the proceeding; but if adversely resolved, CEMEX believes this proceeding should not have a material adverse impact on the operating results, liquidity or financial position of CEMEX. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 176 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report • In April 2011, the Tax Authority notified CEMEX Colombia of a special proceeding rejecting certain deductions taken by CEMEX Colombia in its 2009 tax return considering they are not linked to direct revenues recorded in the same fiscal year, and assessed an increase in taxes to be paid by CEMEX Colombia and imposed a penalty for amounts in Colombian pesos equivalent to US$28 ($550) of income tax and US$28 ($550) of penalty, considering changes in law that reduced the original penalty. After several appeals of CEMEX Colombia to the Colombian Tax Authority’s special proceeding in the applicable courts in which CEMEX Colombia obtained negative resolutions in each case over the years, in July 2014, CEMEX Colombia filed an appeal against this resolution before the Colombian State Council (Consejo de Estado). If the proceeding would be adversely resolved in the final stage, CEMEX Colombia must pay the amounts determined in the official settlement plus interest accrued on the amount of the income tax adjustment until the payment date. As of December 31, 2018, in this stage of the proceeding, CEMEX believes an adverse resolution in this proceeding after conclusion of all available defense procedures is not probable, however, it is difficult to assess with certainty the likelihood of an adverse result in the proceeding; but if adversely resolved, CEMEX believes this proceeding should not have a material adverse impact on the operating results, liquidity or financial position of CEMEX. 20) STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, stockholders’ equity excludes investments in CPOs of the Parent Company held by subsidiaries of $194 (20,541,277 CPOs) and $301 (20,541,277 CPOs), respectively, which were eliminated within “Other equity reserves.” 20.1) Common stock and additional paid-in capital As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the breakdown of common stock and additional paid-in capital was as follows: 2018 2017 Common stock $ 4,171 4,171 Additional paid-in capital 141,151 140,483 $ 145,322 144,654 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the common stock of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. was presented as follows: 2018 2017 Shares 1 Series A 2 Series B 2 Series A 2 Series B 2 Subscribed and paid shares 30,002,628,318 15,001,314,159 30,214,469,912 15,107,234,956 Unissued shares authorized for executives’ stock compensation programs 936,375,524 468,187,762 531,739,616 265,869,808 Repurchased shares 3 307,207,506 153,603,753 – – Shares that guarantee the issuance of convertible securities 4 4,529,603,200 2,264,801,600 4,529,605,020 2,264,802,510 Shares authorized for the issuance of stock or convertible securities 5 302,144,720 151,072,360 – – 36,077,959,268 18,038,979,634 35,275,814,548 17,637,907,274 1 As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, 13,068,000,000 shares correspond to the fixed portion, and 41,048,938,902 shares in 2018 and 39,845,721,822 shares in 2017, correspond to the variable portion. 2 Series “A” or Mexican shares must represent at least 64% of CEMEX’s capital stock; meanwhile, Series “B” or free subscription shares must represent at most 36% of CEMEX’s capital stock. 3 Shares repurchased under the share repurchase program authorized by the Company’s shareholders (note 20.2). 4 Refers to those shares that guarantee the conversion of both the outstanding voluntary and mandatorily convertible securities and new securities issues (note 16.2). 5 Shares authorized for issuance in a public offer or private placement and/or by issuance of new convertible securities. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 177 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report On April 5, 2018, stockholders at the annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting approved: (i) a resolution to increase the variable common stock by issuing up to 750 million shares (250 million CPOs), which will be kept in the Parent Company’s treasury and used to be subscribed and paid pursuant to the terms and conditions of CEMEX’s long-term compensation stock program, and (ii) the amount of a reserve of up to US$500 or its equivalent in pesos for the year ending December 31, 2018 and until the next ordinary shareholders meeting to be held in 2019 for purposes of a Parent Company’s share repurchase program. On April 5, 2018, stockholders at the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting approved a resolution to increase the variable common stock by issuing up to 453 million shares (151 million CPOs), which will be kept in the Parent Company’s treasury for their subscription by means of issuance in a public offer or private placement and/or by issuance of new convertible securities. This authorization expires on April 4, 2023. On March 30, 2017, stockholders at the annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting approved resolutions to: (i) increase the variable common stock through the capitalization of retained earnings by issuing up to 1,687 million shares (562 million CPOs), which shares were issued, representing an increase in common stock of $5, considering a nominal value of $0.00833 per CPO, and additional paid-in capital of $9,459; and (ii) increase the variable common stock by issuing up to 258 million shares (86 million CPOs), which will be kept in the Parent Company’s treasury to be used to preserve the anti-dilutive rights of note holders pursuant CEMEX’s convertible securities (note 16.2). On March 31, 2016, stockholders at the annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting approved resolutions to: (i) increase the variable common stock through the capitalization of retained earnings by issuing up to 1,616 million shares (539 million CPOs), which shares were issued, representing an increase in common stock of $4, considering a nominal value of $0.00833 per CPO, and additional paid-in capital of $6,966; and (ii) increase the variable common stock by issuing up to 297 million shares (99 million CPOs), which will be kept in the Parent Company’s treasury to be used to preserve the anti-dilutive rights of note holders pursuant CEMEX’s convertible securities (note 16.2). In connection with the long-term executive share-based compensation programs (note 21), in 2018, 2017 and 2016, CEMEX issued approximately 49.3 million CPOs, 53.2 million CPOs and 53.9 million CPOs, respectively, generating an additional paid-in capital of $706 in 2018, $817 in 2017 and $742 in 2016 associated with the fair value of the compensation received by executives. 20.2) Other equity reserves As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, other equity reserves are summarized as follows: 2018 2017 Cumulative translation effect, net of effects from perpetual debentures and deferred income taxes recognized directly in equity (notes 19.2 and 20.4) $ 17,683 21,288 Cumulative actuarial losses (7,527) (10,931) Treasury shares repurchased under share repurchase program (note 20.1) (1,520) – Effects associated with the Parent Company´s convertible securities 1 3,427 3,427 Treasury shares held by subsidiaries (194) (301) $ 11,869 13,483 1 Represents the equity component upon the issuance of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.’s convertible securities described in note 16.2, as well as the effects associated with such securities in connection with the change in the Parent Company’s functional currency (note 2.4). Upon conversion of these securities, the balances have been correspondingly reclassified to common stock and/or additional paid-in capital (note 16.1). 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 178 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the translation effects of foreign subsidiaries included in the statements of comprehensive income were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Foreign currency translation result 1 $ (3,713) (3,116) 20,648 Foreign exchange fluctuations from debt 2 2,438 (4,160) 1,367 Foreign exchange fluctuations from intercompany balances 3 (425) (2,243) (10,385) $ (1,700) (9,519) 11,630 1 These effects refer to the result from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and include the changes in fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts designated as hedge of a net investment (note 16.4). 2 Generated by foreign exchange fluctuations over a notional amount of debt in CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V., associated with the acquisition of foreign subsidiaries and designated as a hedge of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries (note 2.4). 3 Refers to foreign exchange fluctuations arising from balances with related parties in foreign currencies that are of a long-term investment nature considering that their liquidation is not anticipated in the foreseeable future and foreign exchange fluctuations over a notional amount of debt of a subsidiary of CEMEX España identified and designated as a hedge of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries. 20.3) Retained earnings The Parent Company’s net income for the year is subject to a 5% allocation toward a legal reserve until such reserve equals one fifth of the common stock. As of December 31, 2018, the legal reserve amounted to $1,804. 20.4) Non-controlling interest and perpetual debentures Non-controlling interest Non-controlling interest represents the share of non-controlling stockholders in the equity and results of consolidated subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, non-controlling interest in equity amounted to $22,154 and $22,095, respectively. In addition, in 2018, 2017 and 2016, non-controlling interests in consolidated net income were $789, $1,417 and $1,173, respectively. These non-controlling interests arise mainly from the following CEMEX’s subsidiaries: • In February 2017, as described in note 4.1, CEMEX acquired a controlling interest in TCL, whose shares trade in the Trinidad and Tobago Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there is a non-controlling interest in TCL of approximately 30.2% of its common shares (see note 4.4 for certain relevant condensed financial information). • In July 2016, CHP, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of CEMEX España, S.A., closed its initial offering of 2,337,927,954 new common shares, or 45% of CHP’s common shares, at a price of 10.75 Philippine pesos per common share. The net proceeds from the offering of US$507 (considering an exchange rate of 46.932 Philippine pesos per U.S. dollar on June 30, 2016), after deducting commissions and other offering expenses, were used by CEMEX for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of existing debt. CHP’s assets consist primarily of CEMEX’s cement manufacturing assets in the Philippines. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there is a non-controlling interest in CHP of approximately 45% of its common shares in both years (see note 4.4 for certain relevant condensed financial information). • In November 2012, pursuant to a public offering in Colombia and an international private placement, CLH, a direct subsidiary of CEMEX España, S.A., concluded its initial offering of common shares. CLH’s assets include substantially all of CEMEX’s assets in Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica, Brazil, Guatemala and El Salvador. The Brazilian Operations were sold in 2018. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there is a non-controlling interest in CLH of approximately 26.75% and 26.72%, respectively, of CLH’s outstanding common shares, excluding shares held in treasury (see note 4.4 for certain relevant condensed financial information). 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 179 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Perpetual debentures As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the balances of the non-controlling interest included US$444 ($8,729) and US$447 ($8,784), respectively, representing the notional amounts of perpetual debentures, which exclude any perpetual debentures held by subsidiaries. Interest expense on the perpetual debentures, was included within “Other equity reserves” and amounted to $553 in 2018, $482 in 2017 and $507 in 2016, excluding in all the periods the amount of interest accrued by perpetual debentures held by subsidiaries. CEMEX’s perpetual debentures have no fixed maturity date and there are no contractual obligations for CEMEX to exchange any series of its outstanding perpetual debentures for financial assets or financial liabilities. As a result, these debentures, issued entirely by Special Purpose Vehicles (“SPVs”), qualify as equity instruments and are classified within non-controlling interest, as they were issued by consolidated entities. In addition, subject to certain conditions, CEMEX has the unilateral right to defer indefinitely the payment of interest due on the debentures. The classification of the debentures as equity instruments was made under applicable IFRS. The different SPVs were established solely for purposes of issuing the perpetual debentures and were included in CEMEX’s consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the detail of CEMEX’s perpetual debentures, excluding the perpetual debentures held by subsidiaries, was as follows: 2018 2017 Repurchase Issuer Issuance date Nominal amount Nominal amount option Interest rate C10-EUR Capital (SPV) Ltd May 2007 € 64 € 64 Tenth anniversary EURIBOR+4.79% C8 Capital (SPV) Ltd February 2007 US$135 US$135 Eighth anniversary LIBOR+4.40% C5 Capital (SPV) Ltd 1 December 2006 US$61 US$61 Fifth anniversary LIBOR+4.277% C10 Capital (SPV) Ltd December 2006 US$175 US$175 Tenth anniversary LIBOR+4.71% 1 Under the 2017 Credit Agreement, and previously under the 2014 Credit Agreement, CEMEX is not permitted to call these debentures. 21) EXECUTIVE SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION CEMEX has long-term restricted share-based compensation programs providing for the grant of the Parent Company’s CPOs to a group of eligible executives, pursuant to which, new CPOs are issued under each annual program over a service period of four years (the “ordinary program”). The Parent Company’s CPOs of the annual grant (25% of each annual ordinary program) are placed at the beginning of the service period in the executives’ accounts to comply with a one-year restriction on sale. Under the ordinary programs, the Parent Company issued new shares for approximately 49.3 million CPOs in 2018, 53.2 million CPOs in 2017 and 53.9 million CPOs in 2016, that were subscribed and pending for payment in the Parent Company’s treasury. As of December 31, 2018, there are approximately 69.5 million CPOs associated with these annual programs that are potentially expected to be issued in the following years as the executives render services. Beginning in 2017, with the approval of the Parent Company’s Board of Directors, for a group of key executives, the conditions of the program were modified for new awards by reducing the service period from four to three years and implementing tri-annual internal and external performance metrics, which depending on their weighted achievement, may result in a final payment of the Parent Company’s CPOs at the end of the third year between 0% and 200% of the target for each annual program (the “key executives program”). During 2018 and 2017, no CPOs of the Parent Company were issued under the key executives’ program. Beginning January 1, 2013, those eligible executives belonging to the operations of CLH and subsidiaries ceased to receive Parent Company’s CPOs and instead started receiving shares of CLH, sharing significantly the same conditions of CEMEX’s plan also over a service period of four years. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, CLH physically delivered 258,511 shares, 172,981 shares and 271,461 shares, respectively, corresponding to the vested portion of prior years’ grants, which were subscribed and held in CLH’s treasury. As of December 31, 2018, there are 1,162,186 shares of CLH associated with these annual programs that are expected to be delivered in the following years as the executives render services. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 180 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report In addition, beginning in 2018, those eligible executives belonging to the operations of CHP and subsidiaries ceased to receive Parent Company’s CPOs and instead started receiving shares of CHP, sharing significantly the same conditions of CEMEX’s plan. During 2018, CHP did not issue shares in connection with this program, for this year, CHP purchased 871,189 of its own shares in the market on behalf of and for delivery to the elegible executives. The combined compensation expense related to the programs described above as determined considering the fair value of the awards at the date of grant in 2018, 2017 and 2016, was recognized in the operating results against “Other equity reserves” and amounted to $706, $817 and $742, respectively, including in 2018 the cost of the CHP’s shares acquired in the market. The weighted-average price per Parent Company CPO granted during the period was approximately 13.61 pesos in 2018, 14.28 pesos in 2017 and 13.79 pesos in 2016. Moreover, the weighted-average price per CLH share granted during the period was 12,347 Colombian pesos in 2018, 13,077 Colombian pesos in 2017 and 13,423 Colombian pesos in 2016. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no options or commitments to make payments in cash to the executives based on changes in the market price of the Parent Company’s CPO or CLH’s shares. 22) EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company (the numerator) by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding (the denominator) during the period. Shares that would be issued depending only on the passage of time should be included in the determination of the basic weighted-average number of shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share should reflect in both the numerator and denominator the assumption that convertible instruments are converted, that options or warrants are exercised, or that ordinary shares are issued upon the satisfaction of specified conditions, to the extent that such assumption would lead to a reduction in basic earnings per share or an increase in basic loss per share. Otherwise, the effects of potential shares are not considered because they generate antidilution. The amounts considered for calculations of earnings per share in 2018, 2017 and 2016, were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Denominator (thousands of shares) Weighted-average number of shares outstanding 1 45,569,180 43,107,457 42,211,409 Capitalization of retained earnings 2 – 1,687,295 1,687,295 Effect of dilutive instruments – mandatorily convertible securities (note 16.2) 3 708,153 708,153 708,153 Weighted-average number of shares – basic 46,277,333 45,502,905 44,606,857 Effect of dilutive instruments – share-based compensation (note 21) 3 316,970 237,102 226,972 Effect of potentially dilutive instruments – optionally convertible securities (note 16.2) 3 1,420,437 2,698,600 3,834,458 Weighted-average number of shares – diluted 48,014,740 48,438,607 48,668,287 Numerator Net income from continuing operations $ 11,044 13,180 14,491 Less: non-controlling interest net income 789 1,417 1,173 Controlling interest net income from continuing operations 10,255 11,763 13,318 Plus: after tax interest expense on mandatorily convertible securities 61 91 119 Controlling interest net income from continuing operations – for basic earnings per share calculations 10,316 11,854 13,437 Plus: after tax interest expense on optionally convertible securities 436 903 1,079 Controlling interest net income from continuing operations – for diluted earnings per share calculations $ 10,752 12,757 14,516 Net income from discontinued operations $ 212 3,461 713 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 181 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 2018 2017 2016 Basic earnings per share Controlling interest basic earnings per share $ 0.22 0.34 0.32 Controlling interest basic earnings per share from continuing operations 0.22 0.26 0.30 Controlling interest basic earnings per share from discontinued operations 0.00 0.08 0.02 Diluted earnings per share 4 Controlling interest diluted earnings per share $ 0.22 0.34 0.32 Controlling interest diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 0.22 0.26 0.30 Controlling interest diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations 0.00 0.08 0.02 1 The weighted-average number of shares outstanding in 2017 and 2016 reflects the shares issued as a result of the capitalization of retained earnings declared in March 2017 and March 2016, as applicable (note 20.1). 2 According to resolution of the Parent Company’s shareholders’ meeting on April 5, 2018. There was no capitalization of retained earnings in 2018. 3 The number of Parent Company’s CPOs to be issued under the executive share-based compensation programs, as well as the total amount of Parent Company’s CPOs committed for issuance in the future under the mandatorily and optionally convertible securities, are computed from the beginning of the reporting period. The number of shares resulting from the executives’ stock option programs is determined under the inverse treasury method. 4 For 2018, 2017 and 2016, the effects on the denominator and numerator of potential dilutive shares generate antidilution; therefore, there is no change between the reported basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share. 23) COMMITMENTS 23.1) Guarantees As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V., had guaranteed loans of certain subsidiaries for US$1,493 ($29,331) and US$1,506 ($29,601), respectively. 23.2) Pledged assets CEMEX transferred to a guarantee trust the shares of its main subsidiaries, including, among others, CEMEX México, S.A. de C.V., New Sunward Holding B.V. and CEMEX España, S.A., and entered into pledge agreements in order to secure payment obligations under the 2017 Credit Agreement (formerly under the 2014 Credit Agreement and the Facilities Agreement) and other debt instruments entered into prior and after the date of these agreements (note 16.1). As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there are no liabilities secured by property, machinery and equipment. 23.3) Other commitments As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX was party to other commitments for several purposes, including the purchase of fuel and energy, the estimated future cash flows over maturity of which are presented in note 23.5. A description of the most significant contracts is as follows: • Beginning in April 2016, in connection with the Ventika, S.A.P.I. de C.V. and the Ventika II, S.A.P.I. de C.V. wind farms (jointly “Ventikas”) located in the Mexican state of Nuevo Leon with a combined generation capacity of 252 Megawatts (“MW”), CEMEX agreed to acquire a portion of the energy generated by Ventikas for its overall electricity needs in Mexico for a period of 20 years. The estimated annual cost of this agreement is US$25 (unaudited) assuming that CEMEX receives all its energy allocation. Nonetheless, energy supply from wind is variable in nature and final amounts are determined considering the final MW per hour (“MWh”) effectively received at the agreed prices per unit. • On July 27, 2012, CEMEX signed a 10-year strategic agreement with International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”) pursuant to which IBM provides, among others, data processing services (back office) in finance, accounting and human resources; as well as Information Technology (“IT”) infrastructure services, support and maintenance of IT applications in the countries in which CEMEX operates. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 182 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report • Beginning in February 2010, for its overall electricity needs in Mexico CEMEX agreed with EURUS the purchase a portion of the electric energy generated for a period of no less than 20 years. EURUS is a wind farm with an installed capacity of 250 MW operated by ACCIONA in the Mexican state of Oaxaca. The estimated annual cost of this agreement is US$71 (unaudited) assuming that CEMEX receives all its energy allocation. Nonetheless, energy supply from wind source is variable in nature and final amounts will be determined considering the final MWh effectively received at the agreed prices per unit. • CEMEX maintains a commitment initiated in April 2004 to purchase the energy generated by Termoeléctrica del Golfo (“TEG”) until 2027 for its overall electricity needs in Mexico. The estimated annual cost of this agreement is US$132 (unaudited) assuming that CEMEX receives all its energy allocation. Nonetheless, final amounts will be determined considering the final MWh effectively received at the agreed prices per unit. • In regards with the above, CEMEX also committed to supply TEG and another third-party electrical energy generating plant adjacent to TEG all fuel necessary for their operations until the year 2027, equivalent to approximately 1.2 million tons of petroleum coke per year. CEMEX covers its commitments under this agreement acquiring the aforementioned volume of fuel from sources in the international markets and Mexico. • CEMEX OstZement GmbH (“COZ”), CEMEX’s subsidiary in Germany, held a long-term energy supply contract until 2023 with STEAG Industriekraftwerk Rüdersdorf GmbH (“SIKW”) in connection with the overall electricity needs of CEMEX’s Rüdersdorf plant. Based on the contract, each year COZ has the option to fix in advance the volume of energy in terms of MW that it will acquire from SIKW, with the option to adjust the purchase amount one time on a monthly and quarterly basis. The estimated annual cost of this agreement is approximately US$15 (unaudited) assuming that CEMEX receives all its energy allocation. 23.4) Commitments from employee benefits In some countries, CEMEX has self-insured health care benefits plans for its active employees, which are managed on cost plus fee arrangements with major insurance companies or provided through health maintenance organizations. As of December 31, 2018, in certain plans, CEMEX has established stop-loss limits for continued medical assistance derived from a specific cause (e.g., an automobile accident, illness, etc.) ranging from 23 thousand dollars to 400 thousand dollars. In other plans, CEMEX has established stop-loss limits per employee regardless of the number of events ranging from 100 thousand dollars to 2.5 million dollars. The contingency for CEMEX if all employees qualifying for health care benefits required medical services simultaneously is significantly. However, CEMEX believes this scenario is remote. The amount expensed through self-insured health care benefits was US$62 in 2018, US$64 in 2017 and US$69 in 2016. 23.5) Contractual obligations As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, CEMEX had the following contractual obligations: 2018 2017 Less than 1-3 3-5 More than Obligations 1 year years years 5 years Total Total Long-term debt US$ 7 1,788 2,347 5,197 9,339 9,892 Finance lease obligations 1 36 87 19 1 143 175 Convertible notes 2 19 514 – – 533 906 Total debt and other financial obligations 3 62 2,389 2,366 5,198 10,015 10,973 Operating leases 4 186 351 231 439 1,207 494 Interest payments on debt 5 508 960 777 535 2,780 3,073 Pension plans and other benefits 6 148 270 270 664 1,352 1,587 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 7 87 43 – – 130 – Purchases of raw materials, fuel and energy 8 702 955 1,230 2,270 5,157 4,326 Total contractual obligations US$ 1,693 4,968 4,874 9,106 20,641 20,453 $ 33,267 97,621 95,774 178,933 405,595 401,901 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 183 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 1 Represent nominal cash flows. As of December 31, 2018, the NPV of future payments under such leases was US$122 ($2,396), of which, US$74 ($1,450) refers to payments from 1 to 3 years and US$14 ($276) refer to payments from 3 to 5 years. Beginning January 1, 2019, IFRS 16 eliminates the classifications of finance and operating leases. This elimination has no effect in the reported amounts of cash flows considering the contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2018 (note 2.20). 2 Refers to the components of liability of the convertible notes described in note 16.2 and assumes repayment at maturity and no conversion of the notes. 3 The schedule of debt payments, which includes current maturities, does not consider the effect of any refinancing of debt that may occur during the following years. In the past, CEMEX has replaced its long-term obligations for others of a similar nature. 4 The amounts represent nominal cash flows. CEMEX has operating leases, primarily for operating facilities, cement storage and distribution facilities and certain transportation and other equipment, under which annual rental payments are required plus the payment of certain operating expenses. Rental expense was US$185 ($3,493) in 2018, US$115 ($2,252) in 2017 and US$121 ($2,507) in 2016. Beginning January 1, 2019, IFRS 16 eliminates the classifications of finance and operating leases. This elimination has no effect in the reported amounts of cash flows considering the contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2018 (note 2.20). 5 Estimated cash flows on floating rate denominated debt were determined using the floating interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. 6 Represents estimated annual payments under these benefits for the next 10 years (note 18), including the estimate of new retirees during such future years. 7 Refers mainly to the expansion of a cement-production line in the Philippines. 8 Future payments for the purchase of raw materials are presented on the basis of contractual nominal cash flows. Future nominal payments for energy were estimated for all contractual commitments on the basis of an aggregate average expected consumption per year using the future prices of energy established in the contracts for each period. Future payments also include CEMEX’s commitments for the purchase of fuel. 24) LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 24.1) Provisions resulting from legal proceedings CEMEX is involved in various significant legal proceedings, the resolutions of which are deemed probable and imply the incurrence of losses and/or cash outflows or the delivery of other resources owned by CEMEX. As a result, certain provisions or losses have been recognized in the financial statements, representing the best estimate of the amounts payable or the amount of impaired assets. Therefore, CEMEX believes that it will not make significant expenditure or incur significant losses in excess of the amounts recorded. As of December 31, 2018, the details of the most significant events giving effect to provisions or losses are as follows: • In connection with the construction of the cement plant in the municipality of Maceo in Colombia (note 14), in August 2012, CEMEX Colombia signed a memorandum of understanding (“MOU”) with the representative of CI Calizas y Minerales, S.A. (“CI Calizas”), for the acquisition of assets consisting of land, the mining concession and environmental permit, the shares of Zona Franca Especial Cementera del Magdalena Medio, S.A.S. (“Zomam”) (holder of the free trade zone concession) and the rights to develop the cement plant. After the signing of the MOU, a former shareholder of CI Calizas, who presumptively transferred its shares of CI Calizas two years before the signing of the MOU, was linked to a process of expiration of property initiated by Colombia’s Attorney General (the “Attorney General”). Amongst other measures, the Attorney General ordered the seizure and consequent suspension of the right to dispose the assets subject to the MOU, including the shares of Zomam acquired by CEMEX Colombia before the beginning of such process. As a third party acting in good faith and free of guilt, CEMEX Colombia joined the expiration of property process and fully cooperates with the Attorney General. As of December 31, 2018, it is estimated that it may take between five and ten years for a final resolution to be issued on the aforementioned process, which is in the investigatory stage, waiting for the legal counsels of the defendants appointed by the Attorney General to assume functions, which opens the evidentiary stage. In July 2013, CEMEX Colombia signed with the provisional depository appointed by the Drugs National Department (Dirección Nacional de Estupefacientes or the “DNE”) (then depository of the affected assets), which functions after its liquidation were assumed by the Administration of Special Assets (Sociedad de Activos Especiales, S.A.S. or the “SAE”), a lease contract for a period of five years, by means of which CEMEX Colombia was duly authorized to build and operate the plant (the “Lease Contract”). Moreover, in 2014, the provisional depository granted a mandate to CEMEX Colombia for the same purposes. On July 15, 2018, the initial term of the Lease Contract signed by CEMEX Colombia with the DNE expired. Notwithstanding the expiry, CEMEX Colombia is entitled to continue to build and use the plant pursuant to the terms of an accompanying mandate until the conclusion of the expiration of property proceeding. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX Colombia maintains negotiations with the SAE in order to enter into a new long term lease contract that would replace precedent agreements and would allow CEMEX Colombia to continue the construction and operation of the plant during a term of 21 years from the signing date with a potential extension of 10 additional years. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 184 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report In addition, in 2012, CEMEX Colombia also engaged the same representative of CI Calizas to represent in the name and on behalf of CEMEX Colombia in the acquisition of land adjacent to the plant, signing a new memorandum of understanding (the “Land MOU”). During 2016, through an investigation and internal audit in accordance with the corporate governance policies and code of ethics of CEMEX and CLH considering reports of deficiencies in the purchasing process received in CEMEX’s anonymous reporting line, and after confirming the irregularities, in September 2016, CLH and CEMEX Colombia terminated the employment relationship with the Vice President of Planning of CLH and CEMEX Colombia; with the Vice President of Legal Counsel of CLH and CEMEX Colombia; and accepted the resignation of the Chief Executive Officer of CLH and President of CEMEX Colombia. In order to strengthen the levels of leadership, management and best practices of corporate governance, in October 2016, the Parent Company’s Board of Directors separated the roles of Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer of CLH and President of CEMEX Colombia, and made the corresponding appointments. Moreover, the Parent Company’s Audit Committee and CLH’s Audit Commission performed an independent investigation of the Maceo project through experts in forensic audit. Additionally, the management of CEMEX Colombia and CLH engaged legal advisors for the required collaboration with the Attorney General and other purposes. The investigation and internal audit initiated during 2016 found that under the MOU and the Land MOU, CEMEX Colombia made deposits in the representative’s bank account for advances and paid interests, settled in kind following its instructions, for amounts in Colombian pesos equivalent to approximately US$13.4 and US$1.2, respectively, considering the exchange rate as of December 31, 2016. These payments were made in breach of CEMEX’s and CLH’s policies. As a result, both, CLH and CEMEX Colombia reported these facts to the Attorney General, providing the findings on hand. In December 2016, CEMEX Colombia filed a claim in the civil courts aiming that all property rights of the land acquired under de Land MOU, some of which were assigned to the representative, would be transferred to CEMEX Colombia. As of December 31, 2018, due to the process of expiration of property of the assets under the MOU and the deficient formalization of the acquisitions under the Land MOU, CEMEX Colombia is not the rightful owner of the aforementioned assets. As a result, considering the legal opinions available and low probability of recovering such advances, in December 2016, the Company reduced investments in process for a net amount in Colombian pesos equivalent to approximately US$14.1 ($264), which included: a) a reduction of US$14.3 ($295) for impairment of assets against “Other expenses, net,” including approximately US$2.3 ($43) of impairment losses not related with the MOU or the Land MOU; b) a reduction of US$9.1 ($188) against “Other accounts payable” for the cancellation of the remaining account payable to CI Calizas under the MOU; and c) an increase in investments in process for US$9.2 ($191) recognized against VAT accounts payable related with certain purchases of equipment installed outside the polygon of the free zone that were not exempted from this tax. All these amounts considering the exchange rate as of December 31, 2016. During 2017, CEMEX Colombia further determined an adjustment and payment of additional VAT in the free zone for approximately US$5. Moreover, there is an ongoing criminal investigation by the Attorney General which is in its second investigatory stage. The hearing for indictments was held between June 12 and 29, 2018, whereas charges were brought against two of the former executives of CEMEX Colombia and the representative of CI Calizas, and pretrial detention of the defendants was determined. CEMEX cannot predict the actions that the General Attorney could implement or the possibility and degree in which any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on CEMEX’s results of operation, liquidity or financial position. Under the presumption that CEMEX Colombia acted in good faith, CEMEX considers that it will retain ownership of the plant (note 14) and that the rest of its investments are protected by Colombian law, under which, if a person builds on the property of a third party, with full knowledge of such third party, this third party may: a) take ownership of the plant paying indemnity to CEMEX Colombia, or otherwise, b) oblige CEMEX Colombia to purchase the land. Nonetheless, had this not be the case, CEMEX Colombia would take all necessary actions to safeguard the project in Maceo. At this respect, in the event that the expiration of property over the assets subject to the MOU is ordered in favor of the State, the SAE may decide not to sell the assets to CEMEX Colombia, or, the SAE may elect to maintain ownership of the assets and not extend the Lease Contract. In both cases, under Colombian law, CEMEX Colombia would be entitled to an indemnity for the amount of its incurred investments. Nonetheless, although as of December 31, 2018, CEMEX Latam cannot estimate if the expiration of property of the assets subject to the MOU would be declared in favor of the State, or as the case may be, if the SAE would determine to sell or not those assets to CEMEX Colombia or if a new Lease Contract would be negotiated or not, CEMEX Colombia does not consider probable that any of these adverse results may occur, but would any of these adverse results occur upon which an adverse resolution is received, such adverse resolution could have a material adverse effect on CEMEX’s results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 185 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report As of December 31, 2018, the start-up of the Maceo plant and the construction of the access road remain suspended, mainly considering certain permits required to finalize the access road, as well as ongoing requests and procedures with the relevant authorities oriented to: a) resolve any overlap of the project with an Integrated Management District (“IMD”), b) modify the land use where the project is located to harmonize it with industrial and mining use, c) modify the environmental license to increase the permitted production up to 950 thousand tons per year, d) obtain the extension of the free zone to cover the entire plant, and e) resolve the ownership of the environmental license and the mining title which transfer to a subsidiary of CEMEX Colombia was revoked by the regional environmental authority; until progress is achieved in these processes. CEMEX Colombia continues working to address these issues as soon as possible. In October 2017, CEMEX Colombia presented the initial request for the partial subtraction of the Maceo project from the IMD to test the feasibility of achieving the proposed expansion of the activity in the project and comments were received in May 2018. In this regard, on October 11, 2018, CEMEX Colombia submitted a response to the latest request for information in connection with such subtraction process. This process of partial subtraction of the Maceo project, would allow the removal of the cement operation productive area from the IMD. This request requires evidence of the viability to develop the proposed activity of the cement project in said area. Meanwhile, CEMEX Colombia will limit its activities to those on which it has the relevant authorizations. • On December 11, 2017, in the context of a market investigation opened in 2013 against five cement companies and 14 executives of those companies, including two former executives of CEMEX Colombia for purported practices that limited free competition, and after several processes over the years, the Colombian Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Superintendencia de Industria y Comercio or the “SIC”) imposed a final fine to CEMEX Colombia for an amount equivalent to US$25 ($491). As a result, CEMEX Colombia recognized a provision for this amount against “Other expenses, net” in 2017. This fine was paid on January 5, 2018. On June 7, 2018, CEMEX Colombia filed an annulment and reestablishment of right claim before the Administrative Court seeking for the annulment of the charges brought forth by the SIC and the restitution of the fine paid, with any adjustments provided by Colombian Law. This claim could take up to six years to be resolved. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX is not able to assess the likelihood for the recovery of the fine imposed by the SIC. • In January 2007, the Polish Competition and Consumers Protection Office (the “Protection Office”) initiated an antitrust proceeding against all cement producers in the country, including CEMEX Polska Sp. Z.o.o. (“CEMEX Polska”) and another subsidiary in Poland, arguing that there was an agreement between all cement producers in Poland regarding prices, market quotas and other sales conditions; and that the producers exchanged information, all of which limited competition in the Polish cement market. In December 2009, the Protection Office issued a resolution imposing fines on a number of Polish cement producers, including CEMEX Polska for the period of 1998 to 2006. The original fine imposed on CEMEX Polska was for an amount in Polish Zloty equivalent to US$31 ($609). After a resolution of December 2013 to an appeal filed against the Protection Office’s fine before the Polish Court of Competition and Consumer Protection (the “First Instance Court”) that reduced the fine and a resolution of March 2018 to an appeal of CEMEX Polska filed before the Appeals Courts in Warsaw against the resolution of the First Instance Court, the fine was further reduced to a final amount in Polish Zloty equivalent to US$18 ($354). This final amount was paid in 2018. On November 19, 2018, CEMEX Polska filed before the Polish Supreme Court an appeal against the Appeal Court’s judgment seeking the reduction of the imposed fine. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX Polska expects that, during the first half of 2019, the Polish Supreme Court will issue a decision regarding acceptance of the cassation appeal for its study. • As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX had accrued environmental remediation liabilities in the United Kingdom pertaining to closed and current landfill sites for the confinement of waste, representing the NPV of such obligations for an amount in pounds sterling equivalent to US$167 ($3,282). Expenditure was assessed and quantified over the period in which the sites have the potential to cause environmental harm, which was accepted by the regulator as being up to 60 years from the date of closure. The assessed expenditure included the costs of monitoring the sites and the installation, repair and renewal of environmental infrastructure. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 186 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report • As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX had accrued environmental remediation liabilities in the United States for US$33 ($648), related to: a) the disposal of various materials in accordance with past industry practice, which might currently be categorized as hazardous substances or wastes, and b) the cleanup of sites used or operated by CEMEX, including discontinued operations, regarding the disposal of hazardous substances or waste, either individually or jointly with other parties. Most of the proceedings are in the preliminary stages and a final resolution might take several years. CEMEX does not believe that it will be required to spend significant sums on these matters in excess of the amounts previously recorded. The ultimate cost that may be incurred to resolve these environmental issues cannot be assured until all environmental studies, investigations, remediation work and negotiations with, or litigation against, potential sources of recovery have been completed. 24.2) Other contingencies from legal proceedings CEMEX is involved in various legal proceedings, which have not required the recognition of accruals, considering that the probability of loss is less than probable or remote. In certain cases, a negative resolution may represent a decrease in future revenues, an increase in operating costs or a loss. Nonetheless, until all stages in the procedures are exhausted in each proceeding, CEMEX cannot assure the achievement of a final favorable resolution. As of December 31, 2018, the most significant events with a quantification of the potential loss, when it is determinable and would not impair the outcome of the relevant proceeding, were as follows: • On September 20, 2018, triggered by heavy rainfall, a Landslide causing damages and fatalities (the “Landslide”) occurred in a site located within an area covered by mining rights of APO Land & Quarry Corporation (“ALQC”) in Naga City, Cebu, Philippines. ALQC is a principal raw material supplier of APO Cement Corporation (“APO”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CHP. CEMEX indirectly owns a minority 40% stake in ALQC. On November 19, 2018, CHP and APO were served summons concerning an environmental class action lawsuit filed by 40 individuals and one legal entity (on behalf of 8,000 individuals allegedly affected by the Landslide) at the Regional Trial Court of Talisay, Cebu, against CHP, ALQC, APO, the Mines and Geosciences Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources, the City Government of Naga, and the Province of Cebu. In the complaint, among other allegations, plaintiffs claim that: (i) the Landslide occurred as a result of the defendants’ gross negligence; and (ii) seek, among other relief, (a) monetary damages for an amount in Philippine Pesos equivalent to US$82 ($1,611), (b) the establishment of a rehabilitation fund for an amount in Philippine Pesos equivalent to US$10 ($197), and (c) the issuance of a Temporary Environment Protection Order against ALQC aiming to prevent ALQC from performing further quarrying activities while the case is still pending. As of December 31, 2018, CHP, APO and ALQC (collectively, the “Private Defendants”) hold and will defend its position that the Landslide occurred due to natural causes and deny any liability. In the event a final adverse resolution is issued in this matter, plaintiffs will have the option to proceed against any one of ALQC, APO or CHP for satisfaction of the entirety of the potential judgement award, without the need to proceed against any other Private Defendant beforehand. Thus, ALQC’s, APO’s or CHP’s assets alone could be exposed to execution proceedings. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX is not able to assess the likelihood of an adverse result to this lawsuit; and, because of its current status and its preliminary nature, CEMEX is neither able to assess if a final adverse result in this lawsuit would have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, liquidity and financial position. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 187 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report • On June 12, 2018, the Authority for Consumer Protection and Competition Defense of Panama (the “Panama Authority”) carried out an administrative investigation against CEMEX and other competitors for the alleged commission of monopolistic practices in relation to the gray cement and the ready-mix concrete markets. From the administrative investigation, the Panama Authority considered there were elements that serve as a basis to consider the possible existence of monopolistic or anticompetitive practices consisting of: (i) price fixing and/or production restriction of gray cement sold to ready-mix concrete producers in Panama; and (ii) unilateral and/or joint predatory acts and/or cross subsidies in the ready-mix concrete market. On October 16, 2018, the Panama Authority notified CEMEX of a new information request in order to continue their investigation. The Panama Authority is gathering facts necessary to make an informed decision about whether violations of Panamanian law have occurred. CEMEX is cooperating with the Panama Authority. As of December 31, 2018, given the status of the investigation, CEMEX is not able to assess if this investigation will lead to any fines, penalties or remedies, or if such fines, penalties or remedies, if any, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial position. • Certain of CEMEX’s subsidiaries in the United States were notified of a grand jury subpoena dated March 29, 2018 issued by the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) related to an investigation of possible antitrust law violations in connection with CEMEX’s sales (and related sales practices) of gray Portland cement and slag in the United States and its territories. The objective of this subpoena is to gather facts necessary to make an informed decision about whether violations of U.S. law have occurred. CEMEX has been cooperating with the DOJ and is complying with the subpoena. As of December 31, 2018, given the status of the investigation, CEMEX is not able to assess if this investigation will lead to any fines, penalties or remedies, or if such fines, penalties or remedies, if any, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, liquidity or financial position. • On March 16, 2018, a putative securities class action complaint was filed against CEMEX and one of its members of the board of directors (CEO) and certain of its officers (CEO and CFO) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, on behalf of investors who purchased or otherwise acquired securities of CEMEX between August 14, 2014 to March 13, 2018, inclusive. The complaint alleges that CEMEX purportedly issued press releases and SEC filings that included materially false and misleading statements in connection with alleged misconduct relating to the Maceo Project and the potential regulatory or criminal actions that might arise as a result. On September 14, 2018, CEMEX filed a motion to dismiss this lawsuit. During the fourth quarter of 2018, plaintiffs filed an opposition brief to this motion to dismiss. CEMEX denies liability and intends to vigorously defend the case. As of December 31, 2018, given the status of the lawsuit, CEMEX is not able to assess the likelihood of an adverse result to this lawsuit, and for the same reasons, CEMEX is not able to assess if a final adverse result in this lawsuit would have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, liquidity and financial position. • In December 2016, the Parent Company received subpoenas from the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) seeking information to determine whether there have been any violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act stemming from the Maceo project. These subpoenas do not mean that the SEC has concluded that the Parent Company or any of its affiliates violated the law. The Parent Company has been cooperating with the SEC and intends to continue cooperating fully with the SEC. The DOJ also opened an investigation into this matter. In this regard, on March 12, 2018, the DOJ issued a grand jury subpoena to the Parent Company relating to its operations in Colombia and other jurisdictions. The Parent Company intends to cooperate fully with the SEC, the DOJ and any other investigatory entity. As of December 31, 2018, the Parent Company is unable to predict the duration, scope, or outcome of either the SEC investigation or the DOJ investigation, or any other investigation that may arise, or, because of the current status of the SEC investigation and the preliminary nature of the DOJ investigation, the potential sanctions which could be borne by the Parent Company, or if such sanctions, if any, would have a material adverse impact on CEMEX results of operations, liquidity or financial position. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 188 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report • In September 2016, CEMEX España Operaciones, S.L.U. (“CEMEX España Operaciones”), a subsidiary of CEMEX in Spain, in the context of a market investigation initiated in 2014 for alleged anticompetitive practices in 2009 for the cement market and the years 2008, 2009, 2012, 2013 and 2014 for the ready-mix market, was notified of a resolution by the National Markets and Competition Commission (Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia or the “CNMC”) requiring the payment of a fine for €6 (US$7 or $138). CEMEX España Operaciones appealed the fine and requested the suspension of payment before the National Court (Audiencia Nacional), which granted the requested suspension; subject to issuance of a bank guarantee for the principal amount of the sanction. The CNMC was notified. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX does not expect that an adverse resolution to this matter would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. • In February 2014, the Egyptian Tax Authority requested Assiut Cement Company (“ACC”), a subsidiary of CEMEX in Egypt, the payment of a development levy on clay used in the Egyptian cement industry in amounts equivalent as of December 31, 2018 to US$18 ($354) for the period from May 5, 2008 to November 30, 2011. In March 2014, ACC appealed the levy and obtained a favorable resolution from the Ministerial Committee for Resolution of Investment Disputes, which instructed the Egyptian Tax Authority to cease claiming from ACC the aforementioned payment of the levy on clay. It was further decided that the levy on clay should not be imposed on imported clinker. Nonetheless, in May 2016, the Egyptian Tax Authority challenged ACC’s right to cancel the levy on clay before the North Cairo Court, which referred the cases to Cairo’s Administrative Judiciary Court. These cases have been adjourned by the Commissioners of the Cairo Administrative Judiciary Court to February 4, 2019 for submission of documents by the attorney for the State pertaining to this dispute. CEMEX does not expect that such referral will prejudice ACC’s favorable legal position in this dispute. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX does not expect a material adverse impact due to this matter in its results of operations, liquidity or financial position. • In September 2012, in connection with a lawsuit submitted to a first instance court in Assiut, Egypt in 2011, the first instance court of Assiut issued a resolution in order to nullify the Share Purchase Agreement (the “SPA”) pursuant to which CEMEX acquired in 1999 a controlling interest in Assiut Cement Company (“ACC”). In addition, during 2011 and 2012, lawsuits seeking, among other things, the annulment of the SPA were filed by different plaintiffs, including 25 former employees of ACC, before Cairo’s State Council. After several appeals, hearings and resolutions over the years, the cases are held in Cairo’s 7th Circuit State Council Administrative Judiciary Court awaiting the High Constitutional Court to pronounce in regard to the challenges against the constitutionality of Law 32/2014 filed by the plaintiffs, which protects CEMEX’s investments in Egypt. These matters are complex and take several years to be resolved. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX is not able to assess the likelihood of an adverse resolution regarding these lawsuits nor is able to assess if the Constitutional Court will dismiss Law 32/2014, but, regarding the lawsuits, if adversely resolved, CEMEX does not believe the resolutions in the first instance would have an immediate material adverse impact on CEMEX’s operations, liquidity and financial condition. However, if CEMEX exhausts all legal recourses available, a final adverse resolution of these lawsuits, or if the Constitutional Court dismisses Law 32/2014, this could adversely impact the ongoing matters regarding the SPA, which could have a material adverse impact on CEMEX’s operations, liquidity and financial condition. • In 2012, in connection with a contract entered into in 1990 (the “Quarry Contract”) by CEMEX Granulats Rhône Méditerranée (“CEMEX GRM”), one of CEMEX’s subsidiaries in France, with SCI La Quinoniere (“SCI”) pursuant to which CEMEX GRM has drilling rights in order to extract reserves and do quarry remediation at a quarry in the Rhône region of France, SCI filed a claim against CEMEX GRM for breach of the Quarry Contract, requesting the rescission of such contract and damages plus interest for a revised amount in euros equivalent to US$77 ($1,513), arguing that CEMEX GRM partially filled the quarry allegedly in breach of the terms of the Quarry Contract. After many hearings, resolutions and appeals over the years, on March 13, 2018, the court of appeals issued an enforceable resolution ordering the rescission of the Quarry Contract and designated a judicial expert to: a) determine the volume of both excavated and backfilling materials, and b) give his opinion on the potential damages suffered by SCI. CEMEX GRM appealed this resolution with the court of cassation, which will advance in parallel to the judicial expert’s process. As of December 31, 2018, as the likelihood of an adverse final resolution cannot be assured with certainty, CEMEX believes that an adverse resolution upon conclusion of all defense instances is not probable. However, in case of an adverse resolution, CEMEX considers that it should not have a material adverse impact on CEMEX’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 189 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report • In June 2012, one of CEMEX’s subsidiaries in Israel and three other companies were notified about a class action suit filed by a homeowner who built his house with concrete supplied by the defendants in October 2010. The class action argues that the concrete supplied to him did not meet with the Israeli ready-mix strength standard requirements and that as a result CEMEX acted unlawfully toward all of its customers who received concrete that did not comply with such standard requirements, causing financial and non-financial damages to those customers, including the plaintiff. CEMEX presumes that the class action would represent the claim of all the clients who purchased the alleged non-conforming concrete from its subsidiary in Israel during the past 7 years, the limitation period according to applicable laws in Israel. The damages that could be sought are equivalent to US$74 ($1,454). After several hearings to present evidence from all parties over the years and the resolution of the court to join together all claims against all four companies in order to simplify and shorten court proceedings. An abandonment of action has been submitted to the court with regards to two of the four defendant companies, but CEMEX’s subsidiary and another company remain as defendants. All parties have finished presenting their positions. There are pending resolutions regarding the class action and the abandonment of action of the two defendants. As of December 31, 2018, CEMEX’s subsidiary in Israel is not able to assess the likelihood of the class action application being approved or, if approved, of an adverse result, such as an award for damages in the full amount that could be sought, but if adversely resolved CEMEX considers that an adverse resolution on this matter would not have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. • In June 2010, the District of Bogota’s Environmental Secretary (the “District Secretary”), ordered the suspension of CEMEX Colombia’s mining activities at El Tunjuelo quarry, located in Bogota, sealed off the mine to machinery and prohibited the removal of aggregates inventory, as well as those of other aggregates producers in the same area. The Environmental Secretary alleged that during the past 60 years at that time, CEMEX Colombia and the other companies illegally changed the course of the Tunjuelo River, have used the percolating waters without permission and improperly used the edge of the river for mining activities. CEMEX Colombia requested from the beginning the revocation of the order considering that its mining activities at El Tunjuelo quarry were supported by the authorizations required by the applicable environmental laws and that its environmental impact studies were reviewed and authorized by the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development. Since June 2010 the local authorities closed the quarry and prohibited the removal of aggregates inventory. On July 11, 2018, considering that CEMEX Colombia incurred in risk of having provoked affectation or harm in the use of the underground waters in the Tunjuelo River’s middle basin without the corresponding permit issued by the environmental authority, the District Secretary imposed a penalty for an amount in Colombian pesos equivalent to US$0.4 as of August 1, 2018, the date it was settled. CEMEX Colombia was exonerated of incurring negligent or willful misconduct. With this penalty, all procedures and possible claims against CEMEX Colombia related to this matter were finalized. In connection with the legal proceedings presented in notes 24.1 and 24.2, the exchange rates as of December 31, 2018 used by CEMEX to convert the amounts in local currency to their equivalents in dollars were the official closing exchange rates of 3.75 Polish zloty per dollar, 0.87 Euro per dollar, 0.78 British pounds sterling per dollar, 3,250 Colombian pesos per dollar and 3.75 Israelite shekel per dollar. In addition to the legal proceedings described above in notes 24.1 and 24.2, as of December 31, 2018, CEMEX is involved in various legal proceedings of minor impact that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings involve: 1) product warranty claims; 2) claims for environmental damages; 3) indemnification claims relating to acquisitions or divestitures; 4) claims to revoke permits and/or concessions; and 5) other diverse civil, administrative, commercial and lawless actions. CEMEX considers that in those instances in which obligations have been incurred, CEMEX has accrued adequate provisions to cover the related risks. CEMEX believes these matters will be resolved without any significant effect on its business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, in relation to certain ongoing legal proceedings, CEMEX is sometimes able to make and disclose reasonable estimates of the expected loss or range of possible loss, as well as disclose any provision accrued for such loss, but for a limited number of ongoing legal proceedings, CEMEX may not be able to make a reasonable estimate of the expected loss or range of possible loss or may be able to do so but believes that disclosure of such information on a case-by-case basis would seriously prejudice CEMEX’s position in the ongoing legal proceedings or in any related settlement discussions. Accordingly, in these cases, CEMEX has disclosed qualitative information with respect to the nature and characteristics of the contingency but has not disclosed the estimate of the range of potential loss. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 190 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 25) RELATED PARTIES All significant balances and transactions between the entities that constitute the CEMEX group have been eliminated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. These balances with related parties resulted primarily from: (i) the sale and purchase of goods between group entities; (ii) the sale and/or acquisition of subsidiaries’ shares within the CEMEX group; (iii) the invoicing of administrative services, rentals, trademarks and commercial name rights, royalties and other services rendered between group entities; and (iv) loans between related parties. Transactions between group entities are conducted on arm’s length terms based on market prices and conditions. When market prices and/or market conditions are not readily available, CEMEX conducts transfer pricing studies in the countries in which it operates to assure compliance with regulations applicable to transactions between related parties. The definition of related parties includes entities or individuals outside the CEMEX group, which, due to their relationship with CEMEX, may take advantage of being in a privileged situation. Likewise, this applies to cases in which CEMEX may take advantage of such relationships and obtain benefits in its financial position or operating results. CEMEX’s transactions with related parties are executed under market conditions. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, in ordinary course of business, CEMEX has entered into transactions with related parties for the sale and/or purchase of products, sale and/or purchase of services or the lease of assets, all of which are not significant for CEMEX and to the best of CEMEX’s knowledge are not significant to the the related party, are incurred for non-significant amounts for CEMEX and are executed under market terms and conditions following the same commercial principles and authorizations applied to other third parties. These identified transactions, as applicable, are approved at least annually by the Parent Company’s Board of Directors. For CEMEX, none of these transactions are material to be disclosed separately. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, the aggregate amount of compensation of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. board of directors, including alternate directors, and CEMEX’s top management executives was US$38 ($732), US$47 ($887) and US$43 ($802), respectively. Of these amounts, US$29 ($559) in 2018, US$35 ($661) in 2017, US$32 ($595) in 2016, was paid as base compensation plus performance bonuses, including pension and post-employment benefits. In addition, US$9 ($173) in 2018, US$12 ($227) in 2017 and US$11 ($207) in 2016 of the aggregate amounts in each year, corresponded to allocations of Parent Company CPOs under CEMEX’s executive share-based compensation programs. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 191 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 26) MAIN SUBSIDIARIES As mentioned in note 4.4 and 20.4, as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, there are non-controlling interests on certain consolidated entities that are in turn holding companies of relevant operations. The main subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, which ownership interest is presented according to the interest maintained by their direct holding company, were as follows: % Interest Subsidiary Country 2018 2017 CEMEX México, S. A. de C.V. 1 Mexico 100.0 100.0 CEMEX España, S.A. 2 Spain 99.9 99.9 CEMEX, Inc. United States of America 100.0 100.0 CEMEX Latam Holdings, S.A. 3 Spain 73.2 73.2 CEMEX (Costa Rica), S.A. Costa Rica 99.1 99.1 CEMEX Nicaragua, S.A. Nicaragua 100.0 100.0 Assiut Cement Company Egypt 95.8 95.8 CEMEX Colombia, S.A. 4 Colombia 99.9 99.9 Cemento Bayano, S.A. 5 Panama 100.0 100.0 CEMEX Dominicana, S.A. Dominican Republic 100.0 100.0 Trinidad Cement Limited Trinidad and Tobago 69.8 69.8 Caribbean Cement Company Limited 6 Jamaica 79.0 79.0 CEMEX de Puerto Rico Inc. Puerto Rico 100.0 100.0 CEMEX France Gestion (S.A.S.) France 100.0 100.0 CEMEX Holdings Philippines, Inc. 7 Philippines 55.0 55.0 Solid Cement Corporation 7 Philippines 100.0 100.0 APO Cement Corporation 7 Philippines 100.0 100.0 CEMEX U.K. United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 CEMEX Deutschland, AG. Germany 100.0 100.0 CEMEX Czech Republic, s.r.o. Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 CEMEX Polska sp. Z.o.o. Poland 100.0 100.0 CEMEX Holdings (Israel) Ltd. Israel 100.0 100.0 CEMEX SIA Latvia 100.0 100.0 CEMEX Topmix LLC, CEMEX Supermix LLC and CEMEX Falcon LLC 8 United Arab Emirates 100.0 100.0 Neoris N.V. 9 The Netherlands 99.8 99.8 CEMEX International Trading LLC 10 United States of America 100.0 100.0 Transenergy, Inc. 11 United States of America 100.0 100.0 1 CEMEX México, S.A. de C.V. is the indirect holding company of CEMEX España, S.A. and subsidiaries. 2 CEMEX España, S.A is the indirect holding company of most of CEMEX’s international operations. 3 The interest reported excludes own shares held in CLH’s treasury. CLH, entity incorporated in Spain, trades its ordinary shares in the Colombian Stock Exchange under the symbol CLH, and is the indirect holding company of CEMEX’s operations in Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Brazil (note 20.4). 4 Represents our 99.7% and 98.9% interest in ordinary and preferred shares, respectively. 5 Includes a 0.515% interest held in Cemento Bayano’s treasury. 6 The aggregate ownership interest of CEMEX in this entity of 79.04% includes TCL’s direct and indirect 74.08% interest and the Parent Company’s indirect 4.96% interest. 7 Represents CHP direct and indirect interest. CEMEX’s operations in the Philippines are conducted through CHP, subsidiary incorporated in the Philippines which since July 2016 trades its ordinary shares on the Philippines Stock Exchange under the symbol CHP (note 20.4). 8 CEMEX owns a 49% equity interest in each of these entities and holds the remaining 51% of the economic benefits, through agreements with other shareholders. 9 Neoris N.V. is the holding company of the entities involved in the sale of information technology solutions and services. 10 CEMEX International Trading, LLC is involved in the international trading of CEMEX’s products. 11 Formerly named Gulf Coast Portland Cement Co., it is engaged in the procurement and trading of fuels, such as coal and petroleum coke, used in certain operations of CEMEX. GRI 102-45 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 192 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Independent To the Board of Directors and Stockholders Auditors' Report CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and subsidiaries (“the Group”), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2018 and 2017, the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, and notes, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2018 and 2017, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in Mexico and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 193 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report EVALUATION OF GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT See Note 15.2 to the consolidated financial statements The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group’s balance sheet includes a significant amount of goodwill arising Our audit procedures included considering the consistency and mainly from historic acquisitions which requires conducting an annual appropriateness of the allocation of goodwill to groups of CGUs, as well evaluation of its recoverability. as testing the Group’s methodology and assumptions used in preparing discounted cash flow models through the involvement of our valuation We consider this a key audit matter because of the materiality of the goodwill specialists. balance and because it involves significant judgments by the Group regarding long-term sales growth rates, costs and projected operating margins in the We compared the Group’s assumptions to data obtained from external different countries where the Group operates, discount rates used to discount sources in relation to key inputs such as discount rates and projected future cash flows, as well as comparisons to publicly-available information economic growth and compared the latter with reference to historical such as multiples of EBITDA in recent market transactions. forecasting accuracy, considering the potential risk of management bias. We compared the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Group’s market capitalization to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows. In addition we performed sensitivity analysis using multiples of EBITDA. We challenged the overall results of the calculations and performed our own sensitivity analysis, including a reasonably probable reduction in assumed growth rates and cash flows. We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions such as discount rates and growth rates reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 194 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report RECOVERABILITY OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS RELATED TO TAX LOSS CARRY FORWARDS See Note 19.2 and 19.4 to the consolidated financial statements The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group has significant deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses mainly Our audit procedures included considering historical levels of taxable profits in Mexico. and comparing the assumptions used in respect of future taxable profit forecasts to those used in the Group’s long-term forecasts, such as the There is inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future taxable forecasts prepared in relation to goodwill impairment evaluations. profits, which determines the extent to which deferred tax assets are or are not recognized. With the assistance of our tax specialists we evaluated the reasonableness of key tax assumptions, timing of reversal of temporary differences and The periods over which the deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered expiration of tax loss carry forwards, as well as the reasonableness of any tax can be extensive. strategies proposed by the Group based on our knowledge of the tax, legal As a result of the above, we consider this to be a key audit matter. and operating environments in which the Group operates. We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures setting out the basis of the deferred tax asset balances and the level of estimation involved. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 195 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report TAX AND LEGAL CONTINGENCIES See Notes 19.4 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group is involved in certain significant tax and legal proceedings. Our audit procedures included assessment of the adequacy of the level of provision established, or lack thereof, in relation to significant uncertain tax Compliance with tax regulations is a complex matter within the Group positions and legal contingencies, primarily in respect of cases in Mexico because of the different tax laws in the jurisdictions where the Group (Corporate), Spain, France, Egypt, and Colombia. operates, the application of which requires the use of significant expertise and judgment, making this area a key audit matter. Also, because of the We discussed the status of each significant case with management, diversity and complexity of the different laws and regulations applicable including in-house counsel, and critically assessed their responses. We read to the Group’s operations, exposure to legal claims, is a risk that requires the latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax authorities management’s attention. or plaintiffs and attorneys where applicable. We also obtained written responses from the Group’s legal advisors where those have been appointed, Resolution of tax and legal proceedings may span multiple years, and may containing their views on material exposures and any related litigation. involve negotiation or litigation and therefore, making judgments of potential outcomes is a complex issue in the Group. In relation to tax matters, we also met with the Group’s tax officers to assess their judgments on significant cases, their views and strategies, as well as Management applies judgment in estimating the likelihood of the future the related technical grounds to their position based on applicable tax laws outcome in each case and records a provision for uncertain tax positions by involving our tax specialists. or settlement of legal claims where applicable. We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and judgment in estimating the amount of We assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about legal and tax provision required. contingencies provided sufficient information to readers of the financial statements in light of the significance of these cases. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 196 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Other Information Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Group’s annual report for the year ended December 31, 2018, to be filed with the National Banking and Securities Commission (Mexico) (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores) and the Mexican Stock Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores) (“the Annual Report”) but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors’ report. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance. Responsibilities of Management and those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: – Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 197 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report – Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. – Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. – Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. – Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. – Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. C.P.C. Joaquín Alejandro Aguilera Dávila KPMG Cárdenas Dosal, S.C. Monterrey, N.L. January 30, 2019 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 198 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Non-Financial Information HEALTH AND SAFETY1 2016 2017 2018 OUR PEOPLE 2016 2017 2018 OUR PEOPLE 2016 2017 2018 Fatalities (No.) Workforce by position (%) CEMEX entry level vs. local minimum wage Employees 3 3 0 Executive 5 7 13 ratio by region Contractors 10 7 5 Non-executive 31 38 29 Mexico 1.3 1.3 1.3 Employee Fatality Rate (per 10,000 Operational 64 55 58 United States 1.4 1.5 1.6 0.7 0.7 0.0 employees) Workforce by age (%) Europe 1.3 1.1 1.1 Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) (No.) Under 30 15 18 17 Asia, Middle East and Africa 1.2 1.6 1.1 Employees 60 51 49 31-40 35 31 30 South, Central America and the Caribbean 1.1 1.2 2.7 Contractors 53 68 46 41-50 26 27 27 Others 3 4.9 4.9 7.3 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTI FR) 51 and over 24 24 26 Total 2.1 1.4 2.1 (per million hours worked) Increase in annual compensation by region Workforce by gender (%) Employees 0.6 0.5 0.5 (%) Male 88 86 86 Contractors2 0.9 0.7 0.6 Mexico 3.5 4.0 6.8 Female 12 14 14 Employee Lost Time Injury Severity Rate United States 3.0 3.0 3.0 66.4 47.9 56.5 Female employees by position (%) (LTI SR) (lost days per million hours worked)2 Europe 2.0 2.0 2.9 Employee Total Recordable Injury FrequenExecutive 13 21 20 4.1 3.4 2.4 Asia, Middle East and Africa 4.6 6.9 6.0 cy Rate (TRI FR) (per million hours worked) Non-executive 30 31 33 South, Central America and the Caribbean 6.2 5.2 4.8 Lost Days from Employee Lost Time Injuries2 (No.) 953 1,203 1,241 Operational 3 2 3 Others 3 3.5 4.6 6.5 Employee Sickness Absence Rate (%) 1.8 1.6 1.5 Women to men remuneration ratio by region Total 5.2 3.7 4.5 Employee Occupational Illness Frequency Mexico 1.51 Rate (OIFR) (incidents per million hours 0.2 0.2 0.2 Employee Turnover (%) worked)2 United States 1.08 Voluntary 9.4 12.5 11.5 Sites with a Health and Safety Management Europe 0.95 100 100 100 Involuntary 10.5 14.0 8.3 System implemented (%) Asia, Middle East and Africa 1.47 Total 20.0 26.5 19.7 Sites certified with OHSAS 18001 (%)2 65 69 64 South, Central America and the Caribbean 1.33 Employee Voluntary Turnover by gender (%) Others 3 0.32 Male 8.9 13.0 11.4 OUR PEOPLE 2016 2017 2018 Total 0.99 Female 6.1 9.7 11.9 Workforce by region (No.) Women to men remuneration ratio by position Employee Voluntary Turnover by age (%) Mexico 9,858 9,285 9,697 Under 30 15.2 18.6 19.7 Executive 0.84 United States 9,783 8,380 8,617 31-40 7.6 14.9 12.6 Non-executive 0.98 Europe 10,386 10,413 10,720 41-50 6.5 9.5 8.5 Operational 0.87 Asia, Middle East and Africa 3,243 3,084 3,047 51 and over 7.7 8.4 7.9 Employee highest to median compensation South, Central America and the Caribbean 5,387 5,869 5,701 Employee Involuntary Turnover by gender ratio by region Others 3 3,196 3,847 4,242 (%) Mexico 65.2 Total 41,853 40,878 42,024 Male 11.1 14.8 8.6 United States 26.1 Workforce by type of employment contract (%) Female 6.4 9.2 6.5 Europe 14.4 Permanent 93 94 98 Employee Involuntary Turnover by age (%) Asia, Middle East and Africa 20.8 Temporary 7 6 2 Under 30 14.8 15.4 11.7 South, Central America and the Caribbean 17.1 Workforce by employment type (%) 31-40 9.4 14.8 8.9 Others 3 90.4 Full-time 99 99 97 41-50 10.0 12.8 7.2 Total 38.3 Part-time 1 1 3 51 and over 9.7 13.3 6.4 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 199 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report OUR PEOPLE 2016 2017 2018 SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION 2016 2017 2018 CARBON STRATEGY AND ENERGY 2016 2017 2018 Employees covered by a collective Annual sales from cement and readyScope 1 CO2 emissions (million ton) 44.2 42.9 43.4 bargaining agreement by region (%) mix concrete products with outstanding – – 43 Scope 2 CO2 emissions (million ton) 3.6 3.6 3.6 Mexico 66 60 58 sustainable attributes (%)5 Clinker Factor (Cementitious) (%) 78.4 78.4 78.6 United States 28 30 29 Alternative raw material rate (%) 6.1 6.6 7.4 Europe 42 36 33 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 Specific heat consumption (MJ/ton clinker) 3,905 3,913 3,987 Asia, Middle East and Africa 15 38 36 Families participating in Patrimonio Hoy 572 587 602 Specific power consumption (kWh/ton cem) 120 120 121 (thousand)6 South, Central America and the Caribbean 48 46 44 Fuel Consumption (TJ) 206,343 201,681 208,154 Individuals positively impacted from Others 3 0 0 0 2,756 2,824 2,899 Patrimonio Hoy (thousand)6 Power Consumption (GWh) 7,779 7,542 7,761 Total 40 32 36 Livable space enabled by Patrimonio Hoy Total Energy Consumption (GWh) 65,097 63,564 65,582 4,347 4,498 4,636 Notice to employees regarding operational (thousand m2)6 30 34 18 Fuel Mix (%) changes (average days) Families participating in our social and 686 715 736 Primary Fuels 76.7 73.8 72.9 Countries with practices to promote local inclusive businesses (thousand)6 73 78 74 Petroleum coke 45.4 39.0 37.0 hiring (%) Individuals positively impacted from our 3,273 3,400 3,503 Coal 25.0 28.0 25.8 Employee training by gender (average social and inclusive businesses (thousand)6 hours/year) Community partners (i.e. individuals Fuel oil + Diesel 2.0 3.8 4.4 Male 21 21 33 positively impacted from our social 12,604 14,108 16,133 Natural gas 4.3 3.0 5.8 initiatives) (thousand)6 Female 19 17 28 Alternative Fuels 23.3 26.2 27.1 Countries with volunteering programs (%) 75 71 84 Total 21 20 26 Fossil-based waste 13.7 15.9 16.4 Volunteering programs implemented (No.) 99 103 324 Employee training by position (average Biomass waste 9.6 10.3 10.7 hours/year) Individuals benefited from volunteering 1,415 214 137 Power consumption from renewable energy programs (thousand) 25 26 26 Executive positions 25 26 19 in cement (%)9 Employees participating in volunteering Non-executive 16 19 31 5,200 9,050 4,642 programs (No.) Operational 20 22 21 WASTE MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 Employee hours invested in volunteering Investment on Employee Training and 27,111 35,810 29,281 25.8 21.5 25.9 programs (No.) Hazardous waste sent for disposal Development (US million) 95.1 95.3 106.4 People with disabilities benefited from (thousand ton) Employees that are engaged to the compa– – 1,676 76 76 76 programs led by CEMEX (No.)5 Non-hazardous waste sent for disposal ny [EEI Employee Engagement Index] (%)4 276.5 250.5 307.7 Priority sites from all businesses that have (thousand ton) Employees that perceive they are enabled implemented Community Engagement – – 88 Total waste sent for disposal (thousand ton) 371.6 345.8 414.1 to perform their job effectively [PEI 76 77 77 Plans (%)5 Performance Enablement Index] (%)4 Total consumption of waste-derived sources Cement sites that have implemented – 12.5 13.2 – – 95 from other industries (million ton)5 Employees that would recommend CEMEX Community Engagement Plans (%)7 79 79 Ratio of consumption from waste-derived as a good place to work (%)4 Cement sites with Local Stakeholder sources from other industries vs. waste sent – 36 32 – – 94 Management (%)5 for disposal5 SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION 2016 2017 2018 Cement sites with Community Risks – – 90 Affordable and/or resource-efficient Mapping and Management (%)5 buildings where CEMEX is involved (No.) 4,112 9,543 2,664 ENVIRONMENTAL AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 Sites with CEMEX Environmental Affordable and/or resource-efficient buildCARBON STRATEGY AND ENERGY 2016 2017 2018 88 88 89 0.07 0.92 0.17 Management System (EMS) implemented (%) ings where CEMEX is involved (million m2) Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million ton) 8 43.8 42.5 43.0 Cement 98 98 97 Installed concrete pavement area (million m2) 5.39 8.78 3.95 Absolute net CO2 emissions (million ton)⁸ 41.4 39.7 40.0 Ready-mix 88 88 88 Green building projects under certification 1,282 1,024 1,048 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/ton of Aggregates 86 87 93 where CEMEX is involved (No.) 678 677 674 cementitious product)⁸ Green building projects under certification Sites with ISO 14001 Certification (%) 46 47 46 9.73 8.67 5.83 Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/ton of where CEMEX is involved (million m2) 642 636 630 Cement 76 79 81 cementitious product)⁸ Annual ready-mix sales derived from products Ready-mix 43 44 43 34 32 30 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of with outstanding sustainable attributes (%) 20.1 20.7 21.6 cementitious product from 1990 baseline (%) Aggregates 53 55 54 GRI 102-41 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 200 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report ENVIRONMENTAL AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 WATER MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE 2016 2017 2018 Sites with ISO 9001 Certification (%) 45 46 47 Total water discharge by destination Executives and employees actively aware of 18.6 22.6 24.7 77 77 77 Cement 79 82 84 (million m3) our Code of Ethics (%)14 Ready-mix 44 45 46 Surface water 11.0 11.8 12.3 Reports of alleged breaches to the Code of Ground water 6.8 10.2 11.1 Ethics received by Local Ethics Committees 453 568 630 Aggregates 41 43 41 (No.) Environmental investment (US million) 80 83 83 Municipal water 0.8 0.5 1.0 Ethics and compliance cases reported Environmental incidents (No.) Sea water 0.0 0.0 0.0 during the year that were investigated and 68 73 77 Other 0.0 0.2 0.2 closed (%) Category 1 (Major) 0 0 1 Total water consumption (million m3) 43.5 38.7 40.9 Disciplinary actions taken as a result of Category 2 (Moderate) 64 37 37 reports of non-compliance with the Code of 115 185 166 Category 3 (Minor) 224 216 238 Cement 15.5 14.3 14.6 Ethics, other policies or the law (No.) Complaints 77 81 114 Ready-mix 11.5 11.2 13.6 Target countries that participated on the Social incidents (No.)10 – – 80 Aggregates 16.5 13.2 12.7 Global Compliance Program (antitrust, 100 100 100 Specific water consumption antri-bribery and insider trading) (%) Environmental fines above US$10,000 (No.) 1 2 2 Cement (l/ton) 247 235 232 Countries with local mechanisms to proTotal Environmental fines (No.)11 51 56 37 mote employee awareness of procedures Ready-mix (l/m3) 222 219 258 100 100 100 Environmental fines above US$10,000 to identify and report incidences of internal 0.02 0.08 0.44 fraud, kickbacks, among others (%) (US million) Aggregates (l/ton) 131 107 102 Total Environmental fines (US million) 0.15 0.39 0.58 Sites with water recycling systems (%) 79 85 83 Investigated incidents reported and found to be true related to fraud, kick-backs among 0 0 0 others corruption incidents to government AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 officials (No.) Clinker produced with continuous monitoring Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans Implementation of Ethics and Compliance 84 92 98 94 97 96 – – 50 of major emissions (dust, NOX and SOX) (%) (%) Continuous Improvement Program (%)5 Clinker produced with monitoring of major Cement 90 94 92 and minor emissions (dust, NOX , SOX , Hg, 80 80 80 Aggregates 96 98 97 Footnotes: Cd, TI, VOC, PCDD/F) (%) 1 KPIs calculated according to the Cement Sustainability Initiative Active quarries located within or adjacent to Absolute dust emissions (ton/year) 2,703 2,214 1,911 63 64 58 (CSI) Safety in the Cement Industry: Guidelines for measuring and high biodiversity value areas (No.) Specific dust emissions (g/ton clinker) 67 47 39 reporting v 4.0 Cement 9 11 10 2 Cement only Absolute NOX emissions (ton/year) 76,552 57,973 56,228 Aggregates 54 53 48 3 Includes Neoris and employees performing corporate functions in Specific NOX emissions (g/ton clinker) 1,533 1,177 1,141 Active quarries located within or adjacent different locations Absolute SOX emissions (ton/year) 13,089 10,399 11,543 to high biodiversity value areas where 4 Measured every 2 years through our Employee Engagement Survey. 63 69 91 Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) are Shown figures come from our latest survey (2017) Specific SOX emissions (g/ton clinker) 253 216 233 implemented (%) 5 New KPI to be reported as of 2018 Annual reduction in dust emissions per ton 6 Cumulative figures as of year 1998 78 84 87 Cement 89 73 90 of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 7 Coverage for 2018 would be 100% if excluding recently acquired TCL Aggregates 59 68 92 Annual reduction in NOX emissions per ton operations 26 43 45 Quarry rehabilitation plans, Biodiversity Acof clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 8 Calculation according to the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) tion Plans (BAPs), and third party certifica– – 65 CO2 and Energy Protocol v 3.0 Annual reduction in SOX emissions per ton 61 67 64 tion (% from target quarries)5 of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 9 Includes direct supply contracts plus renewable share from the power grid CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 2016 2017 2018 10 Starting from 2018 social incidents are also monitored and registered WATER MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 as part of the CEMEX Environmental Incidents Global Report Purchases sourced from locally-based Total water withdrawals by source (million m3) 62.1 61.4 65.6 95 89 90 11 Historical figures were adjusted showing confirmed fines only suppliers (%) Surface water 22.5 22.3 18.9 12 New KPI replaces our former supplier sustainability assessment goal Sustainability assessment executed by an now prioritizing critical suppliers’ assessment Ground water 24.3 24.7 30.6 independent party for our critical suppliers – – 44 13 After its standarization across all our business units this new indicaMunicipal water 11.5 10.4 12.0 (% spend evaluated)12 tor has been adopted as a key measure of our customers’ satisfacRain water 0.4 0.4 0.3 Countries that conduct regular customer tion 100 100 100 satisfaction surveys (%) 14 Measured every 3 years through our Global Ethics Survey. Shown Sea water 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net Promoter Score (NPS) (%)13 – – 44 figure resulting from 2016 survey Other 3.4 3.7 3.8 GRI 102-48, GRI 102-49 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 201 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Progress Against Our Sustainability 2020 Targets 2020 ANNUAL 2018 TARGET TARGET ECONOMIC Annual ready-mix sales derived from products with outstanding sustainable attributes (%) 30 ≥ 25 ENVIRONMENTAL Alternative fuels rate (%) 27.1 35 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious vs. 1990 baseline (%) 21.6 25 Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions (CEMS) dust, NOX, SOX (%) 98 100 Reduction in dust emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 87 ≥ 70 Reduction in NOX emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 45 ≥ 40 Reduction in SOX emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 64 ≥ 55 Quarries with high biodiversity value where Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) are implemented (%) 91 100 SOCIAL Community partners (i.e., individuals positively impacted by our social initiatives) (million 16.1 ≥ 15 people since 1998) GOVERNANCE Total fatalities (employees, contractors and third parties) (No.) 13 0 Employee Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (per million hours worked) 0.5 0.3 Countries that conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys (%) 100 ≥ 90 Global procurement spend assessed under the Supplier Sustainability Program (%) 37 ≥ 55 Employees that perceive they are enabled to perform their job effectively [PEI – Performance 77[1] 83 Enablement Index] (%) Employees that are engaged with the company (EEI Employee Engagement Index) (%) 76[1] 80 Executives and employees actively aware of our Code of Ethics (%) 77[2] ≥ 90 Target countries that participated on Global Compliance Program covering antitrust, anti-bribery and 100 ≥ 90 insider trading (%) Ethics and compliance cases reported in the year that were investigated and closed (%) 77 ≥ 90 [1] Results from bi-annual survey. Last one applied in 2017 [2] Results from survey performed every 3 years. Last one executed in 2016 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 202 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Direct Economic Impacts In millions of US dollars As of December 31, 2018 IFRS 2016 IFRS 2017 IFRS 2018 CUSTOMERS: Net sales (1) 13,327 13,635 14,375 SUPPLIERS: Cost of sales and operating expenses (2) 8,558 8,971 9,566 EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES: 2,012 2,090 2,251 Wages and benefits (3) INVESTMENTS: CAPEX (4) plus working capital 99 308 809 CREDITORS: Net financial expense 985 821 651 GOVERNMENT: Taxes 299 249 227 COMMUNITIES: Donations as % of pre-tax income 0.38% 0.76% 0.69% SHAREHOLDERS: Dividends (6) 0 0 0 OTHERS (1) 46 110 FREE CASH FLOW FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (7) (60) (6) (1) CONSOLIDATED FREE CASH FLOW 1,431 1,151 756 NET INCOME (LOSS) before taxes & non controlling interest net income (loss) 941 726 805 (1) Excludes sales of assets (4) Capital expenditures for maintenance and expansion (2) Excludes depreciation and amortization (5) Donations as percentage of pre-tax income (3) Wages and benefits include non-operational and operational (6) Dividends paid in cash employees (7) Free Cash Flow from Pacific Northwest, Pipe and Brazil operations 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 203 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Our Sustainability Credentials DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY MILA PACIFIC MSCI EM LATIN AMERICA ESG LEADERS INDEX CDP ALLIANCE INDEX CEMEX S.A.B. de C.V. was selected as member In 2018, we received a B from CDP. This score puts CEMEX S.A.B. de C.V. was included in this new of the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes constructed us as one of the few building materials companies Index launched by S&P Dow Jones Indices by applying a Best‐in‐Class selection process to in CDP’s Leadership group. (S&P DJI), International Finance Corporation companies in the regional indexes that make up (IFC), RobecoSAM and the Exchanges of the MSCI ACWI. Mercado Integrado ­Latinoamericano (MILA). FTSE4GOOD INDEX SERIES MEXICAN STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY INDEX CEMEX became a member of this Index created by CEMEX remained in this index, as it has been the global index provider FTSE Russell to measure since the Index inception in 2011, and received the performance of companies demonstrating the highest Sustainability total score among all strong Environmental, Social and Governance constituents. (ESG) practices. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 204 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report KPMG Limited Security Assurance Report 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 205 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 206 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report SINCE 2016 OUR INTEGRATED REPORTS aim to provide a holistic analysis of the company’s strategic vision, performance, governance, and value creation About this Report A stronger reporting to better inform on our progress 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 207 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Scope and Boundaries GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS REPORTING SCOPE year, which is also the company’s fiscal including internal management sysCEMEX began publishing Environmenyear. Our materiality analysis guided tems and performance databases, as CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. is incorporated as a publicly traded variable tal, Health, and Safety (EHS) reports our reporting process, and the issues well as annual surveys applied across stock corporation (sociedad anónima bursátil de capital variable) in 1996, and has annually published included in this report particularly all of our countries. its Sustainable Development Reports match those that CEMEX management organized under the laws of Mexico. Except as the context since 2003, covering a broad range of and our stakeholders found of highWe continually aim to improve the otherwise may require, references in this integrated report to issues related to economic, environest importance for our operations, as transparency and completeness of mental, social, and governance perforreflected in our recently updated Mateeach report that we produce, while “CEMEX,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. and its mance. riality Matrix covering both financial streamlining our processes and the consolidated entities. and sustainability issues. way in which we provide information. Since 2016, our Integrated Reports are To this end, we include a limited assurintended to provide a holistic analysis Unless otherwise indicated, the inforance statement from KPMG, an indeof the company’s strategic vision, permation provided in this report is for pendent organization that verified the formance, governance, and value crethe company as a whole. We have data and calculation process for our ation, while fostering a more in-depth included information for the operaannual indicators associated with CO2 understanding of the financial and tions in which we have financial and and other emissions, health and safety, non-financial key performance indicaoperative control. If a plant is sold, its environmental incidents, and water. tors that the company uses to manage information is no longer included in our its business over the short, medium, data or considered in our targets. If we In addition, we continued the engageand long term. have restated certain data sets from ment with our External Advisory Panel, previous years because of improvewhose members provide very valuable BOUNDARY AND REPORTING PERIOD ments to our data-collection systems and objective feedback on our reportIn preparation of this report, we conor changes to our business, each case ing every year. solidated information from all of our is clearly marked. Unless something countries and operations. It covers our else is explicitly indicated, all monetary DATA MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES global cement, ready-mix concrete, amounts are reported in U.S. dollars. All We employ the following protocols and and aggregates business lines, prereferences to “tons” are to metric tons. techniques for measuring the sussenting our financial and non-financial tainability key performance indicators performance, progress, achievements, The information in our 2018 Integrated (KPI) that we report: and challenges for the 2018 calendar Report came from several sources, GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-48, GRI 102-49 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 208 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CO2 emissions: CEMEX reports absolute The values are calculated in Standard for ALIGNMENT WITH GLOBAL REPORTING UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT – and specific CO2 emissions follow0°C, 1 atmosphere and 10% Oxygen (O2) INITIATIVE (GRI) REPORTING FRAMEWORK COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ing the latest version of the Cement content at measuring point. Energy: Fuel In order to enhance our sustainability This report also constitutes our ComSustainability Initiative (CSI) Protocol, consumption indicators are reported communication to our stakeholders munication on Progress (CoP) toward denominated: Cement CO2 and Energy to internal CEMEX databases in which and comply with internationally agreed the commitments of the UN Global Protocol, version 3.0, published in “conventional,” “alternative,” and “biomass disclosures and metrics, CEMEX uses Compact (UNGC). As a recently May 2011. It considers direct emissions fuels” are classified according to the CSI the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) enrolled participant in the UNGC, we occurring from sources that are owned Cement CO2 Protocol spreadsheet. Heat guidelines to prepare its Sustainable work to align our company’s operations or controlled by the company, excluding values are obtained from on-site analDevelopment Reports. From 2008 to and strategies with its 10 principles. those from the combustion of biomass ysis (where applicable), value provided 2013, we met an application level of A+ As demonstrated within the content of that are reported separately (Scope 1) by supplier or standards from the CSI using GRI-G3. From 2014 to 2016 we this report, we are also committed to and indirect emissions from the generaGuidelines for the Selection and Use of applied the GRI-G4 Guidelines.. helping the world meet the targets of tion of purchased electricity consumed Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement the Kyoto Protocol and contribute to in the company’s owned or controlled Manufacturing Process. Starting in 2017, we have migrated to the achievement of the UN Sustainable equipment (Scope 2). Historical data the GRI Standards. For the MaterialDevelopment Goals (SDGs). shall remain unchanged given that the Clinker factor and alternative fuels: All ity Disclosures Service, GRI Services previous protocol is closely aligned with material consumption is reported to reviewed that the GRI content index is the simple methods for the reporting internal CEMEX databases in which clearly presented and the references for of CO2 emissions from calcination. For “alternative materials” are defined Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with countries covered by the European following the standards from the CSI appropriate sections in the body of the Union Emission Trading System (EU Guidelines for the Selection and Use of report. Furthermore, our GRI Content ETS), CO2 data corresponds to the one Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement Index is cross referenced to the UN validated by an independent verifier in Manufacturing Process. The “clinker/ Global Compact (UNGC) principles, as accordance with the applicable Accredcement factor” is calculated using the well as to the UN Sustainable Developitation and Verification Regulation. CSI procedures indicated in Cement CO2 ment Goals (SDGs). Furthermore, we and Energy Protocol spreadsheet with have sumitted the current report to the Dust, NOX and SOX emissions: Absolute information obtained from the databases. GRI requesting the Materiality Discloand specific figures are calculated sures Service which is reflected in the based on kiln measurements taken Health and safety: SISTER, which is an corresponding GRI mark. from Continuous Emissions Monitoring internal database, collects all related Systems (CEMs) (in those sites where health and safety information from each This report has been prepared in kilns are equipped with such technolsite and automatically provides the accordance with the GRI Standards: ogy) or spot analysis. These methods appropriate information to calculate the Comprehensive option. To access our fully comply with the CSI Guidelines for indicators. The database is configured 2018 GRI Content Index go to https:// Emissions Monitoring and Reporting. using the CSI definitions. H&S indicawww.cemex.com/sustainability/ All information is reported to CEMEX tors are calculated according to the reports/global-reports databases, processed, calculated, and Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) validated to provide a final group value. Safety in the Cement Industry: Guidelines for measuring and reporting v 4.0 GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-48, GRI 102-49 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 209 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report External Advisory Panel Members and Statement IRMA GÓMEZ FELIPE PICH-AGUILERA Ex-Undersecretary for Founding Director Pich-Aguilera Management, Mexican Ministry Architects of Public Education The Advisory Panel (henceforth referred to as “the Panel”) helps focus the analysis on the most material aspects in the business. This recognizes this Integrated Report as an effort to provide all process also promotes integrated stakeholders with a holistic overview of CEMEX’s strategic vision, thinking and strategy across the organization, and underscores CEMEX’s clear drivers of value creation, operating performance, governance, and commitment to executing a business an understanding of the key financial and nonfinancial topics strategy that includes social and environmental leadership in the sector. that shape the business today, and that are likely to shape the business in the future. GOVERNANCE AND DIVERSITY The panel recognizes that the CEMEX ROBERT RUTTMANN MARGARETH FLÓREZ Founder and CEO of Redesigning Executive Director of SCOPE OF OUR REVIEW REPORTING FRAMEWORK, STYLE AND Board currently has an independent Financial Services RedEAmérica Similar to previous years, the SusIMPROVEMENTS majority (9, up from 7 last year), which tainability Reporting Advisory Panel The Panel appreciates the improveenables it to more effectively fulfill its reviewed an advanced draft of CEMEX ments in the formatting of the report. The critical function of overseeing manage2018 Integrated Report: Building a report is easy to read, the infographics ment on behalf of shareholders. We stronger CEMEX. The Advisory Panel are attractive and effectively transmit also note that the board Chairman is members first convened in February valuable information, and the structure an Insider of the executive board. This 2019 to discuss the evaluation and adviof the chapters is intuitively organized. practice raises the risk of an overly sory process, before being submitted The format of the report works well to powerful management, along with the the report in March, having about two demonstrate remarkable progress (e.g. risk of board level conflicts of interest. weeks to review the report and discuss in the context of the SDGs), but it also As such, the Panel encourages CEMEX their recommendations. The Panel clearly recognizes the risks the company to explore the ways that would allow an members shared with management faces in other areas and what the firm even greater degree of independence RAMÓN PÉREZ GIL MARTIN HOLLANDS detailed comments and specific sugis doing to mitigate the impact of these on the board level. Ex-Global Counselor, Senior Advisor on Business gestions for improvement in reporting risks (e.g. emissions, safety, etc.). International Union for the and Biodiversity with BirdLife and activities in general. The comments The Panel recognizes the additional Conservation of Nature (IUCN) International of the report concern both current activThe Panel is also pleased with the work present in this report with respect ities, recommendations, and strategic continued commitment to more closely to risk management, which offers the ideas worth exploring in the future. align the report with the Global Reportreader a good overview of the primary To learn more about our Advisory Panel members visit: ing Initiative (GRI) Standards, which risks the company faces. However, the https://www.cemex.com/sustainability/reports/external-advisory-panel 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 210 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Board of Directors does not exhibit any Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and some policy implications. And although Panel encourages a broader focus This reflects an important potential specialized competence in risk manProduction; Goal 13 Climate Action; and there are clearly limits to what one than merely measuring the “number of to improve the firm’s efficiency with agement. Moreover, the Board could Goal 15 Life on Land. company can do on this on its own, the beneficiaries”. respect to CO2 emission per unit of consider implementing more comprePanel recommends CEMEX leadership cementitious products. Nonetheless, hensive incentives that link pay to the It is also in this context that the Panel to think boldly about potential solutions SAFETY based on its current progress of 22% achievement of sustainability goals. recommends reporting on whether around carbon capture and to build The panel is encouraged by the success reduction in emission reduction per And finally, the Panel recommends CEMEX is pivoting on any existing businew, effective alliances in this context. of the Zero4Life goal – and particularly ton of cementitious products in 2018, improvements with respect to executive ness strategies to maximize the impact by the zero employee fatalities achieved CEMEX could very well still meet its pay disclosures, which are common for the firm’s operations have with respect MATERIALITY ASPECTS in 2018. Still, with the majority of its reduction target of 25% by 2020. most peers. to the SDGs. In other words, the Panel The Panel recognizes the continued operations focused on cement prorecommends reporting actively about progress CEMEX has made with respect duction, CEMEX employees and subIn sum, the Panel recognizes that The Panel also recognizes that the how CEMEX is moving beyond simply to building a Materiality Matrix in efforts contractors remain highly exposed to CEMEX commitment to reducing envipercentage of women in the work force mapping existing business activities into to identify the issues most important to operational accidents, and thus carries ronmental impact is in line with industry has risen to around 15%. Still, this is the SDG framework to actively adjusting CEMEX and its stakeholders. The Materisk to operational disruption and liabilstandards. Going forward, the Panel low relative to peers, which are above legacy operations in efforts to optimize riality Matrix enables a more seamless ity. The Panel commends the focus the recommends strengthening the execu20% on average. On the board level, the firm’s impact on the SDGs. identification of issues most relevant to CEMEX leadership has directed toward tion of the company’s current, already the Panel recognizes that all 15 board stakeholders, including both risks and this important issue and is encouraged very strong policies on emissions. members are male. The panel recomThe Panel also recognizes that the opportunities. The Panel is pleased with by the progress made over the last year. mends the consideration of qualified CEMEX operations sometime work the construction of the framework being Still, given the importance of this secSUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT women for the next generation of board against the delivery of the SDGs (e.g. done in close alignment with the Global tion, the Panel recommends being as The Panel acknowledges CEMEX’s members, as this would demonstrate to climate, biodiversity and water). As Reporting Initiative (GRI). open and transparent as possible with initiatives to support the use, expansion the broader stakeholder community a such, the report stresses the valuable respect to health and safety across the and monitoring of its suppliers with commitment to board diversity. Several work CEMEX leadership is undertaking The Panel recommends considering the entire supply chain. respect to best practice and code of recent studies have shown that compato mitigate the impact of such operainclusion of the “Net Value” / True Cost conduct. Notwithstanding this holistic nies with too few female directors tend tions. The risk here is that the mitigation calculations, which could be beneficial EMISSIONS AND OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL approach to supply chain responsibility, to be less effective and even underof harmful impacts of business operain terms of better understanding the ISSUES the Panel cautions that any excessive perform those whose boards are more tions be conflated with initiatives that materiality of sustainability issues, risks, The Panel recognizes that CEMEX has focus on “low cost sourcing” could also diverse. make an active, net-positive contriand opportunities arising from enviexposure to the risk of increased costs carry the risk that suppliers focus on bution to achieving the SDGs. Going ronmental and social issues that are linked to carbon regulations, based on cost reductions at the expense of enviREPORTING AGAINST THE SUSTAINABLE forward, the Panel recommends making central to the business. Moreover, the its focus on cement production, which ronmental and social standards. DEVELOPMENT GOALS a clear distinction between reducing Panel recommends introducing comis clearly highly carbon-intensive. The Panel commends the growing the impact of harmful operations and ments addressing the “internalization of Adding to this risk, the Panel asserts BIODIVERSITY focus on the role CEMEX can play in actively contributing to the SDGs. externalities”, which should help readers that ca. 80% of the company’s assets The panel is encouraged by the fact terms aligning its business objectives identify the key material environmental are located in locations with existing that 96% CEMEX’s active quarries have with the Sustainable Development CEMEX AND THE IMPORTANCE OF CLIMATE and social issues to the business. or impending carbon regulations. This framed a rehabilitation plan, and that Goals (SDGs), with a particular focus CHANGE reality elevates CEMEX’s overall level of the majority of those that operate within on the direct contribution CEMEX The Panel recognizes that CEMEX takes Finally, the Panel encourages manrisk in this area relative to peers. or adjacent to high biodiversity value makes to ten specific SDGs: Goal 1 No climate change very seriously. The agement to implement the Ruggie areas have a biodiversity action plan Poverty; Goal 3 Good Health and Well Panel is encouraged to see the use of Principles, which should ideally include The company’s carbon management in place. Indeed, the Panel recognizes Being; Goal 4 Quality Education; Goal Science Based Targets, supportive of a plan of action to ensure their applicastrategy is vital to better manage the that CEMEX has a good reputation for 5 Gender Equality; Goal 8 Decent Work the Paris Agreement, and a clear frametion. Moreover, the Panel recommends firm’s business risks – i.e. focusing on its commitments to address biodiversity and Economic Growth; Goal 9 Industry work for CEMEX targets in this context. strengthening the scope and nuance alternative fuels utilization, low temperaissues through Biodiversity Action Plans Innovation and Infrastructure; Goal 11 Nonetheless, the Panel recommends of the key performance indicators ture clinkers, and improving thermal (BAPs) in priority areas, the inclusion of Sustainable Cities and Communities; broadening the discussion to include with respect to social outcomes. The efficiency of clinker production. biodiversity in rehabilitation planning, 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 211 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report and to 3rd party verification of its consteps to communicate these challenges The Panel is also pleased to notice the tainable communities, both at the level of CONCLUDING REMARKS servation efforts. Moreover, the CEMEX more transparently, and also to reduce progress being made with respect to each territory and at a global level. The Panel recognizes the company’s commitment to generate a net positive this heavy reliance on high carbon ethics and internal human rights cases goal of becoming a global leader in susimpact from their mining operations emission fuel sources. At the same being brought to the fore. The fact that Moreover, the Panel acknowledges the tainable construction. To this end, the with respect to Biodiversity and Water is time, the Panel recognizes that the firm 630 incidents were reported to the excellent initiative “social innovation Panel also acknowledges the firm’s proencouraging. did achieve an alternative fuel substiEthosline in 2018 (a 20% increase yearand environmental entrepreneurship” active approach to integrating material tution rate of 27% in the last year, so on-year) is disconcerting on the one dedicated to conceiving disruptive environmental, social and governance Nonetheless, the Panel notes that the the framework for improvement seems hand, but also suggests a clear comideas to create social, economic and considerations into the firm’s operating firm’s business activities involve subto be in place. The Panel encourages mitment to transparency and enforcing environmental value. The Panel is of the strategy. Indeed, the report implies that stantial disturbance to land or habitat further progress in this domain. high ethical standards, on the other opinion that such initiatives are set to sustainability performance provides the due to quarry exploitation. Additionally, hand. This notion is also evidenced find new opportunities to contribute to foundation for sustainable profits in the the Panel notes that the company has The Panel recognizes the strong CEMEX by the disciplinary actions that were the creation of shared value, whether future. substantial operations in regions with track record in water consumption. instituted in 25% of the cases, resulting through products and services, operasignificant biodiversity or neighboring Indeed, water consumption is importin 78 employee dismissals. tions with socio-environmental criteria, This year’s integrated report demonindigenous communities with tradiant to CEMEX, especially since the firm or the value networks and the promostrates that this journey already includes tional land use practices, so the topic operates in water stressed regions in Looking ahead, a more detailed evotion of sustainable communities. multiple broad-scale initiatives toward of biodiversity and water is particularly which pollution of this scarce resource lution of the trends and nature of the becoming a leader in sustainable conrelevant. Indeed, the material risk here is and competition for use are potential disciplinary actions taken for violation Given such advances, the Panel struction. A key component of this jourlitigation, increased costs or even losing risks. It is in this context that the Panel of the code of ethics would be helpful to encourages the CEMEX leadership to ney will also certainly be a consistent its license to operate. applauds the firm’s efforts to reduce the readers to assess the severity of the review the key performance indicators commitment to keeping the firm’s safety its water use over the last five years. In issues and progress made in its avoidreported related to the social and comrecord intact – or even improving it. The With respect to the net positive impact, fact, CEMEX has increased its water ance – and to also ascertain whether munity strategy such that the results Panel is convinced that further improvethe Panel makes the following recomefficiency significantly, mainly through the violations could affect the repucan seamlessly be mapped against the ment in this area are possible and even mendations: 1) develop a clear definition its water re-use and conservation policy, tational equity of the company in the objectives set. This measure should likely, not least due to management’s and timeline of what would be needed which helped the company save one broader stakeholder and community. also allow an improved monitoring of serious and public commitment to the at scale to realize this commitment, 2) third of its water use over the last 5 Still, the Panel is encouraged by the the effectiveness of the initiatives (e.g. Zero4Life goal. include a clear framework of linking years. Still, CEMEX has a USD 65 million strong internal processes that CEMEX capacities built up, levels of inclusion, negative biodiversity impacts with water impact, so the initiatives are has established with the Ethosline to income, jobs, etc.), and the returns for We wish the company every success in their mitigation efforts, 3) development, timely and topical. collect information. the company. the coming year, and remain grateful for testing and rollout of measurement the opportunity to offer our commentarmetrics, 4) the development of a clear HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIAL ISSUES Finally, as the dialogues with the ies and recommendations in efforts to understanding of potential outcomes, The Panel commends the strong Human The Panel recognizes great progress communities spread throughout the support CEMEX in its goal of becoming a 5) and explore avenues of “net positive” Rights Policy, which integrates sustainand consistency in the incorporation of CEMEX operations, it would be interestglobal leader in sustainable construction. certification for the USD18 million worth ability requirements such as mandating communities’ sustainable development ing and relevant to report the number of biodiversity impacts.. suppliers to comply with this policy. In into the strategy and business model of of conflicts presented and handled. In Yours faithfully, this way, CEMEX is able to exert more CEMEX. Particularly, the Panel highlights this way, it will be possible to show the ENERGY AND WATER CONSUMPTION influence over its entire value chain via the good result achieved by the implecommitment of CEMEX to maintain The CEMEX Advisory Panel The Panel notes the company’s still the “INTEGRATE Your Ideas” Innovation mentation of the “Community Engagea constructive and harmonious relaon Sustainability heavy reliance on fuel sources that Program, its Workplace Diversity and ment Plans” in nearly 100% of cement tionship with the environment. A good cause high carbon emissions (in Inclusion Policy, the renewed Human operations. The creation of these spaces relationship is not free of conflicts and particular petroleum coke, from which Rights Policy, and the new Code of Ethfor dialogue will contribute to strengthtensions, and that’s why the Panel finds the company sources nearly 40% of its ics and Business Conduct. ening the relationship of the company it important to preserve the participaenergy). The Panel recommends taking with the communities, as well as the tion of all the relevant actors and build contributions to the development of susup confidence among them. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 212 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Terms We Use FINANCIAL INDUSTRY bps (Basis Point) is a unit of percentage Net working capital CEMEX defines it TIIE (Tasa de Interés Interbancaria de Aggregates are sand and gravel, which are measure equal to 0.01%, used to measure as net trade accounts receivables plus Equilibrio) is a measure of the average cost mined from quarries. They give ready-mix the changes to interest rates, equity indiinventories plus other accounts receivable of funds in pesos in the Mexican interbank concrete its necessary volume and add to ces, and fixed-income securities. including advanced payments minus trade money market. its overall strength. Under normal circumpayables minus operative taxes excluding stances, one cubic meter of fresh concrete Free cash flow CEMEX defines it as operincome tax minus other accounts payable Total debt CEMEX defines it as shortcontains two tons of gravel and sand. ating EBITDA minus net interest expense, term and long-term debt plus convertible and accrued expenses. Working capital is maintenance capital expenditures, change not a GAAP measure. securities, liabilities secured with account Clinker is an intermediate cement product in working capital, taxes paid, and other receivables, and capital leases. Total debt made by sintering limestone, clay, and iron cash items (net other expenses less proOperating EBITDA CEMEX defines it as is not a GAAP measure. oxide in a kiln at around 1,450 degrees ceeds from the disposal of obsolete and/ operating earnings before other expenses, Celsius. One ton of clinker is used to make or substantially depleted operating fixed net, plus depreciation and amortization. approximately 1.1 tons of Gray Portland assets that are no longer in operation). Operating EBITDA does not include revcement. Free cash flow is not a GAAP measure. enues and expenses that are not directly related to CEMEX’s main activity, or which Fly ash is a combustion residue from coalLIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) is a are of an unusual or non-recurring nature fired power plants that can be used as a reference rate based on the interest rates non-clinker cementitious material. under International Financial Reporting at which banks borrow unsecured funds Standards (IFRS). Operating EBITDA is not Gray Portland cement is a hydraulic binding from other banks in London. a GAAP measure. agent with a composition by weight of at Maintenance capital expenditures CEMEX pp equals percentage points. least 95% clinker and 0–5% of a minor defines it as investments incurred with component (usually calcium sulfate). It the purpose of ensuring the company’s Strategic capital expenditures CEMEX can set and harden underwater and, when operational continuity. These include capdefines it as investments incurred with the mixed with aggregates and water, proital expenditures on projects required to purpose of increasing the company’s profduces concrete or mortar. replace obsolete assets or maintain current itability. These include capital expenditures operational levels and mandatory capital on projects designed to increase profitMetric ton is the equivalent of 1.102 short tons. expenditures, which are projects required ability by expanding capacity, and margin Petroleum coke (petcoke) is a by-product of to comply with governmental regulations improvement capital expenditures, which the oil refining coking process. or company policies. Maintenance capital are projects designed to increase profitexpenditures are not a GAAP measure. ability by reducing costs. Strategic capital Ready-mix concrete is a mixture of cement, expenditures are not a GAAP measure. aggregates, and water. Slag is the by-product of smelting ore to purify metals. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 213 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking › general political, social, economic › the increasing reliance on informa› natural disasters and other unforestatements within the meaning of the U.S. and business conditions in the tion technology infrastructure for seen events; and federal securities laws. We intend these formarkets in which we operate or that our sales invoicing, procurement, ward-looking statements to be covered by › other risks and uncertainties affect our operations and any sigfinancial statements and other the safe harbor provisions for forward-lookdescribed under “Item 3—Key nificant economic, political or social processes that can adversely affect ing statements in the U.S. federal securities Information—Risk Factors” of our developments in those markets, as our sales and operations in the laws. In some cases, these statements can 2017 annual report and under well as any inherent risks to internaevent that the infrastructure does be identified by the use of forward-looking “Risk Factors” in this report. Readwords such as “may,” “assume,” “might,” tional operations; not work as intended, experiences ers are urged to read this report “should,” “could,” “continue,” “would,” “can,” technical difficulties or is subjected › the regulatory environment, including and carefully consider the risks, “consider,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” to cyber-attacks; environmental, tax, antitrust, and acquiuncertainties and other factors “plan,” “believe,” “foresee,” “predict,” “potensition-related rules and regulations; › changes in the economy that affect that affect our business. The infortial,” “target,” “strategy,” “intend” or other demand for consumer goods, consemation contained in this report similar words. These forward-looking › our ability to satisfy our obligations quently affecting demand for our is subject to change without statements reflect our current expectations under our material debt agreements, products; notice, and we are not obligated and projections about future events based the indentures that govern our on our knowledge of present facts and to publicly update or revise forsenior secured notes and our other › weather conditions, including disascircumstances and assumptions about ward-looking statements after the debt instruments; ters such as earthquakes and floods; future events. These statements necessarily date hereof or to reflect the occurinvolve risks and uncertainties that could › the availability of short-term credit › trade barriers, including tariffs rence of anticipated or unanticicause actual results to differ materially from lines, assisting in connection with or import taxes and changes in pated events or circumstances. our expectations. Some of the risks, uncermarket cycles; existing trade policies or changes tainties and other important factors that to, or withdrawals from, free trade › the impact of our below investment could cause results to differ, or that othagreements, including the United grade debt rating on our cost of erwise could have an impact on us or our States-Mexico-Canada Agreement subsidiaries, include: capital; (USMCA), if it comes into effect, › loss of reputation of our brands; and the North American Free Trade › the cyclical activity of the construcAgreement (NAFTA), both of which tion sector; › our ability to consummate asset Mexico is a party to; sales, fully integrate newly acquired › our exposure to other sectors that businesses, achieve cost-savings › terrorist and organized criminal impact our business, such as but not from our costreduction initiatives activities as well as geopolitical limited to the energy sector; and implement our global pricing events; › competition; initiatives for our products; › declarations of insolvency or bank› availability of raw materials and ruptcy, or becoming subject to related fluctuating prices; similar proceedings; 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 214 Contents 1 Company Overview 2 How We Create Value 3 Our Performance 4 Governance 5 Results in Detail 6 About this Report Investor, Media and Sustainability Information EXCHANGE LISTINGS CONTACT FEEDBACK MEDIA RELATIONS CONTACT We welcome your feedback on mr@cemex.com our reporting and performance. Phone: +52 (81) 8888-4327 Please send your comments and INVESTOR RELATIONS suggestions to: BOLSA MEXICANA DE CONTACT CEMEX, S.A.B. DE C.V. VALORES (BMV) ir@cemex.com Investor Relations, Corporate Mexico From the US: 1 877 7CX NYSE Communications and Public Ticker symbol: CEMEXCPO From other countries: Affairs Share series: CPO +1 (212) 317-6000 (representing two A shares and Av. Ricardo Margain Zozaya 325 66265, San Pedro Garza Garcia, one B share) SUSTAINABILITY CONTACT N.L. Mexico sd@cemex.com Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 WEB ADDRESS corporate.communications@ www.cemex.com cemex.com NEW YORK OFFICE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 590 Madison Ave. 27th floor (NYSE) New York, NY 10022 USA United States Phone: +1 (212) 317-6000 Ticker symbol: CX Fax: +1 (212) 317-6047 Share series: ADS (representing 10 CPOs) ©2019 CEMEX S.A.B DE C.V. All rights reserved. 2018 CEMEX INTEGRATED REPORT / 215
