The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact The Global Compact asks companies to meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. To implement the same values and principles into their business practice by incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights principles TeleSoftas is free from discrimination, supports and is guided by Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Company employees are all treated equally with respect. TeleSoftas policy and values goes with UN principles and our employees and business partners are invited to follow this conduct. We are committed to protect human rights and taking actions by providing: • safe and healthy work conditions, environment and facilities; • equal and fair treatment and respect of a privacy; • salary paid on time; • flexible working hours; • basic health and education (professional training); • protection from harassment or discrimination; • freedom to join any trade union or association; • Human Resources management system which supports ethical behaviour of employees; • reaction to any harm or threat to human rights by taking action to resolve it. We are implementing training programme on security and human rights including GDPR requirements. Company also ensuring that its own operations are not in collision with human rights. All new employees are required to read through the company policies and confirm their compliance. No complaints on violation of human rights were filed. Labour principles TeleSoftas supports and follows UN Global Compact principles on labour, as well, following national laws and regulations on labour rights. We are committed to protect labour rights and taking actions by: • Ensuring freedom of association or representatives without any interference from the company; • providing employees representatives with appropriate facilities for proper representation; • eliminating and preventing any forms of compulsory labour; • implementing mechanism for age verification – only majors can be hired; • complying with minimum wage standards; • implementing Help form system to solve technical and other work-space, workrelationship issues; • ensuring that employment related decisions are objective. We are hiring people based only on job requirements. No discrimination of any form; • providing and supporting education and training, including Feedback policy training; • keep up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion that provide a transparent view of opportunities for employees and their progression within the organization; • providing and adjusting physical environment to ensure health and safety for employees, customers or other visitors with disabilities; • developing flexible and strong relationship in the community, between shareholders, customers, suppliers and employees; • Ensuring that employment contracts and NDA’s would be available to all employees. We ensure that companies’ business, HR and management operations are not in collision with labour rights. No complaints on violation of labour rights were filed. Environment principles TeleSoftas understands the need of environmental protection and we support UN Global Compact environment principles by following them in our everyday business. We continuously work with our environmental strategies and are implementing GC principles in our actions by: • improving company environmental management system; • establishing a corporate or individual company policy on the use of environmentally friendly technologies and products; • preparing and presenting in the work space information that illustrates environmental performance and benefits of using environment friendly technologies; • avoiding environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, electricity, sound control etc.) • ensuring emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health; • ensuring safe handling and storage of chemicals and other dangerous substances; • establishing paper and plastic sorting policy in the company; • using recycling paper and reusable meal dishes, lunch boxes; • establishing glass, aluminium, batteries, cardboard collecting and recycling policy; • preventing office space from overheating and usage of air conditioners by installing windows rolls; • implementing system to use a second hand stuff by reusing them; • establishing gas saving policy by making planning orders online twice a month; • implementing a usage power saving lights and equipment and rechargeable batteries We manage to avoid or minimise environmental impact, such as waste, energy discharge, noise and etc., by taking actions above. Our stronger goal is to continue minimizing waste, by using less nonrecyclable materials. Anti-Corruption principles TeleSoftas is committed to do business with maximum transparency and accountability to shareholders, business partners, clients and other persons concerned, who share our business values and agenda. We constantly improve by preventing any specific situations and manage our company’s integrity. We support UN Global Compact anti-corruption principles by implementing them into our business by taking actions to: • Introduce anti-corruption policies and programmes within organization and business operations • Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment • Assess the risk of corruption when doing business; • Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behaviour” in business contracts. TeleSoftas main goal is to do business ethically and transparently. We constantly reach for innovations and seek for a change. No complaints on violation of anti-corruption rights were filed. Empowering Innovation .
