2018 Contents. INTRODUCTION About us. 1 This is Ellevio. 2 ELLEVIO 2018 Review of 2018. 5 CEO’S STATEMENT We need to build the electricity network 6 of the future, today. MARKET CONDITIONS Overall objectives. 8 AND DRIVERS Regulation of the electricity network. 8 The Swedish electricity market – how it works. 10 Drivers. 12 VALUE CREATION From the big things to the little things. 18 Society and customers. 20 Employees. 22 Environment. 30 Owners. 33 INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING Investments. 34 Financing. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 71 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS 76 The Annual Report consists of an administration report, financial statements and notes on pages 43–68. (The auditors’ report appears on page 69.) The sustainability report has been produced in line with Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) standards ”core” level. The ­complete sustainability report comprises the description of our sustainability efforts on pages 2–39 along with Sustainability management and results and the GRI index on pages 76–87. The sustainability report also covers Ellevio’s Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. The statutory sustainable report in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act covers pages 2–4, 18–33 and 76–87. Ellevio AB (publ) Box 242 07 104 51 Stockholm www.ellevio.se All values are expressed in SEK. Figures within parentheses refer to 2017, unless specified otherwise. The data concerning markets and the competitive situation are Ellevio’s own estimates unless a specific source is indicated. These estimates are based on the best and latest available facts from published sources. About us. Sometimes it’s warm, sometimes it’s cold. Sometimes light, sometimes dark. We need to cool down, heat up, add darkness and bring light. And of course we need to charge our cars, trim beards, run production lines, cook food, transport goods, milk cows, surf the internet, check our teeth and ride in lifts. How lucky we are to have electricity! Reliable and stable distribution of electricity is a prerequisite for the functioning of our daily lives as well as the ability to develop solutions and innovations and ensure that Sweden achieves its climate targets. Our responsibility is to ensure a reliable supply of ­electricity to our current 957,000 customers, while also enabling society and Sweden to keep developing. Step-by-step, these efforts bring us closer to our vision of using our commitment and expertise to contribute to a bright and sustainable future. Welcome to Ellevio. Ellevio is futureproofing Sweden. Our mission Ellevio’s customers are to have an uninterrupted Ellevio is one of Sweden’s largest electricity network ­supply of electricity, regardless of whether they live companies. Our task is to safeguard the supply of in the country or in an urban area. electricity to homes, workplaces and societal funcElectrification, digitisation, urbanisation and new tions by ensuring that the electricity network in our types of production are all placing new requirements network areas is sustainable in the long term and can on our electricity network. Ellevio is investing close to thus ensure that a climate-smart energy system can be SEK 10 billion between 2016 and 2019 to modproduced. An important part of this responsibility ernise and future-proof our electricity networks, an consists of weather-proofing the electricity network in increase of 100 percent compared with the previous rural areas and strengthening and regenerating the four-year period. So far we have invested around electricity network in cities. SEK 7.4 billion, fully in line with our plan. The need Producing and maintaining a reliable supply of for investments in the future-proofing of Sweden will electricity is one of society’s most vital assignments. remain for the foreseeable future. With the right cirWe view this responsibility with humility and a strong cumstances and with reasonable conditions, Ellevio desire to keep contributing to sustainable societal can continue its investment programme for decades development. With the right conditions and in colto come. laboration with society, we want to realise our vision We are a regulated business subject to the proviof using our commitment and expertise to contribute sions of the Electricity Act. The public agency Swedish to a bright and sustainable future, step by step. Energy Markets Inspectorate implements legislation and regulations and monitors the extent to which we A few facts about us fulfil our mission. We own, operate and develop regional and local The company is owned by pension savers via the electricity networks and distribute electricity with Swedish Third National Pension Fund, Folksam and 99.98 percent reliability to 957,000 customers in the First National Pension Fund, as well as OMERS Sweden. Our network is 76,500 km long, correInfrastructure, which invests in infrastructure for sponding to almost two trips around the Earth. OMERS, one of Canada’s largest pension funds. Our customers are spread across the West coast, The owners all share a long-term approach and mid-Sweden, and Stockholm. The main proportion of want to invest in businesses that contribute to sustainour networks is located in rural areas, but most of our able development. The value we create goes customers are in Stockholm. We have a clear objective; straight back to the pension savers. Mission. Strategy. To improve quality of life by guaranteeing Our overall strategy is to deliver value a long-term sustainable electricity network. to our customers and investors by ­ensuring a reliable, future-proofed ­electricity network, efficient operations, Vision. committed employees and growth To contribute to a bright and sustainable through acquisitions. future through our commitment and ­expertise. 2 ELLEVIO 2018 • This is Ellevio Seven strategic focus areas. Ellevio is responsible for critical infrastructure that fulfils a fundamental function in society. Our operations involve a very wide range of responsibilities. Our vision is to contribute to a bright and sustainable future through our commitment and expertise. Ellevio’s overall strategy to achieve this vision and create value for our customers and investors is to guarantee a reliable electricity network, efficient operations, committed employees and continued growth. We have seven strategic focus areas that aim to create value for our customers and investors. 1. Sustainability 5. Improved reliability through For Ellevio, sustainability means striking the right efficient investments balance between financial, social and environInvestments to maintain high reliability and further mental sustainability in order to create long-term improve it in certain areas is an important aspect value for our stakeholders. of Ellevio’s operations. 2. Customer experience 6. Operational efficiency The core of the customer experience is a reliable Our strategy for operational efficiency includes electricity network and an attractive range of reducing the costs of repairing faults and mainte­services. nance through the extensive investments planned for the electricity network. 3. Committed employees Ellevio is to be an organisation where everyone 7. Growth through acquisitions takes responsibility for their own development, as According to the strategy for growth through well as that of their team and the company. Our acquisitions, Ellevio will identify, evaluate and, conduct is guided by our values of reliability, when the opportunity arises, carry out acquisitions ­commitment and development. of electrical grid businesses. 4. Regulation and sector development The electricity network market is regulated and it is important to Ellevio to be involved in developing those regulations and to contribute knowledge, experience and opinions to issues that are important in terms of ensuring the electricity market functions and develops as best it can. Investments 2015–2018 Net sales 2018 6,974 M SEKm 3,000 2,500 SEK 2,000 Investments in tangible and 1,500 intangible assets 2018 1,000 500 SEK 2,870 M 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Basic investments Customer-driven investments Other investments ELLEVIO 2018 • This is Ellevio 3 Our networks. Västra Svealand-Västergötland 133,000 customers 25,600 km of electricity network 193 metres of electricity network per customer Dalarna-Södra Norrland 103,000 customers 15,000 km of electricity network 147 metres of electricity network per customer West Coast Stockholm 126,000 customers 595,000 customers 14,000 km of electricity network 15,400 km of electricity network 113 metres of electricity network 27 metres of electricity network per customer per customer Our objective. Our electricity network is divided into four local network areas based on Ellevio’s customers should have an geographical location. Since 1 January uninterrupted electricity supply – 2018 these have been divided up into today, tomorrow and in 50 years. two tariff zones. In addition to the four local electricity networks, we also own regional networks in Stockholm and rural areas. In total, this represents about 70,000 km of local networks and 6,500 km of regional networks. 4 ELLEVIO 2018 • This is Ellevio Review of 2018. Quarter 1. Quarter 2. The energy tax transfer from electricity traders Installs Vallentuna’s first charging stations. to electricity network companies is impleTogether with the municipality, Ellevio has installed mented. The responsibility for energy taxes, which some 40 charging stations for charging electric vehiwas previously invoiced by customers’ electricity tradcles at a number of important, high-traffic locations. ers, has now been transferred to electricity network Implements several equality initiatives. As a companies. The overall price has not been affected, whole, the energy sector is unequal and Ellevio as but the increase in the electricity network share correa company reflects that sector. For this reason, sponds to an equally sized reduction in the electricity Ellevio has launched several initiatives that aim to trader share, so neither traders nor companies will drive our efforts forward and learn from other indussee a change in earnings due to the reform. tries that have made more progress, including an Joins the “Håll Nollan” initiative. Ellevio was the equality hackathon, an equality day at the first energy company to join the construction sector’s Almedalen forum and an equality panel at Ellevio, “Håll Nollan” (Keep to zero) safety initiative. The inito name just a few. tiative has the clear objective of reducing the number Launches a study as to how Stockholm can of workplace accidents at construction sites – somebecome fossil-free by 2030. In conjunction with thing that goes hand in hand with Ellevio’s objective Scania, Vattenfall, Volkswagen and WSP, Ellevio has and vision. produced a study that shows how an entirely electriGuaranteed long-term financing for the fied transport sector in Stockholm’s inner city is possi­electricity networks of the future. As part of its ble – as long as there is a political will. long-term, sustainable financing of the electricity netIntegration of Elverket Vallentuna is completed. works of the future, in February Ellevio rearranged During the quarter, responsibility for monitoring the parts of its lending portfolio by issuing a 7-year class operations and customer service was transferred B bond worth SEK 3 billion. This was the first class B to Ellevio. Integration of all systems and staff was transaction in Sweden and meant that Ellevio was ­completed between September and October. able to repay its junior loans. Quarter 3. Quarter 4. The government approves a directive on new More important steps taken as part of electricity network regulation. The directive, Safe workplace. An important part of our “Safe which applies to the 2020–2023 regulatory period, workplace” initiative is to increase the amount of safe means that revenue frameworks are reduced and conduct and improve our safety culture. Two importincentives to invest are drastically impaired, which will ant activities included the launch of a Safety handaffect all of Sweden’s electricity network companies book as well as two pilot studies within the area of negatively, be they state-owned, privately owned, behaviour-based safety, one for our employees and municipal companies or local electricity associations, one for our suppliers. as well as customers and society in the longer term. Double the amount of solar panel customers. Signs agreement with GodEl, which becomes In 2018, Ellevio doubled the amount of customers allotted electricity trader for Ellevio’s moving who produce their own electricity by having solar customers. This collaboration means that customers panels on their houses. There is nothing to say that are offered one of the market’s best prices for environthis trend will not continue over the coming years, and mentally certified electricity. The agreement also as early as 2020 we may have some 15,000 solar means that Ellevio will be the first network company to panel customers. have entered the open market and chosen an allotted electricity trader. Tragic accident during Storm Knud. A fitter was injured so seriously by a falling tree while carrying out repair work during Storm Knud that he later died. ELLEVIO 2018 • Review of 2018 5 We need to build the electricity network of the future, today. Since the energy agreement was concluded, we have been totally focused on creating the conditions for a reliable and entirely renewable energy system. To enable the achievement of planned investments in the electricity network, a long-term, predictable and stable framework is required. The ambitions in the energy agreement from 2016 to implement extensive investments in Sweden’s elec­represented a high bar; by 2040 Sweden is to have tricity networks needed to transform the energy system. entirely renewable energy production. Net emissions of For Ellevio, this will lead to a 40-percent reduction in carbon dioxide are to be entirely removed by 2045. At planned basic investments during that period. the same time, urbanisation and digitisation of society are both under way and gathering pace, as is electrifiCurrent investment programme fully under way cation of vital societal functions such as the industry and Ellevio will have invested SEK 10 billion in equipping the transport sector. Major demands are being placed and developing its electricity networks over the on reliable, flexible and smart electricity networks, even period 2016–2019. During 2018 we invested 2.8 though these networks are already currently on the cusp billion, which are the largest investments since the of capacity shortages in many areas. Ellevio has so far 60s and 70s when the foundation for today’s infracontinuously planned and prepared itself to develop its structure was laid. This year we completed major electricity networks to meet these needs. We have projects in Värmland in which we are investing a total established an extensive investment plan for the coming of some SEK 300 million to increase capacity in that 10–15 years, which entails that the renewal of our elecregion’s electricity network. Several new wind power tricity networks is to keep pace with societal developprojects are taking shape throughout the forests in ments and contribute to enabling continued and more Värmland, including in Sunne and Bäckhammar. This sustainable growth. The investment plan is based on the will provide us with more renewable electricity proregulatory directive established by the government in duction in the electricity system. The redevelopment 2014 for the period 2016–2019, which granted a reaof the switching centre in Kil is now complete. Electricity sonable yield on investments and thereby offered an produced here using hydropower in north Värmland incentive for long-term investments – a prerequisite for will be distributed across the rest of the electricity network companies to be able to make the reinvest­network. Modern technology is providing greater ments that are much needed in the face of emerging opportunities for automatic change-over switching if capacity shortages and consistently rapid societal a fault should occur, which means fewer and shorter development. power outages for customers in Värmland. The provisions contained in the directive preWe have also begun work on an important projsented in August for the period 2020–2023 have ect in Stora Essingen in Stockholm. The electricity changed drastically for the worse. In the short term, ­network here was built in the 1950s, 60s and 70s, the advantages of lowered revenue frameworks may and in recent years several power outages have outweigh the negatives; electricity prices will fall for occurred due to ageing of cables and other equipcustomers. In the long term, however, the change – ment. We will replace a total of 40 kilometers of together with the reduced investment incentives for cables, 120 cable boxes and 9 substations as part network companies – means that it will not be possible of a project estimated to run until the end of 2020. 6 ELLEVIO 2018 • CEO’s statement Where you live should not matter During the year we continued to deliver on our promise to harmonise prices between those paid by customers in cities and those in rural areas. This harmonisation has strong support among customers and, when it is complete, all of our customers will have an electricity network charge in line with the nationwide average. The price harmonisation process is to be fully implemented by 2023. Safety should always come first. It is with great sadness that we remember the fitter who lost his life during an accident near Kungsbacka as he carried out work for us in connection with repairs following Storm Knud in September. We are acquisitions is firmly established and we continuously constantly developing our safety efforts together with assess potential acquisitions as we are convinced our contractors to ensure that this kind of thing can that a consolidation of the sector is the best thing for never happen again. Everyone should come home customers, society and the energy transition process safe and sound after a day at work. No one should as a whole. have to risk their life or health as part of our business. As an employer, we can never rest in the knowledge Shifting focus within sustainability efforts that we are merely following relevant regulations. Our safety ambitions have up until now largely influThe fact that our work often involves risks must be enced our systematic sustainability efforts. We are incessantly and tirelessly countered by information now broadening this perspective to focus on the about, training in and monitoring of our safety proce­climate and environment in line with the Sustainable dures and rules. All of us who work at or for Ellevio Development Goals, whereby we look more closely must take responsibility for both their own safety and at areas where we can make a real difference; that of their colleagues and the general public. Goal 7, Affordable and clean energy and Goal 9, During the year we particularly focused on developIndustry, Innovation and Infrastructure. We have foring and further improving the monitoring of our conmulated new strategic goals for our sustainability tractors’ safety efforts. efforts and for how we want to influence developments on both a micro and macro level. Replacing New approaches to equality all electricity meters in our networks with new, smart It is our firm conviction that our organisation functions meters is one important example of measures being most efficiently when we reflect the society we serve, taken which, when combined, will lead to a more with great diversity in terms of experience, expertise, efficient use of energy and will establish an importattitudes and abilities among our employees. Our ant role for individual customers within our joint equality efforts are a key factor here. We have responsibility for the energy transition. This year’s opted to work actively in line with the UN’s Sustainannual and sustainability reports also serve as our able Development Goal number 5, Equality, and Communication on Progress report in line with the are investing time and money in both internal activiUN Global Compact. We hereby confirm our ties such as leadership days and team development ­continued support for the initiative and describe under the theme of equality, as well as in our recruitthe results of our efforts relating to the ten principles ment initiatives where we simply do not accept within the areas of human rights, labour law, the explanations such as “we don’t have any” or “it’s not ­environment and anti-corruption. possible”. We realise that it is not enough to simply I am proud of the great results we have achieved look for new employees from our own sector or from over the past year. Maintaining the pace of developspecific, narrow educational backgrounds. Our new ment efforts, implementing planned investments employees should come from other professions and while working to establish a regulatory framework backgrounds to work at an organisation that that supports Sweden’s development and ensuring embraces new experiences and expertise as valuthat we can continue to live up to customers’ expecable additions to its operations. The challenges we tations are all challenges we will continue to tackle face require new approaches and solution models over the coming year. that ensure we can continue successfully developing the electricity networks and contributing to the transition of the energy system. Welcome to Ellevio. In 2017 we acquired Elverket Vallentuna AB. The Johan Lindehag integration process proceeded smoothly and is now CEO of Ellevio AB (publ) fully complete. Our strategy for growth through ELLEVIO 2018 • CEO’s statement 7 Market conditions and drivers. Digitisation, urbanisation and the transition towards a climate-smart energy system are creating a major need to modernise and increase capacity on the electricity networks. Overall targets smart electricity networks that enable our customers By way of common targets in the area of climate and to actively manage both their consumption and energy, the EU aims to set the course of future global ­production based on their own habits and needs. climate partnerships and establish the internal market for the energy sector. The EU also intensified these Regulation of the electricity network targets considerably during the year. The foundaRevenue regulation tions of these climate efforts are the Agenda 2030 Electricity networks are known as natural monopoand 17 sustainable development goals adopted by lies, and network companies are regulated and the UN in September 2015, along with the global monitored by the Swedish Energy Markets Inspecclimate agreement adopted in Paris in December torate (Ei), a government authority. The reason that 2015. The EU’s energy policy aims to reduce emisnetwork companies have a monopoly in their geosions of greenhouse gases, increase the share of graphical areas is that it would not be socio­ renewable energy sources and increase energy effieconomically feasible to build parallel networks. ciency. Swedish energy policy is based on the same The regulation should ensure that the networks three cornerstones as the energy partnership in the maintain good quality and provide a reliable secuEU, namely merging ecological sustainability, comrity of supply around the clock, every day of the petitiveness and security of supply. Sweden is at the year. This compensates network companies for reaforefront of developing these climate initiatives, in sonable costs linked to managing their business and part because our natural resources already provide a reasonable yield on investments made. According us with a large share of renewable electricity proto the Electricity Act, the prices that customers pay duction, but also in part thanks to an efficient market should be fair, objective and non-discriminatory. The system prompting timely political decisions, for examcurrent revenue regulation applicable to the period ple in the case of taxing carbon dioxide emissions or 2016–2019 provides an incentive for investments in the electricity certification system. the electricity network – a positive and necessary The Swedish Parliament coalesced around the change compared to the past. energy agreement produced in 2016, which conThe government’s directive concerning new tains the following targets: ­electricity network regulation for the period 2020– • 50 percent more efficient energy usage in 2030 2023, presented in August 2018, means that revethan in 2005. nue frameworks will be reduced, which will certainly • 100 percent renewable electricity production by lead to reduced network charges in the short term for 2040 (though without a final date for the end of companies’ customers, but in the long term will also nuclear power). lead to a major risk of insufficient investments being • No net emissions of greenhouse gases by 2045. made to maintain security of supply, create growth To live up to these proposals, Ellevio would need to and achieve environmental and climate-related implement its largest investments since the 1960s ­targets. The investments needed are, in reality, and 1970s. We want to build reliable, flexible and ­extensive. The transition of the energy system 8 ELLEVIO 2018 • Market conditions and drivers. towards major and minor-scale renewable energy Non-controllable costs are costs that we cannot production and the electrification of the transport affect and which instead pass “straight through” our sector, for example, both require reliable, smart and operations. This refers mainly to costs for “neighbourmodern electricity networks. The planning horizon ing networks”, which are the networks that transmit the for ­network investments stretches far into the future electricity from the production site to our electricity and the importance of having a long-term, predictnetwork, such as the national network owner Svenska able and stable governing framework cannot be Kraftnät, and costs for purchasing electricity that is lost emphasised strongly enough. in transmission (“network losses”). Non-controllable costs also include public authority fees that network Revenue companies are required to charge customers. The permitted revenues resolved by Ei comprise four Controllable costs are costs that we can affect: different components: compensation for capital staff costs, customer service, network monitoring, etc. costs, controllable costs, non-controllable costs and These costs are subject to efficiency requirements, finally a quality incentive. meaning they require us to incrementally improve Compensation for capital costs is compensation ­efficiency each year. If we are less efficient than the for the actual electricity network assets, including sector average, we are penalised with a reduction ­systems for operating the electricity network and of the allowed revenue. metering electricity use, and investments made in The quality incentive was previously based on these systems. The compensation is based on each power outages that last between three minutes and company’s electricity network assets (a regulatory twelve hours. Now, power outages that last for more calculation that is the same for all network compathan twelve hours are also included. Depending nies) and a reference interest rate (weighted averupon the reliability of our electricity network, our age cost of capital, WACC) that is meant to cover ­permitted revenue may be increased or decreased. interest on loans, taxes and returns. The reference Network companies can be forced to pay twice for rate for the regulatory period 2016–2019 is 5.85 these outages, on the one hand directly to customers percent. Ahead of the 2020–2023 regulatory and on the other hand by way of lowered revenue period, the government has decided to lower the frameworks during the next regulatory period, ­reference rate to around 3.0 percent. although this could also produce positive results. Customers’ electricity costs comprise The network component consists in turn three components of several parts Electricity network – the cost of having the elecCosts linked to the electricity network are decided tricity transmitted from the production source (such by Ei and distributed roughly as outlined below as a hydropower plant, wind farm or nuclear (excluding taxes and fees): power plant) through power lines, cables, substations and secondary substations to the home or 1. C  ompensation for the electricity network workplace. and ­investments made, known as compensation for capital costs Electricity – the cost of the actual electricity that the customer consumes, which the electricity 2. C  osts of the national network and network ­supplier purchases via the electricity market losses etc., known as non-controllable costs and sells to the customer. 3. C  osts linked to staff and customer service etc., Taxes and fees – about 40 percent of the known as controllable costs ­electricity invoice comprises government taxes and fees to authorities. 3 Electricity Taxes and network fees 1 2 Electricity ELLEVIO 2018 • Market conditions and drivers. 9 The Swedish electricity market – how it works. Electricity production Power Electricity trading Electricity exchange companies consumers Grid companies National grid Local grids Regional grids Electricity producers National network Electricity can be produced as hydroelectric power, “The trunk of the electricity tree” – the lines that transnuclear power, wind power, bio power, wave port electricity from the major power stations to the power and solar power, for example. In Sweden, regional networks. The national network is owned hydro and nuclear power account for more than and managed by the state via Svenska kraftnät. 80 percent of electricity production. Regional networks Electricity network companies “The branches of the electricity tree” – the lines that The companies that own, manage and develop hold the national network and local networks the regional and local networks and transport the together. The regional networks are owned by ­electricity from the production site to the customers. ­network companies such as Ellevio. ­Electricity networks are known as natural monopolies due to the fact that it is not socioeconomically Local networks feasible to build parallel networks. Customers can“The leaves of the electricity tree” – the lines that not choose themselves which network companies ­distribute electricity at the very last stage to customthey want to use, which is why the companies are reguers, i.e. companies and households, etc. The local lated by the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate (Ei). networks are owned by network companies such as Ellevio. Electricity trading companies The companies that purchase electricity from the electricity market and sell it on to end customers. In Sweden, there is free competition between electricity trading companies and so customers can choose their own company. 10 ELLEVIO 2018 • Market conditions and drivers. 2016 The energy agreement concluded on 10 June 2016 between governing parties the Social Democratic Party, the Green party and opposition parties the Moderate Party, Centre Party and Christian Democrats. The aim of the agreement was to establish longterm rules governing the Swedish energy supply. 2030 By 2030 at the latest, Sweden is to have a vehicle fleet that is independent of fossil fuels. The assessment of the 2030 secretariat is that this will be achieved by the equal impact of more fuel-efficient vehicles, the transition to renewable fuels and amended behaviour. 2040 100 The Energy Commission has proposed that 100 percent of Swedish electricity production percent renewable is to be renewable by 2040. In the future, production will also be both large-scale and small-scale, and the electricity s­ ystem will be able to handle electricity in both directions. The digitisation and electrification of society at large, and the transport industry in particular, will increase demands on the electricity system. 2045 Sweden is to be climate-neutral by 2045, which means it is to have a sustainable and resource-efficient energy supply by 2045, without net emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. ELLEVIO 2018 • Market conditions and drivers. 11 Drivers At other times, the demand for electricity will be Drivers in the electricity network market greater than the capacity of the existing networks Technological development has an impact on the can supply. This will need to be remedied by investelectricity network sector in many ways. Digitisation ments in new national networks and innovative and new IT tools will create opportunities moving approaches to how the electricity system can be ­forward, including the conditions for storing and governed more smartly. This could be achieved by ­analysing metering data that can be used for product way of local production and flexibility in consumption. development and new service for customers, but also From previously having announced extensive management of electricity networks that creates an effiinvestments in lifespan-lengthening measures at their cient and flexible electrical system that secures supply. nuclear power plants, several of the major nuclear plant owners have now clarified that more reactors Production – increasingly local and will be decommissioned over the period 2020– renewable 2025. This will entail a drastic reduction in the share Electricity can be produced as hydroelectric power, of plannable electricity production alongside the nuclear power, wind power, bio power, wave growing share of weather-dependent electricity propower and solar power, for example. In Sweden, duction. As demand for electricity is increasing all the hydro and nuclear power account for more than while, we risk periodically experiencing significant 80 percent of electricity production. shortages of power. A major increase in the proportion of renewable This changing production, combined with the energy sources is currently under way in the form of announced decline in nuclear power production, solar and wind power. Electricity is also produced will place demands on the electricity network, which locally to an increasing extent. In some cases, conwill need to rapidly become more flexible and able sumers are also prosumers, since they connect systo function in both directions. tems such as solar panels or small wind turbines to the network, into which they can feed their surplus Growing major cities impose new demands electricity. On specific days and at specific times, The way we use electricity is also changing. Society the network needs to receive locally produced suris becoming increasingly urbanised, digitised, electriplus electricity, while on other days it needs to distribfied and dependent on a constant, secure electricity ute supplementary electricity from power stations far supply. These days, electricity is essential for everyaway. Solar and wind are examples of weather-­ thing from daily tasks at home and at work to leisure dependent energy sources that make it harder to activities and to life-saving public services. This digiplan production. Electricity networks must be able to tised society is placing very high demands on relimanage an irregular inflow from these sources, with ability in every part of the country, and the electricity rapid fluctuations in electricity production. network must therefore be modern, flexible and At certain times, more electricity will be produced smart to meet these needs. than is used and, in these cases, networks must “know” The trend of urbanisation is progressing. Stockhow much electricity can be distributed to other parts holm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Uppsala are all of the country or exported, as well as how much ­continuing to grow while the population trend in rural needs to be stored for use later in the day or week. areas and smaller towns is, in many cases, negative. Demand for electricity and proportion of renewable electricity in Sweden TWh % 155 100 150 90 145 80 140 70 135 60 130 50 125 40 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 2030 2040 D  emand for electricity in Sweden, P roportion of renewable electricity in Sweden, results and forecast, TWh results and forecast, % Source: Swedish Energy Agency and Svenska kraftnät, 2018 12 ELLEVIO 2018 • Market conditions and drivers. For example, Greater Stockholm is expected to harmful chemical combinations will also fall. The air have 2.6 million inhabitants in 2030, compared to quality in our cities will significantly improve while the 1.3 million inhabitants it had at the beginning of noise levels will be considerably reduced. Furtherthe 1960s. This will place new demands on capacmore, less oil will need to be transported, which will ity and power in the cities as the national network represent a major environmental gain in itself. To and regional networks will have to accommodate ensure the success of these transitions, an extensive the expected population growth, production of new and accelerated expansion of loading infrastructure homes, satisfactory infrastructure and corporate will need to be initiated as soon as possible. Develestablishments as well as electrification of new social opments within the automotive sector are moving sectors. To enable the major infrastructure projects incredibly fast and if the expansion of loading infrathat are required, the electricity networks need to be structure falls behind then obstacles may risk hinderexpanded and redeveloped. ing progress. An expansion will require investments. Electrification of the transport sector – an Smart electricity networks – a giant leap into eagerly awaited development the future The significance of electric vehicles in terms of enviMajor investments are currently being made around ronment and health means electrification of the transthe globe to modernise electricity networks and turn port sector is an urgent and prioritised issue for the them into smart networks, which will then become the future. Today, transportation by road accounts for hub of a sustainable energy system. almost 30 percent of Swedish carbon dioxide emisNaturally, technological developments have prosions. Luckily, the transport sector is in the process of gressed since the electrical grids were first built in the being rapidly electrified. Ellevio support the Swedish 1960s and 1970s. At that time, many people could vision to have a fossil-free vehicle fleet by 2030. not even imagine the technology that we are beginThe electrification has begun with passenger ning to take for granted today. Thanks to smart comcars, mostly in metropolitan areas, with nearly ponents, sophisticated software and other digitised 45,000 electric cars in Sweden in 2017. Electric improvements, we are able to obtain very precise buses are being tested mainly in public transportadata relating to electricity consumption. Electricity tion, while the electrification of goods transport, distribution can be managed in real time, which prowork equipment and shipping is still at an early vides greater security of supply. Thanks to smart netstage. Electric vehicles present both an opportunity works, the energy system and electricity consumption and a challenge for the network – they will lead to can be managed in a more efficient way, either by increased load and a need for more capacity and customers themselves or automatically. load governance, but at the same time offer an Redundancy in the networks will also become opportunity for storage that could balance electricity more important, meaning they are increasingly built consumption in the future. using alternative connections. If a fault occurs in one The environmental effects linked to the vehicle location in the network, it must be possible for the fleet no longer running on fossil fuels will be very electricity to be reconnected and rerouted so that as ­significant. In addition to a massive reduction in few customers as possible are affected by the outage. ­carbon dioxide emissions, emissions of many other Ellevio was involved in the creation of the smart electricity network in Norra Djugårdsstaden in Stockholm the risks for society, the electricity network and our and will soon begin extensive work on the installacustomers. Of course, individuals’ data and ­privacy tion of the next generation of smart electricity meters should also be protected from unauthorised access. among our customers. We invest in cyber security, build the most robust sysIn order to explain how a smart network works, tems possible and collaborate with authorities and we can draw a comparison with how a road works. players involved in the electricity network. By preparA traditional road is simply an asphalt-covered suring our organisation and using the latest technology, face that connects two points. Imagine that the road we are able to manage the cyber security issue – constantly detects how many cars, bicycles and one of the most important aspects when it comes to buses are driving on it, where the vehicles are heada future-proofed electricity network. ing and what speed they are driving at. Furthermore, every traffic light, petrol station and emergency vehiNeed for investment affecting players cle along the road has access to this data. For the in the sector individual motorist, this makes it easier to determine The Swedish market for electricity distribution is fragwhen it is appropriate to go out and drive and which mented, with over 160 companies that have a naturoads are most appropriate at that moment. ral monopoly in their respective network areas. This In the case of the electricity networks of the future, amount of companies is unique from a European perwe will install information technology that gathers, spective. Many of the companies are small and limrelays, stores and analyses information from thouited to individual municipalities or cities. We believe sands of measurement points. This will make it possithat a major need for investment to maintain security ble to ensure the right amount of electricity is proof supply and develop electricity networks ahead of duced and delivered where it is needed – even in future demands and stricter efficiency enhancement the future – and that it is used more efficiently. requirements will contribute to change. It is often benAnother major advantage of better data is that future eficial to consolidate smaller parts into larger units, decisions surrounding the construction, maintenance, and we believe that a consolidation of the electricity safety and use of electricity networks will be facilinetwork market may be about to pick up momentum. tated by having access to much higher quality inforThe contractor market also needs to be develmation than today. oped; contracts awarded by contractors will be As networks become smarter, it will also become more extensive, comprehensive and project-based easier to rectify outages. In part, the networks will be and will run over longer periods. At the same time, able to solve problems on their own by reconfiguring contractors’ capacity requirements will become how the electricity is transported, while it will also more uncertain and harder to plan as investment become possible to obtain information about an conditions deteriorate or change due to a short-term ­outage immediately as well as see that an outage is and unpredictable framework. Ellevio is engaged in about to happen before it does, thus enabling preongoing dialogue with Swedish and international ventive measures to be taken. That said, a smart contractors in this respect, arranging meetings with ­network cannot be a substitute for a robust, reliable contractors among other activities. network with sufficient capacity. The electricity netThe long investment horizon for electricity network work needs to be both smart and robust. companies requires the conditions for making investments to be stable and predictable over a long Cyber security – new opportunities, period. Ellevio and other network companies are but also new threats planning today for society as it will look to our children Although smarter electricity networks enable us to and grandchildren, while political decisions being supply electricity in a more secure way, we also taken today are based on 5 or 10-year perspectives need to manage new threats. Smart components without an analysis of the longer term consequences. can be attacked by individuals, organisations or This kind of short-term policy threatens the opportunity ­foreign powers who aim to damage networks. Just to create the electrified, digitised and sustainable like banks, teleoperators and suppliers of critical society with growing cities and vibrant rural areas functions, we at Ellevio work to maximise the that we all want to see. ­opportunities afforded by digitisation while minimising 14 ELLEVIO 2018 • Market conditions and drivers. Within smart electrical networks, each part of the network continuously communicates with all of the other parts. Green electricity A more efficient electricity network will enable a greater share of renewable electricity. Outages Outages are detected immediately and important data about them enables us to resolve them more quickly. Smart homes Variable production Homes obtain greater control over their own Better information concerning electricity consumption and can remotely demand allows the ­supply to control electrical appliances in the home. be varied, leading to a more efficient use of resources. Local shortages/storage Surplus electricity can be stored in the network and used to resolve temporary capacity shortages. New functions Existing components in the energy system, such as power stations, Safety will be made “smart” As all of the components of the network communicate by connecting them to with each other, safety efforts can be managed more the smart network. efficiently. Smart meters Producers, network companies and consumers can all measure electricity production and ­consumption more precisely in real time. Small-scale production The electricity customers of the future may be both consumers and producers of electricity at different times of the year, or even different times of the day. ELLEVIO 2018 • Market conditions and drivers. 15 New focal point in the electricity network opens up opportunities for more wind power. The Valhalla project – one of Sweden’s largest substation. Once complete in 2020, the wind projects linked to wind power – is currently farms will be able to deliver around 1.1 TWh under way. The project comprises the wind of electrical power per year, which correfarms at Åmot-Lingbo and Tönsen. Together sponds to the annual household consumption with Svenska kraftnät, Ellevio is building an of some 223,800 households. In total, 85 entirely new transmission substation in the wind turbines will be built at the farms, electricity network, which will serve as a spread over 81.5 km, an area equivalent to focal point for electrical power from both of 11,500 football pitches. these wind farms. The Grönviken substation Such an all-encompassing project that in the municipalities of Bollnäs and Ockelbo affects both nature and people’s experience opens up new opportunities to expand wind of – and movement within – the area, power in Hälsingland and Gästrikland. requires trusting relationships and a great The electrical power is transferred from the deal of consideration. The process leading to wind farms to Grönviken via overhead lines the start of construction, as well as the period that maintain a voltage of 130 kilovolts. After afterwards, has been characterised by an this stage, the power is transferred to extensive dialogue with authorities, local Svenska kraftnät’s part of the transmission ­residents, outdoor leisure organisations and substation in Grönviken, which in turn connects other regional and local stakeholders. Inforto the Swedish national network, whose lines mation is continuously provided regarding maintain a voltage of 400 kilovolts. In addithe project’s progress and the ways in which tion to serving as the connection between the options to stay in the area may be limited for area’s wind farms and the national network, the time being. Major efforts have been there may also be the option to connect made by all concerned parties to find solumajor electricity consumers directly to the faciltions that are sustainable in the long term ity to improve the consumption of capacity. and most effectively satisfy all of the varying In 2008, a dialogue had already begun interests. between Ellevio – known then as Fortum Valhalla represents a major project that ­Distribution – and a number of interested will both create jobs in the area and enable wind power planners concerning the estaban increase in renewable electricity produclishment of major wind farms in the Ockelbo tion in our energy system. This type of project area. Ten years later, following the signing of is a prerequisite for our joint ability to mana connection agreement with OX2 – the comage the transition to fully renewable electricpany that plans and builds wind farms in ity production by 2040 at the latest, as Tönsen and Åmot-Lingbo – it was time to decided by the Swedish Parliament. begin the construction of the transmission 16 ELLEVIO 2018 • Market conditions and drivers. Value creation – from the big things to the ­little things. Ellevio’s operations are significant to society as a whole. Our operations enable us to create value for customers. Without electricity, people’s everyday lives cannot with humility and a strong desire to keep contributing function. Traffic and other vital societal functions to sustainable societal development. The confidence would cease. Industries and other companies would our customers have in our ability to supply their eleclose revenue, as would competitiveness and innovatricity needs now and in the future is the most importtive capability in the longer term. New start-ups ant measure of our success. would be lost. We view this great responsibility Ellevio’s model for sustainable value creation Assets and resources Core operations Own and borrowed capital INVEST Financial capital from Invests with 40-year horizons long-term pension funds Owners who want to invest responsibly SEK 10 billion between 2016–2019 and contribute to the green transition in existing networks, growth through acquisitions resulting in economies of scale Facilities Operation and maintenance Responsible relationships Components with suppliers IT services DEVELOP Service developers Innovation, automation, data analysis, smart networks, new Politicians and authorities electricity ­services Local communities Trust shown by customers Electricity traders and society Societal functions Companies and households MANAGE Monitoring, maintenance and repairs where necessary Knowledgeable and committed employees Skills and Strong values: Reliability, Commitment values and Development PROVIDE CUSTOMER SERVICE Cables, power lines and poles Electricity meters, moving/connection, Fixed assets Switching centres & secondary substations advice and support IT infrastructure 18 ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation The UN’s global sustainable producers, electricity network companies and condevelopment goals sumers to all monitor their electricity production and As part of Ellevio’s work on strategy, its management consumption in real time. In the case of the electricity team analysed the UN’s 17 global development networks of the future, we will install information techgoals which are to be achieved before the end of nology that gathers, relays, stores and analyses infor2030. These goals have been ratified by 150 counmation from thousands of measurement points. This tries and Ellevio’s view is that the business community makes it possible to ensure the right amount of elechas an important role to play in terms of achieving tricity is produced and distributed where it is needed. the goals. Thanks to our skills and core operations, we Goal 9, Industry, innovation and infrastructure, have the opportunity to make an active contribution also forms part of our mission in society. Efficient to Goal 7 “Affordable and clean energy”, Goal 9 infrastructure is currently dependent upon an effi“Industry, innovation and infrastructure” and Goal 5 ciently functioning electricity network; for instance, “Gender Equality”. it allows people to get to work or school in a smooth Goal 7, Affordable and clean energy, essentially and reliable way. It also ensures everyone has represents our mission in society and the aim of our access to information and communication technollong-term investments. Between 2016 and 2019, ogy, that companies can rely on transport systems Ellevio is investing around SEK 10 billion in the develand energy services functioning as they should and opment and future-proofing of the electricity network. that new businesses can be set up whenever In cities, this is principally a question of increasing needed. Sustainable infrastructure is accessible, capacity while outside the cities the main focus is on ­reliable, environmentally friendly and robust. greater security of supply by way of weather-proofEllevio also actively focuses on Goal 5, Gender ing. These investments constitute the beginning of the Equality, in order to develop the company, industry wave of investment required to maintain an electricity and offer support equality efforts outside our sphere network that can handle looming challenges and by way of social responsibility initiatives and sponexploit opportunities offered by the future. Goal 7 sorship. For Ellevio, equality is both a goal in itself also contains guidelines for realising energy effiand a prerequisite of sustainable development. By ciency enhancements, to which our work on the next working towards a more equal Ellevio, we want to generation of smart electricity meters is making a contribute to a more equal industry and, eventually, contribution. The next generation of meters will allow a more equal society. Creates value For society and for customers Secure supply of electricity in both urban and rural areas Stable electricity supply to vital societal functions Ellevio makes an active Secure supply of electricity to an electricity-­ ­contribution to: dependent society Jobs Goal 7, Affordable and Secure and outage-free electricity supply clean energy. High level of service to customers Goal 9, Industry, innovation New services as part of a smarter network and infrastructure. Opportunity to produce your own electricity Fair tariffs between cities/rural areas Goal 5, Equality. RELIABLE, FLEXIBLE AND For employees SMART ELECTRICITY Developing job opportunities NETWORKS Safe workplace Knowledgeable and committed employees TODAY, TOMORCompetent and responsible contractors ROW AND IN 50 YEARS For the environment Adapting the electricity network to the fossil-free transport system of the future Transition to 100 percent renewable electricity Biodiversity along power lanes For owners Opportunity to make a sustainable investment with a long-term horizon Secure and long-term value growth ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation 19 Value-creation for society and customers. Economic value creation lated areas. In autumn 2017, we got the green light Network investments and ongoing work on operafrom Ei to carry out this kind of price harmonisation, tional enhancements create secure and long-term which is intended to be completed by 2023. This value growth for investors, customers and employees. means that Ellevio will lower prices in the areas We also contribute to society by way of the jobs we where they are most expensive, enact smaller rises create with our contractors and, indirectly, among where they are currently cheapest and leave prices our customers. We must guarantee a secure supply unchanged in other areas. of electricity in an electricity-dependent society, both For us, it is important to invite local stakeholders in urban and rural areas. when initiating new projects to ensure that the project We work continuously to develop more efficient is linked to the local area and to minimise potentially processes and maintenance procedures, as well as negative effects on the environment, the local busito increase the level of digitisation, all with the aim of ness community and the residents who live near our maintaining reasonable profitability. electricity networks and facilities. In the case of We are strongly committed to using every major local projects, we inform customers by way of invested krona as efficiently as possible. For example, open houses, meetings in the town square, letters we work to jointly lay electricity networks and other and other forms of direct communication. The aim is infrastructure, such as fibre networks, district heating for our customers, stakeholders and local communisystems and charging infrastructure, wherever possible. ties to feel well-informed about what we are doing The network of the future will require investments in and how they are affected; in the case of planned capacity and automation in order to maintain security outages and disruptions we attempt as far as possiof supply and support societal developments. It is ble to consider the people who will be affected: important for the network framework to offer an incen­sensitive industries, supermarkets, elderly care tive to carry out the required investments. homes, etc. Reliability, commitment and development are key words in our dialogue with local communiValue creation in local communities ties and our customers. For us, sustainability initiatives are not merely a question of complying with laws and regulations; they are Security of supply also an opportunity to fulfil our societal mission in the Nothing is more important to us than ensuring our best way possible by serving as an active and comcustomers have a secure supply of electricity that is mitted partner to the areas affected by our operafree from outages. Good accessibility to electricity is tions, either in that we have networks distributed vital if society is to function, and accessibility will across that area or that we supply electricity there. become increasingly important as new industries We take responsibility for the local communities in become electrified. Although we currently offer an which our customers live and work by ensuring we almost outage-free supply, the electricity network is provide a sustainable electricity network that offers occasionally hit by disruptions from time to time. a secure supply in the long term. The removal of Most outages are either due to planned works, overhead lines also enables us to make way for ­damage to cables or severe weather conditions. more agriculture and housing in the areas where Availability within Ellevio’s electricity network is they are needed. For example, together with Vatten99.98 percent. This is very good when comparing fall and Svenska kraftnät, Ellevio runs the Stockholms internationally, but as electrification and digitisation Ström project, which involves overhead lines that increase, each outage becomes a challenge with ­distribute electricity to Stockholm and its environs economic consequences for society. There are also being buried or placed in tunnels, thus leading to major differences between different parts of our netland being made available for developing society. work. While hundreds of thousands of our customers An important aspect of our responsibility for the experience no outages, there is sadly a group of local community is that we prioritise cities and rural customers who experience several per year. With areas equally. To make it easier for our customers to the aim of maintaining and improving the security of live and support themselves in rural areas, we have supply, we are weather-proofing the electricity netbeen arguing for many years for price harmonisation work by burying lines deep down where there are that levels the cost of investments and leads to fairer currently overhead lines, and we are updating, contributions between densely and sparsely popu­maintaining and building new stations to increase 20 ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation our capacity. Since 2005 we have fully weathvia the Safe workplace programme that can be seen er-proofed 10,000 km of our electricity network. in more detail under Health and Safety, and partly in Planned electricity outages are sometimes necesthe purchasing process. sary. When maintaining or expanding our networks, To qualify as a contractor or major material supwe are sometimes forced to shut off the power. plier, we apply extensive sustainability requirements Around 10 percent of our outages are planned and that we specify in a special Code of Conduct for we always ensure that we inform our customers as to suppliers, available on Ellevio’s website. The Code when they will be taking place. is based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles A further 10 percent of outages are due to damand contains clear requirements relating to human age to cables or other equipment, for example rights, labour law, the environment and anti-corrupduring excavation works carried out by a company tion. The aim of the Code of Conduct for suppliers is other than Ellevio. To reduce this type of outage, we to minimise risks and protect Ellevio’s stakeholders. offer free guidance for everyone carrying out works The Code of Conduct applies to all of Ellevio’s close to our cables. operations as well as all suppliers of services, materials The remaining share of outages are due to and contracts in every part of the world. All suppliers storms, snowfall and other severe weather or comare obliged to implement the requirements throughponents that break. Sweden is a sparsely populated out their operations and ensure that their subcontraccountry, meaning we have many metres of cable per tors adhere to the requirements in Ellevio’s Code of customer. Outside the major urban areas we conConduct for suppliers. tinue to maintain long overhead lines, leading to a Ellevio’s suppliers must also confirm their complihigher risk in these areas of outages. ance with the Code and be able to show documentation of such compliance. To follow up on compliResponsible purchasing ance of the requirements established during the Ellevio has a joint purchasing function responsible for ­purchasing process, Ellevio employs two types of all procurement of services, materials and contracts. checks: firstly, unannounced visits to the site of the Purchases mainly fall into five categories: contracprojects, and secondly extensive and planned audits tors, IT, consultants, strategic materials and indirect focusing on environment, health & safety and the materials and services. In 2018, Ellevio purchased Code of Conduct. In 2018, 334 unannounced site products and services for some SEK 2.9 billion, of visits were carried out, along with 10 planned audits. which 75 percent were contract services and materiA number of deviations were identified and those of als for investments in our electricity network. major significance were remedied. In its risk assessment, Ellevio identified contractor Read more about Ellevio’s work surrounding operations and their working environments to be the responsible purchasing in the Sustainability managegreatest challenge facing the company, which is ment and results section. why we have placed major focus on this area, partly Managing sustainability from the start of a project to implementation Completed project Ellevio conducts Ellevio establishes Suppliers ­conduct Ellevio follows Ellevio carries out sustainability sustainability ­sustainability up compliance unannounced analysis of the requirements and plans in planned ­visits to sites investment reviews suppliers audits ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation 21 Value creation for employees and everyone who works for us. The health, safety, well-being and equality of Satisfied employees employees and other people are vital issues for our Our strength lies in our collective ability to utilise our business. Ellevio is to be an inclusive, safe and attracemployees’ skills in the right way. All new employees tive workplace and contractor. undergo training in this collective ability so they can adopt the approach that permeates the entire comCommitments to the wider community pany – that we are better when we work together. Ellevio’s business operates as a monopoly, which The training course is based on research from the means we have a profound responsibility to the Stockholm School of Economics regarding efficient wider community. It is important that we live up to the organisations and the abilities that need to be develdemands and expectations of our customers and oped within a team in order to achieve and maintain other stakeholders, as we want to earn their trust. efficiency. Internally trained coaches conduct continOur values – reliability, commitment and developuous exercises with the different teams to remind ment – are to serve as guiding principles for every them of – and strengthen their instincts in – the imporemployee and permeate everything we do. The tance of our collective ability for our joint success. way we should conduct ourselves is described in Each year, Ellevio undertakes an employee surour Code of Conduct. Varied training courses, vey that assesses the level of commitment – the ­workplace meetings and internal audits ensure Employee Engagement Index – which is based on that the Code of Conduct is followed. four questions relating to job satisfaction, pride, job-seeking and recommendation. Each business Employer Branding unit reviews the results and produces action plans for In order to attract new employees, we need to take improvement areas. The result for 2018 was 70.5 steps to strengthen our brand as an employer, includout of 100, and is at a stable level. ing by collaborating with colleges and offering sumThe two other dimensions of the employee survey mer jobs and work experience placements for stuare workload and equality. By repeatedly measurdents. We also help to spread knowledge about ing and following up on such aspects, we are able Ellevio and our sector through involvement in industry to assess our efforts and thus achieve a better balinitiatives and an active social media presence. Our ance, a healthy working environment and an equal goal is for Ellevio to be seen as an attractive and workplace. Two important aspects in this context inclusive company and a preferred option for both include better resource planning and strong leaderpotential and existing employees. During the year ship from managers who are to set a good example. the company increased its requirements for recruitment agencies in order to bring about change in the Ellevio Days selection of candidates. As a result of these efforts, In 2018 Ellevio brought together all of its employees the gender distribution among the summer interns for its “Ellevio Days” initiative. The purpose of the was entirely equal. days was to discuss and define a common corporate culture. For example, we highlighted the Code Introduction of new employees of Conduct and the new online training course relatEllevio has grown rapidly over the past few years, ing to the Code that all employees are obliged to and had 490 employees at the end of the year. In take. The days were divided up into three informalight of such considerable growth at the organisation sessions in the form of a discussion led by a tion, it is important for new employees to rapidly gain moderator. One particularly valued session was an overview and feel at home within the business. ­carried out by actors from the “Pocket” theatre. Their During the year we arranged two introductory days for approach led to many insights and sparked an some fifty new employees on each occasion, including ongoing discussion. our new employees from Elverket Vallentuna. 22 ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation Our values. Ellevio’s business operates as a monopoly, Commitment which is a profound responsibility for the It should be evident that we care about our entire organisation. It is important that we customers and community and that we listen. live up to the demands and expectations of We are driven and take sustainable action in our customers and other stakeholders and terms of the safety of all who work for us, our earn their trust. Our three values – reliability, impact on the environment and our responsicommitment and development – guide our bility as an employer, business and supplier. day-to-day work, in every interaction and every conversation, in both simple and ­complex situations. Development We think innovatively in matters both large and small. We continuously develop and Reliability improve our services and look for new experOur customers should be able to rely on our tise while sharing our own, with the aim of electricity network and on those of us who ensuring that Sweden’s electricity network is work at Ellevio. We are available around the developed in a long-term and sustainable clock to provide the technology and expermanner. Our network should be constructed tise required to supply electricity all the way in a way that meets society’s existing and to customers’ homes. future energy needs. We are building the ­networks of tomorrow, today. Managers at Ellevio the company in terms of skills, gender and ethnicity. The task of a manager is partly to guide his or her We work to gradually achieve a more equal gender employees in the way that most effectively develops distribution across the company. Ellevio’s equality and uses their potential, both through dialogue and ­targets include continuously working to: feedback, and partly to prioritise areas to ensure • Maintain an equal distribution between men and each employee is able to perform well. women in the management team, 50 percent In order to provide clear expectations at all levels women today (55). of the company, a business plan is produced every • Increase the number of female managers at the year containing overall goals for the business. These company, excluding the management team, goals are then broken down into targets for each 20 percent today (22). business unit/team and individual. • Increase the total number of women at the All managers at Ellevio meet at least once per ­company, 27 percent today (27). year at Management Days that have different When it comes to ethnicity, we want to reflect wider themes each time. The theme at this year’s Managesociety. Currently, 9 (13) percent of our employees ment Day in March was “sustainable leadership and have a non-Swedish cultural background. equality”, with lectures by Azita Shariati, CEO of In 2018 Ellevio’s equality group was formed, Sodexo, and Fredrik Bondestam, gender researcher containing representatives from different parts of the from Uppsala, along with a workshop on the imporbusiness whose task is to highlight these issues and tance of sustainable leadership. propose measures where shortcomings have been identified. Equality and diversity Read more about our employees in the Ellevio considers diversity among employees to be ­Sustainability management and results section. an asset and works actively to increase diversity at ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation 23 Sponsorship collaborations have a positive effect on both Ellevio and our partners. Ellevio began collaborating in 2017 with sevcourses and professions as to encouraging eral organisations that work to ensure girls them to continue with team sports such as and boys have the same opportunities and football for longer. We also discussed how conditions from the very beginning. The idea important it is to have good role models in is that we will be able to reach our target our work lives. Representatives from all of groups in new contexts by participating in our three business partners took part in the the events of our business partners and being discussions and even offered their own activiseen in their channels, as well as to take the ties in the form of stands where they talked next step to bring together our sponsorship about and demonstrated their businesses to partners in joint activities and contribute to our visitors during the Equality Day. a dialogue between them. For Ellevio, the collaboration with our busiEllevio participates in the political forum ness partners has provided valuable insights Almedalen held for a week each year. One and new approaches in terms of action that of our activities at this year’s political forum can be taken within our own business to prowas the Equality Day, in which we held mote equality and offer equal opportunities ­discussions across three seminars about to male and female employees. One lesson how important it is to have good role models, taken from our collaboration with Popkollo both in terms of academic and professional and Female Legends is the importance of choices as well as leisure activities, so young female networks in businesses where women people will both want and dare to go beyond work alone, as these offer them a forum to traditional gender barriers. This applies just share their experiences. as much to getting girls to opt for technical Ellevio’s sponsorship policy Popkollo Sponsorship always involves active collaboSince 2003, Popkollo has brought together ration between us and the sponsored party, thousands of girls and transgender people and it should be beneficial for both parties in interested in music at different locations terms of their respective objectives. Written around the country. The aim of the project is agreements should always form the basis of to provide an introduction to the world of a collaboration, and clearly defined target music and to create a safe place in which groups and objectives should be established they can develop their identity as a musician to allow results to be measured. Our sponor artists. In the long term, Popkollo wants to sorship collaborations should be long-term in establish an equal music industry and connature, with fewer but deeper commitments. tribute to an equal society. Our sponsorship activities should be clearly and logically linked to our operations. Stockholm football association The Stockholm football association (StockFemale Legends holms fotbollförbund) organises football Female Legends is as a community for girls associations within Stockholm County. who partake in e-sport, that is, compete Together with them, Ellevio is launching the in computer games. Their aim is for girls 50/50 fund as part of the S:t Erik’s cup, and non-binary people to be an obvious whose aim is to give girls the same conditions part of e-sport and for the professional as boys to invest in sports they love. scene to be equal. 24 ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation Safe workplace. We want to create an accident-free and safe workplace for everyone by increasing safe conduct and safe working practices. We must improve the safety culture throughout Ellevio and for all those who work on behalf of the company. We work in a • We are open and honest about all working environment safe manner and safety issues. or not at all • We help each other to consistently work in a safe manner. • We always encourage safe conduct and prevent risks. • We always stop unsafe work. Collective • We create a positive safety climate through continuous dialogue, understanding communication and actions across all organisational levels of the company and our contractors. • Ambitions, priorities and objectives relating to the working ­environment and safety are to be identical at corporate and ­individual level. Commitment • Ellevio is characterised by a culture in which everyone’s commitment and consideration to and consideration of each other leads to an accident-free ­workplace. • We take responsibility for our own safety and that of others by remembering the shared objective that everyone should come home safely from work. Leadership • As a manager at Ellevio, I am consistently engaged and focused on issues relating to the working environment and safety. • All managers at Ellevio take full responsibility for the working environment and safety. Personal • I take personal responsibility for safety in my work and I comply ­responsibility with safety regulations and adopted working methods. This is enabled by clear descriptions of roles, responsibilities and expected results. Nine areas assessed during site visits 1. Planning and organisation 2. Training and skills 3. Monitoring and intervention 4. Conduct and working methods 5. Safety relating to tools and equipment 6. Orderliness and waste management 7. Quality of work and caution 8. Safety issues and shortcomings 9. Reporting Health and safety At the Contractors’ Day, Ellevio also launched its To achieve our vision of an accident-free and safe safety handbook that comprises an introduction to our workplace, we need to improve the safety culture safety initiatives and the safety culture we strive for. The and increase safety awareness among employees safety handbook is intended to be seen as an importand our business partners so that all work can be ant tool for work out in the field. It is written in an easily conducted in a safe manner. Our Safe workplace – accessible and clear way with the aim of stimulating the route to our “zero vision” programme is making personal reflection and personal responsibility. progress. The programme will extend over many Most accidents currently occur out in the field years and aims to further improve processes and during work on the electricity networks. This work is working methods, as well as change conduct and carried out by our business partners and so Ellevio make us even more proactive in our efforts. This work looks to collaborate closely with these partners to can never be seen as finished; rather it is a continubring about change, although the work starts with us. ous effort. Two pilot projects concerning behaviour Ellevio lays the foundations for a safe workplace based safety initiatives were carried out during the externally among its contractors. The contractors we year, one of which was internal while the other was engage must not only be experts in their fields; they in collaboration with a supplier. must also be trained in health and safety procedures In September, Ellevio conducted its first Safety and knowledgeable about safe workplace requireDay involving activities and workshops aiming to ments. As of 2018, these requirements have been anchor a safety culture that should permeate our tightened further. Contractors now need to have operations. Ellevio’s operations involve a large ­sustainability plans for their whole agreement period range of work tasks and roles, and so our safety with Ellevio. efforts need to have this same broad scope. The Ellevio invests substantial resources in preventing Safety Day therefore involved aspects ranging from accidents through training and follow-up work. discussing the working environment with the work Safety procedures among contractors are reviewed environment committee to testing safety equipment on-site out in the field, with any shortcomings being used when working at our facilities. reported and remedied immediately. In 2018, 334 Ellevio also works to create a safer sector (313) unannounced visits were made to check comthrough collaborations with suppliers and industrial pliance with Ellevio’s requirements governing safety, organisations. We awarded the first Ellevio Safety environment and quality. These visits are an importAward that was introduced at the “Contractors’ Day” ant tool in terms of identifying potential areas of last year to highlight the importance of having sysimprovement. Our presence out in the workplaces is tematic and clear safety initiatives, of complying with important and enables a continuous dialogue. It also procedures and regulations in practice and of havclarifies that the requirements are important building ing the right expertise to correctly assess risks. The blocks for enhancing the safety culture and form part prize was awarded jointly to the four contractors of our zero-accident vision. who completed the entire competition process with The notion that we need to continue to tirelessly great merit: Trolk, Skanska, Kraftringen and Vattenfall promote safety was painfully confirmed for us followServices. The prize will continue to be awarded ing the tragic accident in Fjärås, Kungsbacka, in annually and will hopefully help raise safety issues ­connection with Storm Knud, when a fitter was and reward successful ideas linked to a better safety injured and later died having been hit by a falling culture within the electricity network sector. tree. The accident is being investigated by police In order to learn from other sectors and expand and the Swedish Work Environment Authority in line our collaborations, Ellevio was the first energy comwith usual procedure. Ellevio also conducted its own pany to join the construction sector’s “Håll Nollan” investigation to get to the bottom of how the accident (Keep to Zero) safety initiative. The initiative has the was able to happen. clear objective of reducing the number of workplace Read more about Ellevio’s health and safety accidents at construction sites – something that goes efforts in the Sustainability management and results hand in hand with Ellevio’s objective and vision. section. ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation 27 Creating a safe workplace by focusing on behaviour. Ellevio’s vision is to achieve an accident-free third stage, activities were carried out that and safe workplace. To succeed in this, we were needed to ensure the right conditions need to improve our safety culture and were established and feedback was given increase safety awareness, not just within continuously about the safe behaviour. The our own company but also among our busiresults were evaluated in the fourth and final ness partners. One important initiative for stage. Ellevio during the year was therefore our introduction of initiatives within BehaviourTime for results based safety (BBS). In mid-November, everything was in place BBS is a proven effective method to influwith the right conditions and we were ready ence safe behaviour and create a strong to start work on increasing the amount of safety culture, based on 100 years of safe behaviour within these risk areas. The research within behavioural psychology. baseline measurement had showed that the In the autumn of 2018, Ellevio carried out a amount of safe behaviour was around pilot project together with the contractor One 50 percent (cable cutting) and 60 percent Nordic in Karlstad, in which we focused on (tree felling) respectively. BBS. The model used consists of four stages By way of behavioural observations, we that create a stronger safety culture in a strucmeasured the safe behaviour and used the tured and efficient manner, using tools via Work Environment Authority’s safety culture which managers and employees can have survey tool* to measure the experience of influence and increase the amount of safe the organisation’s safety culture. behaviour while reducing and eliminating The results of the pilot project proved to risky behaviour within identified risk areas. go well beyond the expectations of everyone involved. The amount of safe behaviour Four-stage model increased 100 percent for cable cutting and The work began by identifying both safe and 65 percent for tree felling, which means that risky behaviour within two identified risk the amount of safe behaviour in the impact areas, namely cable cutting and tree felling. assessment ended up at 100 percent for A baseline measurement was then produced cable cutting and 99 percent for tree felling. to define the extent to which the individual The subjective experience of the safety culwas working safely or riskily within those ture increased significantly from 2.7 to 3.4, risk areas. Based on that result, the next which meant the average went from being stage was to jointly identify the right condiwell below the sector index to being above it. tions for safe behaviour. As an example, it The management also felt that employees’ was noted that more guillotine cutters, cable commitment had increased and that trust had handling tools and throw saws were needed improved within the group. in order to make it easy to use them when The pilot project has been shown to create needed. The kinds of leadership behaviour positive and desired results both in terms of that needed to increase were also identified the safety culture and an increase in safe in this stage, with the aim of giving feedback behaviour. and reinforcing the safe behaviour. In the * www.av.se, Safety culture – interplay between people and risk management 28 ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation Value creation for the environment. At Ellevio we want to reduce our impact on different Ellevio uses wooden poles in its electricity distribution environments and biodiversity, which is why we network. The poles are preserved using creosote, should consume as few resources as possible. At the which is extracted from coal tar and which in turn is same time, we are an important player in the transiproduced as a waste product when coking coals. It tion to a sustainable energy system. contains substances such as phenols. The use of We should enable renewable electricity produc­creosote is regulated by an EU directive and by the tion, locally produced electricity, more efficient use Swedish Chemicals Agency and is permitted until of electricity and, over the long term, new applica2023. Ellevio is taking active steps to reduce its tions for electricity. An important future issue is the usage of creosote poles, partially by burying power development of electricity storage methods for stanlines and partially by replacing poles with more envidardising the distribution quality between periods ronmentally friendly alternatives. Throughout 2018 of varying loads in the electricity networks. and 2019, 25–30,000 creosote poles are being replaced or entirely removed in line with our plan; We take responsibility for our 14,000 of which were removed in 2018. environmental impact With regard to oil leakages from cables and Ellevio works continuously to keep its environmental capacitators, particularly in terms of oils containing impact as limited as possible. Our environmental PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls), Ellevio has a spemanagement system is certified in line with cial policy to avoid leakages. 1.2 km of oil-insulated ISO 14001:2015. electricity cables remain in place under Stockholm, As part of its environmental initiatives, Ellevio has which are continuously monitored for any leakage. identified significant environmental aspects in its operaThis stretch of cables is planned to be decommistions; management of sensitive natural environments sioned in the second quarter of 2019. (biodiversity), use of materials in power line poles that Openness and transparency are key parts of our contain creosote, oil leakages from cables and capacenvironmental initiatives, and in line with this we have itators and energy losses from the pipeline network. chosen to launch an initiative in 2018 and 2019 to Ellevio’s overall environmental targets include – measure our carbon footprint. The calculations will apart from the transition to a sustainable energy be produced using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol ­system – reducing the impact on the climate and (GHG), which is an internationally accepted stan­natural resources and contributing to strong biodiverdard for calculating and reporting greenhouse gas sity. This is achieved by: emissions. Initially, our carbon footprint will be based • Establishing environmental requirements for puron what is known as scope 1 and 2, that is, emissions chases, taking account of environmental aspects from our own facilities and proprietary and leased in the company’s business and operational activivehicles (scope 1), and purchases of heating and ties (in terms of the greenhouse gases SF6 and cooling for our own use and network losses (scope 2). CO2, oil and energy losses, for example) and In accordance with the GHG protocol, all promoting solutions that contribute to a reduced sources of emissions that belong to facilities in environmental impact. Ellevio’s control – as well as those belonging to oper• Promoting the application of a lifecycle perspective ations of which Ellevio is part-owner – are included in in all of our activities. the climate calculations. Based on a base measure• Avoiding materials and substances that can be ment for 2018, Ellevio will continue in 2019 to estabharmful to humans, animals and the environment lish targets and plans to reduce its climate impact. as far as possible. We will also start measuring and following up on • Applying the precautionary principle in connecthe accumulated reduction of network losses tion with investments and purchasing. obtained by way of the replacement of old trans• Applying the principles of the waste hierarchy formers with new and more efficient ones in 2019. to minimise waste. The target for 2019 is to reduce these network • Providing information about, and raising awarelosses by 1,500 MWh. ness of, how the company’s operations can affect the environment. Biodiversity • Adopting a sustainability perspective when Our power lanes are kept free from trees so that selecting venues for meetings and modes of electricity can be transported with a high level of transport for travel. ­reliability. Regular clearing of brushwood can often 30 ELLEVIO 2018 • Value creation be enough to ensure that open meadows and the future as the population expands and we use ­pastures are not able to grow again. As areas of electricity for more purposes. To ensure we will be meadow and pastural land have shrunk dramatically in a position to have even greener electricity in the in Sweden over the past century, other types of open future, greater production of renewable electricity land will become important habitats for our threatwill be required, which will entail modernisation ened meadow species. This includes meadow flora of the electricity network. and insects such as butterflies and beetles. The The electricity Ellevio transports via its networks power lines that run over grassland environments is produced around 98 percent in a fossil-free way. thus contribute to Sweden’s biodiversity, as do grassThis mix of electricity is positive from a climate perspeclands rich in species lining roads, golf courses and tive, but it does not mean that we do not have any airports. These significant areas are collectively urgent areas for improvement. In the future, the level known as infrastructure grasslands. of renewable electricity will need to increase in order In 2018 Ellevio produced an action plan govfor Sweden to achieve its ambitious politically-­ erning maintenance and development of areas rich grounded environmental and climate ambitions. in species within our power line network. We have If the electricity we use today were produced in inventoried around a third of the potentially rich a renewable manner, in exactly the same locations areas in our networks that have a voltage of 50 kV and in the same quantities, it would not place any or higher, and are gradually introducing adapted greater requirements on the electricity networks. In maintenance measures in our species-rich areas. the future, however, small-scale production is The remaining areas will be inventoried in 2019 expected to increase dramatically. There is great and 2020. interest among the Swedish population in producing its own electricity, and technological progress in Transition to a more sustainable areas such as solar panels has made it possible for energy society more people to product electricity at a reasonable Sweden already produces almost fossil-free electriccost for their own use or for sale. ity, and the share of renewable electricity production Read more about Ellevio’s environment initiatives is rising steadily. Our electricity needs will increase in in the Sustainability management and results section. Rare species thriving under the power lines That some of Ellevio’s power lanes serve as a by localising a number of prioritised lanes. habitat for threatened plant and animal species ­Following this, the power lanes were inventois an aspect about which many people are no ried in order to map the environments rich in doubt unaware. Ellevio wants that to change. species. In total, some 400 km were studied in As part of a major project, we have mapped 2018, of which 125 km were inventoried out thousands of kilometres of power lanes and in the field. Overall, we inventoried 180 km identified some real gems. out in the field in 2017 and 2018. Ancient meadows and pastures, with their speIn the areas around Gagnef and Leksand we cial beauty and richness in species, have dramatifound species such as yellow rattle, devil’s-bit cally shrunk in area in Sweden over the past 100 scabious, spotted cat’s ear and the beautiful years. Modern-day maintenance of power lanes marsh fragrant orchid. We also found the offireminds us of ancient pasturage and hay-making cially threatened marsh fritillary butterfly and techniques that originally led to such meadows pulsatilla vernalis flower. and pastures. The species that thrive in the open landscape here have been able to find a sanctuCollaboration around suitable ary and thereby increase their chances of sur­management measures vival. Power lanes, like other verges, airports and Our power lanes are cleared every six years, golf courses, represent important green links in and we intend to take biodiversity into account the landscape as they bind grassland environas soon as next year when carrying out such ments together and promote biodiversity. Ellevio work. The measures mainly consist of widening has begun efforts to map out and better preserve pathways from two to four metres, clearing the diversity of these power lanes. brushwood from stairways and keeping the Among the species that are thriving in the glades open. In Roslagen, we are working power lanes are several relatively unusual with Vattenfall, which owns parallel lines, and plants, and even different kinds of butterfly and the county administrative board to pinpoint insects are prospering, particularly in the pathappropriate management measures. These ways along the power lines and in open glades. power lanes are part of a project being run by a collaborative group for grasslands within 4,550 kilometres have been infrastructure. Ellevio participates in this group mapped out along with the Swedish Environmental ProtecOver the past year Ellevio has made efforts to tion Agency, the Swedish Species Information map the situation in the power lanes within Centre, Svenska kraftnät, the Swedish Transour regional networks, which contain some port Administration, the Swedish Golf 4,550 km of power lines. These efforts began ­Federation and Swedavia Airports. Value creation for owners. Our owners The fund is to strive for a high long-term return while Our operations are stable and predictable and have ensuring the risk to current and future pensions remains a long-term investment horizon. At the same time, a low. The investments are being made across the shareholding in electrical grid companies requires globe. Total managed capital amounts to approxiextensive access to capital and long-term responsimately SEK 324 billion. bility for critical infrastructure. OMERS Infrastructure represents a branch of the Our owners – the Third National Pension Fund, Canadian pension fund OMERS, which manages Folksam, the First National Pension Fund and pensions for the province of Ontario’s public sector OMERS Infrastructure, have a long-term perspective employees. Total managed capital amounts to circa that is clearly aligned with the long-term investment CAD 95 billion, which is the equivalent of around horizon required in the electrical grid business. We are SEK 670 billion. facing a major need for investment and our owners therefore want to enable the investments necessary Our model for us to continue offering our customers a reliable Ellevio’s owners have created a model whereby electricity network – under the right conditions. pension savings can be channeled into investments The Third National Pension Fund is one of five in the transition to a sustainable energy system. Those national pension funds tasked with helping safewho are currently in work can save into pension funds guard the value of the Swedish state pension for that offer both financial security after pension age both current and future pensioners. The task of this and enable investments in a sustainable energy fund is to responsibly invest in and manage the ­system for future generations. ­pension system’s buffer capital. Total managed This is structured so that the pensions funds which ­capital amounts to approximately SEK 341 billion. manage the pension capital place long-term capital Folksam is one of Sweden’s largest insurance at Ellevio’s disposal, which we in turn invest in the and pension companies, with a major investment electricity networks of the future. In return, we are to business and total managed capital of around offer the pension funds a reasonable, long-term and SEK 400 billion. stable return. As both Ellevio and the pension funds The First National Pension Fund aims to invest work based on a long-term horizon, the pension in a way that ensures the greatest benefit for the funds can be considered appropriate and responsible ­pension system. owners. Investments and financing. Investment in our electricity network is the most important action we take. Our objective is for our customers to receive an uninterrupted supply of electricity – now and in the future. Swedish network companies, whether state-owned, The government’s directive concerning new electricprivately owned, municipal companies or local ity network regulation for the period 2020–2023, ­electricity associations, are facing the need for presented in August, means that revenue frameworks record investments if the energy agreement’s vision will be reduced without a thorough impact assessfor a reliable and 100 percent-renewable energy ment having been carried out and before the effects system is to be achieved. Such investments require a of the framework in place today have had a chance stable and long-term supply of financing, which is to be evaluated. This reduction will entail the Swedwhy it is important for the framework governing elecish network companies having one of Europe’s lowtricity network investments to also be long-term, staest regulated interest rates: 3 percent against a Euroble and predictable. pean average of 4.85 percent. Investment cycles in the Swedish electricity network. The need for investment in the electricity network is cyclical in nature. At the current time the entire sector is in a period of heavy investment. SEK billion 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 0 19 6 1 19 2 1 19 8 2 19 4 3 19 0 3 19 6 4 19 2 4 19 8 5 19 4 6 19 0 6 19 6 7 19 2 7 19 8 19 8 19 4 9 19 0 9 20 6 0 20 2 0 20 8 1 20 4 2 20 0 2 20 6 3 20 2 3 20 8 4 20 4 5 20 0 56 Source: IVA, Vägval El, 2016 34 ELLEVIO 2018 • Investments and financing In the short term, the advantages of lowered revenue S ­ tockholm. The network does not currently have the frameworks may outweigh the negatives; electricity required capacity to supply the growing city. Investprices will fall for customers. In the long term, howments are needed to help new industries establish ever, the change – together with the reduced incenthemselves, expand public transport and build tive for network companies to invest – could lead to homes. There is currently no incentive for these investinsufficient investments in maintenance and developments and we will be forced to turn down connecment of the electricity networks and thus to reduced tions, which concerns us. Managing this issue is one security of supply and fewer opportunities to achieve of our top priorities and something we will place growth and established climate and environmental major focus on over the coming years. targets. The transition of the energy system towards Our objective is for our customers to receive an major and minor-scale renewable energy producuninterrupted supply of electricity – now and in the tion is under threat. future, and for the electricity network to support developments in society. Investing in a reliable Investments ­network is our most important task. Ellevio is investing almost SEK 10 billion between 2016 and 2019 to modernise and strengthen the Current investments electricity network. Thanks to this, we have made Our investments during the current regulatory period some progress towards achieving the electricity netare distributed across all areas: SEK 1.6 billion in work of the future. We have weatherproofed thouDalarna-Gävleborg, SEK 2 billion in Värmlandsands of kilometres of power lines in rural areas and Skaraborg-Närke, SEK 1.3 billion on the west coast set up modern secondary substations to make the and SEK 5 billion in Stockholm. electricity network smarter. We have connected new The improvements will not only result in weathwind power sources to the network, which is an er-proofing, regeneration and increased capacity, important addition to Sweden’s energy system. but will also contribute to lowering operating and We have also worked hard to modernise and reinmaintenance costs over the long term. In addition, force the electricity network in the Stockholm region. when we replace overhead lines with underground Such efforts should continue with undiminished cables, we make land available that can be used energy. There are still major challenges facing us for new housing, for example. in terms of the electricity network’s capacity in Ellevio is investing SEK 10 billion in the electricity network between 2016–2019. Revenue model stimulates investments Investments Capacity Security of supply to invest Operational capacity and pay interest expenses Operating costs Customer experience Profitability ELLEVIO 2018 • Investments and financing 35 Until 2019, Ellevio will invest nearly SEK 10 billion in Dalarna • Around 35,000 customers Investments • A major expansion is taking place in the mountains, modernising the ­particularly in Idre Himmelfjäll, but also in Grövelsjön and Storsätern. Major and minor secondary substations are networks. being installed, while cables in the local and regional electricity network are being replaced to increase capacity in the network. It is a project totalling around SEK 150 ­million that will give some 7,000 households and companies a modern and weather-proofed electricity network. Värmland • Around 105,000 customers Investments • Around 1,000 km of lines are being weather-proofed as part of the “Värmland package”. Around 11,000 households and companies will have a modern electricity network thanks to this investment, which will cost some SEK 270 million between 2018 and 2021. In addition, major areas of land will be cleared for forestry, for e­ xample. • The switching centre in Kil, which is a hub of the network in Värmland, is being totally renovated and modernised – an investment of over SEK 100 million. West coast (Halland, Bohuslän) • Around 126,000 customers Investments • South of Gothenburg in Askim, Billdal and Hovås, the ­network is being modernised by replacing 100 km of lines. Almost the entire length will be buried underground, thus leading to fewer power outages in the future. 9,000 ­customers will be affected by these investments, which will cost around SEK 100 million. • A major project is being planned in Gothenburg’s southern archipelago at Vrångö, Donsö, Styrsö, Brännö and a number of smaller islands. Around 100 km of power lines on land and in the sea will be replaced and weather-proofed. In total, approximately 3,200 households will then have a modern electricity network. •At the Onsala peninsula outside Kungsbacka, 15,000 ­customers will have a new and modern network when Ellevio buries some 200 km of lines underground. •On the island of Orust, Ellevio is rebuilding the network for 1,300 customers. 80 km of lines will be buried and ­reinforced against weather and wind. 36 ELLEVIO 2018 • Investments and financing Skaraborg-Närke • Around 27,000 customers Investments • 2,800 households in Skövde, Mariestad and Karlsborg will have a more secure supply of electricity once the Skaraborg package is complete. Investments here amount to SEK 130 million, and 200 km of cables are being buried. • Major substations are being rebuilt in Svartå, Hova, ­Käckestad, Hjälstad and Kullåsen. Gävleborg (Hälsingland, Gästrikland) • Around 69,000 customers Investments • We are rebuilding the electricity network for some 6,500 customers as part of three major projects: Arbrå and the northern and western parts of Hudiksvall municipality. This involves some 600 km of lines being buried underground in order to provide customers with a weather-proofed ­network. 315 secondary substations are also being replaced. In total, Ellevio is investing some SEK 230 ­million in the project. • Outside Ljusdal, where Högkölen’s wind farm is in the ­process of being extended, Ellevio will be responsible for connecting the farm to the network. Once this work is ­complete, it will be possible for 244 GWh of wind power to supply almost 50,000 households with renewable ­electricity. Stockholm (City of Stockholm, Ekerö, Lidingö, Täby, Nynäshamn, Vallentuna) • Around 595,000 customers Investments • During summer 2018, a major project was launched in which Stora Essingen’s electricity network will be rebuilt and upgraded. Around 2,800 households will be ­provided with a modern and future-proofed electricity ­network. • On Lidingö, a new line is being built between the stations at Koltorp and Käppala. This line will increase capacity in the area and improve operational safety. • Many of the larger and important stations in Stockholm’s electricity network are being rebuilt, including Värtan, Ulvsunda, Västberga, Högdalen, Bredäng and Sätra. • A new 400 kV line is to be built between Beckomberga and Bredäng; a route of around 12 kilometres. Planning is Find out more about Ellevio’s planned, under way and construction is estimated to start in ongoing and recently completed 2019/2020. ­projects at ellevio.se/projekt ELLEVIO 2018 • Investments and financing 37 Financing e­ xternal loan financing, including interest hedging The electricity network we are currently building is derivatives, amounted to around 2.9 percent at designed to function in the long term, which entails ­year-end 2018 (3.5), and the average remaining major demands in terms of longevity from both term was around 8.6 years (8.5). ­ourselves and our owners. At the same time, our Shareholder loans that have a term of 25 years operations are regulated, and these regulatory and are subordinate to other loans have an interest ­periods span a period of four years at a time. rate of 8.5 percent. This corresponds to around 6 percent of total shareholder capital, which consists Our loan structure of shareholder loans and total equity. No dividend Our loans comprise covered loans from external has been paid to shareholders, with all return instead lenders whereby the company’s assets are collateral, being taken out as interest on the shareholder loans. as well as subordinated loans issued to Ellevio AB’s During the year we paid out SEK 0.5 billion (1.3) to holding company and then loaned to Ellevio AB. our shareholders in Ellevio Holding 1 AB. The fact The average financing interest rate for Ellevio’s that the loans are subordinate means their interest is Ellevio channels long-term pension savings into investments as part of the transition towards a sustainable energy system. Ellevio’s owners have created a model whereby pension This is structured so that the pensions funds which savings can be channeled into investments in the transition ­manage the pension capital place long-term capital at to a sustainable energy system. Those who are currently Ellevio’s disposal, which we in turn invest in the electricity in work can save into pension funds that offer both finannetworks of the future. In return, we are to offer the cial security after pension age and enable investments in ­pension funds a reasonable, long-term and stable return. a sustainable energy system for future generations. As both Ellevio and the pension funds work based on a Long-term capital Long-term savings Responsible ownership Pension Pension savers funds Secured Stable, pensions long-term return 38 ELLEVIO 2018 • Investments and financing only paid once amortisations and interest on other m ­ anagement and a reasonable return on investloans have been paid, and thus entail a higher risk. ments in the development of the networks. The ­permitted revenues, that is, how much we are paid Our financing and interest rates do not by our customers, is determined by regulations that affect the prices paid by customers. are the same for all Swedish electrical grid compaElectricity network companies operate as mono­ nies. Permitted revenue is not affected by the owner polies, which are subject to state supervision and of the operations (municipality, state, pension saver regulation by the Swedish Energy Markets Inspecor ­private) or how the operations are financed; no torate (Ei). The business’s revenue is decided by the network company can charge its customers more Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate and the reguthan the revenue regulation permits. This means that lation should ensure that the networks are of good ­neither financing nor interest rates have any impact quality and provide long-term security of supply. on the prices paid by customers. Network companies should receive compen­ sation for reasonable costs linked to operations long-term horizon, the pension funds can be considered to electrify the transport industry, make the transition to appropriate and responsible owners. 100 percent renewable electricity and ensure a secure It is difficult to quantify the societal benefit of the supply of electricity to the whole country. A large number ­investments Ellevio makes in the electricity network. The of jobs will also be created, both directly at our company network of the future will be a prerequisite of our ability and indirectly among the many contractors we engage. Community • Secure supply of electricity in both urban and rural areas • Stable electricity supply to vital societal functions • Integrated European electricity market • Secure supply of electricity to an electricity-­ Reliable, flexible and smart dependent society electricity networks today, tomorrow and in 50 years Customers • Secure and outage-free electricity supply • High level of service to our customers • New services as part of a smarter grid • Opportunity to produce your own electricity • Fair tariffs between cities/rural areas Trust Employees • Jobs • Safe workplace • Knowledgeable and committed employees • Competent and responsible contractors Ellevio is given licence from society to Environment run and manage electricity networks • Adaptation of the electricity network to the Revenue frameworks are determined ­fossil-free transport system of the future by laws and regulations • Transition to 100 percent renewable electricity • Biodiversity along power lanes ELLEVIO 2018 • Investments and financing 39 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018. Contents. Directors’ Report 43 Note 17 Intangible assets 62 Financial overview and definitions 46 Note 18 Tangible fixed assets 64 Financial statements 47 Note 19 Investments in associates 64 Income statement 47 Note 20 Trade receivables 64 Balance sheet 48 Note 21 Receivables from Group companies 65 Statement of changes in equity 50 Note 22 Other receivables 65 Cash flow statement 51 Note 23 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 65 Accounting policies and notes 52 Note 24 Cash and cash equivalents 65 Note 1 General information about the company 52 Note 25 Untaxed reserves 65 Note 2 Significant accounting policies 52 Note 26 Non-current liabilities 65 Note 3 Significant estimates and judgements 55 Note 27 Liabilities to Group companies 65 Note 4 Financial risk management and 56 Note 28 Other current liabilities 65 financial instruments Note 29 Accrued expenses and deferred income 65 Note 5 Segment reporting 58 Note 30 Reconciliation of liabilities from financing 66 Note 6 Net sales by regulated entity 58 activities Note 7 Other operating income 59 Note 31 Merger 66 Note 8 Remuneration to auditors 59 Note 32 Pledged assets 66 Note 9 Leases 59 Note 33 Related-party transactions 67 Note 10 Employees and employee benefits 59 Note 34 Group structure 67 Note 11 Pensions 61 Note 35 Proposed allocation of retained earnings 67 Note 12 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 61 Note 36 Significant events after the end of the period 67 of intangible assets and property, plant CEO’s and Board of Directors’ approval 68 and equipment Auditor’s Report 69 Note 13 Interest income and similar items 61 Corporate Governance Report 71 Note 14 Interest expense and similar items 61 Auditor’s statement on the 73 Note 15 Appropriations 61 Corporate Governance Report Note 16 Tax 61 Board of Directors and Management Team 74 Directors’ Report. Business operations on a capital cost in 2015. After a legal process the cost of capital was finally Ellevio AB (publ) is one of Sweden’s largest distribution network operators. set to 5.85 percent for the regulatory period of 2016 to 2019. Ellevio invest in, develop and maintain the company’s power grids in order to In September 2018, the Administrative court in Linköping ruled that the deficit ensure a reliable electricity supply to the 957,000 customers, 24 hours a day, from 2012–2015 can be carried over to 2020–2023. Ei appealed the ruling each day of the year. By investing in a long-term sustainable power grid Ellevio to the Administrative Court of Appeal in Jönköping, which decided on the issue works to improve the quality of life for its customers as well as to enable the ongoin February 2019 in favour of the industry. ing energy transformation and the continued digitization of the society. The company conducts electricity distribution operations in concession areas on the West Financial results Coast, in Värmland, Skaraborg, Dalarna, Gävleborg and the Stockholm region. In 2018 net sales amounted to SEK 6,974 million (6,894). The distribution Electricity distribution is essential to modern society and an uninterrupted revenue increased, both due to the acquisition and merger of Elverket Vallenelectricity supply is becoming ever more important. Large parts of the Swedish tuna and as a result of higher distribution volume because of cold weather in the electricity distribution network were built during the 1960s and 70s and are thus first quarter of the year. The revenue from new connections were lower related becoming outdated and due for replacement. This means that the entire distributo the implementation of IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers. The tion sector enters a period of large investments. For Ellevio, this meant launching volume of local and regional network transmission 2018 totalled 14.7 TWh a major investment programme in 2015 totalling nearly SEK 10 billion between (14.3) and 12.6 TWh (12.8), respectively. EBITDA totalled SEK 4,188 million 2016 and 2019 to renew the network, increase capacity and weatherproof (4,207) and operating profit totalled SEK 2,067 million (2,161). the networks. During 2018 the investments has amounted to about SEK 2.9 Interest expense and similar items were SEK –3,019 million (–2,912), of ­billion, compared to SEK 2.4 billion in 2017. which SEK –1,609 million (–1,656) were related to Group internal interest The efforts are aimed at maintaining the high security of supply of 99.98 perexpenses and SEK –1,409 million (–1,256) to external interest expenses. The cent that Ellevio’s customers have today, but also at preparing the networks for external interest expenses include changes in the fair value of financial instruthe future. A higher share of renewable electricity from largeand small-scale ments of SEK 375 million (127) as well as SEK –87 million (–154) in transacsolar and wind power facilities, the continued digitisation of society, the electrifition costs, primarily related to the original acquisition financing. cation of the transport network, and new services enabling users to control their During 2018 Ellevio has closed and cash settled interest rate swaps resulting electricity consumption impose new requirements on a smarter electricity in realized results of SEK –377 million. Excluding the items above the external ­network – one that is reliable yet also more automated and flexible. interest expenses have increased with SEK 91 million compared to 2017, During 2018 Ellevio AB (publ) has acquired the Group company Elverket mainly due to issuance of Class B debt to repay the internal loan related to the Vallentuna AB and its subsidiary Elverket Vallentuna Elnät AB from Ellevio Holdjunior debt in the Group and by extended debt maturity profile and interest rate ing 1 AB. The integration process has continued during the year and the duration. Loss after financial items amounted to SEK –893 million (–750). The acquired companies was merged with Ellevio AB (publ) from October 1 2018. deferred tax liabilities have been re-evaluated due to a decision in the ParliaYou could find information about Ellevio’s sustainability efforts and value crement to decrease the Swedish Corporate tax rate to 21.4% in 2019 and 20.6% ation on pages 2–39 in the Annual Report and in the Sustainability managein 2021, impacting the income tax positively with SEK 895 million. ment and results section and in GRI index on pages 76–87. Profit for the year amounted to SEK 1,280 million (288). Other significant circumstances Financial position and cash flow Electricity distribution is a natural monopoly and as such a regulated business. In 2018, cash flow from operating activities increased by SEK 559 million to This means that Ellevio operates under a regulatory framework, and is superSEK 4,676 million (4,117), mainly due to an increase in received connection vised by a government agency, the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate (Ei). fees of SEK 252 million and an increase in contributions from changes in workEi decides how much distribution network operators like Ellevio are allowed to ing capital of SEK 234 million. The increased contribution from change in workcharge its customers. These limits are known as the allowed revenue and the ing capital is primarily related to energy tax, which from the 1 January 2018 is ­levels are determined in advance for four years at a time. The allowed revenue collected by the distribution companies instead of the electricity suppliers. should cover reasonable costs for running the business and a fair return to the Change in working capital contributed with SEK 226 million (–8). network owners. According to the Swedish Electricity Act, the electricity network Paid capital expenditure increased by SEK 242 million to SEK –2,611 milfees paid by customers must be fair, objective and non-discriminatory. lion (–2,368). Cash flow for 2018 includes an intra-Group acquisition of the On 1 January 2016, a new four-year regulatory period started, which shares in Elverket Vallentuna AB from Ellevio Holding 1 AB in the amount of SEK entailed a few changes to the regulatory framework, above all a change in the –627 and 2017 of Nynäshamn Energi AB in the amount of SEK –438 million. method for calculating the asset base on the basis of the age of the network. In addition, cash flow for 2018 includes a divestment of the shares in Elverket Although the change substantially reduces the allowed revenue for distribution Vallentuna El AB (electricity sales company) in the amount of SEK 46 million. network companies compared with the previous periods, the new framework Free cash flow amounted to SEK 2,065 million (1,748) and cash flow before also stimulates new investments in electricity networks, which promotes the financing activities to SEK 1,491 million (1,314). renewal and weather-proofing needed. Paid interest amounted to SEK –2,238 million (–2,094), of which external It is important that the regulatory framework support the developments taking interest accounted for SEK –1,260 million (–1,082), cash settlement of swaps place in society. Now that the industry is entering a period requiring substantial SEK –377 million and intra-Group interest for SEK –602 million (–1,012). The investments in order to renew the electricity network, it is positive that the frameinternal interest is indirectly relating to the junior debt SEK –102 million (–149) work stimulates investments. However, there are certain parameters where the and to shareholder loans SEK –500 million (–863). views of the Ei and the industry differ. The most important of these is the cost of The external net debt amounted to SEK 38,649 million (35,528). Since yearcapital, where the industry argues that it should be based on a long-term view to end 2017 the external net debt has increased by SEK 3,121 million, of which reflect the long-term nature of network investments (over 40 years). Inadequate SEK 3,000 million is related issuance of external Class B debt. capital compensation can counteract the important objectives of the new regulation, i.e. to secure the renewal of the electricity networks. Unless investments Financing are made on time, there is a risk of the security of supply suffering and of the During 2018, Ellevio raised SEK 6,000 million of new long term financing. The electricity networks slowing the transformation of the energy system. Conseproceeds were used to finance the company’s ongoing capex program and to quently, Ellevio and a majority of the network industry appealed Ei’s decision pre-pay existing financing arrangements in the Group. ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 43 In February, Ellevio issued a SEK 3,000 million 7-year fixed rate Class B bond. addressed as an integral part of the company’s day-to-day activities. The Class B bond is contractually subordinated to Ellevio’s existing senior Class Strategic risks refer primarily to risks that change the operating environment A debt, and benefits from same ring-fenced security package in Ellevio AB as for the electricity distribution business. Various political decisions and changes the Class A debt. The purpose of issuing Class B debt was to refinance the to the regulatory framework may affect the company’s operations. Strategic ­structurally subordinated SEK 3,000 million junior debt facility in Ellevio risks also include legal compliance risks, as the business forms an important part ­Holding 2 AB. The junior debt was prepaid in full in June 2018. of the country’s infrastructure, and the company is therefore required to comply In addition to the issuance of Class B debt, Ellevio raised new long term with many laws, directives and regulations. Along with other industry players, Class A debt in the form of two separate bilateral fixed rate loans. In May, the Ellevio is actively involved in driving regulatory issues that are of importance for company raised a SEK 1,500 million 15-year loan from the Nordic Investment our business. Bank (NIB) and in August, a SEK 1,500 million 11-year loan from Export DevelThe ownership and operation of electricity distribution facilities entails operaopment Canada (EDC). tional risks, primarily in the form of operational disruptions that result in interrupEllevio’s senior Class A debt is rated “BBB” (Outlook stable) and its suborditions in the delivery of power to our customers. These risks are managed mainly nated Class B debt is rated “BB+” by Standard and Poor’s. through the reinvestment and maintenance programmes run by the company, with a focus on reducing sensitivity to storms and improving the general reliabilOutlook ity of our electricity network. The company also has an advanced organization Ellevio works actively to shape the Swedish energy market, with a focus on electo address major disruptions and a fault repair process that is continuously being tricity distribution operations. The company is driving a number of important regimproved to ensure that power is restored to customers as soon as possible after ulatory matters through active involvement in industry trade groups, contacts with an outage. regulators and collaborations with other operators, both nationally and internaThrough its operations the company is exposed to various types of financial tionally. risks, such as market, liquidity and credit risks. Market risks consist mainly of curDuring 2018, the work on establishing the regulations for the third regulatory rency, electricity price and interest rate risks. The company enters into derivative period, 2020–2023, has proceeded. In August 2018, the Swedish governinstruments to reduce these risks. Also see Note 4 Financial risk management ment decided on a new ordinance regarding the regulatory framework for the and financial instruments. third regulatory period. In short, the ordinance states six different parameters, which should be applied when calculating WACC (weighted average cost of Employees capital) and the allowed revenue. In addition, the depreciation time for certain In 2018, Ellevio had an average of 465 employees, most of whom were based assets will be prolonged. The ordinance stipulates a decreased allowed reveat the head office in Stockholm and at the office in Karlstad. Since 2011, Ellevio nue, which will affect all Swedish distribution system operators, from stateand has been operating in accordance with a model in which the management and municipality-owned to private companies. In addition, the “38 year rule” (the planning of electricity network projects are performed in-house, while field opertransition rule) has been removed. ations are outsourced to external contractors. Following the decision in the Government, the Swedish Energy Markets Occupational health and safety issues are assigned high priority at Ellevio, Inspectorate (Ei) will continue to formulate the regulations based on the ordinance. both for our in-house staff and for contractors who are commissioned the comThe deadline for applications for allowed revenue will be on March 31, 2019. pany on assignments. The company takes a structured approach to these issues, It is Ellevio’s view that the new regulation will lead to a situation where the which are governed and coordinated by a central function for occupational investment will neither be sufficient to fulfil society’s demand for reliability and health and safety, environment, quality, security and sustainability, and pursues continued growth, nor to reach the climate targets. The investments needed are continuous improvements, through measures including regular audits of our large. The energy transition towards renewable production and the electrificaoperations and those of our contractors. Compliance is monitored through tion of the transport sector demands smart modern power grids, in terms of flexiamong others recurring audits of the operations and at our contractors. Progress bility, capacity and efficiency. The time horizon for investments in this industry in the organisation is monitored by management and the Board of Directors, on are long, often more than 40–50 years and the essence of long term predictan ongoing and monthly basis. Ellevio has also established a special committee able and stable regulation could not be underestimated. linked to the Board that addresses health and safety issues as well as sustainEllevio will strive to ensure that actors in the market have a mutual understandability issues. ing of the important role the power grid will have in building a climate-friendly Ellevio has a zero vision for accidents. Despite high requirements and continsociety, and a common view of what is needed to succeed. We will work uous monitoring of occupational health and safety practices, serious accidents actively to enable a close dialogue with the policy makers to achieve a longmay nonetheless occur with severe consequences. In September 2018, a tragic term and stable regulation that creates the required investment conditions. fatal accident occurred in the wake of the storm Knud, when a contractor workFurther on, the preparatory work to reform the retail market has also proing for Ellevio with repair work was badly injured by a falling tree. The accident ceeded. Ellevio has during the year been arguing for changes in the original is currently being investigated by the police and the Swedish Work Environment proposal, in which electricity suppliers will be the first contact for customers. Authority, according to normal procedures. Ellevio has and will continuously Many of the challenges that existed when the proposal first was initiated are make all the necessary resources available to assist the investigation in the best now solved. way possible. Ellevio has also initiated its own investigation regarding the accident with the sole purpose to find improvements that will mitigate and prevent Information on risks and uncertainties similar accidents in the future. Risk management is an integral element of operational planning, governance Since 2017 Ellevio has worked with a specific safety program, Safe workand monitoring. Business risks are assessed through management’s and Board place, in order to further improve the work around occupational health and of Directors’ strategy and planning work, and are documented in a business safety within Ellevio and among contractors. In the light of this tragic accident, plan adopted by the Board. the importance of the Safe workplace programme has been further highlighted. The management of operational and financial risks is based on the company’s During the year, Ellevio has taken several important steps to further improve the adopted policies, which specify principles, frameworks and responsibilities with safety culture in the company and in the sector. the aim of limiting the company’s risk exposure. The policies are reviewed and submitted for adoption annually. Operational risks are identified, assessed and 44 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT Environment Group contributions Ellevio AB (publ) is ISO 14001:2015 certified and the company operates The company has in 2018 received SEK 1,514,226,265 in group contributions under a Board approved sustainability policy, where environmental responsibiland given SEK 93,750 in group contributions. Net group contributions received ity comprises one of three components. Environmental responsibility involves amounted to SEK 1,514,132,515. ensuring that the company employs various activities to reduce its impact on the environment and biological diversity by: Proposed allocation of retained earnings (SEK) • Setting environmental requirements on purchases, taking account of environThe following earnings are at the disposal mental aspects in the company’s business activities and giving priority to of the Annual General Meeting: ­solutions that help reduce environmental impact Retained earnings 6,047,631,048 • Promoting the application of a lifecycle perspective in all activities Profit/loss for the year 1,280,390,513 • Employing the principles of the waste hierarchy to minimise waste 7,328,021,561 • Providing information on and raising awareness of how the company’s ­operations can affect the environment The Board of Directors proposes: • Avoiding materials and substances that can be harmful to humans, animals Retained earnings to be carried forward and the environment 7,328,021,561 • Employing a sustainability perspective when selecting venues for meetings and means of transport for travel For further information on the company’s performance and financial position, Under the Swedish Electricity Act, a permit for the construction and use of an see the following income statement, balance sheet, statement of changes in electricity line (“concession”) can be granted for a line covering a specified ­distance equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the accounts. Unless otherwise or an electricity network in a certain area. As of 1 June 2013, the ­company’s stated, amounts in tables refer to millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK). Due to concession applies until further notice. The examination of the application for rounding of amounts to the nearest million Swedish kronor, some totals may not a concession includes an assessment in accordance with the provisions of the be exactly equal to the sum of all line items. Swedish Environmental Code. Electricity network operations are not regulated by the provisions of the Environmental Code with regard to permit and notification requirements on environmentally hazardous operations. Sustainability report In accordance with ÅRL, Ellevio AB has chosen to establish the statutory sustainability report as a separate report from the Annual Report. The sustainability report is found on pages 2–4, 18–33 and 76–87. ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 45 Financial overview. MSEK 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Net sales 6,974 6,894 6,537 6,014 5,870 EBITDA 4,188 4,207 3,946 3,275 3,194 Items affecting comparability –39 –23 0 –5 –13 Comparable EBITDA 4,227 4,230 3,946 3,280 3,282 Operating profit 2,067 2,161 1,929 1,675 2,131 External financial items –1,696 –1,228 –876 –337 –1 External financial items, Class A –1,618 –1,228 –876 – – Profit/loss after net financial income/expense –893 –750 –1,369 285 2,073 Profit/loss for the year 1,280 288 –239 15,463 18 Cash flow from operating activities 4,676 4,117 3,463 3,443 3,192 Free cash flow 2,065 1,748 1,406 1,860 1,975 Capital expenditure 2,870 2,381 2,076 1,706 1,217 Total assets 83,543 80,048 76,968 75,235 25,534 Total equity 7,361 6,201 5,923 6,163 637 Adjusted equity 8,296 7,035 6,534 6,509 16,454 Equity/assets ratio 9.9% 8,8% 8.5% 8.7% 64.0% Adjusted cash 45 1 46 114 – External net debt 38,649 35,528 34,075 32,864 – External net debt, Class A 35,666 35,528 34,075 – – Leverage ratio 9.1x 8.4x 8.6x 10.6x – Leverage ratio, Class A 8.4x 8.4x 8.6x – – Interest cover ratio 2.4x 3.3x 4.1x – – Interest cover ratio, Class A 2.5x 3.3x 4.1x – – Delivered volume (TWh) 27.3 27.1 27.1 26.8 26.8 No. of customers (in thousands) 957 939 918 912 908 Average no. of employees 465 433 412 407 378 Definitions. The company presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS. The company considers that these measures provide valuable supplementary information for investors and company management, as they enable an assessment and benchmarking of the company’s performance. Since not all companies calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always comparable to measures used by other ­companies. These financial measures should not therefore be regarded as substitutes for measures defined according to IFRS. The above key ratios are not defined according to IFRS, unless otherwise stated. Adjusted cash Equity/assets ratio Cash and cash equivalents less customer deposits Adjusted equity divided by total assets multiplied with 100 Adjusted equity External financial items Total equity plus 78 percent of the untaxed reserves Net financial income/expense less dividend, intra-Group interest, unrealised results from derivatives and transaction costs related to financing Class A financial items External financial items less Class B interest expense External net debt External interest-bearing liabilities less adjusted cash Class A leverage ratio Class A net divided by comparable EBITDA Free cash flow Cash flow from operating activities less paid capital expenditure Class A interest cover ratio Comparable EBITDA less income tax paid divided Interest cover ratio by Class A financial items Comparable EBITDA less income tax paid divided by external financial items Class A net debt External net debt less Class B debt Items affecting comparability Gains/losses from sales of fixed assets, scrapping of fixed assets Comparable EBITDA and restructuring costs EBITDA less items affecting comparability Leverage ratio EBITDA External net debt divided by comparable EBITDA Operating profit plus depreciation, amortisation and impairments 46 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT Income statement. 1 Jan 2018 1 Jan 2017 MSEK Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Net sales 5, 6 6,974 6,894 Capitalised own work 84 70 Other operating income 7 93 70 7,151 7,034 OPERATING EXPENSES Costs for purchase and transit of power –1,151 –1,023 Other external expenses 8, 9 –1,337 –1,384 Employee benefits expense 10, 11 –474 –419 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 12 –2,121 –2,046 Operating profit 2,067 2,161 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Interest income and similar items 13 58 1 Interest expense and similar items 14 –3,019 –2,912 Profit/loss after net financial income/expense –893 –750 Appropriations 15 1,463 1,207 Profit/loss before tax 569 457 Income tax expense 16 711 –169 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 1,280 288 Statement of comprehensive income. 1 Jan 2018 1 Jan 2017 MSEK 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Profit/loss for the year 1,280 288 Other comprehensive income – – COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 1,280 288 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 47 Balance sheet. MSEK Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 17 Goodwill 4,983 5,233 Concessions 39,051 39,298 IT systems 110 94 Utility easements 180 163 Projects in progress and advance payments 112 77 44,436 44,866 Property, plant and equipment 18, 32 Buildings and land 851 854 Machinery and other technical plant 27,706 26,352 Equipment, tools and facilities 46 36 Assets under construction and advance payments 2,942 2,476 31,546 29,718 Non-current financial assets Investments in associates 19 0 0 Receivables from Group companies 2,980 2,138 Plan assets 10 1 0 2,981 2,138 Total non-current assets 78,963 76,721 Current assets Current receivables Trade receivables 20 1,098 632 Receivables from Group companies 21 1,515 1,493 Current tax assets 3 – Other receivables 22 291 155 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 6, 23 1,616 1,307 4,524 3,317 Cash and cash equivalents 24, 32 56 10 Total current assets 4,580 3,327 TOTAL ASSETS 83,543 80,048 48 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT Balance sheet, cont. MSEK Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital 1 1 Statutory reserve 0 0 Development reserve 32 19 33 20 Non-restricted equity Retained earnings 6,048 5,893 Profit/loss for the year 1,280 288 Total equity 7,361 6,201 Untaxed reserves 25 1,198 1,069 Provisions Deferred tax liability 16 13,311 14,005 Oter provisions 1 0 Total Provisions 13,312 14,005 Non-current liabilities 26 Bond loans 32,732 29,749 Liabilities to credit institutions 5,356 5,005 Liabilities to Group companies 19,176 21,131 Derivatives 13 388 Other non-current liabilities 6 540 207 Total non-current liabilities 57,817 56,480 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 392 509 Trade payables 818 607 Liabilities to Group companies 27 1 38 Current tax liabilities – 29 Other current liabilities 6, 28 1,148 167 Accrued expenses and deferred income 6, 29 1,195 944 3,854 2,293 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 83,543 80,048 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 49 Statement of changes in equity. R Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Statutory Development Retained earnings including MSEK ­capital1) reserve1) reserve2) profit for the year Total equity Balance at 1 January 2018 1 0 19 6,181 6,201 Provisions for development reserve 13 –13 – Comprehensive income: Profit/loss for the year 1,280 1,280 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income 1,280 1,280 Merger difference –121 –121 Balance at 31 December 2018 1 0 32 7,328 7,361 R Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Statutory Development Retained earnings including MSEK ­capital1) reserve1) reserve2) profit for the year Total equity Balance at 1 January 2017 1 0 13 5,910 5,923 Provisions for development reserve 7 –7 – Comprehensive income: Profit/loss for the year 288 288 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income 288 288 Merger difference –10 –10 Balance at 31 December 2017 1 0 19 6,181 6,201 1) Share capital amounted to SEK 600,000 (600,000) and the statutory reserve amounted to SEK 82,300 (82,300). 2) Refers to investments in proprietarily produced IT programmes. The company has a total of 60 shares (60). The quotient value is SEK 10,000 (10,000) per share. 50 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT Cash flow statement. 1 Jan 2018 1 Jan 2017 MSEK Note 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating profit 2,067 2,161 Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation and amortisation 12 2,121 2,046 Disposals/retirements of non-current assets 29 23 Periodised connection fees –7 –5 Change in provision for doubtful receivables –3 0 Received connection fees 350 98 Income tax paid –107 –199 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 4,450 4,125 CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Decrease(+)/increase(–) in trade receivables –418 –76 Decrease(+)/increase(–) in other operating receivables –631 –79 Decrease(–)/increase(+) in trade payables 16 25 Decrease(–)/increase(+) in other operating liabilities 1,259 122 Cash flow from operating activities 4,676 4,117 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Capital expenditure in intangible assets –102 –64 Capital expenditure in property, plant and equipment –2,508 –2,305 Acquisition of shares –627 –438 Proceeds from sales of tangible assets 7 4 Proceeds from sales of shares in group companies 46 – Cash flow from investing activities –3,185 –2,802 Cash flow before financing activities 1,491 1,314 FINANCING ACTIVITIES 30 Borrowings 6,200 14,063 Repayment of borrowings –6,080 –12,695 Loans given – –650 Repayment of loan receivables 650 – Received dividend 21 – Received interest 2 1 Paid interest –2,238 –2,094 Cash flow from financing activities –1,445 –1,374 Cash flow for the year 46 –60 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 10 55 Cash and cash equivalents in merged company 0 15 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 24 56 10 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 51 Accounting policies and notes. NOTE 1 The consequence of this for Ellevio is that connection fees will be periodised. The GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY periodisation period for standard connections is 40 years and 25 years for wind farms. The effect of the change has decreased the company’s revenue by SEK Ellevio AB (publ), corporate ID number 556037–7326, is a limited liability 198 million for the full year 2018. Other than the impact on the connection fees company registered in Sweden whose registered office is in Stockholm. The the transition to IFRS 15 has not had any impact on the company’s financial address of the head office is Valhallavägen 203, SE-115 53 Stockholm, reports. ­Sweden. The company conducts electricity network operations. Ellevio AB (publ) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ellevio Holding 4 AB, corporate ID number 559005– IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued on 24 July 2014 and replaces IAS 39 2451. Consolidated financial statements are prepared by Ellevio Holding 1 AB, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The standard contains new ­corporate ID number 559005–2444. The Group structure is presented in Note 34. requirements on the classification and m ­ easurement of financial instruments, on derecognition and impairment, and general rules for hedge accounting. The NOTE 2 standard is applicable for periods beginning on 1 January 2018. The new SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES ­standard has been applied prospectively. This annual report was prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and Recommendation RFR 2 Financial Reporting for Classification and measurement Legal Entities issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The application The company applies the exception in RFR2 to not report financial instruments of RFR 2 requires the company to apply, insofar as possible, all EU-adopted according to the new rules for classification and measurements in accordance International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations of IFRS with IFRS 9 instead financial instruments are reported on the basis of cost in issued by the IFRS Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) subject to the provisions of ­accordance to the Annual Accounts Act. the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and take account of the relationship between accounting and taxation. Expected credit losses Assets, provisions and liabilities have been recognised at cost unless otherThe implementation of IFRS 9 meant that Ellevio applied a new model for wise indicated. ­impairment of financial assets. The model is based on expected credit losses The cash flow statement was prepared using the indirect method. The cominstead of the previous model, which is based on losses incurred. The write-down pany is classified as a large company in accordance with Ch.1 section 3 of the rules under IFRS 9 reflect changes in the credit risk and take account of credit Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554). Pursuant to Ch. 7 section 2 of the events at an earlier stage. Ellevio’s financial assets mainly consist of accounts Annual Accounts Act, consolidated financial statements are not prepared for receivable which are categorized as short-term receivables where the counterEllevio AB (publ). party has a good credit rating, see also Note 4 Credit and counterparty risk. Ellevio applies the simplified method for calculating expected credit losses. The Reclassification method means that expected losses during the entire term of the receivable are The company has chosen to present advances from customers attributable to used as a basis for accounts receivable. In order to calculate expected credit connection services broken down by longand short-term part. To show compalosses, the company has developed a model based on classification of the rability between the years a reclassification of the 2017 liabilities in the balance ­counterparties’ credit rating and payment history. The analysis carried out by sheet has been prepared as follows: Ellevio based on historical customer data shows that the transition to the new SEK, million 2017 model for accounting of expected credit losses resulted in an increase of SEK 3.7 Increase of long-term liabilities 194 million from the provision to the reserve for doubtful receivables. Future impact will Decrease of short-term liabilities –194 vary depending on seasonal variations and size of accounts receivable. Holdings in cash and cash equivalents and internal receivables are also within the scope of On January 1, 2018, two new accounting standards came into force; IFRS9 application for impairment losses in accordance with IFRS 9. The company has Financial Instruments and IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, assessed that there is no impairment requirement for these receivables. which meant a change in the company’s accounting principles. Hedge accounting IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued on 28 May 2014 The company applies hedge accounting according to RFR2 and even if the comand replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. IFRS 15 estabpany uses the exception in RFR2 not to report financial instruments in accordance lishes a model for revenue recognition for nearly all types of revenue arising from with IFRS 9 the rules in IFRS 9 regarding when hedge accounting may be applied contracts with customers, with the exception of leases, financial instruments and and which financial instruments may be included in a hedging relationship must be insurance contracts. The basic principle for recognition of revenue under IFRS 15 followed, see further Note 2 Financial instruments, hedge accounting and Note 4. is that a company should recognise revenue in the manner that reflects the transfer of the promised goods or service to the customer, in the amount that the company New and amended standards and interpretations that have not yet expects to receive in exchange for the goods or service. Revenue is recognised come into effect, as well as amendments to RFR 2 when control of the good or service has passed to the customer. IFRS 15 is applicaNew and amended standards as well as interpretations of and changes to ble for reporting periods beginning 1 January 2018. The new standard has been RFR 2 that have been issued but only become effective for reporting periods applied prospectively. beginning after1 January 2019 have not yet been applied by the company. Revenue from connection fees, except revenue from connection of wind New and amended standards and interpretations that are deemed to have an farms in the regional grid, had an impact on the company’s financial statements impact on the company’s financial statements in the period in which they are first due to the implementation of the new standard. The company’s assessment is that applied are described below: a connection to the grid consists of two promises: a promise to implement a new connection to the grid and a promise to continuously connect and distribute IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and will replace IAS 17 ­electricity to the connection points. These promises are not distinct, since a new Leases. IFRS 16 introduces a right-of-use model under which the lessee is connection is only possible if there is a commitment to continuously connect and required to recognise essentially all leases in the balance sheet. No classificadistribute electricity. The two promises should be considered to be one perfortion of operating and finance leases should therefore be made. The exceptions mance obligation as neither one of them fulfils the criteria to be distinct in IFRS15. are leases with a term of 12 months or less and low-value leases. Depreciation/ 52 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 2 cont. amortisation of the asset and interest expenses on the liability are recognised in receivables and liabilities are recognised in the same item of income and the income statement. The standard contains more extensive disclosure requireexpense as that to which the income or expense refers. Foreign exchange ments compared with the current standard. For lessors, IFRS 16 does not entail ­differences related to financial assets and liabilities are recognised under any real differences compared with IAS 17. IFRS 16 is applicable to reporting net financial income and expenses. periods on or after 1 January 2019. Earlier application is permitted provided that IFRS 15 is applied simultaneously. The standard was adopted by the EU Borrowing costs on 31 October 2017. IFRS 16 will not be applied in local gaap. The effect of Borrowing costs are recognised on an ongoing basis in profit or loss in the the change is estimated to have a material impact on the Ellevio Group’s finanperiod to which they refer. cial reports. See Note 1 for more information about Ellevio Group consolidated financial statements. The management believes that other new and changed Employee benefits standards and interpretations that have not yet entered into force will not have any Employee benefits in the form of salaries, bonuses, paid annual leave, paid significant impact on the company’s financial reports when applied for the first time. sick leave, etc., as well as pensions are recognised as they are earned. Pensions and other post-employment benefits are classified as defined contribution Revenue ­pension plans and are charged to income statement. The company has both Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivdefined-benefit and defined contribution pension plans. able after deducting VAT, discounts, returns and similar deductions. The comUnder RFR 2, the provisions of IAS 19 concerning defined-benefit pension pany recognises revenue when the amount can be reliably measured, it is probplans do not need to be applied in a legal entity. able that future economic benefits will flow to the company and specific criteria have been met for each of the company’s categories of revenue. Changes to the tax rate in Sweden The company’s revenue comes mainly from network services, connection As a result of the approved tax cuts, deferred tax assets and tax liabilities have ­services and other network-related services. The company’s revenue is covered been revalued using the new tax rates based on the point in time at which the by revenue regulation and any excess or deficit revenue is handled in the sub­ asset or liability is expected to be realised or regulated. The revaluations sequent regulation period for accounting purposes. resulted in a reduction of both deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets to the value of SEK 895 million net. The net impact was reported in the income Network services statement in the “Income tax” line. Also see Note 16. Revenue from the sale of network services is based on actual measured consumption during the period (excluding VAT and duties) and revenue is recogCurrent tax nised upon completion of delivery. Current tax is the amount of income taxes payable in respect of the taxable profit for the period. The taxable profit differs from the profit recognised in income stateConnection services ment, as it has been adjusted for non-taxable income and other non-deductible Revenue from the sale of connection services is recognised as revenue to the expenses and for income and expenses that are taxable or deductible in other extent that it is not intended to cover future obligations. Revenue from standard periods. The company’s current tax liability is calculated based on the tax rates connections is allocated over 40 years and revenue from the connection of applicable at the end of the reporting period. wind farms is allocated over 25 years. Deferred tax Other network related services Deferred tax is recognised for temporary differences that arise between the Revenue from the relocation of network facilities is recognised as revenue to the ­carrying amount of assets and liabilities and the tax base used in calculating the extent that it is not intended to cover future obligations. taxable profit. Deferred tax is recognised in accordance with the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for practically all taxable Communication and rental income temporary differences, and deferred tax assets are recognised for practically Income from the lease of capacity in company-owned fibre-optic networks, all temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that the amounts can space in masts and poles and rent for premises is recognised in accordance be used to offset future taxable surpluses. Deferred tax liabilities and tax assets with the rules for operating leases (lessor). are not recognised if the temporary difference is attributable to goodwill or if it arises from a transaction that constitutes the initial recognition of an asset or Other recurring operating income ­liability (that is not a business combination) and that at the time of the transaction Other recurring operating income such as income from reconnection services does not affect recognised profit or taxable profit. and other customer–initiated activities are recognised in connection with the Untaxed reserves are recognised inclusive of deferred tax liability. performance of the service. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is tested for impairment at the end of each reporting period and an impairment loss is recognised to the extent that Leases it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the economic risks and which the deferred tax asset can be fully or partially offset. rewards incidental to ownership of an asset to the lessee. Other leases are classiDeferred tax is calculated using the tax rates that are expected to apply for fied as operating leases. All leases, both finance leases and operating leases, are the period in which the asset is recovered or the liability settled, based on the recognised as operating leases. Lease payments are charged to income statetax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or announced by the end of ment on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless another method systhe reporting period. tematically provides a better reflection of the user’s economic benefit over time. Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset when they refer to income tax, Future lease payments refer to operating leases. The company has no significant are paid to the same authority and when the company intends to settle the tax finance leases. by paying the net amount. Foreign currency Current and deferred tax for the period Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency have been translated at the rate at Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the the end of the reporting period. Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses income statement. are included in profit or loss. Foreign exchange gains (losses) on operating ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 53 NOTE 2 cont. Group contributions Impairment of non-financial assets Group contributions paid and received are recognised as appropriations. Impairment testing for property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets including goodwill is done on an annual basis and on the indication of a need Property, plant and equipment for impairment. Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less accumulated depreAn asset’s recoverable amount is calculated in order to determine the value of ciation and any impairment losses. any impairment loss. With the aim of determining a need for impairment, the The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase assets are grouped together based on the minimal levels for which there are price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the site and into ­identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). If the recoverable amount of a working condition for its intended use. Subsequent costs are only included in the cash-generating unit is determined at a value that is lower than the carrying asset or recognised as a separate asset when it is probable that future ecoamount, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit is impaired to the recovnomic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the company and the cost erable amount. Impairment losses must immediately be expensed in profit or loss. of the same can be reliably measured. All other subsequent costs are recogIf an impairment is subsequently reversed, the carrying amount of the cashnised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. generating unit is increased to the remeasured recoverable amount, although Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged to income statement the increased carrying amount may not exceed the carrying amount that would so that the cost of the asset, less any residual profit the cost of the asset, less any have been determined if the cash-generating unit had not been subject to residual value at the end of its useful life, is depreciated on a straight-line basis impairment in previous years. A reversal of an impairment is recognised directly over the asset’s estimated useful life. An item of property, plant and equipment is in profit or loss. Any goodwill impairment is immediately recognised as an depreciated as of the date when it can be taken into use. expense and is not reversed. The ­estimated useful lives for property, plant and equipment are: Buildings 10–50 years Non-current financial assets Land improvements 20 years Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at cost less any impairment. Cost Machinery and other technical plant 8–40 years includes acquisition-related costs and any additional consideration paid. Equipment, tools and facilities 3–20 years When there is an indication that interests in a subsidiary have declined in value, an estimate is made of the recoverable amount. If the recoverable amount is less Land has an indefinite useful life and is therefore not depreciated. than the carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses Estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are are recognised in the item “Profit/loss from shares in Group companies.” reviewed at the end of each reporting period or more frequently and the effect Investments in associates are recognised at cost less any impairment. Cost of any changes in assessments is recognised prospectively. includes acquisition-related costs and any additional consideration paid. When The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecogthere is an indication that interests in an associate are impaired, an estimate is nised upon retirement or disposal or when no future economic benefits are made of the recoverable amount. If the recoverable amount is less than the expected from the use or disposal/sale of the asset. The gain or loss on the ­carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses are retirement or disposal of the asset consists of the difference between any net ­recognised in the item “Profit/loss from shares in associates”. proceeds and the carrying amount of the item and is recognised in profit or loss in the period when the asset is derecognised. Financial instruments Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet includes, on the asset side, Intangible assets cash and cash equivalents, loan receivables, accounts receivable and derivaInternally generated intangible assets tives. On the debt side, loan liabilities, accounts payable and derivatives. Internally generated intangible assets resulting from the company’s developA financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when ment of IT systems are recognised only when the following conditions are met: the company becomes party to the contractual terms and conditions of the • it is technically feasible to complete the intangible asset and use it, instrument. Accounts receivable are recognized when the invoice has been sent • the company intends to complete the intangible asset and use it, and debt is raised when the counterparty has delivered and there is a contrac• it is possible to use the intangible asset, tual obligation to pay, even if the invoice has not yet been received. A financial • the company can demonstrate how the intangible asset will generate probaasset is derecognised in the balance sheet when the contractual right to the ble future economic benefits, cash flow from the asset expires or is settled or when the company loses control • adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete of it. A financial liability, or portion of a financial liability, is derecognised in the the development and to use or sell the intangible asset, and balance sheet when the contractual obligation is fulfilled or else is terminated. • the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development Financial instruments are measured at cost on initial recognition. Non-current can be reliably measured. receivables and non-current liabilities are measured at amortised cost on initial recognition. Borrowing costs are allocated to accounting periods as part of the Separate acquisition of intangible assets interest expense of the loan. Intangible assets with definite useful lives that have been acquired separately Subsequent to initial recognition, current assets that are not derivatives are meaare recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated sured at amortized cost, taking into account any expected credit loss. Subsequent impairment. The assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated to initial recognition, current liabilities that are not derivatives are measured at useful lives. amortised cost. Accounts payable have a short expected maturity and are valued at nominal The estimated useful lives for intangible assets are: amount without discounting. Concessions 100 years Goodwill 20 years Amortised cost IT systems 3–8 years Amortised cost refers to the amount at which the asset or liability is measured upon initial recognition using the effective interest method and taking into Utility easements and intangible assets that are not yet available for use are account deduction for any credit reserve. not amortised. Estimated useful lives and amortisation methods are reviewed at least at Loans and receivables the end of each financial year and the effect of any changes in assessments Financial assets classified as “Loans and receivables” are financial assets that are is ­recognised prospectively. not derivatives, have fixed or determinable payments, and are not quoted on an active market. This includes trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Trade receivable are generally due for payment within 30 days and all accounts 54 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 2 cont. receivable have therefore been classified as current assets. Trade receivables Since the critical conditions for all hedges included in the hedge accounting are measured at transaction cost on initial recognition. The company holds trade have been matched throughout the year, the economic relationship has been receivable for the purpose of collecting contractual cash flows and therefore 100% effective measures them at subsequent accounting points at amortised cost using the effective interest rate measurement, less any provision for expected and occurring Cash and cash equivalents credit losses. Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances as well as other However, since the expected maturity of trade receivables is short, these are short-term liquid investments that can be quickly converted into cash and are subrecognised at the nominal amount on an undiscounted basis which is considject to insignificant risk of changes in value. To be classified as cash and cash ered to correspond to amortised cost. The company applies the simplified equivalents, the maturity must not exceed three months from the date of purchase. method for calculating expected credit losses The method means that expected losses during the entire term of the receivable are used as basis for accounts Provisions receivables. Provisions are recognised when the company has an existing (legal or construcCredit losses on accounts receivables are recognised as losses net within tive) obligation as a result of a past event, it is likely that an outflow of resources operating profit. will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. As cash and cash equivalents are payable on demand, amortised cost is The amount that is set aside is the best estimate of the amount that is required the same as the nominal amount. to settle the existing obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking account of risks and uncertainties associated with the obligation. When a provision is calOffsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities culated by estimating the payments that are expected to be required to settle the Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented as a net amount obligation, the carrying amount must equal the present value of these payments. in the statement of financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. NOTE 3 SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Derivatives In preparing financial statements, management is required to make judgements, The company enters into derivatives transactions for the purpose of managing estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies currency, price and interest rate risks. See also Note 4 for further information on and the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These the Group’s risks and hedging strategies. judgements are based on previous experience as well as assumptions that are Due to the connection between accounting and tax, the accounting standard deemed to be reasonable under present circumstances and are continuously for financial derivatives, IFRS 9, is not applied. Derivatives are instead recognised reviewed. The actual outcome and actual date may differ from the estimates if using the lower of cost method. Derivatives with negative value are measured at other assumptions are taken into account or other circumstances are present. the amount that is most favourable for the company if the obligation is settled or Significant estimates and judgements for the company are described below: transferred at the end of the reporting period. Network income and network expenses Hedge accounting Accrued network income and network expenses as well as the associated Hedge accounting is applied for derivatives that are included in a documented receivable and liability are calculated mainly on the basis of measured volumes, hedge relationship. The use of hedge accounting requires an explicit link to exist but a small portion refers to a share of estimated volume based on historical between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. It also requires the hedge data in combination with actual temperature data for the period. Income and to effectively protect against the risk that it is intended to hedge, that its effectiveexpenses are assessed and accrued on a monthly basis. Reconciliation of ness can be shown to be sufficiently high on an ongoing basis through effective­previous periods and potential adjustments are also made on a monthly basis. ness measurements and that hedge documentation has been established. The assessment of whether hedge accounting should be applied is made at the Useful life of concessions inception of the hedge relationship. Valuation is based on cost and accounting Concession to operate a grid are granted to network companies, apply until of the change in value is not recognised in the income statement as long as the ­further notice and can only be revoked in a potential bankruptcy situation or in hedge accounting is effective. The effectiveness of a hedge is evaluated when case of gross negligence. Under IAS 38, an intangible asset with an indefinite a hedge relationship is entered. Critical terms are i.e. reference interest rates, useful life should not be amortised but reviewed in each period to determine interest rate conversion days, payment days, electricity price area, maturity date whether events and circumstances continue to support the assessment of an and nominal amount. The hedged item and hedging instruments are evaluated indefinite useful life for the asset. Under RFR 2, IAS 38 should not be applied in on an ongoing basis to ensure that the relationship meets the requirements. If respect of the financial reporting of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. changed circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item to such an extent Instead, such assets should be amortised based on the same rules that apply that the critical conditions no longer match exactly with the critical instrument of for other intangible assets. As concessions to operate the grid apply until further the hedging instrument, the company uses the hypothetical derivative method to notice and thus have an indefinite useful life, the company considers that an evaluate its effectiveness. If the hedging relationship terminates or if the relationelected useful life of 100 years best reflects the company’s consumption of the ship is no longer considered effective, the derivative instrument with negative asset. The amortisation period and method are reviewed at the end of each value is recognized immediately in the income statement in accordance with financial year or more frequently. the lowest value principle. The company enters interest rate and currency interest rate swaps with equal Useful life of goodwill critical conditions as the hedged item, i.e. the loan. The company does not Goodwill arising from a merger has a useful life of 20 years. Goodwill has hedge 100% of the loans and therefore only identifies the proportion of the outarisen from a merger of an electricity distribution business, which is a stable, standing loans that correspond to the swaps’ nominal amount as the hedged long-term business with long-term investments, as reflected in the amortisation item. The company buys electricity to cover transmission losses in the distribution period. The amortisation period and method are reviewed at the end of each network. Future electricity purchases are therefore exposed to market price risk, financial year or more frequently. which the company hedges with electricity term contracts whose critical conditions match the forecast purchase. Electricity trading is done through the purUseful life of other intangible assets chase of the product’s system price (SYS) and area price differential (EPAD), The useful life of a part of IT investments related to systems for monitoring the which together secure the corresponding electricity price risk. The exposure is operation of the electricity network has been defined as 8 years based on the considered to be reliably measurable when trading takes place on an active minimum expected life of the monitoring system. Utility easements (including market. land leases) refer to contracts that give the company access to land belonging ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 55 NOTE 3 cont. to third parties for an indefinite period for the establishment of electricity network 31 Dec 2018 facilities. The company therefore considers the asset equivalent to land and no Nominal Fair Average amortisation is recognised. The value of u­ tility easements is tested for impairment amount value interest rate annually or when there is an indication of impairment. EUR converted into MSEK Maturity over 5 years 3,067 188 3,63 Useful life of property, plant and equipment Maturity over 10 years 3,109 166 4,18 The company has property, plant and equipment with a significant carrying amount, and assumptions about the useful lives of the assets involve the use of USD converted into MSEK estimates and assessments. These estimates are based on the status and con­ Maturity over 5 years 4,766 –189 2,83 dition of the assets and on historical knowledge of useful lives for equivalent Maturity over 10 years 4,036 –446 3,70 assets. Continuous inspections and monitoring activities are carried out to Total 14,978 –281 3,51 ensure that the company’s network assets are adequately maintained. 31 Dec 2017 Deferred tax and current tax Nominal Fair Average The company has deferred tax assets and liabilities that are expected to be amount value interest rate realised in the income statement over extended future periods. When calculating EUR converted into MSEK deferred tax, the company is required to make certain assumptions and Maturity over 5 years 3,067 39 3,63 ­estimates concerning the future tax consequences for temporary differences Maturity over 10 years 3,109 45 4,18 between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. USD converted into MSEK Maturity over 5 years 2,231 –255 2,67 Impairment of non-financial assets Maturity over 10 years 6,571 –1,049 3,42 The company has property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including goodwill, with significant carrying amounts, that are tested for impairment Total 14,978 –1,220 3,51 pursuant to the accounting policies listed in Note 2 Accounting policies. When The cross-currency interest rate swaps refer to hedging of loan capital and future the cash-generating units are tested for impairment, the calculations are based interest payments. Interest payments are made every six months, at which time on estimated future cash flow, which requires management to make assumptions the company settles the fixed interest amount in foreign currency and the fixed about future expectations. Impairment testing that has been conducted, and interest amount in SEK with its counterparty. These derivatives have been identi­significant estimates and assumptions are detailed in Note 17. fied as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge. Payments of interest and principal on the loan and derivatives are made at the same dates and the amount NOTE 4 for the hedged risk that has accumulated in equity is reclassified to the income FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS statement when the payment affects the income statement. Through its operations the company is exposed to various types of financial risks, such as market, liquidity and credit risks. Market risks consist mainly of Electricity price risk ­currency, electricity price and interest rate risks. The company enters into derivaElectricity price risk refers to the risk that future cash flows will fluctuate as a result tive transactions to mitigate these risks. Ultimate responsibility for defining the of changes in the electricity price. The company is exposed to electricity price framework and regulations for managing and monitoring the company’s finanrisk through its consumption of electricity in the form of transmission losses that cial risks rests with the Board of Directors. The framework and regulations are set arise in connection with the distribution of electricity. The company’s policy is to forth in a financial policy adopted by the Board that is reviewed annually. hedge forecast costs for future network losses. The company uses forwards ­contracts for this purpose. MARKET RISKS The following table shows outstanding electricity derivatives at the end of Currency risk the reporting period: Currency risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows will fluctuate as 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 a result of changes in exchange rates. The exposure to currency risk comes mainly Volume, Fair Volume, Fair from the company’s financing as well as payment flows in foreign currency. GWh value GWh value Maturity within 12 months 667 142 665 4 Transaction exposure Maturity within 1–5 years 676 64 668 15 Transaction exposure is the risk that earnings will be adversely affected by fluctuMaturity after 5 years – – – – ations caused by changes in exchange rates for cash flows in foreign currency. The company’s commercial transaction exposure is limited, as the company’s The hedged item consists of highly probable forecast transactions relating to inflows and outflows are mainly in SEK. purchases of electricity. Cash flows are expected to be generated in the periods in which the futures mature, as specified above, at which time the cumulative Balance sheet exposure change in value of the futures contract is reclassified from equity to profit or loss. Balance sheet exposure is the risk that the value of balance sheet items in foreign currency will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. A significant Interest rate risk portion of the company’s financing is in foreign currency but there is no other Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows will fluctu­significant exposure. ate as a result of changes in market interest rates. The company is mainly The company’s policy is to hedge all balance sheet exposures and contracted exposed to interest rate risk through its debt financing. Some borrowings are at cash flows in foreign currency. The company mainly uses cross-currency interest variable interest rates, which means that the company’s future financial expense rate swaps for this purpose. is affected by changes in market interest rates. The company manages the interAt the end of the reporting period the nominal amount of loans in foreign est rate risk in its financing by either borrowing at fixed interest rates or by using ­currency and corresponding outstanding cross-currency interest rate swaps interest rate swaps to hedge at fixed-rate terms for variable-rate loans. amounted to EUR 655 million (655) and USD 1,104.5 million (1,104.5). The tables below present fixed-rate terms for interest-bearing liabilities, includThe following table shows outstanding cross-currency interest rate swaps ing intra-Group loans, and interest rate derivatives based on nominal amounts at the end of the reporting period converted into SEK million: converted into SEK. 56 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 4 cont. Fixed-rate term 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Derivatives All derivatives are measured according to level 2. Interest rate swaps are meaWithin 12 months 1,842 2,807 sured by discounting future cash flows based on actual market interest rates Within 1–5 years – 3,273 (observable curves) and interest rates according the derivative agreement, Within 5–10 years 25,864 20,387 ­discounted with an interest that takes the credit risk of the counterparty into Over 10 years 30,182 30,226 account. For cross-currency interest rate swaps the currency at the end of the Total 57,888 56,693 reporting period is also considered. Electricity derivatives are measured by The company’s policy is to reduce the volatility of net financial income/ ­discounting future cash flows which are based on electricity price (observable expenses by mainly financing operations at fixed, long-term interest rates. The curves) and price according to the agreement, discounted with an interest that financial policy states that at least 75 percent of the external interest-bearing takes the credit risk of the counterparty into account. debt is to be financed or fixed at fixed interest rate. At the end of the reporting period, 95 percent of the company’s external debt was subject to fixed interest Financial liabilities rates after taking account of interest rate derivatives. The weighted average Measurement according to level 2 by discounting future cash flows based on interest rate on all borrowings, taking account of derivatives contracts, was 4.8 actual market interest rates (observable curves) and interest rates according the percent at the end of the reporting period. derivative agreement, discounted with a relevant swap curve. The company applies hedge accounting. The hedge is a cash flow hedge. During 2018, the company has closed interest rate swaps which resulted in an LIQUIDITY AND FINANCING RISK unrealised loss of SEK 377 million. During the period SEK 375 million (127) Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the company will struggle to meet its obligations was recognised in the income statement in respect of the market valuation of related to financial liabilities or other payment obligations. Financing risk refers to derivatives attributable to this hedge that do not meet the criteria for hedge the risk that the company will be unable to obtain sufficient financing at a reasonaccounting, of which SEK 366 million is attributable to the interest rate swaps able cost. To reduce its liquidity risk and financing risk, the financial policy states that was realised during the year. Derivatives recognised in accordance with that the company must at all times maintain a liquidity reserve consisting of cash the lower of cost are measured on the basis of contractual cash flows disand cash equivalents and binding loan commitments of at least 1.1 times the sum counted at market interest rates at the end of the reporting period. of forecast liquidity uses for the coming 12-month period. At the end of the reportThe following table shows outstanding interest rate swaps at the end of the ing period, the company’s cash and cash equivalents excluding customer deposreporting period: its amounted to SEK 45 million (1), while guaranteed loan commitments amounted to SEK 10,066 million (9,857). The company’s total loans amounted 31 Dec 2018 to SEK 57,870 million (56,693) at the end of the reporting period, of which SEK Nominal Fair Average 38,649 million (35,528) referred to external loans and SEK 19,176 million amount value interest rate (21,164) referred to interest-bearing loans from Group companies. No more Maturity within 12 months – – – than 25 percent of the total outstanding externals loans may be repayable in any Maturity within 1–5 years – – – single calendar year and the average remaining maturity of the total volume of Maturity over 5 years 8,421 –507 1,66 external loans must always exceed five years. At the end of the reporting period, Maturity over 10 years –955 –13 1,51 the average remaining maturity for external loans was 8,6 years (8.5 The matuTotal 7,466 –520 1,68 rity structure of contractual payment obligations related to the company’s financial liabilities excluding derivatives is presented in the following table. The amounts in the table are not discounted values and also include any interest 31 Dec 2017 payments and amortisations, which means that they cannot be reconciled to the Nominal Fair Average amounts presented in the balance sheet. Amounts in foreign currency have been amount value interest rate converted into SEK at the fixed currency hedging rate or the rates at the end of Maturity within 12 months – – the reporting period. Maturity within 1–5 years 3 273 –429 4,73 Maturity over 5 years 10 000 –564 1,66 Within Over Maturity over 10 years –955 –22 1,51 31 Dec 2018 12 months 1–5 years 5 years Total Total 12 318 –1 015 2,49 Interest-bearing liabilities 1,296 8,853 56,424 66,573 Trade payables 818 – – 818 Normally Ellevio enters into interest rate swaps agreements whereby the comTotal 2,114 8,853 56,424 67,391 pany receives a cash flow based on short-term variable interest rate and pays a cash flow based on a fixed interest rate. Payments of interest under the interest The maturity structure of contractual payment obligations related to the comparate swaps are made mainly on a quarterly basis, at which time the company ny’s derivatives is presented in the table below. The amounts in the table are not settles the variable interest amount and fixed-interest amount in SEK with the discounted values. The table is based on net inflows and outflows for derivatives counterparty. These derivatives have been identified as hedging instruments in that are settled on a net basis and gross inflows and outflows for those derivaa cash flow hedge. Payments of interest and principal on the loans and derivatives that cannot be settled on a net basis. tives are made at the same dates. Interest payments and electricity prices have been determined on the basis of the circumstances applying at the end of the reporting period. Amounts in forSensitivity analysis eign currency have been converted into SEK at the rates at the end of the reportAt 31 December 2018, around 5 (5) percent of the debt portfolio, including ing period. intra-Group loans, was subject to variable interest rates. The effect of a 1 perWithin Over cent change in the interest rate for the debt portfolio is SEK 16 million (21) for 31 Dec 2018 12 months 1–5 years 5 years Total 2019. Electricity derivatives ­(net receivable) 140 67 – 206 Valuation of financial instruments to fair value Cross-currency interest rate swaps Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the balance sheet, or (liabilities) –528 –2,117 –3,054 –5,699 where information is provided about fair value, are classified in three levels Cross-currency interest rate swaps (1–3) based on the information which is used to determine the fair value. (receivables) 473 1,892 2,775 5,140 Interest rate swaps ­(net debt) –175 –702 –292 –1,169 Total –90 –861 –570 –1,523 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 57 NOTE 4 cont. CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK approximately SEK 19.1 billion. To further strengthen its capital structure, the Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will cause a loss company repaid existing junior debt within the Group in 2018 and issued a by failing to fulfil its contractual obligations. The company’s exposure to credit 7-year fixed-rate class B bond at a value of SEK 3 billion. In addition to the issue risk is primarily attributable to trade receivables and derivatives. The company’s of class B debt, the company took on new long-term class A debt in the form of derivatives are transacted with counterparties with a minimum credit rating of two separate fixed-rate bilateral loans. In May, the company contracted a BBB+ (S&P, Fitch) or Baa1 (Moody’s). Trade receivables are spread across a 15-year loan at a value of SEK 1,500 million from the Nordic Investment Bank large number of customers and no individual customer accounts for a significant (NIB), as well as an 11-year loan at a value of SEK 1,500 million from Export share of the company’s total trade receivables. Nor are the company’s trade Development Canada (EDC) in August. receivables concentrated to a specific geographic area. The total sales to the Ellevio’s senior class A debt has a “BBB” credit score (stable outlook) and its single biggest customer equals approximately 1.1 percent of the company’s net subordinated class B debt has a rating of “BB+” from Standard & Poor’s. sales, see also Note 20. The company therefore considers the concentration The company monitors its capital structure by calculating the leverage ratio risks to be limited. The company’s credit risk in relation to external banks arising and the interest coverage ratio from cash and cash equivalents is deemed to be low, as the majority of the Leverage ratio 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 ­company’s liquid assets are held in the Swedish banking system. Interest-bearing liabilities 57,870 56,693 The exposure to credit risk is offset by the carrying amounts of financial Less intra-Group interest-bearing liabilities –19,176 –21,164 assets excluding derivatives and is presented in the table below. Less cash and cash equivalents excl. customer deposits –45 –1 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 External net debt 38,649 35,528 Trade receivables 1,098 632 Operating profit 2,067 2,161 Other current receivables 1,706 988 Plus depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,121 2,046 Cash and cash equivalents 45 1 EBITDA 4,188 4,207 Total 2,849 1,620 Items affecting comparability 39 23 Comparable EBITDA 4,227 4,230 CAPITAL STRUCTURE Leverage ratio 9.1 8.4 The company’s target is to maintain an efficient capital structure that minimises the cost of the sum of equity and debt while ensuring long-term access to debt financing. The company is primarily financed through external loans amounting NOTE 5 to about SEK 38.6 billion. The external debt consists of various types of debt SEGMENT REPORTING Operating segments are reported in compliance that are all managed through an established financing platform based on a with the internal reporting ­submitted to the highest Executive Officer. The highest Common Terms Agreement, where all lenders have common terms and condiExecutive Officer is the function responsible for allocating resources and assessing tions and are equal from securitisation point of view (senior Class A debt). the operating segment results. In the company, this function has been identified as Almost half of the external loans are listed on the Irish stock exchange. The the CEO. The company reports its activities as one segment in the internal reporting. ­company is also financed with internal loans from Ellevio Holding 4 AB, which ­consists of loans from the Group’s shareholders to Ellevio Holding 1 AB of NOTE 6 NET SALES BY REGULATED ENTITY 2018 Distribution revenue Connection fees Other network related services Total Local networks Central Sweden 4,954 13 36 5,003 Local networks West Coast 1,006 3 1 1,010 Regional networks Rest of Sweden 818 5 24 847 Regional networks Stockholm 38 – 77 115 Total 6,817 20 137 6,974 1) In 2018the network area Local networks Stockholm, Local networks West Svealand and Local networks South Norrland were reported together within the reporting area local networks Central Sweden in accordance with the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate’s decision and joint price-setting policy. 2017 Distribution revenue Connection fees Other network related services Total Local networks Stockholm 2,788 143 31 2,962 Local networks West Svealand 1,225 19 3 1,247 Local networks West Coast 989 37 1 1,027 Local networks South Norrland 724 16 0 740 Regional networks Rest of Sweden 803 8 10 821 Regional networks Stockholm 37 0 60 97 Total 6,566 223 105 6,894 Revenue is essentially attributable to services provided to customers over time. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is applicable to the fiscal year services that are recognised as revenue over time. The company´s contractual starting 1 January 2018. As a result of this new standard, any revenue recognition assets consist of delivered ­network services that are not yet invoiced to the customrelating to connection services or which is not attributable to revenue for connecters. Contractual assets is included in the item accrued distribution revenue, note ing wind power to regional networks has impacted the company’s financial state23. Contractual debt consists of accrued connection services that are recognised ments for the 2018 fiscal year. Ellevio has opted to apply the standard prospecas revenue over time and is included in the item longand short-term liabilities, note tively, meaning no comparative figures have been recalculated, see Note 2 for 26 and note 28. more information. The company’s contractual debt consists of accrued connection 58 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 6 cont. Contractual assets and contractual liabilities 2018 2017 Operating leases – lessor Leases refer to the lease of premises, capacity in the fibre-optic network and Contractual assets and contractual liabilities consists of the following items as of 31 December: space in masts and poles. Lease income during the financial year totalled SEK 8 Contractual assets 869 826 million (8). Future minimum lease expenses under non-cancellable ­operating Contractual liabilities – Long-term –528 –194 leases fall due as follows: Contractual liabillities – Short-term –14 –9 2018 2017 Net of contractual assets Maturity: (contractual liabilities) 327 623 Within 1 year 7 7 1–5 years 8 10 Revenue reported during the period, as of: 2018 2017 Later than 5 years 4 5 Revenue included in opening balance in items: Total 20 22 Contractual assets 826 808 Contractual liabilities 5 4 NOTE 10 EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS NOTE 7 Average numbers of employees 2018 2017 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Women 128 120 2018 2017 Men 337 313 Communication income 11 7 Total 465 433 Rental income 8 7 Reconnection income 5 5 Number of directors and senior executives 2018 2017 Network monitoring services 4 4 Women: Reminder fees 28 26 Board of Directors 2 3 Other operating income 37 20 Other senior executives 6 6 Total 93 70 Men: Board of Directors 7 6 NOTE 8 Other senior executives including the CEO 5 5 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS Total 20 20 KSEK 2018 2017 Salaries and remuneration 2018 2017 Ernst & Young AB Salaries and other remuneration to Directors, Audit engagement –790 – the CEO and other senior executives –30 –25 Audit activities in addition to audit engagement –105 – Salaries and other remuneration to other employees –263 –236 Deloitte AB Pension costs for Directors, CEO and other senior executives –5 –4 Audit engagement – –780 Pension costs for other employees –42 –40 Audit activities in addition to audit engagement – –76 Social security contributions –106 –94 Tax advisory services – –360 Total –446 –399 Other services – –467 Total –895 –1,683 Remuneration of the Board of Directors, CEO and senior executives Audit engagements refer to the auditor’s remuneration for the statutory audit, The Board of Directors consist of seven Board members and two employee repwhich comprises the audit of the annual report and accounting records, and the resentatives. The table below shows total remuneration to the Board of DirecBoard of Directors’ and CEO’s management as well as fees for audit advice tors, the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives, who are defined provided in connection with the audit engagement. Other services largely as the management team of the company. The table considers any changes ­comprise advice and assessment of the company’s refinancing in 2017. made to both the Board of Directors and the management team during the year. NOTE 9 LEASES Operating leases – lessee 2018 2017 Expense for the year, operating leases Lease expenses –139 –127 Total –139 –127 Leases refer primarily to land leases and rents for stations. At the end of the reporting period the outstanding obligations in the form of minimum lease expenses under non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: 2018 2017 Maturity: Within 1 year 140 126 1–5 years 198 215 Later than 5 years 446 452 Total 784 793 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 59 NOTE 10 cont. Remuneration and other benefits 2018 Base salary/ Variable remuOther Pension Capital value of KSEK Board fees neration1) benefits2) costs3) TOTAL pension ­commitment Sören Mellstig (Chairman of the Board) –1,400 –1,400 Oskar Backman (Board member) – Ralph Berg (Board member) – Mattias Bylund (Board member) – Jens Henriksson (Board member) – Colin Hood (Board member) –570 –570 Karin Jarl Månsson (Board member) –350 –350 Johan Lindehag (CEO) –2,282 –3,218 –71 –707 –6,279 –540 Other senior executives (10 persons) –11,099 –10,293 –239 –4,291 –25,922 –265 Total –15,701 –13,511 –310 –4,998 –34,521 –805 1) The variable remuneration consists of both expensed bonuses (short-term incentives, STIs) that will be paid during following year, and expensed long-term incentives (LTIs) that will be paid out in during the three following years. For further information on variable remuneration, please see information below on STIs and LTIs. 2) Other benefits mainly consist of company cars. 3) Disclosures on pension costs refer to pension premiums expensed for the financial year Remureration and other benefits 2017 Base salary/ Variable remuOther Pension Capital value of KSEK Board fees neration1) benefits2) costs3) TOTAL pension ­commitment Sören Mellstig (Chairman of the Board) –1,400 –1,400 Oskar Backman (Board member) – Ralph Berg (Board member) – Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd (Board member) –233 –233 Jens Henriksson (Board member) – Colin Hood (Board member) –535 –535 Nicola Shaw (Board member) –535 –535 Johan Lindehag (CEO) –2,253 –1,958 –30 –701 –4,942 –281 Other senior executives (10 persons) –11,335 –6,810 –207 –3,452 –21,804 –116 Total –16,291 –8,768 –237 –4,153 –29,449 –397 1) The variable remuneration consists of both expensed bonuses (short-term incentives, STIs) that will be paid during following year, and expensed long-term incentives (LTIs) that will be paid out in during the three ­following years. For further information on variable remuneration, please see information below on STIs and LTIs. 2) Other benefits mainly consist of company cars. 3) Disclosures on pension costs refer to pension premiums expensed for the financial year. Ellevio’s principles for the remuneration of senior executives state that the comSHORT-TERM INCENTIVES (STI) pany shall offer market-based terms of employment that enable the company Ellevio’s STI programme is designed to support the achievement of the compato recruit, develop and retain senior executives. The total remuneration package ny’s financial and other relevant non-financial targets on an annual basis. All consists of a combination of a fixed monthly salary, variable remuneration, employees are covered by the programme. The financial targets are the same ­pensions and other benefits. for all employees including the CEO and the management team and constitute In 2018, the CEO received a fixed salary of SEK 2,282 thousands (2,253) 70 percent of the performance evaluation. The non-financial targets are teamand variable remuneration of SEK 3,218 thousands (1,958). Variable remunerbased targets and constitute 30 percent of the target evaluation. The award target ation consists of a short-term incentive corresponding to 0–100 percent of the level is 5 percent of the annual salary for employees in general, with a maximum fixed annual salary, and a long-term incentive corresponding to 0–100 percent award of 10 percent. For the CEO, other senior executives and key employees of the yearly fixed salary. Variable remuneration does not constitute pensionas designated by management, the award target level is 10–25 percent of the able salary, nor is it a basis for holiday pay. (For further information on variable annual salary, with a maximum award of 20–50 percent. Awards from the STI remuneration, please see information below on STIs and LTIs). programme are paid in cash in April the year after the performance year. ­The CEO and all other senior executives in the management team are ­covered by a defined contribution pension plan that is entirely based on LONG-TERM INCENTIVES (LTI) ­premiums, under which premiums comprise 30 percent of the fixed annual The CEO and members of the company’s management team are covered by a ­salary (see Note 11). For 2018, pension premiums were expensed in accorlong-term incentive program. The purpose of the programme is to support the dance with the table above. The retirement age for the CEO and the managedelivery of sustainable, long-term performance, and align the interests of manment team is 65 years. The period of notice for the CEO’ is six months both for agement with those of the shareholders as well as assist in committing and retainresignation and when termination is initiated by the company. If the CEO is tering senior management. The LTI program is a cash-based supplement to the fixed minated by the company, a compensation equivalent up to twelve months’ salannual salary. The award target level is 30–50 percent of the annual salary ary is payable in addition to the salary during the notice period. Any income depending on responsibility area, with a maximum award of 60–100 percent. from any other employment and/or any other proceeds from other business Each LTI plan consists of a three-year earnings period and is contingent on activity during the period for which the CEO receives severance pay shall be the participant remaining employed by the company throughout the period of deducted from the severance pay. No other remuneration is paid if the CEO the programme. The outcome of the programme is calculated annually and resigns. During the year, one senior executive has resigned and will receive accumulated over the three-year period and any payments are made in April ­salary during an extended notice period until August 2019. The employment the year after the programme ends. The first programme that was established in terms of other senior executives are consistent with market employment terms 2016 is exceptional and has a two-year earnings period with payouts to be and there are no agreements providing for termination salary in excess of six made in April 2018. The reward is recognised as an expense during the earnmonths or agreements on severance pay. ing period with a corresponding increase in liability, along with related accrual for social security contributions. 60 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 11 Defined contribution pension plans PENSIONS The company pays fixed premiums to a number of different insurance companies. Upon payment of the premiums, the company has fulfilled its obligation in All employees are covered by collective agreements and the company’s penrespect of pension payments. Defined contribution plans are charged to income sion obligations comprise both defined-contribution and defined benefit penstatement in the period in which the employee performs his or her services. sion plans. The company has elected not to apply the provisions of IAS 19 in a legal entity, which means that the company’s defined-benefit pension plans are Total premiums paid during the year in respect of defined benefit treated as defined contribution plans and charged to income statement as preand defined contribution plans miums are paid. A description of the company’s defined benefit pension plans and information on the fair values of pension obligations and plan assets in 2018 2017 accordance with IAS 19 are provided in the following. Cost in profit/loss for the year Costs relating to services during current period –47 –44 Defined benefit pension plans Total –47 –44 The company has undertaken to make predetermined payments to the employee on or after retirement. The company has the following defined benefit pension plans: PA-KL (including SPP), Birkaplanen and the ITP 2 Plan. PA-KL NOTE 12 DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF (including SPP) is a plan for municipal employees in Sweden. There are curINTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT rently no active employees in that plan. The plan is administered and valued by SPP. Birkaplanen is an alternative ITP plan. The benefits are administered by and 2018 2017 secured through an insurance policy with Skandia Liv. The ITP 2 Plan is partly Amortisation of intangible assets –741 –740 closed, which means that only new employees born before 1979 have the Depreciation of buildings and land improvements –28 –30 option of choosing the ITP 2 solution. The ITP 2 Plan is insured with Alecta. Depreciation of machinery and other technical plant –1,339 –1,266 According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10 Depreciation of equipment, tools and facilities –13 –10 Recognition of the ITP 2 Plan Funded through Insurance with Alecta, this is a Total –2,121 –2,046 defined benefit plan covering several employers. For the 2018 financial year, the company has not had access to information that would enable it to account for its proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, assets and expenses. It has NOTE 13 therefore not been possible to recognise the plan as a defined benefit plan. The INTEREST INCOME AND SIMILAR ITEMS ITP 2 pension plan secured through an insurance policy with Alecta is therefore 2018 2017 recognised as a defined contribution plan. The premium cost for the defined External interest income 2 1 benefit age and family pension plan is calculated on individual basis and Proceeds of sale shares in group companies 35 – depends on such factors as salary, previous pension earnings and expected remaining worktime. Forecasted premium cost for the next reporting period for Dividend received 21 – the ITP-2 plan with Alecta is expected to be SEK 24 million (19). The company’s Total 58 1 share of the combined fees to the plan, and the company’s total number of active members in the plan is considered to be an insignificant share. NOTE 14 The collective consolidation level comprises the market value of Alecta’s INTEREST EXPENSE AND SIMILAR ITEMS assets as a percentage of insurance commitments calculated in line with Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. The 2018 2017 collective consolidation level is normally permitted to vary between 125 perExternal interest expense –1,755 –1,340 cent and 155 percent. If Alecta’s collective consolidation level falls below Intra-Group interest expense –1,609 –1,656 125 percent or exceeds 155 percent, measures must be taken to create the reqDerivatives that do not meet the criteria uisite conditions for the level of consolidation to return to normal. One possible for hedge accounting 375 127 measure to address a low consolidation level is to raise the contractual price for Other financial expenses –30 –43 new subscriptions and expansion of existing benefits. One possible measure to Total –3,019 –2,912 address a high consolidation level is to introduce reduced premiums. At yearend 2018, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective consolidation level was NOTE 15 142 percent (154). APPROPRIATIONS The company’s defined benefit obligations in the Group’s annual report that are presented below have been calculated based on the salary levels applying 2018 2017 at each end of the reporting period and using a discount rate of 2.3 percent Group contributions received 1,514 1,493 (2.4). Assumed annual returns are defined by the company. Group contributions paid 0 0 Reverse of depreciations above plan 74 – Defined benefit pension plans in the consolidated balance sheet Distribution to tax allocation reserve –125 –286 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Total 1,463 1,207 Total present value of defined benefit obligations 125 149 Fair value of plan assets 155 187 Net amount, defined benefit pension plans 31 38 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 61 NOTE 16 TAX 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities The company’s deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities refer to the Current tax ­following items: Current tax on profit for the year –83 –189 Current tax attributable to prior years 0 –1 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets Deferred tax attributable to temporary differences –82 21 Doubtful receivables 1 0 Deferred tax attributable to prior years –19 0 Unrealised losses on derivatives – 85 Deferred tax attributable to revaluation of tax rate 895 – Other 0 0 Total 711 –169 Deferred tax assets 2 86 Deferred tax liability Reconciliation, tax expense for the year 2018 2017 Surplus value concessions 8,051 8,646 Profit/loss before tax 569 457 Buildings and land improvements 141 152 Tax calculated at Swedish rate (22%) –125 –101 Residual value depreciation, machinery and Tax effect, permanent items: ­equipment 5,121 5,293 Non-deductible depreciation on goodwill –66 –66 Deferred tax liability 13,313 14,091 Non-taxable income 29 0 Net deferred tax liabilities 13,311 14,005 Other items –2 –2 Current tax attributable to prior years 0 –1 Deferred tax assets are measured at the highest amount that is likely to be recovered based on current and future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets and tax Tax effect, temporary items: liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax Depreciation of fixed assets 1 –43 assets against current tax liabilities, when the deferred taxes relate to the same Change in market value unrealised derivatives 82 28 taxation authority and the taxes can be settled on a net basis. Other items –1 –6 The Swedish parliament has resolved to reduce corporation tax in two Change in deferred tax –82 21 stages. On 1 January 2019 this tax will be reduced to 21.4% before being Deferred tax attributable to previous years –19 0 ­further reduced on 1 January 2021 to 20.6%. Ellevio has considerable amounts Revaluation of deferred tax attributable to new of deferred tax and the company has revalued the deferred tax liabilities in line Swedish tax rates (21.4% and 20.6%) 895 – with the tax rate that best corresponds to the period in which the underlying Total 711 –169 ­temporary difference will be realised. The reduction in corporation tax resulted Recognised tax expense for the year 711 –169 in a positive one-off item of SEK 895 million. NOTE 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Projects in progress Utility and advance 2018 Goodwill Concessions IT systems easements payments Total COST at 1 January 2018 6,005 40,339 452 163 77 47,035 Costs incurred during the year – – – – 103 103 Disposals/retirements – – – – – – Acquisition value through merger 51 157 – – – 208 Reclassifications – – – – – – Classification of capitalised costs – – 52 16 –68 0 Accumulated cost at 31 December 2018 6,056 40,496 503 180 112 47,347 Depreciation at 1 January 2018 –772 –1,040 –358 – – –2,170 Disposals/retirements – – – – – – Reclassifications – – – – – – Depreciation for the year –301 –404 –36 – – –741 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2018 –1,074 –1,444 –393 – – –2,911 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 4,983 39,051 110 180 112 44,436 At the end of the reporting period, there were commitments to acquire intangible fixed assets amounting to SEK 34 million (3). The useful life of a part of IT investments related to systems for monitoring the operation of the electricity network has been defined as 8 years based on the ­minimum expected life of the monitoring system. The cost amounts to SEK 32 million (32) and the residual value per 2018-12-31 amounted to SEK 19 million (23). 62 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 17 cont. Projects in progress Utility and advance 2017 Goodwill Concessions IT systems easements payments Total COST at 1 January 2017 5,967 40,235 421 141 59 46,823 Costs incurred during the year – – – – 49 49 Disposals/retirements – – – – – – Acquisition value through merger 38 104 – – – 142 Reclassifications – – – – 22 22 Classification of capitalised costs – – 31 22 –53 – Accumulated cost at 31 December 2017 6,005 40,339 452 163 77 47,035 Depreciation at 1 January 2017 –472 –637 –321 – – –1,430 Disposals/retirements – – – – – – Reclassifications – – – – – – Depreciation for the year –300 –403 –37 – – –740 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2018 –772 –1,040 –358 – – –2,170 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 5,233 39,298 94 163 77 44,865 Impairment testing company’s long-term investment plans, assumptions concerning the company’s The company’s non-financial assets excl. goodwill are divided into four cash-­ evolution of costs for both investments and operating costs in relation to regulagenerating units and equated with the regulated entities into which the company is tory norm-/reference costs and regulatory rate of return (WACC). The assumpdivided pursuant to its reports to the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate. tion for the regulatory weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is based on Goodwill is based on synergies among the cash-generating units and are attribthe new regulation resolved by the government in August 2018 for the period utable to the company’s overall earnings capacity. Accordingly, goodwill is 2020–2023. Ellevio does not feel that this regulation provides sufficient incenallocated to the company level when testing for impairment requirements. tive to implement necessary investments to develop the electricity network and thus enable society’s energy transition. Cash flows from 2024 and onwards are 31 Dec 2018 Goodwill Concessions based on an assumption of a return to a long-term sustainable rate of return. Local networks Central Sweden 28,057 After the 40-year period a growth rate of 2 percent is applied, which coincides Local networks West Coast 7,717 with the company’s long-term assumption of inflation and long-term growth. The Regional networks Rest of Sweden 2,737 company’s future cash flow is discounted to its value of use with a discount factor Regional networks Stockholm 540 of 5.6 percent after tax. Assumptions of the discount rate are based on external Common 4,983 observable market information for similar assets. The discount rate is consistently used for all cash-generating units, based on the notion that they all adhere to the Carrying amount 4,983 39,051 same regulatory framework. The annual test for possible impairment performed The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset less selling in the fourth quarter of 2018 shows that there is no need for impairment. The costs and its value in use. The recoverable amount for a cash-generating unit is company has evaluated the sensitivity in the assumptions on which the impairdetermined by calculating the value in use. In measuring value in use, the calcument test is based. The calculations mainly depend on assumptions related to lation is based on estimated future cash flows based on financial forecasts the regulatory rate of return and discount rate. Since these two parameters are approved by management covering a period of 40 years, of which the first five strongly connected it does not provide a true or fair outcome to adjust these years are based on detailed business plans. The 40-year forecast period cor­ parameters independently of each other. Sensitivity analysis shows that a 5 perresponds approximately with the regulatory lifetime of the electricity distribution cent reduction in the long-term regulatory rate of return, all other factors remainassets, which also conforms well with the investment cycle. Determination of ing equal, does not cause any need for impairment. However sensitivity analysis future cash flow is made by calculating how allowed revenue is expected to including an increase of the discount rate by 0,25 percent after tax, all other facevolve over time, based on an assumption that the current regulatory model will tors remaining equal, shows a need for impairment by SEK 300 million of the remain valid for future regulatory periods. The calculations are based on the cash generating unit Local networks Västkusten. ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 63 NOTE 18 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Machinery and Assets under Buildings Land other technical Equipment, tools construction and 2018 and land ­improvements plant and facilities advance payments Total Cost at 1 January 2018 1,323 21 47,284 158 2,476 51,263 Costs incurred during the year – – – – 2,767 2,767 Disposals/retirements –22 – –262 –24 – –308 Acquisition value through merger 39 – 654 25 24 742 Reclassifications – – 1 –1 – – Classification of capitalised costs 11 – 2,293 22 –2,326 – Accumulated cost at 31 December 2018 1,351 21 49,971 180 2,942 54,467 Depreciation at 1 January 2018 –472 –20 –20,932 –122 – –21,546 Disposals/retirements 16 – 235 22 – 273 Accumulated depreciations through merger –18 – –227 –21 – –266 Reclassifications – – –1 1 – – Depreciation for the year –28 –1 –1,339 –13 – –1,381 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2018 –500 –20 –22,264 –135 – –22,920 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 850 1 27,706 46 2,942 31,546 At the end of the reporting period, there were commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment amounting to SEK 2,686 million (2,821). Machinery and Assets under Buildings Land other technical Equipment, tools construction and 2017 and land ­improvements plant and facilities advance payments Total Cost at 1 January 2017 1,311 21 45,710 129 1,681 48,852 Costs incurred during the year – – – – 2,332 2,332 Disposals/retirements –3 – –240 –1 – –244 Acquisition value through merger 11 – 324 1 10 345 Reclassifications – – – – –22 –22 Classification of capitalised costs 4 – 1,491 29 –1,524 0 Accumulated cost at 31 December 2017 1,323 21 47,284 158 2,476 51,263 Depreciation at 1 January 2017 –443 –19 –19,880 –112 – –20,454 Disposals/retirements 0 – 216 0 – 216 Accumulated depreciations through merger 0 – –3 0 – –3 Reclassifications – – – – – – Depreciation for the year –29 –1 –1,266 –10 – –1,305 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2017 –472 –20 –20,932 –122 – –21,546 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 852 1 26,352 36 2,476 29,718 NOTE 19 NOTE 20 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES TRADE RECEIVABLES 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Cost at 1 January 0 0 Trade receivables, gross 1,104 641 Carrying amount at 31 December1) 0 0 Provision for doubtful receivables –6 –10 1) The carrying amount at 31 December 2018 was SEK 32,000 (32,000). Trade receivables, net after provisions for doubtful receivables 1,098 632 Share of Share of Number Value Name equity2) votes of shares 31 Dec 2018 Management deems the carrying amount of trade receivables, net after Triangelbolaget 25% 25% 525 0 ­provisions for doubtful receivables, to be the same as fair value. For the year 2018, energy tax is also included in the amount trade receivName Corp. ID no. Reg. office ables since tax liability for energy tax has been taken over by the electricity disTriangelbolaget 556007–9799 Stockholm tribution companies as of January 1 2018. 2) The share of equity is the same as share of votes. 64 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 20 cont. Changes in provisions for doubtful receivables NOTE 25 31 Dec 2018 UNTAXED RESERVES Provisions for doubtful receivables at 1 January –10 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Provisions for doubtful receivables for the year –6 Tax allocation reserve 1,198 1,069 Write-offs 3 Total 1,198 1,069 Reversal of unused amount 7 Provisions at 31 December –6 NOTE 26 Provisions for NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES doubtful 31 Dec 2018 Gross receivables Net 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Not yet payable 1,063 –1 1,062 Maturity within 1–5 years 5.382 9,480 30 days past due 25 –1 24 Maturity over 5 years 52.434 47,001 31–60 days past due 4 –0 4 Total carrying amount 57.817 56,480 61–90 days past due 1 –0 1 > 90 days past due 11 –3 7 The nominal amount of the long-term loans at the end of the reporting period Total 1,104 –6 1,098 was SEK 57,477 million (56,184). The company’s utilised overdraft facilities totalled SEK 392 million (136) and The company’s assessment is that payment will be received for trade receivare included in the item “Current liabilities to credit institutions.” The limit on the ables that are due but have not yet been impaired, as the customers’ payment overdraft facility is SEK 1,000 million (300). histories are favourable. NOTE 27 NOTE 21 LIABILITIES TO GROUP COMPANIES RECEIVABLES FROM GROUP COMPANIES 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Accrued interest – 38 Receivable, group contributions 1,514 1,493 Other liabilities 1 – Other receivables 0 0 Total 1 38 Total 1,515 1,493 NOTE 28 NOTE 22 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Restructuring reserve 8 0 Settlement account for taxes and fees 6 0 Liability, VAT 206 111 Settlement, billing agent 284 154 Energy tax 1,168 – Other current receivables 1 1 Employer contributions and deduction Total 291 155 of withholding tax 14 13 Repayments to customers 2 1 Disruption and damage compensation to customers 0 10 NOTE 23 Advances received 26 23 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME Periodised connection services 14 9 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Other current liabilities 10 – Accrued distribution revenue 869 826 Total 1,448 167 Accrued energy tax 543 – Accrued interest income 159 165 NOTE 29 Prepaid rents 27 25 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Other items 18 21 Total 1,616 1,037 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Accrued interest 495 441 Accrued salaries 60 55 NOTE 24 Accrued social security contributions 23 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Deferred income 3 2 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Accrued investment expenses 193 117 Available balances with banks and other Accrued transmission costs 86 74 credit institutions 45 1 Accrued measurement value costs 4 10 Customer deposits 11 9 Accrued rents 29 28 Total 56 10 Accrued field services 245 131 Accrued customer service costs 8 9 Other items 48 56 Total 1,195 944 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 65 NOTE 30 RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Non-cash items Capitalized Unrealised Periodised 31 Dec 2017 Cash flows interest contracts financing costs 31 Dec 2018 Liabilities to Group companies 21,131 –3,500 1,512 33 19,176 Current liabilities to credit institutions 509 –117 392 Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 5,005 265 86 5,356 Bonds 29,749 2,980 3 32,732 Derivatives 388 –377 2 13 Total liabilities from financing activities 56,782 –749 1,512 2 122 57,669 Non-cash items Capitalized Unrealised Periodised 31 Dec 2016 Cash flows interest contracts financing costs 31 Dec 2017 Liabilities to Group companies 20,490 –421 1,049 14 21,131 Current liabilities to credit institutions 130 378 509 Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 14,513 –9,645 138 5,005 Bonds 19,099 10,635 14 29,749 Derivatives 515 –122 –5 388 Total liabilities from financing activities 54,747 825 1,049 –5 166 56,782 NOTE 31 NOTE 32 MERGER PLEDGED ASSETS In 2018, Ellevio AB acquired the Group company Elverket Vallentuna AB, 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 corporate ID number 556577-2171 and the subsidiary Elverket Vallentuna Floating charges 136 136 Elnät AB, corporate ID number 556907-2134, from Ellevio Holding 1 AB. As Property mortgages 462 462 of October 1 2018, the acquired companies were merged with Ellevio AB. Bank deposits 45 1 The income statement for Ellevio AB for 2018 includes SEK 88 million in net Total 643 599 profit, SEK 23 million in operating profit and SEK 57 million from financial items that relate to the income statements from Elverket Vallentuna AB and Vallentuna Elnät AB before the merger (taking account of elimination of internal transactions between the companies). In the merger, goodwill on consolidation from intangible and tangible assets and the related deferred tax and depreciations were taken over by Ellevio AB. A merger difference of SEK 121 million was booked to equity. The balance items are allocated follows: Assets Goodwill 51 Surplus value concessions 157 Surplus value buildings and land 15 Surplus value machinery, equipment and tools 454 Projects in progress and advanced ­payments 20 Current assets 47 Cash and cash equivalents 28 Total assets 771 Equity and liabilities Untaxed reserves 78 Deferred tax liabilities 98 Current liabilities 15 Total equity and liabilities 191 66 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 33 NOTE 35 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS The company’s balances with Group companies mainly consist of interest-bearing The following earnings are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: liabilities and related interest expenses to the parent company, Ellevio Holding 4 Retained earnings 6, 048 AB. The company has not been involved in any significant transactions with board Profit/loss for the year 1,280 members or with members of the management team. No loans exists for any mem7,328 ber of the board or management team as at 31 December 2018. Information on transactions with related parties is provided in Notes 4, 14, 21 and 27. The Board of Directors proposes: Retained earnings to be carried forward 7,328 NOTE 34 7,328 GROUP STRUCTURE Company Corp. ID No. Share (%) NOTE 36 Ellevio Holding 1 AB 559005–2444 100% SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE PERIOD Elverket Entreprenad AB 556910–6791 100% In early 2019 Ellevio announced its investment plans for the next regulatory Laforsen Produktionsnät AB 556050–9191 100% period of 2020–2023. Ellevio has adjusted the plans in order to adapt to the Ellevio Holding 2 AB 559001–1937 100% new regulation entailing lower permitted revenue. During the period Ellevio will Ellevio Holding 3 AB 559005–2436 100% invest SEK 4.3 billion in the network, referred to as basic investments, that Ellevio Holding 4 AB 559005–2451 100% include reinvestments and new investments in expanding capacity in the existing Ellevio AB (publ) 556037–7326 100% networks. This will lead to a more than 40% reduction compared to the original plans and investments between 2016–2019 – a reduction that will negatively impact the electricity infrastructure and society as a whole. The focus of investments will continue to be placed on weather-proofing the networks in rural areas and ensuring there is sufficient capacity in cities to enable the expansion of the underground network in Stockholm, for example. Ellevio’s view of the regulation is that its framework does not support the long-term goal of ensuring the maintenance of the network’s high level of reliability and enabling the transition to a climate-smart society. On 22 January 2019, Ellevio announced that the company had signed a financing agreement with 12 Swedish and international banks. The agreement, known as a Revolving Credit Facility and Liquid Facility worth SEK 9 billion, secures financing for Ellevio at a pre-determined interest rate for a period of 5 to 7 years. ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 67 CEO’s and Board of Directors’ approval. The Annualand Sustainability report were approved for release by the Board of Directors and the CEO on 25 April 2019 and the income statements and balance sheets were adopted by the Annual General Meeting on the same date. The Board of Directors and the CEO assure that the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act (1995: 1554) and RFR2 Accounting for Legal Entities, issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, respectively, and good accounting practice, and it gives a true and fair view of the company’s operations, position and results. The Board of Directors’ report provides a true and fair view of the development of the company´s operations, position and results and describes significant risks and uncertainties that the company faces. Furthermore, it is assured that the statutory sustainability report is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, §11 and that the ­sustainability as defined in the GRI index on pages 85–86, has been prepared in accordance with GTR’s Standard guidelines. Stockholm, April 25, 2019 Sören Mellstig Chairman of the Board Oskar Backman Ralph Berg Mattias Bylund Lars Clausen Jens Henriksson Karin Jarl Månsson Mohammad Nazemi Pamela Sundin Johan Lindehag Chief Executive Officer We submitted our audit report on April 25 2019 Ernst & Young AB Henrik Jonzén Authorised Public Accountant 68 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT Auditor’s Report. TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ELLEVIO AB (PUBL), CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556037–7326 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED Valuation of intangible assets ACCOUNTS Description Opinions Reported value of intangible assets as per December 31, 2018 amounts to We have audited the annual accounts of Ellevio AB (publ) for the financial year 44 436 MSEK, which equals 53.2% of the company’s total assets. Of the 2018-01-01–2018-12-31. The annual accounts of the company are included reported value, 4 983 MSEK relates to goodwill and 39 051 MSEK relates on pages 43–68 in this document. to concessions. As described in note 2 impairment testing is done on an annual In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with basis and on the indication of a need for impairment. In order to determine the the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial value of a potential impairment loss an asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. position of Ellevio AB (publ) as of 31 December 2018 and its financial perforWith the aim of determining a need for impairment, the assets are grouped mance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual together based on the minimal levels for which there are identifiable cash flows Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts (cash-generating units). The recoverable amount is determined by calculating of the annual accounts. the value in use and in note 17 the main assumptions used when calculating the We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts value in use are described. Intangible assets constitute a significant part of the the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. company’s total assets and the valuation of these are dependent of manageOur opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated ment’s assumptions and judgments. Hence, we have assessed the valuation of accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been intangible assets as a key audit matter in our audit. submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. How our audit addressed this key audit matter In the course of our audit we have evaluated the company’s process for impairment Basis for Opinions testing. We have audited how cash generated units are identified compared to We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditset criteria and compared this with how the company internally monitors its busiing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsiness. We have evaluated the company’s valuation methods and calculation bilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities models, assessed the reasonability of assumptions and sensitivity analyses over section. We are independent of Ellevio AB (publ) in accordance with profeschanges in assumptions with the assistances of our internal valuation specialists sional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical and made comparisons against historical results and the precision of prior proresponsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based jections. We have assessed the reasonability of the discount rate and the termion the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in nal growth rate through benchmarking to market data and, where applicable, the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the companies in the same industry. We have also assessed whether the information audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled disclosed is appropriate. companies within the EU. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Other Information than the annual accounts ­appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and is found on pages1–40 and 71–86. The Board of Directors and the Managing Other matters Director are responsible for this other information. The audit of the annual accounts for the financial year 2017-01-01–2017-12Our opinion on the annual accounts does not cover this other information 31 was performed by another auditor who submitted an auditor´s report dated and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other 26 April 2018, with unmodified opinions in the Report on the annual accounts. information. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts, our responsibility is to Key Audit Matters read the information identified above and consider whether the information is Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgmaterially inconsistent with the annual accounts. In this procedure we also take ment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts of the current into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in formwhether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. ing our opinion thereon, the annual accounts as a whole, but we do not provide If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the ­preparation of the annual accounts and that it gives a fair presentation in accorfinancial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures dance with the Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors and the Managing performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary on the accompanying financial statements. to enable the preparation of annual accounts that are free from material ­misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT 69 In preparing the annual accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Director are responsible for the assessment of the company’s ability to continue The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concompany’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assesscern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis ment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managthe company’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the coming Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no pany’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. realistic alternative but to do so. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continresponsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s uous assessment of the company’s financial situation and ensuring that the financial reporting process. ­company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring Auditor’s responsibility manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conmanner. ducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements Auditor’s responsibility can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic deciabout discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts. sonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the annual the Managing Director in any material respect: accounts is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give http://www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/rev_ rise to liability to the company, or dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description forms part of the auditor´s report. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the In addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we have also audited the ­company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with ­administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Ellevio reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with AB (publ) for the financial year 2018-01-01–2018-12-31 and the proposed the Companies Act. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration ­standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s ­Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the administration is Basis for opinions located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing stanhttp://www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/rev_ dards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description forms part of the auditor´s report. described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of Ernst & Young AB, was appointed auditor of Ellevio AB (publ) by the general Ellevio AB (publ) in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in meeting of the shareholders on April 26, 2018 and has been the company’s ­Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance auditor since April 26, 2018. with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Stockholm April 25, 2019 ­appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Ernst & Young AB Henrik Jonzén Authorized Public Accountant 70 ELLEVIO 2018 • ANNUAL REPORT Corporate Governance Report. Ellevio AB (publ), ”Ellevio”, is a public Swedish limited liability company with its Annual general meeting head office in Stockholm. The annual general meeting is Ellevio’s highest decision-making body, through At Ellevio, authority, management and governance are allocated among the which Ellevio’s shareholders are entitled to determine Ellevio’s affairs. The shareholders, Board of Directors, CEO and management team. Ellevio’s corpoannual general meeting elects the Board of Directors and the auditors, decides rate governance aims to ensure proper risk and internal control, a defined deletheir fees, adopts the income statement and balance sheet, resolves on the allogation of responsibilities, a healthy corporate culture, effective decision-making cation of the company’s earnings, grants the Board and CEO discharge from procedures and sound relations with the company’s stakeholders, and thus to liability, and resolves on other matters pursuant to the law, Articles of Association contribute to long-term value creation for the ­company’s shareholders. and shareholder agreement. The Board of Directors hereby submits its corporate governance report for The 2018 annual general meeting was held on 26 April at Ellevio’s head 2018. A statutory review of the corporate governance report has been carried office in Stockholm. All shareholders were represented and the auditors were out by company’s auditors whose opinion is on page 73. ­present. No decisions were taken beyond the ordinary decisions at the annual general meeting. Given the limited amount of owners, neither a notification of nor Principles of corporate governance minutes for the annual general meeting were published on the company’s website. Corporate governance at Ellevio is based on applicable laws and ordinances, The 2019 annual general meeting will be held on 25 April 2019 in Stockholm. Articles of Association, shareholder agreements, internal policies and instructions. The external regulatory policies primarily comprise the Swedish Companies Act, Board of Directors and its work Swedish Annual Accounts Act, as well as other relevant laws. As a natural monopThe overall task of the Board of Directors is to bear responsibility for the organoly, the business is regulated in accordance with the Electricity Act and supervised isation and management of operations as well as financial reporting and susby the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate (Ei). Ellevio also adheres to regulatainability reporting. The Board is also tasked with ensuring that Ellevio’s organtions applicable to companies with interest-bearing instruments registered on the isation is designed in a manner that assures satisfactory control of accounting, Irish Stock Exchange. Ellevio is not subject to the mandatory requirement for listed asset management and financial conditions in general. companies to comply with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The Board is also responsible for establishing effective and appropriate sysThe company’s most significant governing document is the shareholder agreetems for governance, internal control and risk management, as well as for estabment signed by the four shareholders of Ellevio Holding 1 AB. The shareholder lishing guidelines that aim to ensure long-term value creation. Furthermore, the agreement stipulates how the Parent Company and Group’s subsidiaries are to Board should work to ensure that the company displays sustainable entrepreneurbe governed. Other key internal policies are the Articles of Association and the ship in areas such as the environment, ethics, working conditions, human rights, Board’s rules of procedure and instructions for the CEO and on reporting to the equality and diversity. Board. In addition, there is a Code of Conduct along with internal policies and The Board is to establish written rules of procedure governing its own work, and instructions that are adopted by the Board or by the company and revised on an these should be revised and established on an annual basis. These include instrucannual basis. tions for the Board’s areas of responsibilities and the boundaries versus the Board Committees as well as the CEO. Owners and ownership structure The Chairman of the Board is in charge of evaluating the work of the Board Ellevio AB (publ) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ellevio Holding 4 AB. and reporting to the owners. This is done on an annual basis and aims to provide The Ellevio Group’s Parent Company is Ellevio Holding 1 AB, which has an overview of the Directors’ opinions on how work is progressing, as well as what the ­following ownership structure: changes could be made to enhance efficiency. • The Third National Pension Fund, 20 percent • Folksam, 17.5 percent Composition of the Board • The First National Pension Fund, 12.5 percent According to the Articles of Association, the Board is to comprise no less than • OMERS Infrastructure, 50 percent three and no more than 10 Directors, and no more than 10 deputies. The shareThe Group also includes Ellevio Holding 2 AB, Ellevio Holding 3 AB, Elverket holders nominate Directors in accordance with the shareholder agreement, and Entreprenad AB and Laforsen Produktionsnät AB. The Group structure is presented the annual general meeting takes the final decision. in Note 34 on page 67. In 2018, the Board consisted of seven Directors and two employee representatives. The Board comprised Sören Mellstig (Chairman of the Board), Oskar Backman, Ralph Berg, Mattias Bylund, Jens Henriksson, Colin Hood, Karin Jarl Månsson, Pamela Sundin (employee representative) and Mohammad Nazemi (employee info info Shareholders Audit Committee appoint elected by Nomination and Remuneration Committee External Auditor info Board of Directors Finance Committee appoints Sustainability Committee CEO ELLEVIO 2018 • Corporate Governance 71 representative) who replaced Patrik Widén in March 2018. Colin Hood was The auditor reported the findings of the review of the 2018 annual accounts to replaced by Lars Clausen from 1 March 2019. the Audit Committee at its meeting of 12 February 2019 as well as to the Board The Board’s deputies during the year were Alastair Hall, Sten Olsson, Henrik at the Board meeting of 25 April 2019. Nordlander who replaced Klas Åkerbäck in April 2018, Johan Magnusson who replaced Martin Källström in September 2018, Tomas Bergquist (employee repreCEO and management team sentative) and Fredrik Ullman (employee representative). The Board of Directors is The Board of Directors appoints the CEO, who is responsible for the day-to-day presented on page 74. management of Ellevio in accordance with the Board’s instructions. The allocation of responsibilities between the Board and the CEO is, in addition to the Board meetings rules that apply to limited liability companies, specified in an instruction adopted According to the Board’s rules of procedure, at least four ordinary meetings annually by the Board of Directors. must be held each year. In addition to the ordinary meetings, the Board may The CEO’s responsibility includes, but is not limited to, the operation of the busibe called to convene whenever necessary. In 2018, nine Board meetings were ness, human resources, finances and accounting, and maintaining regular contact held at Ellevio, including the statutory meeting. Significant matters discussed with Ellevio’s stakeholders, such as government agencies. The CEO is responsible included: for ensuring that the Board receives the information it requires to take decisions • Ellevio’s strategic direction, business plan and goals (including sustainability and delivers monthly reports to the Board regarding financial circumstances, signiftargets) icant events and other important information. • The Government’s ordinance from August 2018 The CEO has appointed a management team that is in charge of day-to-day • Financing matters operations. The management team meets regularly to make decisions about and • Safety issues, particularly concerning the working environment and cyber security monitor the business, to discuss issues linked to the organisation and human resources, as well as current projects and other matters. Information about remuBoard Committees neration to the CEO and management team in 2018 can be found in Note 10 Four Board committees have been established to enhance efficiency and on pages 59–60. The management team, including the CEO, is presented on opportunities for expanding the work of the Board: the Audit Committee, the page 75. Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Finance Committee and the Sustainability Committee. The committees serve in an advisory capacity and their Operational management and internal control work primarily involves preparing matters for adoption by the Board. Meetings The Board and management team work in accordance with an annual cycle are minuted and committee chairs report on the progress of their work at every including a structured process for strategic business planning and operational Board meeting. Representatives of Ellevio’s executive management participate monitoring. All of the company’s activities are based on Ellevio’s values, which in committee meetings. are in turn based on the key words reliability, commitment and development. The The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting and company’s business is operated in accordance with Ellevio’s Code of Conduct. the audit process. The Audit Committee monitors compliance with the relevant Ellevio maintains policies, instructions and procedures that are intended to laws and the application of and compliance with corporate governance policies, establish rules and responsibilities for specific areas and to define mandates and including internal control and risk management. In 2018, the Audit Committee authority. In addition to the policies adopted by the Board, there are also policies comprised Mattias Bylund (Chair) and Sören Mellstig. determined by the CEO, as well as instructions and procedures determined by the The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for adopting head of each business function. In line with the operational management structure, policies for the appointment and dismissal of senior executives, establishing remuthe management has produced policies within the areas of sustainability, working neration policies and terms of employment for senior executives, as well as reviewenvironment, financing, management of insider information, information security, ing the performance of senior executives in relation to set objectives. In 2018, the whistleblowing and others. Committee comprised Sören Mellstig (Chair), Oskar Backman, Jens Henriksson These documents are available to all employees. They are revised on an and Alastair Hall, who replaced Ralph Berg in April 2018. annual basis or when necessary to ensure compliance with the prevailing laws The Finance Committee is responsible for reviewing the company’s financial and provisions and so forth. The organisation is continuously updated and given strategy and the ongoing monitoring of the financial risk exposure. In 2018, the training in policies, instructions and procedures. Overall, this internal framework Finance Committee comprised Oskar Backman (Chair), Ralph Berg, who was covers all relevant operational areas in an appropriate manner. replaced by Alastair Hall in April 2018 and Patrik Widén (employee representaRisk management is an integrated element in the planning, governance and tive), who was replaced by Mohammad Nazemi (employee representative) in monitoring of operations. Business risks are assessed through the strategy and April 2018. planning activities of the Board and management, and the underlying premise is The Sustainability Committee is responsible for assessing the Health, Safety that risks are managed on a day-to-day basis in the operations in which they arise. and Environment (HSE) strategy, monitoring HSE performance in relation to set Ellevio conducts internal control efforts aimed at ensuring that operations are ­targets, identifying key areas of improvement and encouraging greater awareness managed in a secure, appropriate and efficient manner. Internal control mechaof the importance of HSE. In 2018, the Sustainability Committee comprised Colin nisms for financial reporting aim to secure that the company prepare reliable finanHood (Chair), Tomas Bergquist (employee representative) and from April 2018 cial statements and reporting, and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Karin Jarl Månsson. Ellevio has information and communication channels that aim to promote completeness and accuracy in its financial reporting. The annual report and half-yearly Board fees reports specify which parts are formal financial reports, the regulations on which The shareholders have submitted a proposal for adoption by the annual general they are based and which parts have been audited by the company’s auditor. meeting concerning Board fees. The 2018 annual general meeting adopted a Ellevio publishes the half-yearly report, year-end report and annual report on the resolution on fees pursuant to the proposal submitted by shareholders. Informacompany’s website. tion on Board fees for 2018 can be found in Note 10 on pages 59–60. Ellevio’s operations are subject to supervision by the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate (Ei) and means that financial and operational reporting should be Auditor conducted yearly. These reports can be found on Ei’s website. The task of the auditor is to independently review the administration of the Board and CEO along with the company’s annual report and bookkeeping. The Sustainability annual general meeting is responsible for electing an external auditor. Auditors Sustainability is an integrated part of Ellevio’s vision and the company is workare elected for a term of one year, in accordance with the main rule of the ing systematically to integrate sustainability into the business plan and operaSwedish Companies Act. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Ellevio must tional management. The Board of Directors is consistently involved in the have one or two auditors. An auditing firm can be elected as Ellevio’s auditor. ­company’s sustainability initiatives and receives monthly progress reports. At Ellevio’s annual general meeting on 26 April 2018, Ernst & Young AB was In 2017, Ellevio became the first standalone electricity distribution operator to elected as the company’s auditor for the period until the end of the 2019 join the UN Global Compact, which covers the areas of human rights, labour law, annual general meeting. The principal auditor is authorised public accountant ­environment and anti-corruption. Henrik Jonzén. 72 ELLEVIO 2018 • Corporate Governance Auditor’s report on the corporate governance statement TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ELLEVIO AB (PUBL), CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556037–7326 Engagement and responsibility with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance ­standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with statement for the financial year 2018-01-01–2018-12-31 on pages 71–72 ­sufficient basis for our opinions. and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Opinions The scope of the audit A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accorOur examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 the Annual dard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance stateAccounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law ment. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is are consistent with the annual accounts and are in accordance with the Annual different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance Accounts Act. Stockholm April 25, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Henrik Jonzén Authorized Public Accountant ELLEVIO 2018 • Corporate Governance 73 Board of Directors. FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, SEATED: FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, STANDING: NOT IN THE PHOTO: Colin Hood* Karin Jarl Månsson Pamela Sundin Year of birth: 1955, joined the business in: 2015 Year of birth: 1964, joined the business in: 2018 Employee representative Year of birth: 1972, joined the business in: 2015 Jens Henriksson Mohammad Nazemi. Year of birth: 1967, joined the business in: 2015 Employee representative Ralph Berg Year of birth: 1976, joined the business in: 2018 Year of birth: 1972, joined the business in: 2015 Sören Mellstig Chairman Year of birth: 1951, joined the business in: 2015 Oskar Backman Year of birth: 1971, joined the business in: 2015 Mattias Bylund Year of birth: 1977, joined the business in: 2018 * Colin Hood resigned 28 February 2019. He was replaced by Lars Clausen. 74 ELLEVIO 2018 • Board of Directors Management Team. FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, SEATED: FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, STANDING: Erika Abrahamsson Anna-Carin Joelsson Anna Byström Legal Projects and IT HR and sustainability (Acting) Year of birth:1965, joined the business in: 2011 Year of birth: 1972, joined the business in: 2007 Year of birth: 1969, joined the business in: 2018 Thomas Saubach Johan Lindehag Operations CEO David Bjurhall Year of birth: 1969, joined the business in: 2002 Year of birth: 1972, joined the business in: 2000 Regulation Year of birth: 1975, joined the business in: 2010 Anna Lidberg Anna-Karin Käck Communications Finance Bengt Johansson Year of birth: 1968, joined the business in: 2008 Year of birth: 1976, joined the business in: 1999 Network Year of birth: 1961, joined the business in: 1989 Jan Seveborg Treasury Year of birth: 1962, joined the business in: 2015 ELLEVIO 2018 • Management Team 75 Sustainability management and results. This year’s sustainability results show that we have made good progress towards our sustainability targets. Equality has increased, our employees are happy working for us and our customers are increasingly happy. Our sustainability initiatives Examples of such affiliations include: Ellevio sees sustainability as a balance between economic, social and • Energiföretagen Sverige environment responsibility. To live up to the high expectations and • The Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA) requirements found within these areas, sustainability is an important part • Energiforsk of the operations and is integrated in all decisions we take. • International Council on Large Electric Systems (Cigre) Ellevio’s financial responsibility refers to ongoing work to enhance • The 2030 Secretariat operational efficiency and carry out investments in the network that • Värmland Chamber of Commerce ­create long-term value for customers, investors and employees, as well • Stockholm Chamber of Commerce as establish a transparent price framework. • EFA – Energiföretagens arbetsgivareförening AB Ellevio’s social responsibility involves promoting the health, safety, well-being and equality of employees and others. We should be a Sustainability targets safe and attractive employer and contractor. Ellevio has established five long-term strategic sustainability targets. Ellevio’s environmental responsibility entails that our impact on the By 2023, we are to have achieved the following: ­climate and our natural resources should be as minimal as possible, and 1. Safety and the environment will be taken into account in all of our involves us contributing to the transition to a sustainable energy system. work and decisions, which will lead to better choices for a sustainOur sustainability initiatives are not merely a question of complying able future. Ellevio’s safety culture will be well integrated into the with laws and regulations, but also taking social responsibility by identiorganisation and extend right out to staff in the field who work on fying our significant sustainability issues and working on constant behalf of Ellevio. The result of this will be fewer incidents and improvements. For us it is a matter of setting clear targets, measuring our ­accidents. Our environmental footprint will be reduced and we will results, analysing and taking corrective measures wherever necessary. have enhanced biodiversity along our power lane corridors by We describe our efforts and achievements in 2018 in this report. establishing adapted maintenance plans. The sustainability report has been produced in line with Global 2. Our customers will see us as reliable, committed and sustainable. Reporting Initiatives (GRI) standards ”core” level, and also comprises In addition to a reliable supply of electricity, our customers will be Ellevio’s statutory sustainability report in accordance with the Annual offered a modern platform that enables efficiency enhancements. Accounts Act. The full sustainability report consists of this report as well Our customers and other important stakeholders will view Ellevio as as the texts referred to in the GRI index on pages 85–86. a responsible and reliable partner and consultant within our society. The full sustainability report comprises Ellevio’s Communication on 3. We will have ensured a dramatically reduced proportion of power Progress report for the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the ten outages, unplanned maintenance and actions to remedy faults thanks ­principles within the areas of human rights, labour law, environment and to effective investments in the network and preventive ­maintenance. anti-corruption. The aim of the report is to describe how our sustainability 4. Our sustainability initiatives will be a fully integrated part of our initiatives have developed over the year. We also describe in the report ­processes and organisation. Ellevio’s activities linked to the UN’s global sustainable development 5. Our employees will be very satisfied with Ellevio as an employer. goals – Agenda 2030. Diversity will be a strength, with more and more women working at Ellevio collaborates with a number of different industry organisations the company and occupying management positions and thus and initiatives in order to promote long-term, sustainable industry ­contributing to greater equality. Employees will enjoy a good work­development and regulation at local, national and international level. life balance thanks to correct resource allocation and planning, as well as support from sensitive managers who set a good example. Ellevio will be an attractive company, renowned in its sector and a preferred option for people who have the skills and qualifications Ellevio needs to continue its success. 76 ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results Ellevio’s overall environmental goals involve – apart from the transition Ellevio’s sustainability manager participates in the meetings of the to a sustainable energy system – reducing the impact on the climate ­sustainability committee and is responsible for implementing decisions and natural resources and contributing to strong biodiversity. within the organisation. There are several sustainability aspects that must be considered for The following detailed targets have been established: large infrastructure projects and investments in the network, such as choice of materials, construction method and whether the planned Significant sustain2023 ability issues Description of target 2018 target ­location involves any environmental or human impact. All projects over Health and safety Total percentage of fulfilled requirements in the 82% 88% SEK 5 million and SEK 10 million respectively (local and regional networks) field during unannounced visits to the site must therefore undergo a sustainability analysis before an investment (indexed) decision can be taken. The aim of the sustainability analysis is to ensure Accident frequency (LWIF) of workers 2.8 <2 at contractors that every sustainability aspect and risk relevant to us is taken into Biodiversity Number of km surveyed power lane corridors 414 900 account in the investment proposal. By integrating and mapping such including updated management plans sustainability aspects during the investment process, we are able to (­compiled length) increase our understanding of sustainability. The analysis also ensures Good working Percentage women at the company 27% 33% ­conditions that our investment proposals are in line with Ellevio’s environmental Employee commitment index 70.5 75 (level of commitment) ­targets and the sustainability policy. Requirements are also placed on purchases in order to reduce the Management of sustainability initiatives environmental impact and safeguard human rights and good working A Code of Conduct which reflects the Global Compact’s ten principles conditions for employees of suppliers. These requirements are estaband a sustainability policy form the basis of Ellevio’s sustainability initialished in a special Code of Conduct for suppliers. tives. Both the sustainability policy and the Code of Conduct have been adopted by Ellevio’s Board of Directors. Ellevio has an environmental Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis management system certified in accordance with ISO 14001:2015. In Ellevio pursues a continuous dialogue with its most important stakeholders. addition to these policies, there are further supporting policies and This dialogue takes a different form for different groups. guidelines that govern Ellevio’s sustainability initiatives: The report is based on the materiality analysis undertaken in 2017 • Ellevio’s sustainability requirements for contracts to identify the sustainability issues that have the most significant financial, • Fundamental safety policy environmental and social impact on Ellevio and its most important • Code of Conduct for suppliers ­stakeholders. • Risk policy The materiality analysis comprised three parts: a secondary analysis, • Information security policy interviews and an internal workshop with Ellevio employees. • Network policy, which describes how Ellevio will plan and develop • The secondary analysis mapped out Ellevio’s sustainability context its electricity network, including principles for redundancy and was based on internal information and a review of the sustain• Whistleblowing policy ability initiatives of industry colleagues. • Equal opportunity policy • Interviews with stakeholders. Employees, representatives of owners, • Sponsorship policy industry and stakeholder organisations, suppliers and customers • SF6 policy were all interviewed. There were no major differences in how these stakeholders viewed Ellevio’s significant issues. All major sustainability issues, such as joint improvement targets, a ­ ctivities • The results of the secondary analysis and interviews along with and measurements, are prepared by one of the sustainability commitnine ­significant sustainability issues for Ellevio were established tees appointed by the Board for decisions to be taken by the Board. at the workshop, which involved executive management. ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results 77 Important stakeholders Sustainability risks Risk management at Ellevio is an integral part of our operational planning, governance and follow-up. Risk management is decentralised, Employees and the responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies with each Customers Community business unit. The finance department is responsible for coordinating risk management activities and for reporting on significant risks together with action plans for the Board of Directors. Ellevio’s Audit Committee, Share­ which reports directly the Board, bears overall responsibility for risk holders/ NGOs ­management. Investors Ellevio The precautionary principle is followed, which refers to the evalua360 tion and management of sustainability risks linked to Ellevio’s operations. The table below shows the significant sustainability-related risks that have been identified. Suppliers Media Risk areas Description of risk Potential impact Public Responsible purchasing/ Risk of potential bribery Legal consequences Industry authorities/ Supplier relationships before and during proPoliticians curements and during implementation phase Suppliers including conPersonal injury tractors that do not live Damage to environment In December 2018 Ellevio held a meeting with representatives from the up to Ellevio’s Code of ­Conduct for suppliers Disruption to supply business community, academia and authorities to discuss what needs to Choice of materials Products containing Injury/ill-health among be done in both the short and long term to achieve targets linked to the forbidden substances staff during handling transition towards a sustainable energy society. The meeting, which was or conflict minerals Legal consequences an important part of our continuous stakeholder dialogue, touched on Leakage of oil in oil-filled Damage to environment both what Ellevio can do as part of its operations and what needs to power lines Increased sanitisation costs happen in wider society in order for these targets to be achieved. Creosote poles used in a Damage to environment way that is not in line with or individuals Ellevio’s policy and Significant sustainability issues ­guidelines On pages 2–4 and 18–21 we describe our business model and how Health and safety Unsafe working condiAccidents or fatalities Ellevio creates value in society. Below are our nine most significant tions or lack of risk awareWeakened productivity ness among employees sustainability issues based on the materiality analysis. who work at Ellevio or on Legal consequences Certain issues affect several areas and can have a financial, behalf of Ellevio ­environmental and social impact. Environment We do not comply with Legal consequences applicable laws and Increased costs, poorer regulations earnings Financial impact Environmental impact Social impact Security of supply Major, long-term disrupConsequences for society Transition to a more sustainTransition to a more susHealth and safety tions to electricity supply Financial consequences able energy system tainable energy system Responsible purchasing/ IT and information security Major IT disruptions and/ Damage to property Security of supply Responsible purchasing/ Supplier relationships or loss of customer data or Consequences for society Customer satisfaction Supplier relationships Responsibility for local other types of data Biodiversity ­communities Equality Good working conditions 78 ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results Sustainability results 2018. Below we report the results of our sustainability initiatives in 2018. The report is structured around our significant sustainability issues. Transition to a more sustainable energy system On pages 6 and 8–15 there is a description of what is meant by a ­ aterials, smart electricity networks and electricity from renewable m ­sustainable energy system and its significance to society. In order to sources as significant issues. Ellevio is to invest SEK 10 billion during the track its development, we have chosen to divide up sustainable energy period 2016 to 2019 and it has already invested SEK 7.4 billion. systems in investments in infrastructure, weather-proofing, choice of Issue Target 2018 2017 Transition to a more sustainable Decommission pipelines with pressurised 20 km were cleaned. 14 km was decommissioned and energy system. ­oil-filled cables to reduce the risk of oil leaks. 33 km was cleaned. Choice of materials According to the plan, all oil cables in­ Planning was carried out for a new cable to ­Stockholm will be decommissioned in 2019. replace the remaining 1.2 km of ­pressurised oil cable in operation. Only use SF6 if there are no alternatives and 285 kg (1,040 kg) was newly installed and 1,040 kg (208 kg) was newly installed reduce leakage. total leakage was 8.7 kg. and total leakage was 29.6 kg. Reduce usage of creosote poles. Around 14,000 creosote poles were Around 13,600 creosote poles were 25,000–30,000 poles are to be removed removed. removed. between 2018 and 2019. Transition to a more sustainable Improved network monitoring and In 2018 Ellevio carried out a procurement to The procurement commenced in 2017. energy system. ­measurement infrastructure by replacing establish new business partners who could Smart electricity networks ­electricity meters for all customers. implement the new electricity meters; the procurement process concluded in early 2019. Transition to a more sustainable Contribute to greater share of electricity In 2018, the number of micro­producing In 2017, the number of micro­producing energy system. ­produced by renewable sources. solar panels increased by 99%. The total solar panel customers increased by Electricity from renewable sources number of customers in 2018 was 2,899. 56%. The total number of customers in 2017 was 1,454. 31 new wind turbines with a total output 26 new wind turbines with a total of 107 MW were connected. ­output of 82 MW were connected. Transition to a more sustainable Ellevio is to invest SEK 10 billion during the SEK 2.9 billion was invested. SEK 2.4 billion was invested. energy system. period 2016–2019. Investments in infrastructure Transition to a more sustainable Continuously increase the cabling rate in our Ellevio has reached a cabling rate of 80% in Ellevio has reached a cabling rate of energy system. local networks in order to make our power the local networks. 79% in the local networks. Weather-proofing grids more resilient towards harsh weather. Security of supply (SAIDI) Cabling rate, local networks (%) Minutes % 400 90 80 300 70 200 60 50 100 40 0 30 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Stockholm Rural areas Low voltage Middle voltage ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results 79 Choice of materials Electricity from renewable sources Ellevio considers it vital to minimise – or ideally avoid – the use of the The description of why electricity from renewable sources is a significant gas sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), which has more than 23,000 times issue can be found on pages 11–13 and 30–31. Ellevio is working greater impact on the climate than CO2. Ellevio’s policy is not to use actively to connect wind power by way of close collaborations with gases that impact the climate more than is absolutely necessary on the wind power developers. We also have specific processes to help grounds of technology, space or cost. In practice, we minimize the micro-producers who want to produce electricity using solar panels, usage of SF6 as an insulator for switching centres. In Stockholm new for example. facilities with SF6 are only built at higher voltages, where we compete with many other players for space which provides us with few or none Investments in infrastructure alternative technical methods. Ellevio’s electricity network should provide a high level of accessibility The choice of materials and design of cables and transformers are and be safe for customers, society and employees. To meet society’s based on capacity requirements and loss evaluations. This work is done need to grow and to enable a greater share of renewable energy, it is during the production of material specifications for procurement of transimportant to increase capacity and secure new functions in our network. formers and during the network planning phase of our projects. Investments are the most important activity in terms of adapting the Wooden poles have an environmental disadvantage due to the electricity network to the needs of the future. In 2018, Ellevio invested need to protect against decay. Ellevio is reducing the number of SEK 2,870 million in network infrastructure. The duration of the invest­creosote-impregnated wooden poles by replacing older low-voltage ments is expected to be at least 40 to 60 years, depending on the type overhead lines with cables in the ground as far as possible, thus also of facility. Ellevio is active both in regions with major population growth, weather-proofing the networks. When replacing poles we take the principally Stockholm and Gothenburg, but also in sparsely populated ­surrounding environment into consideration, and so other pole materials areas where the expansion of the network enables tourism activities and are used in sensitive environments, such as composite, steel or concrete. new wind power facilities to develop. Measures are taken to protect the ground from deposits of preservatives in the case of ­temporarily erected poles. Weather-proofing To ensure these chemicals are used in a controlled manner, there Weather-proofing overhead lines can be carried out in different ways. are clear requirements in agreements, policies and internal control Two examples include replacing them with new, insulated overhead ­programmes. Continuous work is under way to pinpoint more environlines or simply replacing them with buried underground cables. The mentally solutions. ­process of burying power lines can be very long in areas of major ­natural and cultural value. At times, judicial decisions and permissions Smart electricity networks from authorities and municipalities are required. We always discuss and The description of why smart electricity networks are a significant issue negotiate with land owners to obtain permission to carry out work on and how they are managed can be found on pages 12–14. their land. Security of supply One of the most significant sustainability issues for Ellevio is ensuring that SAIDI can vary between years depending on whether there have been our customers receive a highly reliable supply of electricity. In order to any major storms during the autumn or winter of the year in question. ensure a robust security of supply, a specific organisation has been SAIDI is based on reporting to Ei. established at Ellevio that monitors the electricity network around the Since Storm Gudrun in 2005, Ellevio has undertaken systematic clock, 7 days a week and 365 days a year. Good accessibility to work to weather-proof the electricity network, particularly in rural areas, ­electricity is vital if today’s society is to function, and accessibility will which are affected more severely than Stockholm and other urban become increasingly important as new industries become electrified. areas. There are more customers in Stockholm, but a larger proportion Ellevio currently has a security of supply of 99.98 percent. of the network is buried underground and there are extensive opportunities To measure security of supply, we use the international standard, for change-over switching. SAIDI (System Average Interruption Duration Index), which is calculated as the sum of all outage periods (excluding planned works) Comments ­experienced by customers divided by the total number of customers. Despite major investments in weather-proofing of the electricity network, The index enables comparison with other companies. SAIDI is an many kilometres of overhead lines remain exposed to strong winds and important key ratio for Ellevio and is measured each month and trees falling onto the lines. 2018 was a considerably more windy year ­analysed continuously. than 2017, which can also be seen in the outage statistics. Target 2018 2017 All of Ellevio’s customers should have an uninterrupted Stockholm region: 40 minutes of outage. Stockholm region: 44 minutes of outage. ­supply – today, tomorrow and in 50 years. Rural area networks: 195 minutes of outage. Rural area networks: 96 minutes of outage. 80 ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results Customer satisfaction Electricity is a necessity if our modern lives are to function properly. A Customer satisfaction is measured on a monthly basis by way of telereliable electricity supply is the basis of our offering to customers and a phone surveys among a selection of our customers. In total, some prerequisite for our customers feeling satisfied with us as a company. In 10,000 customers respond to our questions every year. The results addition to measuring security of supply, we have also chosen to report of the customer surveys are followed up at management level and customer satisfaction in some of the company’s most important customer reported to the Board of Directors. processes – customer service, outage compensation and connection. Target 2018 2017 84% satisfied customers. 87% satisfied customers. 85% satisfied customers. Responsible purchasing Ellevio’s Code of Conduct for suppliers specifies environmental and and fulfillment of Ellevio’s Code of Conduct is an obligatory condition social requirements that the suppliers must fulfil. These requirements are of becoming an Ellevio supplier. We also check whether these requireidentical to the ones we place on ourselves. The majority of Ellevio’s ments are complied with at later stages, by way of unannounced visits ­purchasing takes place via call-off orders from relevant framework to suppliers in the field. Furthermore, Ellevio has a large amount of agreements in which extensive social and environmental requirements smaller suppliers of products and services, with annual volumes of SEK are set during the procurement process, as well as projects procured via 0–100,000. As a rule, these are directly procured under the threshold the Act on procurement of water, energy, transport and postal services value, and the requirements set for these suppliers are lower than in the (LUF), in which equivalent requirements are set for the specific project. case of full LUF procurements, as according to the proportionality principle. Ellevio procures various goods and services which are divided up into More information about responsible purchasing can be found on five main categories: contract work, IT, consultant services, strategic page 21. materials and indirect materials/services. A small amount of suppliers and contractors account for a very high Comments share of Ellevio’s purchasing volumes: 105 suppliers account for a full 75 percent of purchases in 2018 were for contractor services and 95% of Ellevio’s total purchasing volume. Within this supplier segment, materials for investments in our electricity networks. all EHS-related requirements are continuously and carefully checked, Target 2018 2017 All new supplier contracts are to include Ellevio’s All 5 new major suppliers reviewed. All 19 new major suppliers reviewed. sustainability requirements. 250 unannounced site visits. 334 unannounced site visits. 313 unannounced site visits. 10 in-depth audits to be carried out. 10 in-depth audits. 10 in-depth audits. Biodiversity Biodiversity is a concept used to describe the variety of species of life Power lanes link areas of biodiversity together, as well as grasslands on Earth. There is a large number of different species, habitats and ecoalong roads, embankments, airport and golf courses. These areas comsystems that combine to provide the fundamental conditions needed for plement traditional meadows and pastures and represent part of what is our climate and environment. For Ellevio, contributing to biodiversity is known as “green infrastructure”. Green infrastructure can be defined as a significant issue. Our power lanes are kept free from trees and brushan ecological network that is used in such a way that preserves biodiwood so that electricity can be transported as safely as possible, thus versity and promotes important ecosystems throughout the landscape. minimising outages. This clearance also means that former meadows Ellevio has been collaborating with other players in this area since and pastures are kept exposed. Many typical types of meadow are 2017 by way of the “Collaborative group for grasslands within infra­currently under threat as a result of rangelands growing again to a structure” run by the Swedish Species Information Centre. large extent over the past 100 years. Ellevio takes responsibility for these threatened meadows by taking an inventory and then adapting Comments the management of our grassland areas that are rich in different species. Over the next five years, work will focus on maintaining biodiversity This way we can contribute to the maintenance and enhancement of along power lanes containing overhead lines of 50 kV and above, biodiversity. due to their width. Target 2018 2017 All areas potentially rich in different species within our power Power lanes totalling around 400 km in length have been In 2017, a GIS analysis was carried out with the aim of lane network with a voltage level of 50 kV or above will be studied. Within these, 125 km of potentially species-rich identifying power lane areas most likely to have grasslands inventoried from now until 2020. Adapted management areas have been inventoried out in the field, which has led that are rich in species (species that benefit pastural land measures will be implemented in the areas richest in species to the identification of 15.6 km of valuable areas (class 2 and plains). A verification of the GIS results were carried out where adjustments could benefit biodiversity. and 3). Decisions regarding adjusted management in the field by way of an inventory of certain power lanes. measures have been taken for the areas that are to be cleared for ­maintenance in 2019. ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results 81 Health and safety The health and safety of our employees and business partners is a key Investigations, measures and follow-up work are all vital aspects that issue at the core of our operations. Ellevio is to be a safe and attractive contribute to the continuous improvement of our operations and help workplace and contractor. The safety of the people who work at and prevent serious near-accidents, accidents and work-related illnesses. for Ellevio is always our top priority and we have a zero vision in relation to accidents and work-related illnesses. We measure and follow our Comments performance every month, the metrics are both reactive and proactive TRIF: ”Total Reportable Incidents Frequency”, corresponds to the numand reported to management and board. Communication about our ber of accidents per 1 million hours worked by Ellevio’s employees. This performance is distributed to all employees and contractors. includes accidents that have resulted in absence from work of more than Ellevio has a deviation management system for reporting and followone day, the need for restricted work, or medical treatment. ing up deviations relating to near-accidents, accidents, risks, safety shortLWIF: ”Lost Workday Incidents Frequency”, corresponds to the comings, work-related injuries and proposals for improvements. When a ­number of accidents per 1 million hours worked by Ellevio’s contractors. case has been registered, the information is automatically sent to an inciThis includes accidents that have resulted in absence from work of more dent manager who ensures an investigation is carried out, measures are than one day (including fatalities). taken and a follow-up is conducted before the case can be closed. One fatality occurred during 2018, see page 7. Target 2018 2017 Zero vision for the number of accidents. In-house staff In-house staff In the last two years, none of our employees have been In the last two years, none of our employees have been injured at work. injured at work. TRIF: 0 TRIF: 0 Contractors Contractors LWIF: 2.8 LWIF: 0.9 Personal injuries among contractors in 2018 were primarily Personal injuries among contractors were primarily due to due to electric shocks, crushing, falls and vehicle-related electric shocks, crushing, falls and vehicle-related accidents. accidents. All such injuries affected men. All such injuries affected men. A result of 2.8 shows that we have 2.8 accidents per A result of 0.9 shows that we have 0.9 accidents per 1 million hours worked. 1 million hours worked. Sick leave Sick leave 2.66%, of which 1.44% refers to short-term absence 2.56%, of which 1.19% refers to short-term absence of up to 14 days. of up to 14 days. Responsibility for local communities For Ellevio, it is important to involve local stakeholders to minimise potenThe clearing or logging of forests is timed carefully so that particular tially negative effects on the environment and on residents who are attention can be paid to land with a poor level of bearing capacity. affected by work we carry out when initiating new projects. The work Before logging takes place, cultural heritage sites, biotope protection, we carry out could affect local communities negatively, for example by Natura 2000 and other protective values should be checked and limiting accessibility, noise or related issues. demarcated on the land. Ellevio adheres to society’s recommendations and uses permit proIn addition, we communicate with the public about what we intend cesses as a basis for its environmental impact descriptions and collaboto do and always invite consultation with stakeholders when we deem rations. In addition, arguments and viewpoints that are submitted are it to be necessary, thus enabling viewpoints to be collected as early as analysed on the basis of cost and benefit. Financial sustainability is an possible. important factor as it is ultimately our customers who have to bear any potential increases to investment costs. This is why there must be conComments crete advantages for customers if costs increase. Before a concession application, a consultation should always be conducted. This can be done in several ways and to different extents depending on the complexity and environmental impact of the project. Target 2018 2017 Increase share of local activities, impact assessments and/ 21 concession were granted by Ei, of which 6 were for 20 concession were granted by Ei, of which 7 were or development programmes. new lines and 13 for extensions of concessions. for new lines and 13 for extensions of concessions. 13 new applications were submitted to Ei, of which 21 new applications were submitted to Ei, of which 9 were for extensions and 4 for new concessions. 5 were for new lines and 2 for redevelopments of An open day was held for three projects. ­existing lines. An open day was held for three projects. 82 ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results Equality The description of why equality is a significant issue can be found on n­ umber of older men with long working experience and with, so far, pages 7 and 23. Ellevio monitors diversity developments by measuring fewer young women. Ellevio continuously strive to improve the balance the gender distribution within the management team, among managers of the candidate pool and by working more value driven, in which an across the company, the number of employees in different age groups inclusive culture is one important part of becoming an equal company. and the proportion of employees with a foreign background. Gender equality is measured, among other things, by comparing Comments women’s and men’s wages for equal and equivalent work. The comIn June 2018 Lowina Lundström left her role as Head of Customer pany conducts an annual salary survey. The purpose of the survey is to ­Relations at Ellevio. She was replaced by Emma Thorsén on 1 January show if there are unfounded grounds for the salary level depending on 2019. The gender and age distribution within the management team gender. In those cases, the survey shows unreasonable differences, the is based on the situation as per 31 December 2018, when there were company corrects these. Gaining equal pay is a priority issue for gen10 members of the management team. der equality for Ellevio. Ellevio operates in an industry with a large Target 2018 2017 Maintain an equal distribution between 50% women 55% women men and women in the management team. Increase the number of female managers at the company. 20% women 22% women Increase the total number of women at the company. 27% women 27% women Good working conditions Creating good working conditions is a significant issue in terms of Each year, Ellevio undertakes an employee survey that assesses the Ellevio being able to attract, recruit, develop and retain employees with level of commitment (the Employee Engagement Index), through, diverse skills. among others, pride, well-being and recommendations . Each business To create good working conditions, Ellevio focuses on collective unit reviews the results and produces an action plan. ability and ensuring that employees are given the right skills and opporEfforts to create good working conditions are followed up by way tunities to develop. This is monitored continuously by way of training and of employee surveys, follow-ups of employee appraisals and reviewing personal appraisals. Furthermore, Ellevio works actively to encourage employee turnover and the number of people who took out parental uptake of parental leave and a positive work-life balance. Managers leave, divided up by gender. Employee turnover amounted to 6 percent are another important factor in terms of working conditions. To ensure in 2018. 50 new employees were recruited during the year, of which they develop their employees and workplaces in a positive way, 17 were women. 26 employees, of which 7 were women, took parenManagement Days are held each year at which different themes are tal leave days during the year. discussed, such as team development, workload, health & safety and equality. Comments This personal data is based on data collected by Ellevio’s HR system. Target 2018 2017 100% of employees are to have an annual 87% 77% personal appraisal. Maintain a high level of satisfaction as measured by 70.5 69 the “Employee Engagement Index” survey. ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results 83 Key indicators and ratios Number of employees Proportion of total employees, % Under Age Over Under Age Over 2018 (2017) age of 30 30–50 age of 50 Total 2018 (2017) age of 30 30–50 age of 50 Total Permanent employees 56 (41) 273 (273) 155 (136) 484 (450) Women 2 (2) 1 (1) 0 (0) 3 (5) – of which women 18 (11) 80 (84) 36 (29) 134 (124) Men 2 (3) 3 (3) 1 (2) 7 (12) Temporary 0 (0) 0 (0) 6 (7) 6 (7) Total 4 (5) 4 (4) 2 (4) 10 (17) ­employees* – of which women 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (1) 0 (1) Total 56 (41) 273 (273) 161 (143) 490 (457) Employee turnover Gender, proportion of total employees, % – of which women 18 (11) 80 (84) 36 (30) 134 (125) * Temporary employees refers to all once-permanent employees who are now retired and Under Age Over working on an hourly basis. 2018 (2017) age of 30 30–50 age of 50 Total Women 0 (0) 2 (2) 0 (1) 2 (2) Ellevio does not have any part-time roles. However, employees do have the opportunity to Men 1 (0) 2 (2) 1 (1) 3 (3) work part-time for certain periods and under specific circumstances. The acquisition of Elverket Vallentuna was completed during the year, which meant 17 employees were Total 1 (0) 4 (4) 1 (1) 6 (6) added to Ellevio’s ranks. Diversity in management, managers and employees Gender, proportion in % New recruitments Management Other Under Age Over 2018 (2017) team managers Employees Total 2018 (2017) age of 30 30–50 age of 50 Total Women 50 (55) 20 (15) 29 (28) 27 (27) Women 9 (7) 6 (14) 2 (1) 17 (22) Men 50 (45) 80 (85) 71 (72) 73 (73) Men 12 (15) 15 (29) 6 (11) 33 (55) Total 21 (22) 21 (43) 8 (12) 50 (77) Age, proportion in % Elverket Vallentuna was acquired during the year, which meant 17 employees were Management Other added to Ellevio’s ranks. They are excluded from the compilation of new recruits, however. 2018 (2017) team managers Employees Total Under age of 30 0 (0) 0 (0) 13 (11) 11 (9) Age 30–50 60 (64) 63 (69) 55 (58) 56 (60) Over age of 50 40 (36) 38 (31) 32 (31) 33 (31) 84 ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results GRI Index. This is Ellevio’s second sustainability report and refers to the fiscal year unless stated otherwise. No changes were made to the scope of the 2018. The report has been produced in line with GRI standards “core” report since the previous report. The significant sustainability issues are level. Ellevio annually reports results of its sustainability initiatives, with the the same as those reported in 2018. No information from previous previous sustainability report having been published in April 2018. The years has been adjusted in this report. For questions about Ellevio’s report is not audited by an external party, but our auditors confirm that ­sustainability initiatives, contact maria.bang@ellevio.se. Ellevio has produced a statutory sustainability report for 2018 in All references to GRI standards refer to standards valid in 2016. The ­accordance with the requirements set out in the Annual Accounts Act. index below reveals which GRI disclosures is to be reported and where The report covers all operations conducted within Ellevio AB (publ), such information can be found. Standard disclosures GRI disclosure Page Comments UN Global Compact Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Inside cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 2–4, 16–17 8–9: Environmental standards 102-3 Location of head office Inside cover 102-4 Countries where the organisation operates 2 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 71 102-6 Market presence 2 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2 102-8 Information about employees 22–23, 81–84 Ellevio does not report staff divided up by region as this 6: Labour standards is not considered applicable. The reason for this is that many of our employees work at a specific office while simultaneously carrying out duties that concern the entire business. 102-9 Supply chain of the organisation 10, 21, 81 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation No changes have occurred within the organisation’s and its supply chain supply chain. Elverket Vallentuna was integrated into operations during the year. 102-11 Application of the precautionary principle 78 7 Environmental standards 102-12 External regulations, principles and initiatives 19, 24, 28, 30, 76–77 102-13 Memberships in organisations 76 Strategy 102-14 CEO’s statement 6–7 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 7, 19, 23, 76–77 1–10: Human rights, working Code of Conduct and ethics policy conditions, environment, ­corruption Governance 102-18 Governance structure 77–78 Stakeholder dialogue 102-40 Stakeholder groups 78 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by 85 100% of Ellevio’s employees are covered by collective 3: Labour standards collective bargaining bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 77–78 102-43 Methods for collaborating with stakeholders 77–78 102-44 Important issues highlighted by stakeholders 78 Reporting profile 102-45 Business units included in the report 85 102-46 Process for defining report content 77–78 and the Aspect Boundaries 102-47 Issues identified as significant 78 102-48 Explanation of the effects of any re-statements of 78 information provided in earlier reports 102-49 Changes in reporting 78 102-50 Reporting period 78 102-51 ​Date of most recent report 78 102-52 Reporting cycle 78 102-53 Contact details for questions about the report 78 102-54 Selection of reporting level 78 102-55 GRI content index 85–86 102-56 External assurance No external assurance applied. ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results 85 Significant questions Ellevio’s significant UN Global GRI disclosure Page Comments sustainability issues ­Compact ECONOMIC STANDARDS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 11–15, 18, 20–21, 30–32, 34–35, 79–81 103-2 The management approach and its components 13–15, 20–21, 30–31, 77–81 103-3 Evaluation of the sustainability management approach 79–81 Indirect economic impact 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 13–15, All of Ellevio’s investments are made on Transition to a more 8–9: Environ­ 34–37, 79 commercial terms. sustainable energy mental standards ­system – Own disclosure: Choice of materials 79–80 – Own disclosure: Smart electricity networks 13–15, 79–80 – Own disclosure: kWh electricity from renewable 11–13, sources 30–31, 79–80 – Own disclosure: Weather-proofing 79–80 ELL-1 – Own disclosure: Security of supply 20, 80 Security of supply ELL-2 – Own disclosure: Customer satisfaction 81 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 30–32, 77–78,81 103-2 The management approach and its components 21,81 103-3 Evaluation of the sustainability management approach 21, 30–32, 79, 81 Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria 21, 81 Responsible 7–8: Environ­ purchasing mental standards Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, 30–32, 81 Geographical location and biodiversity value are not Biodiversity 7–8: Environ­ or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high reported. Size of the area as well as the rights to the mental standards ­biodiversity value outside protected areas underground surface are not reported either when data is not available (and in the latter case is not ­relevant considering Ellevio’s activities). SOCIAL STANDARDS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 20, 22–23, 27, 77–78, 81–84 103-2 The management approach and its components 21–23, 27, 77–78, 81–84 103-3 Evaluation of the sustainability management approach 23, 27, 81–84 Occupational health and safety 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational 7, 26–28, 76, Ellevio does not report Type of Injury Rate (IR), OccupaHealth and safety 1–2: Human rights ­diseases, lost days and absenteeism and total 82 tional Disease Rate (ODR), Lost Day Rate (LDR), and 4–6: Labour number of work-related fatalities Absentee Rate (AR), as these are not considered applica­standards ble. Ellevio has other own similar measurement numbers that are used and are well integrated into the business. Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers screened using social criteria 21, 81 Responsible 1–2: Human rights purchasing 3–6: Labour ­standards 10: Corruption Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 82 Responsibility for 1–2: Human rights impact assessments and development programmes local communities 8–9: Environ­ mental standards Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 23, 76, 83–84 Equality 6: Labour ­standards Employee turnover 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 83–84 Good working 6: Labour ­conditions ­standards Training and education 404-3 Number of employees who regularly receive 83 Good working 6: Labour ­appraisals and follow-up of performance and ­conditions ­standards career development 86 ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement. To the general meeting of the shareholders of Ellevio AB (publ), corporate identity number 556037–7326 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the financial year 2018-01-01–2018-12-31 on pages 2–4, 18–33 and 76–87 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the sustainability statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinions A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. Stockholm April 25, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Henrik Jonzén Authorized Public Accountant ELLEVIO 2018 • Sustainability management and results 87 Ellevio AB (publ) Box 242 07 104 51 Stockholm www.ellevio.se Production: Ellevio in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, April 2019. Photo: Andrea Irving, Bohman Sjöstrand, Fredrik Karlsson, Jerker Norlander, Mikael Silkeberg and Unn Tiba. Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet 2019. Nordiska Miljömärkningen Svanen • Färgkod PMS 354, Fyrfärgskod C-91%, M-0,0%, Y-83%, K-0,0%. NORDIC ECOLABEL 3041 0250 • Standardfärger enligt SS 019100 – 019103 Blankt papper: 1080G10Y Matt papper: 354U-1070G NCS: 0879-G07Y NCS: 1368-G04Y C ECOL A DI • Miljömärket bör ej understiga 8 mm och ska minst ha den storleken att texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” och underliggande licensnummer är tydligt läsbara. R • När märket understiger 2 cm i diameter kan den förklarande undertexten NO BE utelämnas på produkten (Trycksak), om den finns med märket på förpackningen. L Text på märket: • Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” följer märkets rundade form på ovansidan. • Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” med versaler och teckensnitt Helvetica, rak, halvfet. Teckentäthet och teckengrad anpassas till märkets storlek. • Texten under märket ”Trycksak” skrivs horisontellt under siffergrupperna (341 000). Teckensnitt helvetica, rak används med versal som begynnelsebokstav, f ö gemener, och anpassas i storlek till märket • För tryckning på Svanen på andra nordiska språk studera Regelverket för nordisk miljömärkning. We bring electricity to you. www.ellevio.se
