CSR Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report in accordance with section 99(a) of the Danish Financial Statements Act and report on the gender composition of governance bodies in accordance with section 99(b) of the Danish Financial Statements Act Contents CSR REPORT Future building will be sustainable 3 Group at a glance 4 Our approach to CSR 5 Business behaviour 6 Human rights 8 The workplace and industrial relations 10 Environment 12 GRI content index 14 Appendix 16 Contact 28 MTH GROUP’s logo on the front of this report refers to the entire MTH GROUP, which this CSR Report covers. The CSR Report is published in both Danish and English. In case of discrepancies or in case of doubt, the Danish version shall prevail. Photo on front cover: Kilehusene in Roskilde. Constructed in a collaboration between MT Højgaard and Lindpro Scandi Byg. Future building will be sustainable 100 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE projects, we can help to create a sustainable In 2018 we celebrated the Group’s centenary. future. That is why we also take an active role We are very proud to have reached this milein specialist networks, where we collaborate stone. Throughout the last 100 years we have with other parties in the industry on driving a left our mark on Denmark and in other counsustainable agenda. tries. During this time we have helped to develop new construction methods and new Our unwavering commitment to a good worktechnologies for use in the construction indusing environment, safety and wellbeing means try. Every day we have come up with new and that our injury rate is significantly below the better solutions for challenging tasks and our industry average of 15.4 in 2017. Our vision is pioneering spirit and driving force have conzero injuries, and while we are not there yet, tributed to the development of Danish society. we have made good headway. This is something we intend to continue. Our injury rate was 8.1 in 2018, compared with As one of the leading players in the industry it 14.4 in 2016 and 10.3 in 2017. Our employees is both natural and important for us to accept are our most valuable asset, and we therefore social responsibility. We have integrated the 10 insist on a safe and healthy working environprinciples of the UN Global Compact into our ment. Our employees must never doubt that CSR policy and we work proactively to apply they are working in a safe workplace, and it is them. important for us that all our employees return Anders Heine Jensen home safe to their families every day. Adm. Koncerndirektør For us, sustainable building is about products, people, environment and society. Within these The industry in general is committed to attractareas we build bridges between our compaing more female employees. That also applies nies and ensure that we concentrate our indito our Group. With 12% female employees, we vidual approaches and focus on working toexceed the industry average, but we are gether to promote sustainability and share committed to increasing this percentage still knowledge across the Group. further. Our Group has 13% female managers. As a Group, we are motivated by a desire to Proper and decent behaviour is fundamental HIGHLIGHTS 2018 influence the development of sustainability in to the way we do business. We have a duty to · Injury rate of 8.1 per one million hours worked (2017: 10.3) the industry, especially in collaboration with act professionally in all our activities. That is · Percentage of female employees in the Group: 12% (2017: 12%) our customers. We embed sustainability in also why we work only with suppliers who · Percentage of female managers in the Group: 13% (2017: 13%) both construction and operation and focus on behave properly and decently and promote certified building. In 2018, we were involved in responsible business behaviour, and we ex· Employees employed in training posts: 7.8% (2017: 8%) the certification of 11 construction projects and pect them to comply with our Code of Con· Waste recycling rate: 54% (2017: 45%) we expect this number to increase in 2019. By duct. We expect all our suppliers and subcon· Sustainability certifications on 11 construction projects (2017: 9) embedding sustainability in our construction tractors to accept the same responsibility. MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – Future building will be sustainable 3 Group at a glance The Group is one of the leading players in the construction and civil engineering industry in Denmark. The key companies are MT Højgaard, Enemærke & Petersen, Lindpro, Scandi Byg Assisting with establishing temporary buildings in the and Ajos. The companies operate as indeform of pavilions, and establishment, organisation, operation and dismantling of construction sites; pendent units and brands, each enjoying a equipment hire for construction, civil works and leading position in its respective sub-market, refurbishment projects. but also work together by sharing knowledge and capabilities. Construction Civil works The vast majority of the Group’s activities are The Group develops, constructs and The Group undertakes infrastructure carried out in Denmark for Danish and Refurbishment of non-profit housing, schools, refurbishes buildings on a main, projects, earthworks and piling, marine commercial buildings, day care centres and international private and public customers, design-build or subcontract basis for private works and shell construction, primarily in co-operative and owner-occupied housing as well primarily in the form of main contracts, as construction of new housing, schools, institutions, and public customers, organisations and Denmark and a few chosen geographies. design-build contracts or Public-Private offices and other buildings. housing associations, mainly in Denmark, Civil works activities are carried out by Partnerships (PPPs). the North Atlantic countries and a few MT Højgaard. chosen geographies. Construction activities are carried out by MT Højgaard, Enemærke & Petersen, Lindpro and Scandi Byg. Contracting and service solutions in the fields of Revenue electrical installations, plumbing and heating, fire by business area and security alarm systems, and assistive technology such as call systems, dementia systems and personal alarm systems. Core capabilities In the course of the past 100 years, the Group has built up experience in areas Construction 76% Civil Works 12% Services 12% such as Design & Engineering, Virtual Construction and civil works and related service and Design & Construction (VDC), project consultancy assignments as well as development of development, strategic partnerships, property projects. sustainability, technical installations and Revenue in-house production. by geography Services The Group provides services to the Prefabricated modular residential buildings (Nordic construction and civil engineering industry Swan Ecolabel certification), offices, institutions and in Denmark through Ajos, Enemærke & healthcare facilities; modular site huts; pavilions for Petersen, Lindpro and MT Højgaard. Denmark 93% Rest of world 7% accommodation, institutions and offices. MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – Group at a glance 4 Our approach to CSR CSR IN OUR GROUP OUR STRATEGIC INDICATORS These eight goals guide our action within our STRUCTURE OF REPORT The Group is committed to acting in a socially We still measure our performance against four four strategic indicators. On the following pages, we will introduce our responsible manner across our five whollystrategic indicators. We report on the Group’s principles and policies and describe our action owned companies, and we publish a joint CSR action within each of these four indicators, ORGANISATION OF CSR within our four indicator areas. The description report for MT Højgaard, Enemærke & Petersen, which are: Group management is always conscious of the is supported by selected cases. The GRI index, Lindpro, Scandi Byg and Ajos. Our reporting is opportunities and risks facing us in our CSR both the general index and the index related to based on the internationally recognised report· Business behaviour work and guarantees that we are constantly our indicators, can be found at the end of the ing system, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). · Human rights tackling the most relevant CSR initiatives. report, followed by an appendix setting out Our reporting follows GRI Standards Core · The workplace and industrial relations performance in 2018. 2016. · Environment We attach importance to working systematically on the principles and policies we have MATERIALITY ANALYSIS THE UN 17 GLOBAL GOALS defined to ensure a strong foundation for our In 2017, we started work on our materiality The UN Global Goals provide a long-term, initiatives in material areas. These include analysis to map the trends our stakeholders ambitious framework benefiting people and areas related to decent jobs and decent prosee in relation to construction and the areas to the environment across the globe. In 2018, we duction. Top management and managers and which they attach the greatest importance. chose to measure performance against the 17 specialists within the various relevant areas Our initial analysis showed that relevant playGlobal Goals, because we can make a real evaluate all policies and principles on a regular ers in the construction industry place great difference in a sustainable development conbasis to ensure that our approach is always emphasis on three key topics: text as a Group working in the construction timely and relevant. and civil engineering industry. The goals also Working conditions, including health and help to provide the whole industry with a safety and pay and employment terms for common language that can be used to comboth employees and subcontractors. municate both major and minor action taken. Corporate Governance and behaviour, inWe are working broadly on the global goals cluding fair competition and Code of Conduct. and strategically on eight chosen goals. This is Sustainable construction, including materiour contribution to the creation of a sustainaals, procurement, certifications and circular ble society. We are particularly committed to economy. the following goals: We have grouped these key topics under four 4: Quality education strategic indicators, which we have incorpo7: Affordable and clean energy rated in our CSR work to ensure that we im8: Decent work and economic growth plement the initiatives that are most relevant 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure for our Group, the industry, our customers and 11: Sustainable cities and communities our surroundings. We will continue working on 12: Responsible consumption and production this analysis in 2019. 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions 17: Partnerships for the goals MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – Our approach to CSR 5 Business behaviour or have actual knowledge of abuses or unlawful acts. These reports are forwarded directly to an independent law firm, which makes a thorough assessment of the facts and documentation of the case before management makes a decision on possible consequences. Workshops on ethical behaviour: Since 2017, HONEST BEHAVIOUR AND GOOD COLwe have held workshops for our employees on LABORATION our policies on anticorruption, gifts and serProfessional conduct in daily life and focus on vices. At these workshops employees are collaboration within the Group are business confronted with various dilemmas that they priorities. We appreciate the importance of might encounter in their everyday work. The honest and ethical conduct, as our behaviour aim is to equip them to understand our poliaffects our business, our customers and sociecies in this area and act within their framework. ty in general. We are therefore committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in Cooperative behaviour: Cooperation is a high all our business dealings and relationships. priority in our Group and we stress the importance of cooperative behaviour. Good OUR PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES cooperative behaviour gives advantages in tives from Byggeri København, the City of phase through to planning and execution We have an internal and an external Code of terms of economies of scale and the chance Copenhagen’s construction unit, is in its third without interruptions and without unnecessary Conduct policy in which we make it clear that to ensure increased efficiency and productiviyear of collaboration to build schools and further consultation between the parties. This we dissociate ourselves from all forms of ty, when several of the companies in our educational institutions in the City of Copenwas possible because the close, interdisciplicorruption, bribery, extortion, etc. Group are represented on the same project. hagen. nary collaboration resulted in greater dialogue, Lastly, cross-company optimisation of purenabling the parties to work out the best posWe wish to create good cooperation throughchasing, health and safety action, IT infrastrucThe TRUST partnership has made it possible to sible solutions for the project. This good colout the industry. Cooperation is essential in ture and training creates the basis for improvmeet the city authority’s expectations in relaboration eliminated professional demarcaorder to abolish professional demarcation lines ing the Group’s performance and promotes spect of better and cheaper construction. In tion lines and made it possible to minimise and benefits both the construction process collaboration and knowledge sharing. addition, the partnership has prepared the risks and optimise design, time and finance. and the completed project, so we are taking ground for more trustful collaboration across the lead and helping new forms of collaboraInnovative partnerships: The Group has the industry, focusing on gathering and shartion to get underway. become the industry leader with a new form of ing knowledge and developing constructioncollaboration, in which the construction partrelated processes. ACTIONS ners in a cross-disciplinary collaboration enter Whistleblowing policy: Since 2014 we have into framework agreements for construction The Holberg School had a whistleblowing policy that is designed to over a number of years. The TRUST partnerIn connection with the refurbishment of the enable both employees and external parties to ship, made up of contractors, architects, landHolberg School, Enemærke & Petersen worked report concerns anonymously if they suspect scape architects, engineers and representatogether with the TRUST team from the design MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – Business behaviour 6 Business behaviour MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – Business behaviour 7 Human rights Equal opportunity: The Group will not tolerate When purchasing, we ask the supplier to follow reciprocal professional and cultural exchange any form of discrimination. But the Group is our guidelines and we reserve the right to and understanding. also aware that discrimination may occur check that the requirements are met and to covertly and not necessarily be brought to our terminate the contract if they are not. On Training in Africa attention, but it is an area that we take very projects with a contract value of over DKK 50 Every year Lindpro supports the PlanBørneseriously. It is essential for us that employees million, we also conduct a systematic review of fonden educational project at technical both on our construction sites and in our the tender documentation to ensure that the schools in various African countries. Among offices feel safe and respected at work. contracts do not include clauses that are other things, in 2018 the funds from Lindpro EVERYONE MUST BE TREATED PROPERLY contrary to human rights. meant that 63 young women and men were Proper, decent behaviour is part of the way we We wish to promote equal opportunities, and accepted for a two-year training course as do business. We must treat our employees, gender, race, religion, etc. are therefore not a We have helped to develop a standard tool for electricians in Mali. In addition to subjects customers, suppliers, business partners and factor in our recruitment or employment practhe industry that can be used to check complirelating to the job of electrician, the young others properly at all times. tices. We respect diversity. We believe that ance, making it easier to ensure that requirepeople learn about solar energy, entrepreneurdiversity contributes to greater mutual underments are met in practice. However, we beship and basic business skills to enable them OUR PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES standing and gives us a broader view of ourlieve that the highest risk of an adverse impact to start up as self-employed when they have Global Compact: In 2015, we joined the UN selves and our colleagues. Diversity helps to on human rights exists in countries outside completed their training. The electrification of Global Compact, which seeks to promote create better solutions and gives us a better Europe and, as a result, we screen all new rural areas in Mali is spreading, so there is a responsible business practices in such areas as understanding of our customers’ needs. suppliers outside Europe if the contract value need for competent electricians and many human rights and labour. exceeds DKK 1 million. young people are therefore interested in this Freedom of association: The right of our course. Code of Conduct: Our internal and external employees to freedom of association and We also acknowledge that all businesses may Code of Conduct comply with the UN guiding collective bargaining is a fundamental princihave an adverse impact on human rights, and Focus on women on construction sites principles for responsible business practices ple that we respect and value, both in Denwe therefore continuously map our business In Ajos, which is responsible for construction and human rights. mark and on our international construction partners and suppliers to prevent and as site organisation, the focus is on adapting site projects. The Group has a constructive, effiappropriate remedy any such adverse imcabins so that they are also suitable for female Requirements made of subsuppliers: The cient collaboration with trade unions and other pacts. employees on the construction site. Ajos is Group requires back-to-back agreements from employee representatives. trying to create better, more private bathing subsuppliers on all projects, meaning that From refugee to construction engineer in facilities, so that female employees will feel tender conditions must also be passed down We comply with all relevant collective bargainone year they are treated equally with regard to the to the underlying subsupplier agreements. We ing agreements in the countries in which we Enemærke & Petersen focuses on social enfacilities on the construction site. will not tolerate forced labour or child labour in operate. We also demand of subcontractors in trepreneurship, including the integration of our own companies or at subsuppliers. It is those countries that they do the same and are refugees. Maha, an engineer from Syria who important for us to ensure that our business able to document compliance. came to Denmark as a refugee in 2016, was partners and suppliers respect internationally offered an internship on a construction project recognised human rights. That is why we only ACTIONS in Aalborg; the following year she became a enter into agreements with suppliers who Checking materials: We expect our suppliers construction engineer trainee and she is now a comply with these requirements and the laws to comply with applicable laws and have high construction engineer and speaks fluent Danin the countries in which they operate. social, ethical and environmental standards. ish. Maha enjoys her job and contributes to MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – Human rights 8 Human rights MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – Human rights 9 The workplace and industrial relations responsibilities, as we need to ensure that site while we obtain fresh knowledge from the best the initiatives suggested by current, general managers take responsibility for planning the graduates from their respective courses. management literature. work so it can be carried out safely. We also Technology: We are helping to promote new focused on ensuring that our hourly paid worktechnology to strengthen a sustainable and More than just an apprentice ers are instructed on how to perform tasks safely, innovative industry, while also reducing risks, Lindpro has a long tradition of offering apprenincluding ensuring that electrical machinery is protecting our employees and enhancing ticeships in disciplines such as electrical, plumbinspected and safe to use. productivity. We are focusing on such areas as ing and heating and automation technician. In automated processes, drone and robot tech2018, Lindpro was nominated for DI Prisen, the A GOOD, SAFE WORKPLACE We developed a safety game based on everynology, for example to help to create better annual prize of the Confederation of Danish Going to work must be pleasant and safe, so we day workplace situations. The purpose of the digital models, estimate quantities more preIndustry, for its strategic investments in apprenfocus on health and safety, because we want to game was to create dialogue about safety on cisely and make better use of resources. This tices. In addition to their vocational training, the create the best working environment in the the individual construction site. During the week includes the use of lifting and drilling robots for apprentices acquire skills in collaboration, acindustry. It is all about our employees returning there was also an opportunity to enrol on a first hard physical work. tion, navigation and communication. They are home safe every day. aid course, on which employees were taught attached to an apprentice manager and can how to help a colleague in the event of an acciA flexible working life: We gain a lot from participate in apprentice committees, where OUR PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES dent. retaining our older employees. They contribute they can raise issues they think management Retaining employees: We have strongly motivaluable knowledge acquired over a long workshould discuss. This results in a closer link bevated employees, which means that we are Training: We train employees on leadership and ing life. We therefore create flexible conditions, tween management and apprentices. developing all the time. Retention of competent project management in order to ensure that our so that our seniors can stay with us, even after employees and focus on job satisfaction and managers can apply the methods and tools we reaching retirement age. We and society in Danish and European Skills Championships motivation is a focus area. use for managing our projects. We take respongeneral need them. This year, MT Højgaard’s best carpentry apprensibility for training employees and offer traintice had the chance to compete in the Danish Skills development: We focus on skills develeeships in office work, apprenticeships in skilled Research in management development Skills Championship, resulting in an excellent opment and provide continuous further training trades, engineering internships, constructing MT Højgaard and Enemærke & Petersen jointly 3rd place. He was then given permission to for employees at all levels. architects and chief engineers, and student have four PhD students, who are researching prepare for the European Championship, with placements. In 2018, the Group had 7.8% of such areas as supply chain management and his site foreman as mentor. He returned home Joint responsibility: Our employees must work employees in training posts, thus achieving the leadership. The management project focuses with an impressive bronze medal. constructively and openly to prevent injuries. A target of 7%, despite problems with finding on the special features of management in the safety week must be held annually, focusing on apprentices in certain parts of the country. construction industry and uses research on Good preparedness on the construction site safety and a good working environment. actual management on construction sites to The employees on one of MT Højgaard’s conWe also have talent development programmes provide new information on the development struction sites learned the importance of being ACTIONS and the construction industry’s first graduate and implementation of management initiatives well-prepared. When one of the employees Employee satisfaction: We measure employee course, in which engineering graduates travel throughout the organisation. Our ambition is to suffered a heart attack, the site foreman rang the satisfaction every two years, and will be conductaround Denmark and other countries and gain fine-tune existing management development emergency services. A colleague fetched a ing the next survey in 2019. experience of different areas of our activities. In initiatives and create new forms of development defibrillator and gave heart massage and electric this way we ensure that they acquire a wide based on the particular conditions in the indusshock three times before the doctors arrived and Safety week: The topics in 2018 were planning, knowledge of the Group and that their try, which will therefore be more effective than took over. The employee has now recovered. instruction and supervision, focusing on roles and knowledge is based on experience with us, MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – The workplace and industrial relations 10 The workplace and industrial relations MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – The workplace and industrial relations 11 Environment offices, including our canteens, where we have fiable by demonstrating that it is possible to link to generate new ideas for reusing building separate waste streams for food, paper and the Global Goals to the certification. waste such as slates, tiles and laths, which residual waste. In 2018, the Group increased its would otherwise be discarded when a roof has recycling of waste to 54% from 45% in 2017. PhD on circular economy to be replaced. The competition winners sugIn MT Højgaard, a PhD student is working with gested using these materials for building unCircular construction: We take part in an inthe University of Southern Denmark and the heated storage spaces, and this idea is now dustry collaboration on circular construction, Danish Building Research Institute (SBi) on being explored. which concerns designing buildings to ensure investigating, through research on the life cyWE THINK SUSTAINABLY better use and management of the materials we cles of buildings and building materials, how we First modular building with Nordic Swan We endeavour to make our products more use to construct them focusing not only on can support the design and decision-making In 2018, Scandi Byg became the first construcsustainable to minimise the negative impact on what happens to the materials when we demolprocesses in construction in order to ensure tion company in Denmark to produce modular the environment and society. We do this by ish the buildings but also what happens to them that the buildings of the future have less impact buildings with the Nordic Swan Ecolabel as integrating sustainability into our construction throughout the life cycle of the building, as on the environment, make more efficient use of standard. The certification criteria are tightened projects and our daily operations for the benefit materials are regularly replaced in connection resources and add more value. around every three years, and high sustainability of both the environment and our business. with operation and maintenance. This involves a requirements have to be met, as well as reconscious choice of resources at the design MultiFlex Living quirements relating to the building’s life cycle OUR PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES stage based on where they come from and how MT Højgaard has been involved in the develfrom raw materials to manufacture, use, disposOur ambition is to help to make Denmark they are manufactured and used. opment of Circle House, the world’s first public al and recycling. Scandi Byg has removed subgreener through the way we operate our busiresidential building constructed on circular stances that are harmful to health or the enviness. We do this specifically by increasing the Certification: The Group’s construction proprinciples. We use the experience gained from ronment from its production, such as in joint proportion of renewable energy in our projects jects are certified in accordance with leading circular construction in our concept building fillers, paint, glue and varnish, as well as in buildand reducing waste through prevention, reduccertification systems such as DGNB, LEED, MultiFlex Living, which is a standardised, proven ing products such as drain pipes, wall and floor tion, reuse and recycling. We strive to use enviBREEAM and the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. We concept, in which the use of well-known, tried cladding, windows and ventilation systems. ronment-friendly technologies and solutions in strive to ensure that we always have the latest and tested solutions and robust, long-lasting These measures help to reduce the overall our activities wherever possible. knowledge within this area. We thus embed the materials contribute to a good indoor climate environmental impact of the building. This is sustainability process already in the initial proand low energy consumption. good for our production employees, who thus We do not tolerate breaches of our environmenject phases, as this is the be-all and end-all in avoid contact with harmful substances, and for tal responsibility that may be harmful to the relation to optimising the buildings in relation to The building components consist either of the occupants, who get a healthy home. environment and the climate, or to the Group the desired certification. recycled materials or of materials that can be and our customers and business partners. reused. This means that the building helps to Environment-friendly washing and cleaning In 2018, the first prefabricated modular building minimise waste, thus causing the least possible In Lindpro, for particularly dirty work, they use ACTIONS with the Nordic Swan Ecolabel was delivered to environmental impact both now and in the cloths and work clothing that previously led to When we sort waste, we create value for the the EcoVillage co-housing project, and Slagelse future. large amounts of waste. These are now instead environment and the Group. We save raw mateHospital was the first, and so far the only, hospisent to the laundry. Here they are cleared of rials, energy and money, and we reduce our tal building in Denmark to be awarded the Upcycle Challenge metal splinters, oil and traces of chemicals carbon footprint. On our construction sites we DGNB gold certificate at the time of handover. Enemærke & Petersen and BLOXHUB, an indusbefore being used again. sort waste at source so it can be recycled. We The UN sustainability goal was also linked to the try network for urban development, have creatare also committed to sorting waste in our construction. We thus made the targets quantied the ’Upcycle Challenge’ competition in order MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – Environment 12 Environment MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 2018 – Environment 13 GRI content index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Reporting GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Reporting Breadth Depth Breadth Depth 102-1 Name of the organisation 1 102-40 Stakeholder groups 17 102-2 Primary brands 16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 17 102-3 Location of headquarters 28 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 17 102-4 Countries where the organisation operates 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 17 102-5 Ownership 16 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stake17 102-44 102-6 Markets served 16 holder engagement 102-7 Scale of the organisation 16 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial 16 102-45 statements 102-8 Number of employees 16 102-46 Process for defining the GRI report content 18 102-9 The organisation’s supply chain 16 102-47 Aspects identified 17 102-10 Changes during the reporting period 16 102-48 Restatements of information provided in previous GRI reports 18 102-11 Risk management 16 102-49 Significant changes from previous GRI reporting periods 18 102-12 External initiatives 17 102-50 Reporting period 18 102-13 Memberships of associations and advocacy organisations 17 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 18 102-14 Message from the President & CEO 3 102-52 Reporting cycle 18 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 18 102-53 Contact point 28 102-18 Governance structure 18 102-54 Reporting level 18 102-55 GRI content index 14 102-56 External assurance 18 103-1 Topic boundaries within the organisation 17 103-2 Management approach Reporting level MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – GRI content index 14 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Reporting SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page Reporting Business behaviour Breadth Depth The workplace and industrial relations Breadth Depth 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 19 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 21 205-2 Training in anti-corruption policies and procedures 19 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 24 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 19 403-2 Hazard identification and incident investigation 23 206-1 Anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 19 403-3 Occupational health services 23 404-1 Hours of training per employee 21 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 22 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations on health and safety 19 at work Human rights 406-1 Discrimination and corrective actions taken 20 407-1 Collective bargaining and the right to freedom of association 20 Environment 408-1 Child labour and forced labour 20 302-1 Energy consumption 25 409-1 Risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour 20 302-3 Energy intensity of buildings 25 412-3 Significant agreements and contracts that include human rights 20 clauses 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 26 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 20 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 27 Reporting level MTH GROUP CSR report 2018 – GRI content index 15 Appendix 102-1 102-2 102-5 Denmark: 102-7 1102-8 102-41 Teksten management due to write-downs on some · Civil works and construction 0 projects and will continue at full pace to avoid The Group is owned by the two listed compa· Equipment hire and advice on construction *EMPLOYEES (FTE): 102-8 major project deviations on new coming pronies Højgaard Holding A/S (54%) and Monberg site organisation jects. & Thorsen A/S (46%). · Electrical installations 2017 2018 · Prefabricated modular buildings Number of employees 4,132 3,914 Group management has the overall responsiThe report includes MT Højgaard and the four Salaried/hourly employees (%) 37/63 43/57 bility for risk management and manages comFaroe Islands: In Denmark/rest of world (%) 98/2 98/2 pany and project-specific risks on an ongoing wholly-owned companies Ajos, Enemærke & Men/women (%) 88/12 88/12 Petersen, Lindpro and Scandi Byg. · Civil works and construction basis in close collaboration with the business. Covered by collective bargain67 61 Material risks are documented and discussed ing agreements (%) · Ajos, which hires out equipment and offers Greenland: by the Board of Directors on a regular basis. advice on construction site organisation · Civil works, construction and electrical *102-8 d N/A The Board and the Executive Board carry out · Enemærke & Petersen, which undertakes installations an annual review and categorisation of the refurbishment and newbuild projects 102-9 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] overall risk assessment on the basis of proba· Lindpro, which carries out electrical installaMaldives: bility and potential financial impact. tion and service contracts · Civil works and construction Our supply chain consists primarily of supplies · MT Højgaard, which undertakes civil works, of building products/materials from a range of For further details on the Group’s risk manconstruction and refurbishment projects Sweden: suppliers/subsuppliers in the construction agement, see annual report 2018. · Scandi Byg, which manufactures and con· Steel bridges industry. We also hire equipment for our constructs prefabricated modular buildings struction sites such as site huts, tools, scaffold102-12 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] The Vietnam office assists the Group’s Danish ing, cranes, excavators, etc. 102-4 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Design & Engineering department. Economic, environmental and social charters, 102-10 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] principles or other initiatives to which the On 31 December 2018, the Group had employ102-7 102-8 [XXX] [XXX] Group subscribes, or which it endorses: ees at permanent offices in Denmark, the There have been no significant changes in the Faroe Islands, Greenland, the Maldives and The Group is organised into MT Højgaard with scale of the organisation during the reporting · UN Global Compact, 2015 Vietnam. four wholly-owned companies and is primarily period. There have not been any significant · Charter for corporate social responsibility in a project organisation. changes in the organisation’s structure, ownthe property, building and civil engineering 102-6 1102-7 [XXX] [XXX] ership or supply chain during the reporting industry in Denmark, signed in 2014 0 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS period. The Group works in chosen markets geographically and in terms of capabilities. The DKK million 2017 2018 102-11 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Group serves both public and private customRevenue 7,648 6,758 Operating profit/(loss) before 176 -547 The Group has been working with risk maners. special items agement on an ongoing basis in relation to Equity 884 393 both industry risks and risk factors specifically related to the Group’s activities. This work has been further intensified under the new Group MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 16 102-13 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Examples of our engagement: · Compliance Owners · Member of the Board of Directors and two · Energy The owners are interested in the Group delivIn 2018, the Group held memberships of assocommittees in Green Building Council, · Freedom of association and collective barering good results and being operated sensiciations and supported regional, national and where we are influencing the criteria in the gaining agreements bly. The dialogue with the owners goes international organisations such as: DGNB certification system · Non-discrimination through the Board of Directors. · Participation as sponsor and with a stand at · Investment · BLOXHUB IDA’s annual management conference · Anti-competitive behaviour Employees · Building Network Ledelse der styrker”. Several of our manag· Suppliers and human rights issues The employees want an attractive workplace · Copenhagen Urban Network ers attended the conference, which featured · Diversity and equal opportunity with a good working environment and exciting · The Danish Building Society presentations by Danish and international · Product and certification schemes challenges. Each year, the manager and the · Danish Architecture Center & Sustainable management experts. The many presenta· Risk of incidents of forced or compulsory employee jointly set performance targets for Build tions included topics such as project manlabour the employee. · The Danish Construction Association agement, change management and man· Waste water and waste · The Confederation of Danish Industry DI agement teams · Training and education Customers · Business Network Aarhus · The Group participates in the ”company The customers are interested in having their · Business Esbjerg panel” of the Confederation of Danish IndusA second stakeholder analysis was started up projects completed at the agreed price, time · The association Sustainable Cities and Buildtry and is active in the work of the internship in 2017. In 2019, the Group will use this analysis and quality. The Group conducts dialogue ings (FBBB) unit under The Capital Region of Denmark to update its strategic CSR platform. This meetings and customer satisfaction surveys, · The Danish Association for Responsible where the goal is to secure internships platform will form the basis for an updated and makes active use of the findings to Construction across schools and businesses, using for instrategy and CSR reporting for 2019. However, strengthen the business. The overall customer · Business Kolding stance training agreements the Group has not changed its existing assatisfaction score was 79, up six percentage · Gladsaxe Erhvervsby · Cooperation with various educational institusessment of relevant topics. points on 2017, and customer loyalty scored · Green Building Council Denmark tions 82, up seven percentage points on 2017. This · The Danish Society of Engineers IDA 102-40 102-42 102-43 102-45 increase occurred on projects, where there · InnoBYG 102-44 102-46 102-47 102-49 103-1 103-2 [XXX] [XXX] has been a strong focus on following up on · Netværk for Bæredygtig Erhvervsudvikling action areas from midway measurements to NordDanmark A stakeholder analysis was conducted in STAKEHOLDER GROUPS final measurements. Both customer satisfac· Network Denmark 2013/2014. The analysis identified CSR topics The Group’s stakeholder groups consist of tion and customer loyalty exceeded targets for · Nordic Road Forum that the Group’s stakeholders consider releorganisations, groups of persons or persons 2018. The targets for 2019 are a customer · The Capital Region of Denmark vant. Management used the analysis to organthat can reasonably be expected to be signifisatisfaction score of 76 and a customer loyalty · Regional Labour Market Councils ise the topics and related GRI indicators in cantly affected by the Group’s operations, and score of 76. · Renovering på dagsordenen order of priority under the four strategic indiwhose operations, conversely, can reasonably · Solar City Denmark cators, selecting the following topics: be expected to affect the Group’s ability to Investors · Water in Urban Areas carry on business. Investors are interested in the Group being · Aarhus Fremad · Anti-corruption The Group’s key stakeholders are: soundly operated and delivering good results. · Health and safety at work The dialogue with investors takes place at · Employment investor meetings. · Child labour and forced labour MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 17 Subcontractors Media 102-18 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] 102-16 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] Subcontractors are interested in projects Media interest in the Group covers both indirunning to plan as regards time and economy. vidual projects and the Group’s financial perThe Group's highest governance body is the The Group’s vision is to be the most productivThe communication with subcontractors takes formance. The Group meets the media with Board of Directors. ity-enhancing group in the construction and place through contracts and at meetings, but openness and a desire to convey a true piccivil engineering industry. also informally at the sites in connection with ture. The Board of Directors and the audit committhe daily work. tee appointed by the Board of Directors are The Group works proactively towards greater Management approach specifically responsible for the Group's finanachievability on construction and civil works Business partners Management’s approach to each indicator is cial reporting, risk management etc. projects and focuses on sound projects. This Business partners include consulting engidescribed in the relevant appendices. requires concerted action in terms of quality in neers, architects and suppliers. Dialogue with Group Management is responsible for the tendering and good execution on projects. business partners primarily takes place at 102-45 102-48 102-50 102-51 operational management of the Group. A meetings, and preferably at the earliest possi102-52 102-53 102-54 [XXX] number of employees or committees have As part of the Group’s Code of Conduct, a joint ble stage of the process. been appointed under Group management set of values has been prepared for the five The Group reports on CSR annually in conneceach of which is responsible for one of these companies that we must all respect and adAuthorities tion with the presentation of its financial areas. here to: The authorities regulate the markets in which statements. the Group operates, set requirements for the The Group has a Tender and Contract Board, · We treat everyone with respect and we take Group and follow up on the Group's compliThe reporting period is 1 January 31 Decemwhich reviews all projects with a value above care of ourselves and each other ance with applicable laws. ber 2018, unless otherwise stated. DKK 50 million before a contract is entered · We use our funds and assets responsibly The last report was published on 22 February into by the Group. The purpose is to ensure · We support open and fair competition and Society 2018. There are no changes to that report. profitability on projects. are good collaborative partners Society in general is interested in the Group · We deliver quality work and are considerate delivering good results, acting professionally The Group’s 2018 reporting has been prepared The Group's CSR activities are managed by a of the environment. and responsibly, complying with applicable in accordance with GRI Standards 2016 Core. CSR Board consisting of a number of relevant laws, contributing to training and education of The GRI content index can be found on page Group executives. The Vice President QHSE Each company also works in accordance with employees and maintaining jobs. 14. has overall responsibility for CSR, while reits own values. This reflects the diversity that sponsibility for operating the different subarewe also represent. Local community 102-56 [XXX] [XXX] [XXX] as is vested in local employees and divisions The local community is interested in the work responsible for each relevant area. being carried out in an environmentally sound The auditor has reviewed the CSR report. manner, without generating noise, and emDisclosures in compliance with the requireFor further details on the Group’s corporate ploying local labour or using local subcontracments in sections 99(a) and (b) of the Danish governance, see tors. The dialogue with the local community Financial Statements Act have also been remthgroup.eu/Responsibility/Corporatetakes place at dialogue meetings and through viewed by the auditor. governance information to neighbours and consultations or enquiries. MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 18 205-1 205-2 2 205-3 206-1 419-1 103-2 0 BUSINESS BEHAVIOUR ACTION AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 Training in anti-corruption policies and Our efforts have centred on preventing fall IMPORTANT TO STAKEHOLDERS The Group was issued with three procedures injuries and improving the design of workplacRespect for human rights, climate prohibition notices and 51 immeHR organises workshops for all new employees es, including keeping communal areas and and environmental challenges as diate improvement notices, a in the departments and countries with the access roads cleared and in good order to well as corruption are key drivers small increase compared with highest risk. We communicate our Code of minimise the risk of slip and trip injuries. We of sustainable development in 2017. Major efforts were made to prevent fall Conduct to all employees and all members of received the highest number of prohibition society as a whole. The Group has defined a injuries and improve the organisation of workthe Board of Directors. notices and immediate improvement notices Code of Conduct that sets out our clear explaces, including keeping shared areas and in these areas, which are also the primary risk pectations of and guidelines for employees, access roads cleared and in good order to Confirmed incidents of corruption and areas in the industry. We will continue our customers, business partners and suppliers. minimise the risk of slip and trip injuries. actions taken efforts in these areas in 2019. No incidents of corruption were found. IMPORTANT TO THE GROUP EXPECTATIONS/INITIATIVES 2019 The Group has appealed five of the 54 reThe Group does not tolerate any We will ensure that employees Anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and sponses, as we considered that the Danish form of corruption. We will conreceive training in anti-corruption monopoly practices Working Environment Authority did not have tinue our efforts to increase policies and procedures. We have Training has been provided in departments the required statutory basis for issuing these awareness of policies by means of set a target of zero fines and with the highest impact risk. notices. We have won four of these appeals. targeted screening of projects and communireducing the number of prohibition notices to cation. Our whistleblowing system enables zero and the number of immediate improveNon-compliance with laws and regulations RESPONSES ISSUED BY THE DANISH WORKING employees to raise concerns about irregulariment notices from 51 to 30. Our managers at on health and safety at work ENVIRONMENT AUTHORITY – BY COMPANY ties or criticisable practices. all levels are continuously focusing on, among The number of responses issued by the Danish other things, the general work planning by Working Environment Authority was not reCompany ImmeTHE GROUP’S AMBITION construction management, to ensure that duced despite a targeted effort in this area. diate The Group undertakes to act work can be performed safely and without The trial by the Danish Working Environment imProhiproveprofessionally, fairly and with risks to health. We focus on keeping access Authority with holistic construction site inspecbition ment integrity in all business activities roads cleared and in good order and on cortions and its focus on major public works notice notice and relations and stresses the rect use of technical aids. We also focus on projects, including infrastructure, led to more Ajos 0 3 importance of honest and ethical behaviour preventive action against fall injuries to elimiresponses being issued to the industry. Three Enemærke & Petersen 1 7 with regard to avoiding fraud, corruption, nate the risk of falls from heights. incidents were of a nature that resulted in the Lindpro 0 7 moonlighting, cartel formation and other Danish Working Environment Authority issuing MT Højgaard 2 32 conduct that could damage the Group, its Risk analysis corruption prohibition notices. The Group was issued with Scandi Byg 0 2 customers and society. An analysis of the Group’s risk at country level three fines related to immediate improvement Group 3 51 has shown that the risk is low. We have connotices in respect of injuries in 2016 and 2017. Policies and agreements that guide the cluded that the current focus on training must We have implemented follow-up and taken Group’s work be maintained, with particular focus on new steps to avoid similar situations in future. We · Code of Conduct internal and external employees. We have analysed the negative have been notified of two further fines in 2018 · Anti-corruption policy impact level for head offices, where the risk is and have appealed against these. Replies from · Health and safety policy the highest according to the Corruption Perthe Working Environment Authority are pend· Whistleblowing policy ception Index. ing. MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 19 406-1 407-1 2 408-1 409-1 412-3 414-1 103-2 0 HUMAN RIGHTS Policies and principles that guide the Group’s Significant agreements and contracts that Collective bargaining and the right to freeIMPORTANT TO STAKEHOLDERS work include human rights clauses dom of association Denmark is a significant global · Code of Conduct internal and external The industry has been challenged by a shortThe right of freedom of association of our defender of international legal (forms part of the contract basis) age of labour in recent years. The Group conemployees and their right to collective barorder, peace, human rights, and · CSR policy sequently uses foreign labour on some progaining are fundamental principles that the democracy in international fora, · HR policy jects. We therefore set up an internal task force Group respects and values. and these are also important priorities in Dengroup that is tasked with ensuring that labourmark’s development work. Personal freedom ACTION AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 hiring firms used by the Group comply with We have commenced screening of pay condiand the responsibility of the individual are core All contracts with a value of over relevant CSR requirements. tions at subcontractors for compliance with values in Danish society. Each and every emDKK 50 million were screened. We relevant collective bargaining agreements. The ployee must have the freedom to create a screened 101 tenders compared Discrimination and corrective actions taken screening takes the form of random checks good life for themselves. This cannot be with 114 in 2017. The Group has No incidents of discrimination were reported in using a risk-based assessment of the specific achieved unless women and men are treated prepared information material to subcontracthe Group. The scope and tackling of bullying subcontractors. More than 130 checks were as equals. We have opted to work towards the tors and their employees. No screenings were were analysed in connection with an employee performed in 2018. UN 17 Global Goals because we can make a carried out outside Europe in 2018. satisfaction survey in 2017. Responses indicatdifference. ed that some employees felt they were being The Group has prepared information material EXPECTATIONS/INITIATIVES 2019 bullied or had received threats in connection to subcontractors and their employees. In IMPORTANT TO THE GROUP Screening of contracts will be with their work. There were no reported cases 2018, we started implementing this material, In the Group, we treat everyone extended as the market develops of discrimination. The number of indicators and this work will continue in 2019. The matewith respect and do not tolerate and the number of client initiawas significantly less than the industry averrial will be implemented on construction sites offensive behaviour, so we act tives increases and customer age. In 2018, we carried out follow-up in the and will be handed out as appropriate already responsibly towards our colrequirements become more stringent. We will divisions in which there have been indications at contract inception. leagues, customers and business partners and focus on ensuring that relevant CSR requireof bullying or threats. In the employee satisfactreat them with dignity and respect. There is a ments are adhered to when using foreign tion survey to be conducted in 2019, the risk of forced labour when using foreign lalabour, and all supplier contracts outside EuGroup will follow up on the effect and continbour. The Group is aware of this risk and we rope with a value of over DKK 1 million will be ue working on this culture. consequently screen our suppliers and subscreened. We will also focus on establishing suppliers. new, formalised processes in connection with the use of subcontractors with a view to avoid*SUPPLIERS – NUMBER, AMOUNT AND SCREENING: 102-9 THE GROUP’S AMBITION ing social dumping, and on distributing inforRegion 2017 2018 2017 % 2018 % 2017 2018 2017 % 2018 % We only work with individuals, mation material to subsuppliers. Screening of DKKm DKKm numnumcompanies or organisations that contracts will be extended using a risk-based ber ber respect the UN’s internationally assessment, and the screening process for Denmark 5,027 5,071 95.95 96.28 6,100 6,026 95.2 96.1 recognised human rights. Regardsuppliers outside Europe will be updated to Other Nordic countries 56 60 1.07 1.14 87 69 1.3 1.1 less of where we work, everyone in the Group comply with the new reporting process. Rest of EU 111 127 2.12 2.41 123 148 2 2.3 is responsible for ensuring that we do not Rest of world 45 9 0.86 0.17 93 30 1.5 0.5 exploit or harm others, physically or mentally. Total 5,239 5,267 100 100 6,403 6,273 100 100 * In addition, more than 130 screenings related to pay and employment terms were carried out on the Group’s Danish construction sites. No incidents of child labour or compulsory labour were recorded. MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 20 401-1 404-1 2 405-1 103-2 0 THE WORKPLACE AND INDUSTRIAL RELAACTION AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TERMINATIONS: 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TERMINATIONS TIONS – EMPLOYEES The Group’s employee turnover SALARIED EMPLOYEES – BY AGE: 401-1 IMPORTANT TO STAKEHOLDERS for salaried employees was 29% in Hourly Salaried Total Society is changing at an increas2018 compared with 24% in 2017, paid employAge <30 Age 30Age >50 ingly rapid pace, and it is therewhich meant that the target of a ees 50 New employee New employee fore vital for companies to keep reduction of max. 5 percentage points was not hires 822 218 1,040 hires 39 133 46 up and have a mobile, dynamic met. Some companies experienced a marked New hires 231 23 254 New employee 3 18 2 workforce. It is important for society, the increase in employee turnover as a result of leaving employhires leaving Group’s owners and its employees that the deferred projects. The Group reemploys emment in 2018 employment in Group reflects today’s society. ployees within the Group as far as possible. Total number 834 371 1,205 2018 The target of 7% was met as 7.8% were emleaving employTotal number 37 208 126 IMPORTANT TO THE GROUP ployed in training posts. The Group had on ment leaving employThe Group wants to be an attracaverage of 12 training hours per employee ment tive, responsible collaborative among both salaried employees and hourly NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TERMINATIONS partner and employer. To that paid employees. HOURLY PAID – BY AGE: 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TERMINATIONS end, we strive to create the best HOURLY PAID – BY GENDER: 401-1 possible conditions for our employees. We We implemented a new HR portal, which is Age <30 Age 30Age >50 want to create a workplace where people used as a hub for all HR-related processes 50 Women Men thrive. across the Group, including learning. The New employee New employee hires 34 788 Group also expanded its cooperation with hires 324 328 170 New hires 106 81 44 New hires leaving employ11 218 THE GROUP’S AMBITION educational institutions. ment in 2018 leaving employThe Group consists of ambitious Total number leaving em24 808 ment in 2018 companies and workplaces. We EXPECTATIONS/INITIATIVES 2019 ployment Total number 281 359 194 place high demands on our emWe are committed to ensuring leaving employployees, but we also offer extenthat employees across the Group ment sive opportunities for development and create have decent working conditions. NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TERMINATIONS opportunities that enable employees to help We expect a reduction of max. 5 SALARIED EMPLOYEES – BY AGE: 401-1 shape both the companies they work in and percentage points in overall employee turnoWomen Men the projects we jointly create. ver. We operate with a target that 7% of emNew employee hires 36 182 Policies and principles that guide the Group’s ployees must be employed in training posts, New hires leaving employ2 21 work and a target of 10 training hours per employee. ment in 2018 · Code of Conduct internal We focus on sending management talent to Total number leaving em94 277 · CSR policy IMD in Switzerland and ensuring that employployment · HR policy ees are trained in how to use a new ERP system. MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 21 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TERMINATIONS promote a more even gender balance at all WOMEN IN THE GROUP: 401-1 HOURLY PAID – BY GEOGRAPHY: 401-1 levels of our organisation. We believe that diversity contributes to a better understanding Managers 2017 Board of Managers 2018 Board of Denmark Rest of of our customers’ needs – and thus better Directors 2017 Directors 2018 world solutions – and a better working environment. Ajos 6 0 0 0 New employee hires 804 18 Enemærke & Petersen 15 33 14 33 New hires leaving employ225 5 Lindpro 5 33 1 33 We focus on attracting the best employees ment in 2018 MT Højgaard 29 33 30 33 and will strive to recruit from a broader base Total number leaving em832 2 Scandi Byg 15 0 15 0 for management and other positions. ployment Group 13 13 Gender composition of governance bodies NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND TERMINATIONS in accordance with section 99(b) of the SALARIED EMPLOYEES – BY GEOGRAPHY: 401-1 Danish Financial Statements Act The percentage of female managers in the WOMEN IN THE GROUP – 2019 TARGETS: 401-1 Denmark Rest of Group was 13% again in 2018. The focus on this world area will continue in 2019, and recruitment of Managers Board of New employee hires 212 6 Directors new employees to management positions will New hires leaving employ23 Ajos 1 *33 ensure that candidates will always include ment in 2018 Enemærke & Petersen 15 *33 women, provided there are qualified appliTotal number leaving em357 14 Lindpro 3 33 cants. Five female managers participated in ployment MT Højgaard 30 33 ’Strategies for Leadership’ at IMD in SwitzerScandi Byg 15 *33 land. Group **15 All employees (salaried and hourly paid) are offered health insurance. Health insurance is a There were no changes on the Boards of Diself-paid employee benefit. rectors of Ajos and Scandi Byg in 2018, and the *The target for Ajos must be met by the end of 2020. targets for the number of women on their The target for the Annual General Meeting in 2020 is for 33% of the members elected by shareholders at For details of number of employees in the Boards by 2020 have therefore not been met the Annual General Meeting to be women. Group, see table on page 16. yet. **The long-term target is to achieve the same gender THE UNDER-REPRESENTED SEX Initiatives 2019 balance on governance bodies as among the total The Group wants to create an attractive work· Continued focus on IMD Strategies for Leademployee population. place for both women and men. Women and ership (SL) for female managers. men must be offered the same employment · Ensuring that the recruitment process inopportunities, employment conditions, training cludes female candidates and education and career progression opportunities. We wish to provide equal opportunities for everyone, and we consequently consider it important to respect diversity and MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 22 403-1 403-2 403-3 103-2 THE WORKPLACE AND INDUSTRIAL RELAACTION AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 OVERALL FIGURES: 403-2 TYPE OF INJURY HOURLY PAID EMPLOYEES: TIONS – HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK The Group reported an impressive 403-2 IMPORTANT TO SOCIETY reduction in the injury rate from 2017 2018 It is important to the owners that 10.3 in 2017 to 8.1 in 2018. The Injury rate (injuries per one million Injury type Circumstances Numthe Group is able to attract and Group has reduced its injury rate hours worked) 10.3 8.1 ber Occupational injuries resulting in 70 52 Injury to soft tissue Fall at the same or 8 retain employees. For employees, target from 14 to 8 in two years. absence from work (blow and bruise to a lower levbusiness partners and subconLost days 783 527 marks) el/bumped into/hit tractors, a responsible workplace is important. Two safety weeks with relevant initiatives were Absenteeism rate in connection 0.9 0.6 by Besides the human costs, injuries and sickness held, and a health and safety e-learning course with occupational injuries Wound Stepped on or other 10 absence cost society and companies vast was held for employees in several parts of the contact with sharp sums of money every year. organisation. objects/bumped The injury rate was well below the industry into/hit by IMPORTANT TO THE GROUP EXPECTATIONS/INITIATIVES 2019 average for 2017, which was 15.4. Loss of limb Squeezed or hit by 1 The Group considers safety and a We aim to reduce the overall Closed fracture Bumped into/hit by 4 healthy working environment as injury rate to max. 8.0. All figures in the table above have been calcuor fall at same or to key to being a leading group in In 2019, we will introduce a manlated for both salaried and hourly paid emlower level the construction and civil engidatory safety course for a larger ployees. Sprain/ Fall at same or to 23 dislocation/ lower level or exneering industry. The Group’s influence expart of the Group. We will also focus on perstrain cess strain on body tends beyond our own projects, and we strive sonal work planning. We will urge everyone to INJURIES AND ABSENTEEISM – REGIONS Open fracture Squeezed by 1 to lead the way by setting a good example to spend 15 seconds thinking through a task HOURLY PAID EMPLOYEES: 403-2 Concussion and Fall to lower level 1 inspire and benefit other industry players. before starting it up to ensure that they have internal injuries the right safety equipment, the right tools and DenDenRest Rest of Electric shock Contact with elec1 THE GROUP’S AMBITION the right knowledge to hand. mark mark of world trical current 2017 2018 world 2018 The Group has a joint vision of Miscellaneous, eye Foreign object in 3 2017 zero incidents. We wish to train all By increasing supervision by both supervisors injuries eye or contact with *Injury rate per 18.6 15.7 6,6* 0* employees in health and safety via and construction management, we aim to chemicals one million an e-learning course. We have ensure that employees carry out their work as hours worked policies and processes to help promote a planned and adhere to known safety rules. All **Absenteeism 1.5 1.1 0.5* 0* The whole Group is working to the DS/OHSAS good physical and psychological working employees must continue to work in accordrate in connec18001:2008 occupational health and safety environment and flexible working hours to ance with the DS/OHSAS 18001:2008 occupation with standard. help to encourage a healthy work-life balance: tional health and safety standard or upgrade to occupational Policies and principles that guide the Group’s the new DS/ISO 45001:2018. injuries work · Health and safety policy *Injury rate includes local hourly paid employees. · Code of Conduct internal **It is not possible to calculate injury and absenteeism rates broken down by women and men. MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 23 INJURIES AND INJURY RATE – BY COMPANY: 403-2 Health and safety organisation A good and safe working environment is imNumber Number Injury rate 2017 Injury rate 2018 portant to all of us. The Group consequently 2017 2018 greatly appreciates the good cooperation Ajos 2 3 11.9 15.4 between management and employees in the Enemærke & Petersen 6 14 5.7 12.7 health and safety organisation, where we Lindpro 17 9 12.7 6.9 jointly endeavour to promote a good and safe MT Højgaard 36 19 10.7 5.9 working environment. Scandi Byg 6 7 10.0 11.6 Group 70 52 10.3 8.1 The health and safety organisation not only helps the Group to comply with the Danish Injuries are calculated as follows: Working Environment Act, it also helps to Injuries resulting in absence from work = injuries >one day’s absence (excluding day of injury) ensure that health and safety is top of the Day of absence = working day agenda and that we integrate health and safety and prevention into our day-to-day routines, from planning through to execution of our daily tasks, to avoid occupational injuries. INJURIES AND ABSENCE – EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AND REGION: 403-2 A good working environment is a joint task that Hourly paid Denmark Rest of Total Denmark Rest of Total requires us all to be responsible for ourselves 2017 world 2018 world and each other. 2017 2018 Injury rate 18.6 6.6 16.5 15.7 0 12.9 Work clothing Occupational injuries resulting in 65 5 70 51 0 51 We continuously focus on ensuring that we absence from work have work clothes for any work situation and Lost days 732 51 783 495 0 495 any type of weather. Our focus on health and Absenteeism rate in connection 1.5 0.5 1.4 1.1 0 0.9 with occupational injuries safety also extends to work clothing as a Hazardous (near-miss) incidents 190 0 190 144 0 144 means of ensuring that our employees feel Occupational injuries not resulting 268 6 274 302 1 303 comfortable when carrying out their work. in absence from work We always involve our safety committees when selecting the range of work clothing and suppliers of same. We do that because the safety committee has the required expertise with respect to the types of work clothing our employees need. MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 24 302-1 302-3 2 307-1 103-2 0 ENVIRONMENT proportion of renewable energy on our proDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION CONVERSION FACTORS USED – IMPORTANT TO STAKEHOLDERS jects and reducing waste through prevention, GJ TO C02 EQUIVALENT: It is important to our owners, reduction, recycling and reuse. GJ 2017 2018 customers and society that the Policies and agreements that guide the Fuel purchases petrol 564 768 Petrol: 0.07 Group complies with applicable Group’s work Fuel purchases diesel 110,228 97,565 Diesel & oil: 0.0741 Heating oil purchases 6,196 1,857 Private car: 0.0725 laws. Environmental laws and · Code of Conduct – external construction site Natural gas: 0.0572 regulations stipulate and set out the minimum · CSR policy Company mileage private 21,536 17,385 requirements for companies’ operations. · Environment policy car RELATIVE CONSUMPTION Companies in Denmark are regulated by envi· Car policy Heating oil 665 591 ronmental regulations, including environmenHeating natural gas 6,795 6,130 GJ/DKK million – GJ/1000t 2017 2018 tal approvals, which stipulate limits for and ACTION AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 Total direct energy con145,984 124,296 Total energy consumption 23.9 24.9 requirements related to the measurement, The Group reduced its total consumption relative to revenue discharge, emission and possibly mitigation of sumption of both direct and indiTonnes of CO2 equivalent 10,443 9,073 Total direct energy con25.8 27.3 pollution. rect energy compared with 2017. sumption relative to manEnergy consumption from fuel purchases was reThe energy intensity of buildings hours duced due to lower revenue. IMPORTANT TO THE GROUP was reduced by 7% compared with 2017, Average mileage/litre for leased cars was 23.1 km in The relative energy consumption increased as a The Group takes a proactive meeting the target of a 5% improvement. The 2017 and 23.4 km in 2018. result of the lower revenue for the year and fewer approach to global climate and relative energy consumption rose as a result of employees. environmental challenges, includthe lower revenue for the year and fewer INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION FROM OFing carbon emissions from our employees. Despite an overall reduction in FICES ENERGY INTENSITY OF BUILDINGS buildings, and our mapping, which identifies energy consumption, the target for the relative and describes our risks. We strive to minimise energy consumption was not met. GJ 2017 2018 2017 2018 our environmental and climate impacts. At the Electricity 11,943 12,224 Energy consumption Elec34,706 32,471 same time, we would like to continue building EXPECTATIONS/INITIATIVES 2019 District heat 15,303 13,526 tricity and heat (GJ) in a way that can actually reduce the environThe Group focuses on making Total indirect consumption 27,246 25,750 Total heated floor area (m2) 60,171 59,411 mental impact, save valuable resources and efficient use of resources and Number of employees 1,609 1,363 Energy consumption for heating fell due to rental of create gains for society in the form of, for increasing our use of clean, enviin offices (heated floor and sale of properties and switching from natural gas example, improved health and wellbeing, ronment-friendly technologies space) to district heat. Energy intensity 0.58 0.55 better conditions for learning, and enhanced and industrial processes. Design for Disassemof buildings (GJ/m2) productivity. bly will be implemented in relevant construcThe conversion factors used in 2017 were also Energy intensity of buildings 21.6 23.8 tion concepts. used in 2018. (GJ/employees) THE GROUP’S AMBITION Our ambition is to contribute to a We are also in the process of setting up a CONVERSION FACTORS USED: The energy intensity of buildings was reduced by 7% greener society through the way material library that is designed to help us compared with 2017, meeting the target of a 5% we run our business. We are spedeselect materials that are harmful to the improvement. The energy consumption in buildings Petrol: 0.33 GJ/litre cifically working on increasing the environment and people. and offices accounted for 26% of the Group’s total Diesel: 0.036 GJ/litre energy consumption in 2018. Natural gas: 0.036 GJ/litre Electricity and heat: 0.0036 GJ/kWh MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 25 306-2 103-2 2 0 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD THE GROUP’S AMBITION *WASTE down requirements for the materials and IMPORTANT TO STAKEHOLDERS Our ambition is to help to make products that we and our subcontractors can Denmark is one of the countries in Denmark greener through the way % of total volume 2017 2018 use based on, for example, their content of the world that deposits the lowest we run our business. We do this Recycling (incl. reuse) 45 54 heavy metals, biocides, halogenated propelvolume of waste to landfill, and specifically be increasing the Including mineral wool lants and their VOC content. waste for recycling 96 99 Denmark is making a concerted proportion of renewable energy in our projects Incineration (or used as fuel) 30 27 effort to promote a more circular economy, and by reducing waste through prevention, We factor in opportunities for waste sorting on Landfill 10 9 where materials in products can be reused reduction, reuse and recycling. construction projects. We also include relevant Mixed waste 15 10 instead of going to landfill. Access to these Policies and agreements that guide the measures from our plan for “A sustainable Other (non-categorised) 0.04 0.01 resources is important to our customers, busiGroup’s work Hazardous waste as a 2 4 construction site”. ness partners and society. · Environment policy percentage of total, excl. · “A sustainable construction site” (guide) soil We offer our customers environmental certifiDenmark has long been engaged in a targeted cation, and on the construction projects we effort to promote safe handling of chemicals ACTION AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 *Waste figures provided by waste carriers. develop in-house, we often use the DGNB and waste, including industrial chemicals and We have run trials where conenvironmental certification. pesticides/biocides and to improve knowledge struction sites regularly receive an The total weight of hazardous waste was about chemical substances. This knowledge is overview of their waste volumes. 686,553 kg. Our modular residential buildings are certified important to our employees. Overall, this has led to a reduction with the Nordic Swan Ecolabel as standard. in mixed waste and thus a higher recycling The total weight of non-hazardous waste excl. IMPORTANT TO THE GROUP rate. The volume of mixed waste was well soil was 16,451,395 kg. We are constantly working to below the industry average compared with the reduce the environmental and latest figure for 2016, when it was 18. As a rule, we use non-hazardous materials in climate impacts of the construcour design, and we focus on reducing waste tion and civil works projects the EXPECTATIONS/INITIATIVES 2019 and increasing resource efficiency, such as in Group is involved in. Actions include optimisJoint effort to develop the tool ”A our MultiFlex Living concept, where the building the construction process, the choice of sustainable construction site” still ings are adjusted to standard formats and the materials, waste management and subsequent further. use of prefabricated modules ensures minioperation. We focus on sorting waste to minimum waste of resources because the need for mise waste and maximise sorting at source. adjustment is limited. Construction sites generate a large amounts of waste, but if we consistently manage waste in We minimise the climate impact of our consuch a way that materials that can be recycled struction activities by selecting materials or reused are segregated at source, we ensure based on their environmental impacts during that the fractions can subsequently be incorthe life cycle of the building. We always give porated in new raw materials. preference to the most sustainable choice. We assess the environmental and health risks of materials and deselect materials that are harmful to the environment and people. We lay MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 26 307-1 103-2 COMPLIANCE us in our daily decision-making and to help us Fines and sanctions for non-compliance Sustainability certification, accreditation IMPORTANT TO STAKEHOLDERS to act and operate our business professionally, with environmental laws and regulations and labelling schemes for buildings Society and the local communities respectfully and in accordance with statutory The Group did not incur any fines or sanctions In 2018, the Group worked on 11 construction in which we operate are interestrequirements, customer requirements and for non-compliance with environmental laws projects with sustainability certifications: ed in the Group acting profesother requirements. or regulations, and was not involved in any sionally and responsibly, complysuch cases referred for dispute resolution. Køge Kyst (DGNB) ing with applicable laws and working in an EXPECTATIONS/INITIATIVES 2019 Fælleshuset i Aars (DGNB) environmentally sustainable manner. Zero fines or sanctions. We strive Product and certification schemes Slagelse Hospital (DGNB) to prevent or minimise the enviCertification, accreditation and labelling Hummeltofteparken (DGNB) IMPORTANT TO THE GROUP ronmental and climate impacts of schemes may be voluntary or compulsory. As Skovly/Magdaleneparken (DGNB) It is important to the Group to our various activities and projects, a minimum, all of the Group's projects comply Building 310 (DGNB) define, plan, organise and impleand we endeavour to promote the developwith current regulatory requirements. Nordea Domicil Øst (LEED) ment our projects in such a way ment and distribution of environment-friendly Data centre (LEED) that they comply with general and technologies and solutions. We must actively Voluntary certification, rating and labelling Data centre (BREEAM) specific laws and regulations that are improvide information on the environmental risks schemes are increasingly being used to verify Skråningen/EcoVillage (Nordic Swan Ecolabel) portant for the project, as defined in the conand impacts associated with our operations, processes and products. In the construction Gaardhaverne (Nordic Swan Ecolabel). tract basis. and we must continuously explore opportuniindustry, they provide clients, lessors and ties for minimising or eliminating these based owners with assurance that the buildings THE GROUP’S AMBITION on a precautionary principle. We do not tolercomply with measurable requirements with Our ambition is to contribute to ate breaches of our environmental stewardregard to environmental, economic and social professional and responsible ship that can be harmful to the environment aspects. behaviour. Proper, decent behavand the climate. iour is part of the way we conduct The Group has chosen to report on the numour business at all times. ber of voluntary schemes in the construction Policies and agreements that guide the industry in which the Group's projects particiGroup’s work pate. · Code of Conduct · Environment policy ACTION AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 The Group did not incur any fines or sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations. We issued a joint, Groupwide Code of Conduct, which explains the behaviour we consider to be correct, and how employees in our Group should and should not act. The principles are thus designed to guide MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Appendix 27 Contact If you have any questions or comments to our CSR Report or our CSR and sustainability work, please contact: Ninette Alto Senior Technical Director, Sustainability & CSR nalt@mth.dk +45 2812 5380 The CSR Report has been published by: MTH GROUP Knud Højgaards Vej 7 2860 Søborg Denmark +45 7012 2400 mthgroup.eu MTH GROUP CSR Report 2018 – Contact 28
