global compAct [COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018] Our commitments 2019 CONTENTS OVERVIEW Action Plan Chairman’s Message Gender Equality HUMAN RIGHTS Actions in Disaster Stricken Countries CSR Activities LTG Social Ethics Committee LABOUR VIE Programme Training Initiatives Planète Urgence ENVIRONMENT Environmental Impact of Business Bilan Carbone© ANTI-CORRUPTION Supply Chain Management Communication on Progress Pg1 10 PRINCIPLES of the GLOBAL compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Communication on Progress Pg2 OVERVIEW ACTION PLAN UN PRINCIPLES MOBILITAS ACTIONS STAGE ACTIONS FOR 2018 ACTIONS FOR 2019 GENDER EQUALITY 3rd year: Action Commitment to Women’s Empowerment Principles Continued commitment to the promotion of gender equality ACTION IN Crisis management in Remain closely involved with local communities to ensure fast DISASTER STRICKEN affected countries Local assistance following disaster incidents worldwide response to crises COUNTRIES CSR ACTIVITIES >5 years Communicate Communicate on selected initiatives worldwide Continued involvement in local communities and charitable initiatives HUMAN RIGHTS 5th year: LTG SOCIAL ETHICS Implementation Ethical business practices, Skills development and education Renewed focus on the five general ethical principles in business COMMITTEE of policies VIE PROGRAMME >5 years Continued active participation in the VIE programme Continued active participation in the VIE programme TRAINING INITIATIVES >5 years Training and skills development programme Skills growth and development of training portfolio LABOUR PLANÈTE URGENCE >5 years Commitment to continue working with Planète Urgence Commitment to continue working with Planète Urgence ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT > 5 years Encourage smaller scale environmental initiatives at local branches Continued encouragement of environmental initiatives at local branches OF BUSINESS BILAN CARBONE >5 years Bilan Carbone© AGS Paris Bilan Carbone© Demepool / AGS Paris Environment SUPPLY CHAIN Supply Chain Management: Improving Anti-corruption Continued improvement of Supply Chain Management processes >5 years MANAGEMENT policies and processes throughout the Group throughout the Group ANTI CORRUPTION Communication on Progress Pg3 Communication on Progress Pg4 CHAIRMAN’s MESSAGE MOBILITAS is delighted to once again repeat our role in promoting and enshrining the universal principles defined in the United Nations Global Compact. Over the last 45 years, MOBILITAS has grown into a global company present on four continents. Our international reach raises challenges which our group is committed to take on while always keeping our values of quality, performance, innovation, respect and solidarity at the core of our policies and operations. These values form the pillars of our commitment to sustainable business practices across the globe. Supply Chain Management This report highlights some of the initiatives taken by our subsidiaries and Supply Chain Management is a key aspect of our business and we do the staff in various countries. I would like to focus on three of these initiatives, utmost to ensure that our high standards of service and quality go beyond motivated by solidarity and our long-term development vision. the direct contact we have with our customers. Comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption and anti-trust policies, privacy policies and compliance surveys ensure that all suppliers fully comply with UN Global Compact Principles and adhere to internationally recognised environmental, social and corporate governance standards. CRISIS RESPONSE We believe it is essential for businesses to be involved in their communities As chairman of the MOBILITAS Group I am pleased to reaffirm our in order to provide a quick response should a crises situation arise. The commitment to the ten principles outlined in the UN Global Compact, MOBILITAS Group has demonstrated year after year its dedication to act which we continue to uphold in all of our activities and operations. on this key principle of solidarity and, in 2018, contributed to local efforts to alleviate the impact of natural disasters which occur in Africa and Asia. Training and Skills Development As the MOBILITAS Group expands and develops new activities, the advancement of our staff is a key concern for our company. Focused training and skills development seeks to share knowledge and capitalise on staff strengths, while taking into account our environment, our international Alain Taïeb presence and the difficulties that sometimes present themselves. Chairman of the Supervisory Board MOBILITAS VALUES: QUALITY At MOBILITAS we are devoted to finding a better way. We believe that quality begins by focusing on our clients’ needs and all else will follow. peRFORMANCE Excellence is at the heart of MOBILITAS. We aim to exceed expectations and demonstrate to our clients that our standards are world class. Innovation is the keystone of our success and sustainability. We set trends in technology and methodology, measuring Innovation them by customer feedback. In this way, we aim to create ideas with the potential to change our industries and improve how our customers are served. RESPECT We value all points of view and diversity of thought. We respect honesty and believe in the highest ethical standards, earning trust through commitment, consistency and principled actions. We commit ourselves to working with our neighbours and communities of the world, recognising that although Solidarity we may not be the same, we live on common ground. In standing together we believe we are always stronger and wiser. Communication on Progress Pg5 HUMAN RIGHTS Gender Equality Endorsement of the Women’s Empowerment Principles At MOBILITAS, we like to foster a spirit of equality within our organisation Committing to take action to promote gender equality and women’s and gender equality is very much included in this ethos. We value our empowerment across the Group, we set ourselves a target for an female staff and are committed to their development and well-being improvement by 2% in female representation for 2018. within our organisation. We are pleased to have reached this target. MOBILITAS recognises that women continue to be under-represented in non-traditional industries and occupations, especially in the mobility and In fact, since embarking on our programme to improve gender equality transportation divisions of the Group. within the organisation two years ago, MOBILITAS has seen an overall increase in female representation from 23% to 32%. Indeed, the removal industry is inherently masculine because of its physicality and heavy loads to carry. These difficulties are key to We aim to improve the results through educating employees and appreciating the specificities of this business, in order to better analyse promoting a corporate culture that respects women and has their best the representativeness of women in these industries. Therefore, the interests in mind. Challenging the status quo as an international company extraordinary effort deployed by MOBILITAS to ensure 32% of female in many different countries, all with unique cultural idiosyncrasies can representation in the workforce and the noticeable increase is an sometimes be difficult, but we have an unwavering commitment to ensure achievement, knowing a large majority of technical staff is male. equal representation and fair treatment of women and so undertake this challenge. It is for this reason that we welcomed the provisions of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles in 2016, and why our Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Alain Taieb, signed the CEO Statement of Support as confirmation of our participation. Approx. 32% 35% 72% Approx. Approx. Approx. Our French network Are employed Of our workforce employs the highest in sales or is female number of females administrative roles Number of female staff employed Number of female staff per job category Number of female staff employed per region 1200 2000 900 900 1500 600 600 1000 300 300 500 nt es n s ica ia e e 0 me Sal tra tio ton 0 Afr As rop nc age nis era Eu Fra n mi Op 0 Ma Ad Total Staff Female Staff Total Staff Female Staff Total Staff Female Staff MOBILITAS affirms that commitment through the following: 1) Each manager completes an HR Metrics report annually. This year we 4) Our Health and Safety results are a good reflection of how seriously we added some gender metrics to that report, which encouraged actions take a safe work environment, for all employees. towards attaining our 2% goal and ensured awareness of the need to promote gender equality. We will continue to promote and improve this 5) Going forward this year, we will strive for a further 2% increase in female report, ensuring awareness around gender inequality in the industries the representation through the promotion of new female appointments and group operates in and the need for equal representation throughout the the retention of female staff. This will ensure that we promote professional organisation. We hope to continue to encourage the hiring and internal development for women within our organisation. promotion of female staff through these changes. 6) We ensure that the women in our organisation have access to training 2) We offer high-level corporate leadership for gender equality through and that they hold the skills necessary to perform their jobs. When our Human Resources Managers’ team, guided by Christophe Mordelet. selecting suppliers female owned companies are given fair opportunity He and his team guide the people of our organisation and will focus on and non-discriminatory selection criteria are used. Marketing materials changing attitudes into the future to ensure women are seen and treated will always respect the dignity of women. as equals in the workplace. 7) Community initiatives we are involved in include those that promote 3) To ensure women within our organisation are treated fairly at all times, equality and when selecting any kind of charity or sponsorship opportunity we have comprehensive grievance procedures in place and managers are non-discriminatory selection processes are used. encouraged to have an open-door policy. Communication on Progress Pg6 HUMAN RIGHTS Actions in Disaster Stricken Countries Delivering humanitarian aid to Senegal When a maternity hospital in Ouakam, Senegal, needed assistance AGS Marseille stepped up to the call and participated in the shipping of humanitarian aid to the facility. At the request of a senior officer working at the French Forces headquarters in Senegal the project began. The enthusiastic AGS Marseille team worked on the Toulon military arsenal site and offered assistance with the road transportation and the delivery of material between the Evreux airbase and the 519 GTM military unit in Toulon. The supplies were then loaded onto a military ship and sent to Senegal. It was an honour for the team to provide support and assistance to both the military in Toulon, with its deep rooted place in the history of France and to the people of Senegal. Aid in times of distress is vital in our fast-paced global economy and AGS is committed to contribute in any way possible. Assisting clients during conflict in Gabon When our trusted clients found themselves in a crisis situation AGS was able to assist and a near disaster was averted. An existing client, who is a French company operating in Gabon, found themselves in a conflict situation in the country last year, with potentially disastrous outcomes for their employees working there. They needed to be evacuated from the country immediately to ensure their safety. AGS, in only two days, moved the employees and their personal effects to safety. The employees were also transported to the airport by AGS, a service we provided due to the urgency of the situation. Personal effects were moved through customs, transported and stored securely, until ultimately delivered to their homes with complete care. Subsequently the conflict has been resolved and the company is operating smoothly again in Gabon. Peace has returned and nobody was harmed, thanks to the quick thinking and swift actions of AGS! Communication on Progress Pg7 Supporting Kerala Flood victims in India The Kerala floods of 2018 were the worst floods in the South Indian state of Kerala in nearly a century, caused by the unusually high rainfall during the monsoon season. Over 483 people died and 14 went missing. About a million people were evacuated. Heavy rains caused severe landslides and left the hilly districts isolated. An estimated US$5.6 billion in property damage was caused. The Indian government declared the floods a Level 3 Calamity and they were the worst floods since the great flood of 99 that took place in 1924. Hard at work in their offices in Hyderabad, the AGS team heard of the floods and immediately wanted to help. Their hearts went out to the flood victims and in the true AGS spirit they set out to assist. AGS Hyderabad collaborated with several good Samaritans within the city and arranged the collection of food supplies, clothes, linen, tarpaulin and cash. They collaborated with the NGO Goonj in order to connect with the flood victims. AGS provided a large truck to transport the donated supplies to the Goonj collection point, from where it was transported and distributed to the flood victims. Goonj is a non-governmental organisation headquartered in Delhi, India, which undertakes disaster relief, humanitarian aid and community development in parts of 23 states across India. It was founded in 1999 by Anshu Gupta. For his work with Goonj, he was awarded the Ramon Magsaysay Award in 2015. Disaster and drought assistance in South Africa 2018 will be remembered in South Africa as the year of devastating fires and once again The Laser Transport Group and our subsidiaries opened their hearts and pockets and donated and assisted with deliveries and collection of boxes of clothes, food and water for the residents of Knysna and surrounding areas. Assistance was provided from as far as Windhoek in Namibia. We collected donations across all our branches in support of those affected by the Knysna fires – our trucks delivered all donations (water, blankets, food, household goods) to Knysna Fire relief. Since 2015 the ongoing drought and water shortage in the greater part of the Eastern, Northern and Western Cape resulted in our support of the “WATERDROP” campaign by assisting with regional water collection efforts of Water Shortage South Africa (WSSA): a national volunteer network that emerged at the end of 2015 in response to the urgent need of communities most affected by South Africa’s drought. In Cape Town specifically, an ever-changing constellation of water dropoff points has sprung up, and volunteers associated with WSSA transport water from these points to various areas in dire need. From here the water is despatched to regional hubs across South Africa, depending on the need at the time. 2018 also saw the introduction of various water saving measures at our various offices and operations in the Western and Eastern Cape as part of the “make every drop count” campaign. Water retention tanks for harvesting rain water, water saving devices, recycling and usage of grey water became the norm in these areas. Communication on Progress Pg8 HUMAN RIGHTS CSR ACTIVITIES Netherlands In the Netherlands, AGS KHZ participated once again in the ‘toetertoch’ event. Organised annually by local transport companies, the event offers children with intellectual disabilities the chance to ride in a truck. The children were allowed to sit in the front of the cabin, next to the driver and a trip was made through South Holland. During the trip, the children were allowed to press the horn making a great noise and generating lots of smiles. There MOBILITAS is committed to engaging and supporting the local communities in which its subsidiaries operate. In 2018, were over 100 trucks participating in the event. The branch also distributed goodies to the MOBILITAS staff around the world got involved in projects and fundraisers aimed at improving the lives and conditions children such as pens and miniature trucks. of vulnerable people everywhere. Morocco Paris, France AGS Paris received the certificate of recognition of Corporate Social Responsibility for its AGS Morocco teamed up with the Lyautey High School and College, an international school in Casablanca, for their annual outstanding contribution to the FIDI Charity Project ‘Operation Smile’, being the highest cross-country running competition. About ten AGS-branded tents were lent to the international school and marked out charity donor during the 2018 FIDI Conference in San Diego. The generous donations will the course of the race. Nearly 2000 high school and college students participated in the event. fund the surgical procedures of at least 4 children at Smile Honduras. AGS Paris also sponsored a book donation organised by ADIFLOR at the Summit of the Francophonie (French-speaking communities) which took place in Yerevan, Armenia. Senegal Created in 1985, ADIFLOR aims to promote French reading and cultural diversity around the world. With this donation, ADIFLOR wishes to encourage and develop the learning of AGS Senegal completed the final stage of a book donation operation organised by the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs French throughout the country. As a partner of this operation, AGS Paris contributed by (MOFA) to the Senegalese Ministry of Education. The first stage of the operation was handledby AGS Spain in July last year. transporting the books free of charge. AGS Spain secured the safe transportation of the books to an airbase in Madrid. This second intervention, supported by AGS Senegal, consisted of transporting books from the Ouakam Air Base in Dakar to the offices of the Senegalese Ministry of Education. As a main sponsor of this operation, AGS delivered over seven pallets of dictionaries and encyclopaedias totalling 1759 books. Switzerland Pelichet contributed to the organisation of the 2018 United Nations Bazaar in Geneva, organised by the UN Women’s Guild and all proceeds go to a children’s charity. Pelichet was Sierra Leone the official transporter of the 2 day event, when 1 van and 2 movers made the round trip between the offices of the CFNY and the bazaar, ex gratia. AGS Sierra Leone helped the organisation Commonwealth Row with its project of sending Richard Allen, a former Royal Marines Commando, on a solo and unsupported journey across the Atlantic Ocean. AGS Sierra Leone cleared customs and Pelichet also assisted the ‘Rise Above Foundation’ by transporting the goods destined for facilitated his arrival in Sierra Leone so that his project could be carried out. The journey covers close to 5000 kilometres, victims and the poorest in the Philippines. Pelichet provided free transportation of 2 pallets from Sierra Leone, West Africa to Guyana, South America with the aim of raising awareness of the Commonwealth and to full of goods from Marseille to Klotten. raise money for some of the charities and foundations operating within the Commonwealth. Guadeloupe, France Shanghai As part of its educational and social activities, the “Philharmonie” of Paris (a cultural institution in Paris) has developed a AGS Shanghai supported a few community events as well as giving financial assistance to cultural accessibility project, DEMOS (Device for Musical and Orchestral Education with Social vocation), centered on the musical practice in orchestra. The initiative aims to give access to musical and orchestral education to children between 2 organisations: Shanghai Accueil, a support organisation for French speaking people in the ages of 7 and 14 years, coming from rural and low-income communities. To help it in this mission of enriching children’s Shanghai that also allows them to do good deeds in the community, as well as Shanghai lives through education and the practice of music, the “Philharmonie” partnered with AGS Guadeloupe. As a patron, AGS Community Centre, a Shanghai foreign support organisation. Guadeloupe transported many musical instruments and participated in the communication around this event. The branch also made donations to a few Shanghainese schools: SCIS, FDIS, Dulwich Suzhou and YCIS. South Africa In 2018 The Laser Transport Group and our various branches supported a number of social outreach programmes to make a difference in the communities they live and work in. Vietnam Stuttaford Van Lines partnered with Childline and Kids Haven, a Johannesburg-based NGO with offices across all the provinces that works with community centres and children homes across the country by providing a dedicated safety AGS Vietnam Branch Manager, Kevin Hamilton and AGS Ho Chi Minh City Operations network and reporting line for abused and scared children. Stuttaford Van Lines customers have the option to donate any Supervisor, Nguyen Thanh Hien, participated in Saigon Children Charity Cycle Adventure, to unwanted items or furniture to Childline during any move that is done by Stuttaford Van Lines. A similar partnership was raise funds for disadvantaged children in Vietnam. Each of the three days included a course also entered into with Casa Caritas to donate and transport furniture to needy homes caring for children. of about 100 kilometres and, although Kevin and Hien were well prepared for the event, the race was a physical challenge for all athletes. In addition to the difficult terrain, cyclists Stuttaford Van Lines George donated collection boxes towards the 10 000 Wishes campaign to put a smile on the faces of also faced epic climatic conditions with a storm and almost constant rain over the three-day a less fortunate children by giving them a special gift over the festive season. The collection boxes were placed throughout course. Kevin explained his motivation: “We are proud to contribute to this vital cause of the Southern Cape region and people were encouraged to get involved by dropping off new or used toys at the collection education. Cycling mountain roads is challenging, but when you think about why you do it, it points. With the help of Rotary, the toys were distributed in the area where it had been collected. gives you wings. Education is paramount, it has the power to break the cycle of poverty and that is a very worthy cause.” The Pickfords brand’s support of the Mother of Peace’s Organic Garden and Food Forest in Illovo, KwaZulu Natal grew even stronger in 2018. The Mother of Peace, a non-profit organisation that cares for children who have been abandoned, orphaned or abused, has based the garden on the principles of permaculture. Volunteers, including the Pickfords team, have planted a variety of produce donated to the organisation. The organisation lies in a valley with an unemployment rate of over 70% in the area, and the NGO aims to offer workshops to the local residents on food security and sustainability. Reunion, France AGS Reunion teamed up with ‘1,000 Sourires’ (1,000 Smiles), a prominent non-government Furthering our global commitment to sustainable development, AGS South Africa supports the Desmond Tutu HIV organisation on Reunion Island that organises entertainment events for children from Foundation (DTHF) in South Africa, in an effort to specifically raise funds for the DTHF’s Tutu Tester mobile clinic disadvantaged backgrounds. The organisation took a group of nine young football enthusiasts programme. The Tutu Tester mobile clinic offers a ‘Health on Wheels’ wellness service, providing point-of-care testing and on a trip to France. From Paris to Marseille, travelling through Lyon and Albertville, they screening for a range of chronic illnesses. These include HIV, Tuberculosis, STIs, diabetes and high blood pressure, as well attended many exciting events, among them a league 1 soccer game at the Parc des Princes, as family-planning services. The advanced point-of-care technology allows patients in under-served communities, with visited Disneyland and discovered ice skating and horse riding. AGS Reunion has made a limited access to primary healthcare clinics, to receive their results in under 20 minutes. long-term commitment and will support 1,000 Sourires again next year. Communication on Progress Pg9 Communication on Progress Pg10 LABOUR LASER TRANSPORT GROUP – SOCIAL ETHICS ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES The Laser Transport Group (Pty) Ltd remained vigilant in 2018 with a dedicated focus on ethical business alignment in all the spheres of operation. The campaign of overall discipline to Corporate Ethics and social responsibility started in 2014 with renewed focus in 2018 and beyond. Building vigilance about Anti-Corruption and Anti-Trust measures based on the Groups Ethical Employee Conduct Pledge, the introduction of the new Employee Confidentiality pledge in 2018 to safeguard private and confidential information streamlining with international standards. The Group’s zero tolerance approach towards Anti – Competitive Behaviour, Anti-Corruption and Unethical Business practices was re-iterated during various Road Shows. The Laser Transport Group will continue with this awareness drive and rolling out more initiatives. Alignment with the FIDI & FAIM charters on anti-corruption, confidentiality and protection of personal information during an era where identity fraud is becoming rife, remain critical to the transport logistics and warehousing sector. Our FIDI FAIM accreditation is one of our guarantees in this respect. FAIM is the strictest quality programme and the most recognised accreditation within the international moving industry to protect the interests of our society. BROAD BASED BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT (BBBEE) The commitment to the alignment with sector codes and empowering poor disadvantaged sectors of the society remain a key priority for The Laser Transport Group. BBBEE strategies focus on the empowerment and the upskilling of previously disadvantaged communities and staff. A key focus of the BBBEE commitment placed an emphasis on Skills Development, Enterprise and Supplier Development and the development of critical skills and preferential procurement strategies. Fourteen (14) learners were recruited and placed in a Business Administration Learnership programme in conjunction with TSiBA Education to develop future business leaders by accommodating disability in the workplace. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATION Professional Drivers Learnership December 2018 saw the closure and external moderation of the Professional Driving Learnership for 32 staff members from previously disadvantaged backgrounds. The unit standards completed during 2016 until 2018 focussed amongst others on aspects such as maintaining occupational health, safety and general housekeeping and the planning of road transport service delivery, loading general freight as well as to meet the requirements in order to obtain a provisional licence up to code 14. The initiative aimed to create a pool of dedicated professional drivers within the Group and the transport industry by training and developing staff from previously disadvantaged groups to become professional long-distance truck drivers. The employees exit the professional driver’s learnership which was a partnership with TETA (Transport and Education Training Authority) to upskill current employees to become code 10/14 truck drivers. The project was a major investment in education and elevating low literacy levels to uplift the social environment our employees in Africa live and work where low skills levels and poor literacy remain a key challenge. The end result is a pool of safety conscious younger truck drivers who are the backbone of our operations across the globe. CORPORATE ETHICS 2019 and beyond will be heralded as the era of The Laser Transport Group through the renewed focus on the five General ethical principles in business: Principle A: Beneficence and non-maleficence. Principle B: Fidelity and responsibility. Principle C: Integrity. Principle D: Justice. Principle E: Respect for people’s rights and dignity by Resolving ethical issues, creating competence and building Human relations. Communication on Progress Pg11 LABOUR INTERVIEW WITH ANTOINE DE KERVERN, 26 YEARS OLD, VIE AT AGS YAOUNDE IN CAMEROON What has your mission been at AGS Yaoundé? I am the sales manager at AGS Yaoundé. More specifically, I am in charge of customer relations. This involves assessing prospects, developing contracts, managing the accounts carefully and helping the latter grow as much as possible. There is therefore a lot of relationship management and administrative considerations. We work a lot with embassies, diplomats programme representatives for the UN. I am also in charge of coordinating the operational aspect of our branch’s activities. This involves team management, coordinating the air and sea freight reservations and constant communication with the agencies at the destinations. How was your Integration in Cameroon when you arrived? I was very lucky as the team in Yaoundé is great. They were very welcoming and the trust between us was established right away. This led to a laid-back relationship where we worked well together from the start. I quickly took charge and was given responsibilities. It went really well. On the other hand, Cameroon is not the easiest country in Africa. I had just moved from Rwanda where things are assuredly simpler. It was a bit of a challenge to be able to handle the logistics in a more complex environment. I have learnt a lot through my experience here. Were you able to share you experience with other VIE? Did you face any challenges specific to the VIE program? Yes, the new VIE in Douala contacted me before his interview with AGS and the VIE in Casablanca contacted me recently. It is always a pleasure to be As a VIE, no. The programme allows us to perform our mission in a very able to talk to someone who is in a similar situation. There are always tools comfortable situation. Upon arrival, I was taken care of immediately. A to be shared, opinions and advice to be exchanged. In fact, I applied to work budget, car and accommodation were all provided. Everything has been as a VIE with AGS on the advice of a good friend of mine who was doing the optimised to ensure that I will succeed in my mission. same at the time. He had briefed me on what to expect before I started, and I am happy to do the same for others in turn. I am always open to dialogue and any questions that may come my way. I do, however, feel that each VIE’s experience is unique. It depends a lot on the branch manager, the team and Can you describe some of the more general challenges the country. Even though we have been posted in the same country, the VIE you have faced? in Douala’s experience will be totally different from mine, in particular due to his location by the harbour. In my opinion, the biggest struggle on a day-to-day basis is the cultural difference which complicated the setting of deadlines. This clearly complicates any project management tasks. Additionally, the arrival of containers in Douala’s port is always rather stressful as it can be hard to What do you have in mind as a future destination? Or would obtain clear and consistent information regarding the status of shipments. This is one of the challenges of the industry which can strain our client you rather go back to France? relations. Very important people such as diplomats and UN representatives This is where the VIE experience is absolutely incredible and worthwhile. are not very patient when faced with delays in their container’s delivery. Once you get a taste of expatriation, it is very hard to go back. You always The condition of the roads makes travelling more difficult. Finally, we want to discover more of the world. I had already lived abroad before are, unfortunately, forced to stay in limited areas in Cameroon due to the entering the VIE programme, but this mission has reinforced these feelings. conflicts in the North and West. It is extraordinary to be able to do, over the weekend, what our French compatriots can only do during their holidays. It will be extremely difficult to let go of this luxury. What have you learned as a VIE? I am very open when it comes to destinations. I think I would enjoy going I was able to consolidate my skills in customer relations. I have learned to anywhere. I love Asia and dream of going to South America, but I also really handle my emotions and keep my cool with our clients. Given our relations enjoy life in Africa. I really have no preference. I studied in Canada for some with diplomats I was often invited to their events. I had to adapt, and as a time and experienced the cold. It was nice, but once you get used to wearing representative of the company, my actions needed to reflect positively on T-shirts all year round, it makes you think twice about going somewhere the company at all times. In addition, my experience in team management where the climate is not as mild (or hot). In the end, it will all depend on the and operations management covered a large spectrum and has allowed me opportunities I find. However, if I have a choice, I will lean towards hotter to develop the necessary skills to address these tasks. climates and aim to operate by the sea. Communication on Progress Pg12 LABOUR TRAINING & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT TRAINING & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT With the flexibility and skills growth of all MOBILITAS staff in mind, 2019 is a transition year to prepare and test the e-learning modules. Alexandre Lebegue, the Group’s Training and Skills Development Director, put together training modules and established a team of Our corporate university was created in 2017. It brings together 7 trainers to disseminate and share knowledge amongst staff. This middle-sized companies and gives their 11 000 employees a trusted training was based on the needs, priorities and expectations of the space to share their experiences, exchange their good practices and Group’s General Management, Operational Directorate and its develop their performance. Over 90 employees benefited from this subsidiaries. university in 2018. The training plans were rolled out to staff via different channels – internet, internal business universities, selected internal trainers and external training providers while taking into account our environment, our international presence and the difficulties that sometimes present themselves. Achievements in 2018 305 999€ invested at Group level for management, The focus in 2019 will be on strengthening the training and its provision, with a quality management approach, the sole objective being the skills growth of all MOBILITAS staff. Key focus areas will include: administrative, technology training & • Continuing to roll out training programmes adapted to different sales coaching target groups, whatever their position in the company. • Sharing expertise and promoting our internal experts. 1 970 courses given on 3 continents • Sharing good managerial practices within our company with our partners. • Digitization of the training portfolio launched with the creation of (20% desktop training) – a shared platform to access the online training. A total of 17 221 hours trained • Development of the training portfolio with targeted sessions (technical, sales, new hires…) 1 314 people trained • Support for the end-users during the deployment and use of new IT tools (Arcania, IRISE, mobile applications, virtual survey…) (2% management, 98% admin & technical) We believe these goals will allow the group to improve opportunities for training and skills development to all staff worldwide, and should in time lead to happier staff, facilitating flexibility and internal promotions. 30 trainers (98% internal) A key element of the programme was the development of a number of The AGS Group was awarded the FIDI Platinum Award in 2018, in new training modules which were posted on our staff intranet in 2018. recognition of driving and promoting industry knowledge amongst its These videos address several topics, including the correct packing, employees to offer the best quality service to customers. loading, handling, unpacking and re-assembly techniques. Only 12 FIDI accredited companies earned the Platinum Award, and we The development of training in e-Learning will enable more staff to are extremely proud to be one of them! participate in those training sessions by the end of 2020. It will also allow more flexibility. Communication on Progress Pg13 ENVIRONMENT Finalisation of 2 projects Number of trees planted by MOBILITAS PLANÈTE URGENCE | MOBILITAS Commitment MALI 2009 -2016 Planète Urgence contributed to the fight against desertification in the Mopti and Ségou regions of Mali. Up to its Preserving and caring for the environment is, for the MOBILITAS Group, both a moral imperative and termination in December 2016, the project provided support to local families working towards income and food part and parcel of sound business practices. security, by providing sustainable resources for fruit and wood production. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL As part of committing to and embedding the principles of the UN Global Compact, we have developed and rolled out initiatives 2 500 7 500 11 000 14 150 8 650 8 500 6 000 6 000 64 300 which minimise the environmental impact of our business and promote environmental awareness. Operation “1 move = 1 tree” HAITI Since 2009, MOBILITAS has been partnering with NGO Planète Urgence in support of their Environment & Development 2015 -2016 programme. The programme works towards ensuring a Planète Urgence worked in Haiti following the devastating earthquake in 2010, leading a reforestation project sustainable future for communities in Mali, Madagascar, in the south and south-east of the country in partnership with the Haitian Movement for Rural Development. Indonesia and Haiti. In an effort to offset the environmental impact inherent to their activities, subsidiaries of the group have 15 boxes stored with AGS RECORDS MANAGEMENT 15 boxes stored with PRO ARCHIVES SYSTEMES The project aimed to rebuild the forest areas and to provide sustainable resources for farming and wood. committed to contributing to the reforestation of those regions, = One Tree Planted = 1 TREE planting one tree for every international move carried out by the company, and for every 15 archive boxes stored within our 2015 2016 TOTAL warehouses. 6 000 6 000 12 000 Together with Planète Urgence, MOBILITAS has planted 220,000 trees since the beginning of our partnership nine years ago. Strengthening of the 2 current projects Number of trees planted by MOBILITAS Contributions by MOBILITAS to Planète Urgence’s Environment & Development programme: INDONESIA 32,500 31,981 Since 2010 26,519 24,000 24,000 24,000 24,000 Following a vast reforestation project on the island of Sumatra through which over 4.3 million trees were planted, Planète Urgence now concentrates its efforts on the conservation and restoration of the mangrove forests of the 18,000 Mahakam Delta. The region is home to hundreds of species of fish and birds and its inhabitants rely on aquaculture 12,500 and fishing. The project supports local families by providing them with the skills and financial resources to develop a sustainable aquaculture industry. 2,500 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 5 000 7 000 10 400 4 900 8 500 6 000 6 000 12 000 12 000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL 220 000 MADAGASCAR Since 2012 The projects Planète Urgence is leading a project for the restoration of the tapia forests of Madagascar, home to an ecosystem vital to the development of the region. The reforestation project supports the development of the wood, fruit, silk Our partner and honey industries, while it contributes to raising awareness of environmental and economic issues. Planète Urgence works with local organisations in countries that are The Haiti project was also finalised at the end of 2017 for safety reasons. particularly vulnerable to climate disturbances. Through various projects 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL spread across the globe, Planète Urgence provides communities with However, the end of the 2 projects did not mean Mobilitas would the skills and resources they need to develop their local economies, in participate less, it was an opportunity to plant more trees in Indonesia 7 950 18 431 9 519 6 000 6 000 12 000 12 000 71 900 a manner which is both environmentally and economically sustainable. and Madagascar. The Mali project was concluded at the end of 2016 due to the volatile Since the inception of the programme, the association has planted over 6 Future projects security situation in the country. Nevertheless the project that started in million trees in affected regions, benefitting thousands of families. 2009 provided for 8 full years support to local families. Planète Urgence Planète Urgence is looking at starting a new project planned for 2019 in Cameroon. wants to see new future collaborations emerge when the context allows it again. This country is politicaly stable, and it is therefore possible for Planète Urgence to initiate projects for the development and protection of the environment in these areas. MOBILITAS is looking forward to participating in this project. Communication on Progress Pg14 Communication on Progress Pg15 ENVIRONMENT INITIATIVES SENEGAL As part of its commitment to sustainable and environmentally friendly business practices, AGS Senegal introduced a recycling initiative with UNICEF in 2016, which sees crushed or shredded paper collected free of charge. Since the beginning of the programme, the branch has collected over 4500kg of crushed paper which has been reused to protect fragile objects during packing. SOUTH AFRICA Urban Raptor Project Due to urbanisation the natural habitats of various bird species are under threat. Pickfords Port Elizabeth in Struandale in the Eastern Cape partnered with Arnold Slabbert, an Animal Control Specialist and coordinator of the Urban Raptor Project. The project has the expertise and the equipment to handle or solve any animal or bird problem without resorting to poison or gimmicks. The project allowed the kestrels (a bird of prey species belonging to the kestrel group of the falcon family) in the area to have a breeding space on our premises in Port Elizabeth. The eggs bred out and the kestrels were safely protected in their Raptor nest box on our premises. The introduction of the raptor box provided a safe haven for five kestrels and their fledglings. SOUTH AFRICA Spekboom Project Pickfords South Africa is working with the Wonder Plant organisation on the Spekboom Project in order to reduce our carbon footprint emitted by our large fleet which travels the South African roads on a daily basis. The Spekboom is a succulent tree from South Africa which has a positive impact on the environment: • 10 times more effective at reducing carbon than an entire rain forest • 1 tree can remove 8.5 kg of CO2 per year • Only 25ml of water per year to survive • Easily propagated from cuttings By the end of the year, we aim to plant 500 000m of hedges across South Africa’s impoverished schools and local businesses. Pickfords wants what is best for our children as well as the environment, and we are proud to be part of this project. Communication on Progress Pg16 Environment AGS PARIS ASSESSES ITS CARBON FOOTPRINT As part of the company’s commitment to improving its environmental footprint, the AGS Paris branch continues to assess its carbon footprint. As a leader of the international removals industry, MOBILITAS is The Carbon Assessment allows us to measure the environmental committed to sustainable and environmental-friendly business impact of moves carried out on our clients’ behalf and to make them practices and constant enhancement of our ecological standards. aware of the environmental impact resulting from their mobility policy. We can work together to develop and implement solutions to The ”Bilan Carbone” carbon footprint assessment initiative was reduce both our own and our clients’ carbon footprints. Monitoring launched in all of the Group’s businesses in France in order to control and quantifying greenhouse gas emissions is the first step in the our greenhouse gas emissions and to fully integrate the environmental development and implementation of innovative solutions to reduce factor. our ecological footprint. AGS Paris completed its first Bilan Carbone® in 2012, and has since Please find below the conclusive results of these actions: made every effort to monitor its activities and take measures in order to respond to growing environmental concerns and participate in a better future. This carbon footprint assessment integrates all the move operations, taking into account the various modes of transport used for each move. REDUCTION OF OIW Ordinary Industrial Waste (OIW is waste that is neither dangerous nor inert and can decompose, burn, ferment or rust). OIW 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (in tonnes) 836 452 442 170 69 144 128 The increased awareness of our employees regarding sorting these types of waste has resulted in a 84.7 % reduction in OIW since 2012. INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF RECYCLED CARTONS RECYCLED 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 CARDBOARD (in tonnes) 95 380 306 230 214 263 236.38 Raising awareness among our employees of the importance of recycling has resulted in a 149 % increase in recycled cardboard since 2012. FUEL CONSUMPTION DIESEL 2015 2016 2017 2018 CONSUMPTION (in litres) 117 623 107 923 100 906 90 963 Our fleet, comprising regularly maintained vehicles and the introduction of eco-driving methods for all drivers, has meant a noticeable year on year reduction in fuel consumption. AGS Paris intends to continue monitoring these indicators each year. Areas for improvement will be identified, implemented, and measured. Furthermore, our commercial fleet will be replaced by vehicles without gasoil. AGS Paris is also Masternaut “Flotte Bronze” (Bronze fleet) certified, which confirms our commitment to reduce CO2 emissions. Communication on Progress Pg17 ANTI-CORRUPTION Our high quality service delivery often relies on the quality of the services our supply chain provides. For this reason, it is essential that the high standards of ethics that we apply to our own work is carried throughout our reach, not only in our direct dealings. The FIDI-FAIM certification is widely recognised as the baseline for quality standards in the international removals industry. The requirements for compliance to their exacting standards are constantly evolving as they respond to the growing market needs. It also ensures that FIDI companies worldwide work toward a common standard in the management and performance of international moves, thus leading to a level of consistency in the quality and services offered worldwide. FAIM 3.2 is the current version of FIDI’s worldwide recognised industry quality standard which aims to raise the level of global quality to meet the industry’s current market needs and regulatory requirements. In order to meet the FAIM requirements, we consistently comply with the strict Anti-Bribery & Corruption requirements; relevant Social Responsibility and Code of Conduct policies; appropriate Privacy Data Protection principles; risk reduction initiatives and Anti-Trust Charter recently added to the standard. The General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) were implemented by the EU in May 2018. The Group was prepared for this and took adequate measures to meet the compliance requirements ahead of this deadline, thus ensuring that we can meet the highest standards of protection for our clients’ personal information. This, of course, has had a significant impact on our Supply Chain Management. We also require that our entire supply chain conform to these exacting All our subsidiaries have been provided access to training sessions and standards from end to end. In order to achieve this, we revisited all self-study materials to ensure that all our employees and suppliers are service level agreements with our partners which set the standard for aware of and compliant with the updated regulations. the service quality required from the outset. Internally, the Group has also started to develop a new platform for The consistency of our quality services is conveyed through our regular operations management called Arcania. It will lead to greater supervision FIDI audits as we prove that we can match the level of quality that is of the entire supply chain, among other crucial functions. The system will guaranteed to be delivered by all FIDI Affiliates worldwide. verify the compliance of each supplier with the service level agreements in place every step of the way in an automated and standardised manner. Our supplier code of conduct has recently been reviewed and amended to reduce the risks incurred in the performance of our international This system is due to be fully automated by 2021. moves and to exceed our customers’ expectations with regards to data protection. Communication on Progress Pg18 IN SUPPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT
