2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Shaping the Future of Trade Contents Contents 01 Leadership’s statement 05 02 About this report 06 03 Key highlights 08 04 Driving sustainability 14 Engaging stakeholders 18 What matters most 23 05 People 26 Workplace 31 Cultivating employee talent 41 Human rights 44 Health and safety 45 2 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Contents 06 Marketplace 52 Governance 58 Customer excellence 65 Innovation 68 Responsible sourcing 72 Women’s empowerment 75 07 Environmental stewardship 76 Environment and infrastructure 82 Environment and operations 85 Environment and community 86 08 Creating strong communities 88 DMCC’s smart and sustainable district 92 Safe and family friendly environment 95 Community engagement 97 GRI content index 100 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 3 Leadership's statement DMCC is committed to the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals that outline a vision aimed at targeting the urgent environmental, political and economic challenges facing our world. Ahmed Bin Sulayem Executive Chairman and CEO, DMCC 4 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Leadership's statement LEADERSHIP’S STATEMENT The leadership of the United Arab Emirates importance of partnership, cooperation, (UAE) has committed to an economic innovation and continuous engagement with diversification agenda that is both inclusive stakeholders is evidenced throughout. and sustainable. We remain committed to the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development As a Government of Dubai Authority, and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals globally leading free zone and unique (SDGs), and locally have increased our commodities trading hub, it is incumbent contribution to Dubai initiatives and national on DMCC to support the nation’s economic strategies. growth plan, whilst delivering a sustainable future for all. Much has been achieved to date but crucially, we recognise that long-lasting progress 2018 was a landmark year for DMCC in this requires continuous improvement. regard, and saw us set the example of how In 2018, we established the DMCC SDGs to positively affect the economy, community Steering Committee – with representation and environment around us. We are from across the entire organisation – to direct particularly delighted about the progress we our strategy and ensure sustainability is have made against our Smart and Sustainable embedded in absolutely everything we do. District Strategy. With the continued support of our employees The release of the second annual DMCC and partners in both government and Sustainability Report informs our business, the future is very encouraging stakeholders, in detail, about the progress indeed. made towards our long-term, integrated and comprehensive sustainability strategy. Looking ahead, DMCC will continue to attract, facilitate and promote global trade through The report cites achievements and evidences Dubai, and do all it can to remain a positive how we have continually improved the force for good in the world. integration of the UN Global Compact and its principles into our corporate strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Creating value for both business and Ahmed Bin Sulayem society is the theme of the report, and the Executive Chairman and CEO, DMCC 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 5 About this report ABOUT THIS REPORT This report documents DMCC’s socio-economic and environmental performance and initiatives from 1 January to 31 December 2018. 6 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade About this report GRI 102-46 Information covered The 2018 report was developed by DMCC The report outlines DMCC’s performance with support from a global consultancy against its sustainability framework. It details firm which also conducted the assurance DMCC’s progress under its four strategic readiness exercise by assessing the key sustainability pillars: Marketplace, People, material disclosures. Community and Environment. Additionally, it highlights DMCC’s future commitments and Reporting topic boundaries1 targets. The reporting topic boundaries include entities over which DMCC has direct control: Reporting frameworks its permanent employees, owned and This report has been prepared in accordance leased properties, assets and infrastructure, with the GRI Standards: Core Option. As free zone regulatory activities and Master signatories to the United Nations Global Community. Certain topics included entities Compact (UNGC) since August 2017, the which DMCC has a direct and indirect report serves as DMCC’s Communication on influence on. The boundaries are clearly Progress (COP) on the United Nations Global defined throughout the report for each Compact (UNGC) Principles. It also highlights topic. DMCC's efforts to advance the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) In 2018, DMCC implemented an as well as DMCC’s contributions in achieving organisational restructuring across the vision and objectives of national charters, departments to optimise operational including the United Arab Emirates (UAE) excellence. Vision 2021 and Dubai Plan 2021. Feedback and suggestions Material topics DMCC welcomes your feedback and DMCC's 2018 sustainability report continues suggestions on its sustainability with the material topics identified in early 2018 performance, commitments and progress. as part of the 2017 sustainability report that Please direct your feedback to consulted internal and external stakeholders. DMCC.sustainability@dmcc.ae In 2018, DMCC focused on defining its sustainability action plans to increase its positive contribution to the topics that are most material according to its stakeholders. 1 DMCC follows GRI Standards’ definition of a topic boundary, which is to describe where the organisation’s environmental, social and economic impacts occur and the organisation’s involvement across its supply chain. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 7 Key highlights KEY HIGHLIGHTS People • 315 – Permanent employees of 43 nationalities • Zero – Employee fatalities • Zero – Work-related accidents involving DMCC employees • 14% – Emirati representation in the total permanent workforce, a 10% increase year on year • 23% – Emirati representation in the senior management team • 25% – Females in DMCC senior management; and 37% of the total workforce are females • 15 awareness initiatives conducted around mental, physical and financial health conducted as part of the well-being programme Marketplace • Zero – Reported incidents of corruption • Zero – Fines for non-compliance with social and economic laws or regulations • Zero – Incidents of customer data breach recorded • 50+ – Events organised for customers, attended by 4,000 participants • 4 – New value-added services introduced based on 2017 satisfaction survey feedback • Launched the DMCC Coffee Centre • Signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and became a member of the UAE WEPs taskforce 8 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Key highlights Environment • Revised environmental compliance requirements as part of DMCC’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Guidelines for DMCC employees, member companies, contractors and subdevelopers and owners’ associations • Developed a detailed plan for DMCC’s environmental objectives under DMCC’s Smart and Sustainable District Strategy • One JLT building retrofitting initiated and registration with US Green Building Council (USGBC) ARC platform • Transitioned to environmentally friendly bio-agents for the water quality treatment of JLT lakes • Conducted landscaping enhancements throughout the JLT district • Initiated recycling of paper, cans, plastics and batteries across the Master Community • 100 trees were planted in multiple locations in the Master Community Community • Continued development of a 3D Digital Twin of the Master Community • Launched DMCC Smart and Sustainable District Strategy • AED 365,000 donated through DMCC Grant Funds to Diamond Development Initiative (DDI) to support the education of artisanal miners in the Democratic Republic of the Congo • 125,000+ visitors to the JLT-hosted Dubai Fitness Challenge Village 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 9 About Key DMCC highlights SPHERE OF INFLUENCE DMCC has many stakeholders with varying levels of influence Direct control • Free zone regulatory activities • DMCC’s owned and leased properties • DMCC permanent employees • DMCC owned assets and infrastructure • Master Community Direct influence • Free zone member companies • Suppliers, contractors and sub-developers • Members of Dubai Good Delivery (DGD) and members of Kimberley Process certification • Owners Association Management companies Indirect influence • Industry and trade associations • Property owners and occupiers • Academic institutions • Government institutions • Financial institutions • Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) 10 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Key highlights 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 11 Key About highlights DMCC CREATING VALUE DMCC is home to a vibrant community, robust infrastructure, and world-class services Resources and assets Value adding activities Talent Better connectivity A diverse and skilled workforce of over 40 An interconnected free zone in one of the nationalities and 315 employees. fastest growing cities, providing access to Dubai’s strategic connections to global Infrastructure and property financial centres and emerging economies. The future of a smart and sustainable district of 200 hectares with over 100,000 people World-class customer experience living and working across 68 towers. A portfolio of leading innovative platforms, tools, and services which make doing Partnership and suppliers business efficient and simple. Offering industry and trade associations, financial institutions, government institutions, international connectivity, and global trading platforms. 12 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Key highlights Offering Value creation A unique combination of free zone status, Dubai as a global gateway for trade residential and commercial property, commodity With the combined revenue of its exchanges, legal and regulatory frameworks. member companies, DMCC contributes around 10% to Dubai’s GDP. Free Zone Supporting the 2030 agenda for • Licensing and company formation sustainable development • 0% corporate and income tax DMCC supports the UN SDG 2030 • 100% business ownership and capital agenda and the UAE Vision 2021. The repatriation Sustainability Knowledge Series and the • Flexible solutions – options to set up as a industry outreach progammes help raise branch, subsidiary or new limited liability awareness on the sustainability agenda. company DMCC is also a signatory to the UNGC • World-class business services: administration, principles and UN WEPs. insurance and recruitment services; legal clinics; disputes center; dependent visa Innovative business environment applications; medical fitness applications; DMCC offers new business solutions, internship services; free zone company will; ideas, and platforms with a 100% digital VAT clinics; DUNS accreditation; property interface goal. DMCC newly launched brokerage; and DMCC commercial card the Coffee Centre and is establishing a Commodities Dubai Design Academy for the jewellery Industry participants and free zone member industry. companies have access to various trading platforms including Dubai Gold & Commodities Well-being and happiness Exchange, Dubai Diamond Exchange, DMCC The JLT community is a family friendly, Tradeflow, Dubai Shariah Asset Management, vibrant and participatory community the DMCC Tea Centre and DMCC Coffee Centre. with a 55,000 m2 central park and a A range of commodities-backed financial network of promenades along the lakes. investment tools are also available. JLT offers various sporting, recreational and cultural activities such as Family Property Day and Fitness Village. A multi-purpose district transforming business environments and residential communities into a smart city. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 13 Driving sustainability 14 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Driving sustainability DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 15 Driving sustainability DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY Adopting a sustainable approach is an inherently long-term commitment that becomes embedded in an organisation, its strategies and its daily approach. DMCC remains committed to its declared approach – alignment with the UN SDGs, as a signatory to the UNGC and a solid supporter of the UAE Vision 2021 and the Dubai Plan 2021. DMCC’s sustainability strategy is driven by its four core pillars of sustainability – people, marketplace, environment and community – and continuously strives to adopt programmes and initiatives in line with the objectives earmarked under each pillar. To underpin its sustainability vision and bolster sustainability governance, DMCC appointed a new, corporate-level Sustainable Development Goals Steering Committee (SDG SC) in 2018 to oversee and monitor the progress of DMCC’s commitments and develop a corporate-wide sustainability strategy. The Committee includes a number of members of the Executive Committee and senior management. The SDG SC meetings will commence in 2019. The terms of reference and reporting lines for the committee are under development and are expected to be operational by early 2019. The committee will engage with all departments and assign key performance indicators (KPIs) and smart targets for sustainability initiatives. The implementation of those initiatives will be regularly tracked by the committee to ensure that DMCC is creating a positive impact across its value chain. 16 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Driving sustainability The DMCC sustainability strategy framework: MADE FOR TRADE VISION DMCC commits to making a DMCC strives to be a valuable Purpose SHAPING THE positive impact across the value member of the communities in which and Mission FUTURE OF chain – through our people, it operates, as well as society at large. TRADE connections and free zone. Global Goals Local Actions Core PEOPLE MARKET PLACE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Pillars Embracing diversity Collectively raising Protecting Supporting JLT and fostering wellstandards for how the environment and society at being business is done large Well-being programmes Governance Energy & emissions Smart and management sustainable Capacity building Customer excellence community Water preservation Diversity and inclusion Sustainability Safe and family-friendly awareness Waste management environment Employee engagement Objectives Innovation and Community Emiratisation digitalisation engagement Employee welfare Responsible Volunteering sourcing Health and safety Women empowerment Industry Government Employees Customers Community Suppliers and trade institutions associations Key Stakeholders Reporting Financial Academic NGOs Media agencies institutions institutions Executive SDG Steering International Public Governance Committee Committee Affairs Department SDG Leaders Dubai as a Shared UAE Vison Balanced gateway for Operational Employer Well-being and Value 2021 regulations excellence of choice happiness trade 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 17 Driving sustainability GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43 ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder engagement is a continuous process across DMCC’s business operations. DMCC identified its key stakeholder groups during its previous reporting cycle through a stakeholder mapping exercise. DMCC considers stakeholder engagement and partnership building as key elements for business growth and success. By understanding stakeholders’ needs and interests, DMCC explores new, innovative ways to work together in partnership. 18 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Driving Sustainability Driving sustainability GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43 DMCC stakeholder groups include the following: Reporting agencies Industry and trade associations Financial Academic institutions institutions Customers Suppliers DMCC employees Communities Government institutions Media NGOs DMCC collaborates with international and national stakeholders to ensure its strategic planning responds effectively to market trends, customer needs, and growth opportunities. DMCC’s inclusive approach positions it as an industry leader in the precious metals market locally and globally. Feryal Ahmadi, Chief Operating Officer, DMCC 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2018 19 Driving sustainability GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 DMCC stakeholder engagement model DMCC utilises diverse tools and platforms to engage with its stakeholders on any number of desired interactions ranging from informing to consulting, involving, collaborating and empowering. Who Objectives How Customers • Provide diverse innovative • Customer satisfaction surveys solutions • Events (Knowledge Series, • Provide sustainable seminars, workshops, training, infrastructure panel discussions) • Enhance industry insights • Industry clubs and awareness of the leading • Publications (e.g. DMCC practice Thought Leadership reports) • Support member companies • Rules and regulations in their sustainability journey • Members’ portal through knowledge-sharing • Social media and collaboration on key sustainability initiatives Suppliers, contractors, • Transparent procurement • Procurement processes sub-developers process • iProcurement (suppliers’ • Digitalisation of tendering portal) process • Inspections • Supporting the development • Health, safety and environment of local suppliers (HSE) guidelines and • Employee welfare construction manual • Health and safety • Environmental performance Government institutions • Partner to address global • Meetings (local and international) and local challenges • Member of governmental • Comply with laws, committees regulations and policies • Government relations team • Drive best practice and • Events standards • Audits and inspections International • Address global challenges • MoUs organisations through partnership • Events • Collaborate to enhance • Meetings certification standards • Ongoing dialogue DMCC employees and • Attract and retain the best • Satisfaction surveys representatives talent by being an employer • Internal communication of choice channels • Support the development • Social media and growth of our employees • Training and career growth • Employee welfare opportunities 20 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Driving sustainability GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 Who Objectives How • Health and safety • Events • Provide equal opportunity • Code of conduct and human resources policies • Employees’ internal portal • Social activities Communities • Create economic and social • Events value for our community while • Publications minimising environmental • Social media impact • Community engagement • Ensure a safe and healthy initiatives community • Volunteering initiatives Industry and • Knowledge-sharing and • Meetings trade associations exchange of expertise • MoUs • Partner to research new • Ongoing dialogue technologies and solutions Financial institutions • Facilitate trade through the • Meetings creation of digital platforms • Contracts • Identification of investment • Digital platforms opportunities • Ongoing dialogue Non-governmental • Partner to support the • Meetings organisations advancement of global goals • MoUs • Partner for employee • Sponsorships volunteering and community • Memberships engagement initiatives • Collaborate to drive best practices and enhance awareness of sustainabilityrelated topics Media • Ensure DMCC is represented • Industry events accurately with up-to-date • Media campaigns information Academic • Engage with universities to • Career fairs institutions support local graduates • Research and development • Partner with universities to projects incubate innovative solutions • MoUs and develop Thought Leadership reports 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 21 Driving sustainability GRI 102-43 Driving sustainability through stakeholder engagement and knowledge transfer DMCC conducted stakeholder-focused Gender Equality. Both events received high events during 2018 to raise awareness, share satisfaction rates. In 2019, DMCC plans to knowledge and increase participation. conduct similar sessions addressing various topics related to sustainability. DMCC integrates sustainability into its outreach programme, specifically its In addition, DMCC holds topic-specific member companies. The Sustainability events that address pressing sustainability Knowledge Series is designed to encourage challenges. In 2018, DMCC held three member companies to adopt sustainability training sessions on employment law. practices and initiatives. Member companies learned about the UAE Employment Law and mandatory In 2018, DMCC organised two Sustainability compliance requirements. Other training Knowledge Series in collaboration with sessions covered topics such as cyber the UNGC. The events raised awareness on risk and compliance with General Data UN SDGs as a framework for organisations Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements to address global challenges through and anti-money laundering risk mitigation partnerships. The second event addressed measures. DMCC is committed to engaging the importance of gender balance and with member companies on sustainability how organisations can create inclusive and global trends. working environments supporting SDG 5 – 22 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Driving sustainability GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 WHAT MATTERS MOST DMCC has identified the sustainability topics that are most material and relevant to its business. Identifying material topics that are insight and analysis from internal and external pertinent to DMCC and key stakeholders stakeholders and market trends. The sustainability is a vital component of its sustainability topics critical to DMCC’s business operations strategy and reporting. As defined by the were identified through a rigorous materiality GRI Standards, material topics are those assessment exercise in the previous reporting that reflect an organisation’s significant cycle. The same material topics are considered for economic, environmental and social the 2018 reporting cycle to show progress on all impact and those that substantively commitments made during the previous year. influence the assessment and decisions of stakeholders. DMCC plans to re-engage with its internal and external stakeholders to re-assess and validate its DMCC’s materiality assessment follows sustainability material topics in 2019. a systematic process that combines High Influence on stakeholder decision making process Innovation and digitalisation Local communities People Health & safety Anti-corruption Customer excellence Non-discrimination Env. Socio-economic compliance Medium Governance Responsible sourcing Waste, water Emergency & crisis and energy management Diversity, gender equality and women’s empowerment Low Low Medium High DMCC social, economic and environmental impact 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 23 Driving sustainability GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 Key Material SDGs Topic topics boundary DMCC Innovation and customers and digitalisation services People DMCC employees DMCC customers Customer (e.g. member excellence companies) Member companies, Governance suppliers and DMCC employees Member Anti-corruption companies and suppliers DMCC operations, Environmental and member socio-economic companies and compliance suppliers DMCC employees Health and safety and areas of operation 24 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Driving sustainability GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 Key Material SDGs Topic topics boundary Local communities DMCC employees and community and areas of engagement operation Suppliers and members of Responsible sourcing certification initiatives Diversity, gender DMCC employees equality and women’s and member empowerment companies Emergency crisis JLT community and management and DMCC employees Member companies, Non-discrimination suppliers and DMCC employees DMCC areas of Waste, water and operation energy 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 25 People 26 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People PEOPLE 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 27 People PEOPLE At DMCC, people are the most important asset. DMCC’s Human Resources (HR) vision is to create a workplace that fosters a diverse and inclusive culture and supports highperforming employees’ professional and personal growth. DMCC continues to improve its work environment to support a high performing and innovative culture. Employees are provided with comprehensive career advancement schemes to grow professionally. In line with SDG Goal 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth – DMCC’s commitments to the UNGC and WEPs efforts continue towards protecting labour rights, driving women's empowerment and promoting local talent. SDGs covered in this section Alignment to the UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 28 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People Key Key Future objectives achievements objectives Well-being • Expansion of the well-being • Enhancement of health and well-being among programme programme, conducted more employees and member companies than 15 awareness initiatives • Conduct annual health programmes and checks around mental, physical and financial health and well-being Diversity and • 43 nationalities • Connect with organisations that would assist inclusion • 37% of female employees DMCC to hire people of determination or among permanent employees promote/assist with hiring among member • 25% of females in DMCC Senior companies; Management • Conduct WEPs gap analysis in line with the official tool • Enhance engagement with internal employees to better understand and fulfil their needs Capacity • Development of ‘Smart Skills • Develop an e-learning web portal for employees building and Enhancement Programme’ • Increase the number of training hours per employee • 4,405 training hours delivered employee engagement across all functional levels • Increase awareness of employees on sustainability Emiratisation • 23% of DMCC’s executive and • Advance Emiratisation strategy senior management are UAE • Support UAE nationals with career plans upon nationals completing the DMCC Graduate Programme • 14% of the DMCC workforce are • Collaborate with local universities and develop an UAE nationals (2% increase in Emirati students’ mentorship programme comparison to 2017) • five new UAE nationals enrolled in DMCC’s Emirati Graduate Development Programme Employee • A comprehensive • Development of and sign-off on a Human Rights welfare Human Rights policy policy in 2019 is under review • Assess potential and actual human rights impacts • Develop and implement DMCC Human Rights Due Diligence Roadmap Health and • Revised comprehensive • Increase awareness on H&S topics among Safety health and safety guidelines member companies complying with local • Organise training sessions for employees on H&S legislation and requirements standards • Introduced an online • Maintain zero work-related injuries and fatalities mandatory training on H&S for • Complete 100% of towers fire risk assessments in employees JLT • More than 1 million man-hours • Introduce a bi-monthly educational community with zero Lost Time Injury campaign (LTI), and zero fatalities 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 29 People At DMCC, we are committed to nurture and empower employees by strengthening their skills, and providing a safe and healthy working environment. Feryal Ahmadi, Chief Operating Officer, DMCC 30 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People WORKPLACE The DMCC Code of Conduct is the guide for policy requirements that apply to their jobs. conducting business. It articulates DMCC’s Living by the Code of Conduct protects core values of accountability, honesty and DMCC’s reputation and promotes trust with reliability. All employees are responsible for customers. knowing and following the ethical, legal and Human Resources Vision Attracting talent Retaining talent DMCC seeks to attract the DMCC values employees and best talent by providing seeks to continuously motivate equal job opportunities them through competitive to all and fostering a packages, performance-based respectful, inclusive compensation, open feedback and diverse working channels, engagement environment methods and continuous development opportunities Enhancing talent DMCC provides career development opportunities to its employees through a variety of programmes such as coaching, training, knowledgesharing workshops and leadership activities 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 31 People In 2018, DMCC’s workforce was comprised companies that supply DMCC with of 82% permanent and 18% outsourced personnel to comply with UAE Labour Law. employees. Outsourced personnel are Outsourced employees obtain relevant contracted for a variety of roles in soft and technical training to perform their departments such as the call centre, delivery responsibilities in an efficient manner and services and the DMCC Tea Centre. DMCC are encouraged to participate in employee contractual terms and conditions require engagement initiatives. Employee profile 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 388 419 384 43 Nationalities GENDER Male 248 265 243 Female 140 154 141 PERMANENT 329 333 315 EMPLOYEES GENDER Male 205 208 199 Female 124 125 116 NATIONALITY UAE Nationals 39 40 44 Others 290 293 271 AGE GROUP Under 30 75 55 52 Between 30-50 238 260 244 Over 50 16 18 19 OUTSOURCED 59 69 69 EMPLOYEES Male 43 57 44 Female 16 29 25 32 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People DMCC has ensured that its employees receive DMCC female employees are entitled to a competitive and fair employment packages paid maternal leave as per the UAE’s labour that are in line with the local industry regulations and are also eligible to daily standards. DMCC permanent employees nursing breaks for 18 months from the birth receive a range of benefits as part of their of the child. Male employees are eligible for employment package, many of which are three working days of paid paternal leave. above the UAE labour law requirements. In 2018, 95% of employees returned to work after taking their parental leaves. Parental leave entitlement 2016 2017 2018 EMPLOYEES ENTITLED 207 228 215 TO PARENTAL LEAVE Male 144 155 143 Female 63 73 72 TOTAL NUMBER OF 17 20 22 EMPLOYEES THAT AVAILED PARENTAL LEAVE Male 12 9 13 Female 5 11 9 TOTAL NUMBER 17 20 21 OF EMPLOYEES RETURNING TO WORK IN THE REPORTING PERIOD AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE ENDED Male 12 9 13 Female 5 11 8 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 33 People 34 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People Employee hires and turnover In 2018, the overall employee turnover rate for termination, DMCC supports them through permanent employees was 17%, in comparison the provision of various career-related to 10% in 2017. This increase in turnover was advice and tools and assists them in finding due to organisational restructuring that aimed new career opportunities through: to optimise operational excellence and adapt • Links to recruitment agencies that are to market requirements.2 strongly recommended by DMCC • CV and LinkedIn counselling DMCC conducts exit interviews for departing employees to understand the reasons behind • Consultations on job search and interviews their decision to leave. In addition, for employees leaving the organisation due to Employee hires and turnover 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL NUMBER OF 56 36 36 EMPLOYEE HIRES Male 31 19 19 Female 25 17 17 Under 30 25 11 12 Between 30-50 30 22 22 Over 50 1 3 2 NEW HIRES RATE 17% 10% 11% TOTAL NUMBER OF 44 32 54 EMPLOYEE DEPARTURE Male 23 16 29 Female 21 16 25 Under 30 9 10 9 Between 30-50 27 19 39 Over 50 8 3 6 TURNOVER RATE 13% 10% 17% 2 DMCC defines its turnover as the number of employees that leave DMCC due to termination, change of jobs, change of country, or retirement divided by the total number of its permanent employees. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 35 People Embracing diversity and inclusion DMCC aims to attract more candidates with diverse abilities, backgrounds and experiences. Basing employment opportunities on competency and experience makes DMCC’s recruitment policy inclusive and capable of attracting diverse and qualified candidates. Diversity and inclusion are about creating an environment where employees feel safe, engaged and free to create and innovate. DMCC diversity metrics and achievements 43 Of total workforce Employee nationalities 37% are female Of total permanent 25% Females in DMCC 78% workforce aged between senior management 30-50 years DMCC signed the WEPs principles and became a member of the UAE WEPs taskforce 36 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People Promoting local employment DMCC recognises the vital role of at all levels for employment opportunities nationalisation in advancing the UAE’s at DMCC; as well as granting preference for Vision 2021 objective to build a competitive, internal Emirati applicants for open vacancies knowledge-based economy. and supporting them with training for a long succession plan. UAE nationals form the DMCC's recruitment policy endorses the third-largest workforce group within DMCC, UAE government’s Emiratisation strategy by and DMCC is dedicated to maintaining a high engaging with external Emirati candidates Emirati representation in the future. Of total permanent workforce Of senior are UAE Nationals, a 10% 23% management are UAE 14% increase in comparison to the Nationals previous year. Attracting UAE Nationals Internships and Work Placements DMCC offers paid internships and work placement opportunities to UAE national students in colleges and universities as part of their curricula and graduation requirements. Emirati Graduate Development Programme The Emirati Graduate Development Programme aims to attract, develop and retain UAE national university graduates among DMCC’s workforce. Annually, high potential graduate trainees are selected for the 12-month programme and are assigned to relevant business units based on their interests, skill sets and qualifications. During the programme, graduates receive training courses including accredited Leadership and Management courses, and their performance and technical competency are continuously assessed. Upon completion, candidates are given priority for suitable vacant roles within DMCC. Nine UAE nationals who completed the programme in 2018 have assumed permanent roles at DMCC. Five new UAE national graduates enrolled in the programmes second phase in July 2018. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 37 People Driving inclusion through engagement DMCC provides an engaging work environment and aims at addressing employee concerns and incorporating employee suggestions in its decisionmaking process. Business updates and announcements are regularly communicated to employees via email, employee intranet, Yammer (enterprise social networking platform), and town hall meetings. Furthermore, DMCC has established effective employee feedback and grievance redressal mechanism by: • Encouraging consistency, transparency and openness when handling workplace complaints and issues • Following a clear process that leads to an effective settlement of concerns and grievances • Allowing informal resolutions when appropriate, but following more formal proceedings when the circumstances demand DMCC’s key engagement methods with employees Employee surveys 2018 HR performance satisfaction survey DMCC has gathered employee feedback on the performance of its HR function on an annual basis since 2012. DMCC considers employee surveys as tools used to gain insights and to measure employee engagement, and their satisfaction with the organisation’s performance. Employees provide comments on DMCC's organisational 87% 87% 86% structure, HR policies and procedures, 79% recruitment and resourcing, benefits and rewards, career development and training and other criteria. In 2018, the satisfaction survey recorded a 90.5% response rate. 2015 2016 2017 2018 Areas of strength: HR policies and procedures and operational support. Areas of improvement: Career development and training; exploring innovative techniques instead of standard training sessions. HR is developing a new Competency Framework Dictionary, which will have a special focus on career advancement and training opportunities. 38 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People Employee recognition The DMCC Employee Recognition Scheme is a communication tool that rewards employees who deliver outstanding results. To encourage high performance, DMCC deploys employee recognition schemes, for small and large achievements, such as instant recognition toolkits and various awards for individuals and project teams throughout the year. Employee well-being DMCC is committed to helping improve Furthermore, in 2018, the well-being employees’ well-being and establish a workprogramme incorporated financial wellness life balance. In 2018, Human Resources as part of its objectives on response to expanded its well-being programme to employees’ previous feedback in the wellinclude not only mental and physical wellbeing survey. DMCC identified financial being but also financial well-being. stress as one of the challenges faced by its employees. To address that, new awareness To encourage employees to be more sessions and workshops on financial wellproactive about their health and safety, wellbeing were introduced. The sessions focused being initiatives were conducted throughout on the following topics: the year including: • Improved relationship with money • Corporate games • Increased spending awareness • Sponsorship of sports activities • Creating a spending plan or a budget to • Motivational speaker sessions solve financial problems • Breast cancer awareness sessions • Preventing future financial challenges • Ramadan with healthy choices • Setting realistic financial goals • Sleep awareness sessions • Preparing for short-term, long-term and emergency financial needs 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 39 People 40 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People CULTIVATING EMPLOYEE TALENT DMCC cultivates employee talent by linking individual employee objectives with the organisation’s strategic objectives and targets. DMCC's performance management process is an annual cycle, guided by HR’s four core competencies for all employees – high-performance culture, market/customer orientation, professionalism and transparency. Regular discussions throughout the performance cycle are conducted, including coaching, mentoring, feedback and assessment. The performance reviews assess employees’ potential for promotion and help identify individual professional training and development needs. In 2018, 100% of DMCC's permanent employees received regular performance and career development reviews. The development of a holistic competency framework was initiated by HR and is planned to be implemented by 2019. The framework will form the basis for an integrated approach, collating all HR-related processes under a single umbrella including selection, retention, development and career transitions for employees. The Competency Framework Dictionary serves the following purpose: • Aid with talent acquisition and selection processes • Support employee growth and personal development • Drive the identification and development of talent and performance-related interventions • Support succession planning processes 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 41 People Driving career progression at DMCC In addition to traditional classroom training, DMCC provides learning and development opportunities to facilitate career development. Training DMCC conducts multiple capacity-building and skill-based programmes upscaling programmes for its employees. These include specialised training courses, mandatory training courses, seminars and workshops, sponsorships of degrees and membership in professional bodies. Leadership DMCC enrolls employees from senior and middle development management teams in a leadership development programme that is aligned to their business requirements and tailored to meet their leadership goals. DMCC promotes a culture of continuous learning. Employees Coaching receive on-the-job feedback and coaching on their tasks and responsibilities from their line managers to support them in their day-to-day responsibilities. Transfers Employees are eligible for transfers within DMCC if they meet the minimum job requirements, have completed 12 months in their current role and have approval from their line manager. Job rotation Employees can be rotated for a certain period from one department to another within the organisation. The rotation period (limited to six months) is followed by a performance review. Succession High-performing employees are identified as potential successors planning to fill critical positions and are provided with a detailed development plan to outline specific activities and training to develop the required competencies for those roles. 42 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People Employee training performance 2016 2017 2018 ANNUAL AVERAGE HOURS 26 37 14 OF TRAINING RECEIVED GENDER Male 23 34 14.2 Female 32 41 14.4 EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Executive and Senior Management 39 80 12.6 Middle Management 35 79 17.9 All staff (professional, operational 23 19 13.4 and administrative) In 2018, DMCC continued to invest in training employees across all levels with a total of 4,405 training hours delivered. DMCC acknowledges the decrease in training hours compared to previous years and attributes the reduction to challenging business commitments, organisational restructuring, and lack of inhouse training facilities. As a result, certain departments were unable to provide enough training opportunities for employees. The DMCC Leadership Academy concluded its programme in 2018, where senior employees, supervisors and above, attended leadership training modules. The comprehensive leadership development programme comprises of diverse training methods: ongoing coaching, online courses, growth assignment projects, on-the-job activities, train-the-trainer sessions and instructor-led training. The central goal of the programme is to build important leadership competencies to increase DMCC’s resilience and growth. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 43 People HUMAN RIGHTS As a signatory of the UNGC, DMCC is committed to protecting human rights in its operations and to aligning its strategies with the UNGC principles on human rights. DMCC safeguards its employees’ human be relieved solely for the purpose of the rights by aligning with the UAE Labour law investigation. DMCC did not face any legal and following a rigorous code of conduct. action or any recorded incident in relation The DMCC Code of Conduct recognises to discrimination within the organisation the right of employees to have a respectful during the reporting year. workplace that does not discriminate on the basis of race, colour, nationality, religion, As part of the DMCC human rights impact gender, age, social and marital status or assessment roadmap, a new human rights physical or mental disability. The DMCC policy aligned with UNGC labour and human corporate whistle-blowing policy and rights principles will be drafted and issued grievance procedures enable employees in 2019. Understanding DMCC’s human to file grievances and concerns without rights exposure and addressing potential risk of reprisal; only in cases that require human rights violations is an important investigation will the employee's anonymity responsibility. DMCC HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT NEXT STEPS: • Formulating a human rights policy as DMCC’s formal commitment to human rights • Assessing potential human rights impacts as part of its risk assessment process • Integrating findings from human rights risk assessment across functions and procedures • Conducting awareness and training programmes to raise awareness on human rights among employees, suppliers, business partners and member companies • Monitoring effectiveness of practices to manage DMCC human rights impacts and communicating on performance 44 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People HEALTH AND SAFETY DMCC supports the Government of Dubai’s DMCC has maintained an excellent H&S record vision to provide a safe and resilient built through the implementation of operational environment, and health and safety (H&S) controls, standards and risk assessment remains a high priority for the organisation. procedures. In 2018, DMCC issued revised DMCC’s commitment to managing its and comprehensive HSE Guidelines that H&S covers the organisation’s permanent comply fully with the local legislation and employees (over which DMCC has direct requirements, and also encompass global control) and extends to its contractors. best practices. In addition, the organisation DMCC also oversees compliance of subintroduced a more formal H&S governance developers, the Master Community, member structure through the creation of an H&S companies, towers and owners’ associations working group, project meetings and regular with the relevant regulations and DMCC HSE stand-downs. Guidelines. Establishing a strong health and safety culture The DMCC Property department remains responsible for overseeing compliance with applicable legal requirements and the guidance specified in the DMCC’s HSE Guidelines by contractors, sub-developers and member companies. In 2018, two H&S working group meetings were conducted. The working group will continue to meet, as needed, to discuss DMCC’s ongoing health and safety performance and areas of improvement. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 45 People At DMCC, we seek to constantly enhance processes, systems, and workflows to guarantee the safety and well-being of employees, contractors, and the community at large. Paul Ashton, Executive Director, Property, DMCC 46 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People CASE STUDY: Launch of the annual H&S seminar In late 2018, DMCC hosted its inaugural H&S seminar for member companies in association with IOSH to share best practices and raise awareness of current H&S issues. Participants attended presentations from companies such as Electrolux and Seamaster Maritime, which shared their approaches to health and safety matters. Attendees learned about the latest in H&S in their sectors from fire safety and HSE legislation experts. DMCC plans to make this an annual event and continue to share knowledge for the wider benefit of all DMCC member companies and communities. All new DMCC employees receive mandatory 14 DMCC employees became certified as H&S training as part of the HR onboarding Fire Wardens. The second session was a Fire and induction process. The training covers Warden re-fresher training, conducted by the importance of H&S in the workplace and a DMCC’s Senior HSE Manager. review of relevant local laws and regulations. DMCC further introduced an online mandatory A dedicated HSE corner3 on DMCC’s training programme on H&S aspects, including website aims to raise awareness among its ergonomics training for all its employees. The stakeholders on health and safety issues training was rolled out to all employees and such as fire risk, workplace noise, exposure by the end of 2018, 89 employees successfully to chemical elements, workplace accidents, completed the training course and obtained conducting ‘Control of Substances Hazardous certifications. to Health Regulations’ (COSHH) assessments, first aid awareness and managing injuries. DMCC organised two fire warden training sessions in 2018. One of the sessions was conducted by the Emirates Civil Defence Academy as a one-day offsite training where 3 https://www.dmcc.ae/blog 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 47 People Protecting the wider community DMCC adopts a comprehensive H&S approach to cover its contractors and sub-developers, the Master Community, member companies and towers and owners’ associations. Contractors and sub-developers The HSE Guidelines offer a practical Zero H&S violations were recorded by framework and implementation assistance DMCC contractors in 2018. Inspections led to DMCC consultants and contractors who to six violation notices for sub-developers. work within its boundaries. The H&S related These violations were attributed to noninspections and checks are conducted by the conformance issues such as unauthorised DMCC Property department. Warnings and waste dumping, repeat incidents of unsafe fines on any DMCC member company or subsite conditions and traffic management developer in relation to H&S violations are issues. imposed through free zone regulations. Retail shops Master Community DMCC HSE Guidelines have a specific The H&S within the Master Community is guideline for retail activities to ensure administered by an assigned service provider. alignment with public health and safety DMCC’s H&S Guidelines encompass the requirements mandated by Dubai mandatory working behaviours that must be Municipality. Retail units are mandated to followed to avoid and prevent any incidents provide signage, follow first aid requirements, arising out of unsafe work practices. and comply with extraction and ventilation specifications as set out in applicable DMCC mandates that the Master Community legislation, DMCC Rules and Regulations, and administrator identifies the HSE hazards, Dubai Municipality regulations. risks and environmental concerns related to the Master Community operations. For the In 2018, zero LTIs were recorded among retail identified HSE concerns, mitigation measures units supported by the implementation of and controls by the administrator shall be stringent H&S standards. immediately adopted and continuously assessed through KPIs set by DMCC. Free zone member companies The DMCC HSE Guidelines require all member In the Master Community, more than 1,500 companies and employers within the DMCC work permits were controlled and managed free zone to establish and implement across the JLT district without any serious systems to manage H&S risks. DMCC aspires accidents, achieving a 60% reduction in for its member companies to achieve a workplace accident rates compared to 2017. zero accidents record by implementing In addition, the Master Community achieved a safe practices. DMCC monitors member 100% compliance rate and received zero fines companies’ compliance with its rules and from the local regulatory authorities. regulations through regular control checks. 48 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People Towers and Owners’ Associations The DMCC Property team works in close alignment with the towers’ managers and Owners' Associations and their appointed requires the implementation of fire risk Owner Association Managers and/or Facility assessments of towers to maintain safe Management companies are responsible for working conditions. A total of 57 fire drills managing the H&S requirements within their were conducted across JLT towers in respective towers. coordination with the towers’ managers. All towers are required to conduct fire drills as According to UAE Federal Law No. (29) of per the Fire and Life safety code in 2019. 2006 concerning the rights of People of Determination4, owners, owners’ associations and owners’ association managers must perform risk assessments to determine the requirements for people of determination and prepare appropriate action. 2018 health and safety performance The boundary of this reporting cycle covers DMCC plans to initiate the implementation DMCC H&S performance for its permanent process of the ISO 45001 management system employees, contractors, sub-developers, the for its new Coffee Centre in 2018, making it one DMCC Coffee Centre5, the DMCC Tea Centre of the first commodity centres to have achieved and the Master Community. and implemented this management system. CASE STUDY: Focus on fire and life safety In 2018, DMCC placed considerable emphasis on the topics of fire safety and life safety. In addition to the introduction of fire risk assessments to all towers, DMCC upgraded the fire hydrants throughout the Master Community. Introduced in 2018, the DMCC fire risk assessments make a standardised, methodical assessment of the towers’ premises, the activities that take place in them and the likelihood of a fire breaking out. The risk assessment identifies issues by analysing fire safety procedures, fire prevention measures and fire precautions. The assessment determines the necessary precaution measures required in the event of a fire break out. The results of fire risk assessment are shared with the towers’ owners, who must subsequently provide a prioritised Fire Action Plan to DMCC which is sent for review to the Dubai Civil Department. Once the fire risk assessments are completed for JLT towers, the programme will be rolled out to the Master Community. 4 https://government.ae/en/information-and-services/social-affairs/special-needs 5 Construction from 1 Jan 2018 to 31 October 2018 and operations from 1 November 2018 to 31 December 2018 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 49 People DMCC conducted more than 500 HSEThe H&S data management and collection related inspections to maintain safe practices mechanisms were enhanced in 2018. These throughout the vast array of business activities improved data recording mechanisms will conducted in the DMCC free zone and the allow DMCC to implement effective corrective Master Community. measures. A slight increase was observed in minor fire-related incidents in the DMCC’s Master Community landscape during 2018, and DMCC is assessing various preventive measures to be implemented to reduce this risk. In addition, as first responders, DMCC security guards were trained during 2018 to take up the responsibility to report fire incidents and to identify potentially hazardous situations. H&S record of DMCC permanent employees6 2017 2018 Number of total hours worked 564,000 683,974 Number of lost time injury 0 0 Lost time injury frequency 0 0 Work-related fatalities 0 0 Reportable incidents 4 1 Inspections 12 7 DMCC contractors and sub-developers H&S performance7 2017 2018 Number of total hours worked 782,837 11,076,124 Number of lost time injury 0 0 Lost time injury frequency 0 0 Work-related fatalities 0 0 Incidents 29 77 Inspections 188 300 Violation notices NA 6 6 DMCC permanent employees fall under our direct control. 7 Contractors and sub-developers (including those for the Uptown district) fall under our direct influence. 50 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People DMCC Master Community and retail H&S performance8 2017 2018 Number of total hours worked 383,832 1,066,6870 Number of lost time injury 0 2 Lost time injury frequency 0 0 Work-related fatalities 0 0 Minor incidents 138 43 Major/serious incidents 0 0 Inspections 546 387 Violation notices NA 2 DMCC Tea and Coffee Centre 2018 H&S performance9 Number of total hours worked 140,130 Number of lost time injury 0 Lost time injury frequency 0 Work-related fatalities 0 Incidents 0 Inspections 4 H&S continuous improvement In 2019, DMCC will continue with its objective to protect the safety and well-being of all its stakeholders. The HSE team will be collecting H&S performance data on a monthly basis from contractors, sub-developers, industrial units in the free zone, Master Community and towers. DMCC will also increase the number of internal and external training and awareness sessions on H&S. 8 The Master Community managing agent falls under our direct influence. 9 This includes the health and safety aspects of the Tea and Coffee centre operations. The Coffee Centre’s health and safety aspects during the construction phase are captured in the ‘Other Project’ statistics. The comparative data for 2017 is not available, as the Coffee Centre operations started in 2018. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 51 Marketplace 52 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace MARKETPLACE 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 53 Marketplace MARKETPLACE DMCC aspires to provide services that The cornerstones of DMCC’s marketplace improve business conduct and create value strategy are governance, customer excellence, for the local economy. DMCC contributes to digitalisation and innovation, responsible the UAE 2021 National Agenda to transition sourcing and women empowerment. Operating the country to a knowledge-based economy responsibly means becoming a trusted business by promoting innovation, encouraging partner and corporate citizen for all stakeholders economic diversification and supporting through fair business operations, innovative the growth of member companies and services and demonstration of international best commodities trade. practices. SDGs covered in this section Alignment to the UNGC ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 54 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace We are dedicated to enhancing Dubai’s position as a global trade gateway by establishing a thriving marketplace for commodities based on the highest standards of international compliance. Sanjeev Dutta, Executive Director, Commodities, DMCC 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 55 Marketplace Key Key achievements Future objectives objectives Governance • Conducted risk-focused training for • Integrate sustainability into departmental heads and risk champions DMCC’s governance structure • DMCC Employment Regulations were updated, • Regularly review and update and guidance notes were produced DMCC regulatory framework • Introduced new Master Community Regulations • Integrate sustainability • Launched the Employee Code of Conduct considerations into enterprise Policy as a standalone guidance risk management • Zero incidents in relation to customer data • Organise training sessions on breaches new Employment Regulations in 2019 Customer • Recorded an overall customer satisfaction rating • Continue providing world excellence of 89% class services to customers • Established a pool of VAT clinics that provide by leveraging technology and advice to member companies free of charge digitalisation • Introduced new value-added services • Continue implementing internship packages, business apps manager improvements based on member platform and free zone company will companies’ satisfaction surveys • Organised more than 50 events for customers, which were attended by more than 4,000 participants Sustainability • Integrated sustainability-related topics as part • Promote the SDGs and awareness of DMCC’s outreach industry events sustainability among DMCC • Organised six events related to sustainability external stakeholders topics • Incorporate sustainability content in communications, events and other marketing materials produced by DMCC Innovation • Launched DMCC Coffee Centre • Establish an R&D department and • 95% of services for member companies are that operates across the whole digitalisation accessible online organisation • Shortened delivery time for several online • Develop and implement a services strategy aimed at supporting • Launched Nook, a health-focused start-ups within the free zone entrepreneurial co-working space • Develop and implement the Business Intelligence platform 56 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace Key Key achievements Future objectives objectives Responsible • Addressed improvement opportunities • Launch the MyKYCBank10 sourcing identified by the Organisation for Economic Coplatform operation and Development (OECD) Alignment • Conduct training sessions Assessment on Anti Money Laundering/ Combating the Financing of Terrorism, Ultimate Beneficial Owner and Suspicious Transaction Reporting Women • Signatory of WEPs principles since March 2018 • Launch a platform/programme empowerment • Conducted WEPs assessment to support women’s • Implemented female-targeted participation in leadership and initiatives as part of the well-being programme, trade such as breast cancer awareness campaigns • Continue to support the • Hosted and participated in knowledge sharing Outreach WEPs Taskforce in the and networking opportunities for women such UAE as SheTrades events • Continue offering WEPs awareness session 10 MyKYCBank is an initiative that was set up by GJEPC (Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council). Through this platform, companies can simplify their Know Your Customer assessment. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 57 Marketplace GOVERNANCE As a globally leading free zone, DMCC has a robust governance structure with a mandate to conduct its business activities in an accountable, honest and transparent way. DMCC fully complies with external regulatory standards and embraces global best practices by voluntarily supporting worldwide initiatives such as the SDGs, OECD guidelines and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF)11. DMCC’s governance framework is comprised of policies, procedures, a risk management framework and effective internal controls that allow it to achieve its objectives in a dynamic business environment. DMCC’s governance management is driven from the most senior levels, with an Advisory Committee that works closely with an Executive Committee, which is further supported by Working Committees that have a particular area of governance focus. 11 The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is an intergovernmental body that supports the implementation of measures to prevent antiethical use of financial systems, such as money laundering and terrorism financing. 58 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace DMCC Governance Advisory Committee Structure Highest governance body responsible for setting DMCC’s direction, approving business strategy, setting business goals, appraising DMCC’s management on progress of strategic goals and ensuring compliance. The Advisory Committee is appointed by the Chairman and comprises six members, four nonexecutive members and two executive members. Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises heads of business units who support the Executive Chairman and the CEO in discharging management responsibilities. Working Committees Support the Executive Committee in executing its management responsibilities. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 59 Marketplace Managing risk The organisation’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework assesses DMCC’s business risks and identifies mitigating factors or activities that can reduce or minimise the identified risks. A Control Self-Assessment policy determines the efficiency of controls in mitigating risks, and a risk register is maintained at both the corporate and department level. DMCC’s ERM Framework is aligned with the recommendations of the COSO12 Framework and follows its 8 elements that interact to support DMCC business activities. Through DMCC’s ERM, the process of risk identification follows top-down (Executive Committee and the Governance and Risk Committee) as well as bottomup (departments’ heads and key employees) approaches. DMCC manages its systematic risks that may affect not only its activities but also the activities of its member companies and other stakeholders. These risks include: Fraud Cyber Security Public • Forgery and theft • Virus • Physical theft • Environmental • Financial • Phishing • Workplace • Health and safety • Corruption and • Data breach violence • Employment rights bribery • Data loss • Geopolitical events • Regulatory breach • Stolen equipment • Terrorism • Money laundering • Lost equipment • Procurement • Ransomware • Collusion • Wire transfer • Tax crime • Service disruption and loss 12 The Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) is a joint initiative of private sector organisations and is dedicated to providing thought leadership through the development of frameworks and guidance on enterprise risk management, internal control and fraud deterrence. 60 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace In 2018, DMCC built on its existing mitigation plans and introduced new measures for its sustainability-related risks. Key risks Mitigation identified in 2018 measures Underachievement of • Five-year Emiratisation strategy and DMCC Graduate Emiratisation target Training programme and internship programme • Year-on-year increase in UAE Nationals representation out of the total workforce Master community hazards • Establishment of a new Master Community (fire, HSE and security Declaration and Community Rules incidents) • DMCC HSE guidelines applicable to suppliers (contractors and sub-developers), member companies and tower owners • Introduction of a fire risk assessment programme • Centralisation of Security Central Command Centre and enhanced incident reporting mechanism Absence of smart integrated • Master Community assets were captured digitally infrastructure within Asset Management platform • DMCC Smart and Sustainable District Strategy progress in 2018: Creating a central platform that stores, analyses and visualises Smart & Sustainable District data Digitising infrastructure assets both physical and ICT based Smart parking project Member companies’ non• Revision of company, employment and Master adherence to rules and Community regulations for clear guidance on roles and regulations impacting responsibilities DMCC’s reputation • Compliance policy with preventive and proactive measures. Rules and regulations permit de-licensing of any non-compliant company Cyber security • Annual Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT) to ensure the security of DMCC’s cyber systems • Periodic user awareness campaigns to protect users and their information • Cloud services to protect the interests of DMCC 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 61 Marketplace Policies for controls and compliance DMCC strives to assess and manage compliance risks of DMCC, DMCC membership-based businesses and free zone member companies. DMCC's compliance efforts are guided by a compliance risks assessment. In 2017, DMCC issued a Fraud Control Policy and completed a Fraud Risk Assessment. At the organisational level, compliance is assured through internal and external audits. Internal audit teams work independently to ensure independence and report directly to the Advisory Committee. A testament to the effectiveness of the adopted compliance and anti-corruption practices, DMCC did not face any reported incidents of corruption nor did it suffer any legal action or fine for non-compliance with social and economic laws or regulations in 2018. DMCC regularly reviews and updates its regulatory framework to reflect the dynamic nature of its business. Updates on the DMCC regulatory framework during 2018 Key changes Status Company • Clearer guidance on enrolment as a member • Pending approval and expected Regulations company in the DMCC free zone, and the to be launched in the first quarter for member corresponding obligations. of 2019. companies • Increased clarity for member companies on • Training sessions and associated Completely their roles and responsibilities toward DMCC. guidance notes are planned to re-written • Improved readability and accessibility. support the launch. Employment • Further guidance to DMCC member companies • In 2019, DMCC’s legal firm will Regulations and their employees on UAE Labour Law for run training sessions on the new Reviewed topics like disciplinary issues, flexible working, Employment Regulations and and updated visa cancellation and others. associated guidance notes. Master • An extensive update to the Master Community • The establishment of a new Community declaration detailing the responsibilities Master Community Declaration Regulations of DMCCA13 which oversees the Master was completed. The document Improved and Community. Introduced new Master Community defines the governance and modernised Regulations containing legal governance and management structure for control mechanisms required for the operation the Master Community, which of the Master Community. now outlines the operational requirements and rules for all stakeholders. 13 Dubai Multi Commodities Centre Authority 62 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace Ensuring compliance with laws and regulations During 2018, DMCC launched the Employee Code of Conduct Policy as a standalone guidance, and made it available to all employees through the company intranet site. Disciplinary related issues identified or raised by any employee are firmly dealt with at DMCC. All decisions are taken in adherence with DMCC’s HR policies and the UAE Labour Law. In 2018, 9 disciplinary cases were identified against issues such as non-compliance with HR policies, performance-related concerns and inducing material loss for the organisation. The disciplinary case which resulted in a material loss for the organisation was thoroughly investigated, and a dismissal decision was made by the HR Committee as per Article 120 of Labour Law and DMCC's HR policy. CASE STUDY: DMCC Disputes Centre – mediation services for member companies In direct response to feedback from member assist in complex commercial mediation cases. companies, the DMCC Disputes Centre was In addition, the Centre has partnered with created in 2017 equipped with a dedicated key providers of legal services to offer DMCC team of professionals to assist the resolution member companies and their employees of disputes. access to pro bono (free of charge) legal advice through the Legal Clinics initiative. An average of more than 500 individuals Legal clinics were launched in 2017 covering consulted the DMCC Disputes Centre each 6 key areas: corporate, commercial, disputes, month. In 2018, the Centre handled almost employment, intellectual property and real 350 workplace mediations with a settlement estate. The employment clinics have been the rate of 73% and a customer satisfaction rate most attended by member companies and of 96%. The Centre established an agreement their employees to date. The Legal Clinics with accredited mediators such as the Royal offering was further expanded in 2018 with the Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) to on-boarding of additional law firms. As part of the process of becoming a DMCC registered and licenced company, a screening phase is being enforced for all applicants more than 35,000 screenings were completed in 2018. In 2019, this process will be improved through the launch of an automated in-house platform. DMCC's Controls and Assurance team undertakes regular inspections of member companies and those found in breach of free zone policies and procedures may be issued with violation notices, fined or even terminated. Inspections cover Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI), automated inspections of licence validity and physical inspections of retail outlets. In 2018, around 7,000 inspections of DMCC member companies took place, resulting in 710 warnings and 31 fines. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 63 Marketplace In addition to the screening and inspection procedures, DMCC has implemented the Approved Auditor Rules for member companies, in relation to the mandatory submission of annual audited financial statements. The guidelines include a list of approved auditors and the procedure to approve and renew auditing firms, as well as a description of the panel in charge of assessing firms and their sample audits. Supporting the UAE’s government efforts on anti-corruption DMCC has a zero-tolerance policy towards During 2018, DMCC attended six workshops any form of corruption and is committed as part of the UAE’s FATF assessment to supporting UNGC Principle 10 on Antipreparation. DMCC Compliance, and Corruption. In support of the UAE government’s Government and Legal Affairs representatives efforts to drive Anti Money Laundering and provided input on AML/CFT threats, emerging Combating Financial Terrorism (AML/CFT) risks in the UAE, free zones laws and best practices, DMCC is assisting with the regulations current compliance status against preparations for the Financial Action Task the FATF recommendations. In December Force (FATF) assessment scheduled for 2019. 2018, the UAE issued a revised AML/CFT law Established in 1989 by the G7 summit, the FATF in accordance with the FATF requirements. In aims to establish global norms and standards of response to the revised law, DMCC will review legal, regulatory and operational measures to and amend its AML/CFT, Ultimate Beneficial fight against threats to the security and integrity Owner (UBO) and Suspicious Transaction of the international financial system. Reporting (STR) rules. Protecting privacy and ensuring information security The protection of information and data of In 2018, data processing activities were member companies and other customers is analysed across DMCC’s function to identify central to DMCC’s commitment to building the missing parameters to comply with the trusted relationships. To prevent data European General Data Protection Regulation breaches from occurring, DMCC performs (GDPR) 2016/679. The GDPR is a regulation by regular internal and external audits. In 2018, which the European Parliament, the Council DMCC had no incidents of customer data of the European Union and the European breaches. Commission intend to strengthen and unify data protection. As a result, DMCC issued a DMCC conforms to the Information Security revised Privacy Policy which was released Regulation (ISR) that is issued by the Dubai in May 2018. The Data Protection Policy and Electronic Security Centre. It regularly Data Breach Response Plan will be binding conducts control checks to assess compliance in DMCC’s 2019 contractual agreements. and identify areas for improvement. In 2018, After the release of these policies, DMCC will DMCC worked on closing the initial gaps introduce online training for employees on the highlighted as partially compliant in 2017. Data Protection Policy. 64 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace CUSTOMER EXCELLENCE The customer is at the heart of DMCC’s business model, which facilitates the success of member companies’ operations by supplying an innovative business environment with cutting-edge service support. Each year DMCC introduces new platforms, services, networking opportunities and educational programmes to its palette of customer offerings. This approach has earned DMCC the title of ‘Free Zone of the Year’ for the fourth year running, as awarded by the Financial Times fDi magazine. Some of the customer-driven, business development initiatives introduced in 2018 included: establishing a pool of VAT consultants who provide clinics and advice to member companies free of charge; hosting welcome breakfasts for new members to ease their establishment into the free zone; automated visa services; expansion of Astrolabs technical incubator hub; call centre upgrade; streamlined payment processes; a new help centre; and an enhanced licence renewal process. Every day at DMCC we try to make the customer experience a little bit better. We engage closely with our member companies to respond to their needs. Ahmad Hamza, Executive Director, Free Zone, DMCC 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 65 Marketplace Driving customer engagement DMCC operates in a diversified, highly competitive and dynamic global business landscape. This necessitates the development of a strong customer-focused approach to create a vibrant business environment for various industries. Engaging with customers allows DMCC to create an edge for itself in the market by responding to customer needs effectively. In 2018, DMCC organised more than 50 events addressed to its customers, which were attended by more than 4,000 participants. The events spanned across a range of current pressing business topics, including employment law training, data protection regulations, risk management, gender equality, SDGs, AML, company set-up requirements, VAT regulations and community H&S. CASE STUDY: Beyond Bitcoin: Blockchain in the Energy Sector In April 2018, DMCC Energy Club hosted a workshop for the member companies on blockchain in the energy sector. The workshop speakers were from DGCX, Thomson Reuters and other specialists from the energy and technology sector. The session explored the different applications of blockchain technology across the energy sector and the key legal and practical considerations for implementation. The case studies provided practical learning and triggered a discussion on blockchain challenges in the current market landscape. The event was attended by 36 participants with a 100% satisfaction rate. 66 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace Customer feedback In its seventh annual survey in 2018, DMCC recorded an overall customer satisfaction rating of 89%. There were 944 companies that provided feedback on DMCC’s services, of which 71 were key accounts. Key insights from the survey include: Overall satisfaction • The overall customer promise score increased to 89% in 2018 from 84% in 2017 100% 90% 89% • Key customer satisfaction metrics 84% such as ‘overall satisfaction’, ‘loyalty 80% improvement’, ‘willingness to expand’ increased by 5%, 2% and 60% 3% respectively, compared to 2017 scores 40% • In terms of people performance, a high satisfaction rate was recorded for DMCC’s customer service facing 20% employees. In addition, ‘empowering staff for decision-making’ was 0% identified as an area of improvement 2016 2017 2018 Member company satisfaction on specific topics for 2018 Customer Value Added Communication 87% 76.6% 92% Promise Services14 Channels Service Area People Service 86.5% 88% 86.4% Performance Channels 14 This satisfaction rate is for the existing package of value-added services provided by DMCC. DMCC introduced some new value-added services in 2018, which include the VAT clinic service, internship packages, business apps platform and free one company will. These new services were surveyed during the annual satisfaction survey and an overall satisfaction score of 83% was recorded. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 67 Marketplace INNOVATION Aligned with the SDG 9 Industrial Innovation and Infrastructure and with the UAE Vision 2021, DMCC considers innovation as an enabler for progress and a catalyst for its global. As part of a dynamic community, DMCC has a responsibility to constantly evolve itself to offer relevant and high-quality services to foster global trade. Innovation is a catalyst for growth. One exciting new innovation initiative that was launched in 2018, was the DMCC Coffee Centre which will bring new trade flows to Dubai Franco Bosoni, Director, Innovation Hub, DMCC 68 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace GRI 102-44 Driving innovation The DMCC Innovation Hub has been key to encourage and channel creativity within the organisation. With an innovative approach to marketplace creation, the Innovation Hub calls for ideas on technology products and services that allow for new physical and financial spaces for global commodities trade. Since its launch in 2017, the Innovation Hub has served as a platform for the development and deployment of ambitious projects such as the DMCC Coffee Centre, which became operational during 2018. With a 2019 launch date, the Dubai Design Academy is targeted at the jewellery industry. Offering accredited training programmes with a focus on pioneering design and manufacture, the Academy will serve as a launch pad for jewellery start-ups to grow their businesses. The Academy has ambitions to elevate the status of the UAE as a global jewellery brand creator. These projects demonstrate DMCC’s creative and entrepreneurial spirit as an essential ingredient for the achievement of its strategic objectives and growth of the local economy. Digitalisation – an enabler of excellence Many of the digital improvements introduced by DMCC each year are responses to stakeholder needs. In 2018, the delivery time for issuing an e-licence to operate within the DMCC free zone was shortened, and now within 5 days of signing and submitting all the relevant documentation, the e-licence is issued via the new digital solution. A commonly used tool by DMCC’s member companies is the Discussion Forum, which is designed to submit queries and access information from other discussions on similar topics. For private or specific inquiries, members can reach out electronically to the DMCC Help Centre to obtain a personalised answer. DMCC is in the process of integrating new digital initiatives under the Business Intelligence15 project. The aim is to harness digital advancements such as blockchain and artificial intelligence in a consolidated manner and efficiently interpret business information. 15 Business intelligence comprises the strategies and technologies used by enterprises for the data analysis of business information. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 69 Marketplace 70 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace Encouraging entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship is the foundation of innovation. In support of the UAE National Innovation Strategy, DMCC seeks to continuously create an enabling entrepreneurial landscape for its small businesses and start-up member companies. AstroLabs, in partnership with Google and IBM, is a tech hub that provides unique co-working space for high potential digital companies. AstroLabs Academy hosts international tech entrepreneurs and delivers a variety of classes on digital skills and solutions. During 2018, AstroLabs held more than 150 technology and entrepreneurship events and connected more than 100 member start-ups with the global market. Similarly, Nook, DMCC’s health-focused co-working space, was launched in 2018 as a platform for sports, fitness and wellness entrepreneurs to work in a collaborative space surrounded by more than 200 likeminded businesses and professionals. In addition to the value-adding benefits provided by DMCC’s co-working spaces, such as high-speed wireless Internet connection and printing and business support services, Nook offers access to wellness studios and gym facilities, and free admission to its community events. DMCC commits to continually support the development of entrepreneurs and start-ups in the region by creating an enabling business environment for SMEs and innovators. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 71 Marketplace RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible sourcing is at the core of trade Modern commodities supply chains are highly DMCC recognises the growing expectations complex, multi-tiered networks that consist of stakeholders and the rise in supply chain of evolving relationships between individual compliance requirements locally and globally. suppliers from around the world. Globalisation DMCC is one of the 6 members of the OECD’s and shifting patterns of trade can quickly Multi Steering Group for responsible supply create new risk hot spots, making improving chains for minerals. In addition, DMCC leads standards at scale more challenging. By the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme understanding where these risk hot spots are, in the UAE – a joint government, industry and organisations can proactively improve their civil society initiative to stop the flow and supply chains in relation to the wide array of trade of conflict diamonds. environmental, social and ethical factors. DMCC is committed to advancing responsible DMCC is committed to addressing supply sourcing practices through: chain risks by monitoring responsible sourcing • Ongoing analysis of risks and opportunities practices. While the social, ethical and • Education and awareness environmental impact of the operations of its • Capacity building with industry networks member companies lies outside DMCC’s direct control, DMCC plays its role by promoting • Assurance and accountability by member responsible sourcing practices. companies • Implementing a robust and balanced regulatory framework We are aware of our instrumental role in ensuring that Dubai remains at the forefront of the global trade of precious metals and diamonds. We have established and continue to improve responsible sourcing frameworks by partnering with industry leaders like the OECD and Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC). Maryam Al Hashemi, Director, Precious Metals & Stones DMCC 72 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace Alignment assessment of industry programmes with the OECD minerals guidance16 The OECD Guidance17 outlines detailed the UAE, and with producers and exporters requirements to be followed by companies in higher risk countries. The Independent engaged with minerals or metals trade from Governance Committee was recognised as a conflict-affected and high-risk areas. The robust mechanism for DMCC’s transparency OECD Guidance follows a 5-step framework, and independence. which supports organisations to manage their supply chain in a transparent manner. The key areas of improvement identified by the assessment in 2018 include: After the initial assessment of DMCC’s • Enhancing the vetting and capacity building programmes in 2016 against the detailed of auditors to strengthen audit consistency recommendations of the OECD Guidance, the and rigour programmes were updated and reassessed in • Clarification to DMCC refiners and auditors 2018, with the recommendations integrated that on-the-ground risk assessments should into DMCC’s programmes. The Terms of always be undertaken on red-flagged supply Reference and strategic objectives for the chains Independent Governance Committee (IGC) • Increased transparency on disclosing were revised and approved in 2018.18 the supply-chain risk management and performance of accredited refiners The 2018 assessment against the OECD Guidance highlighted DMCC’s strong engagement on responsible sourcing with gold traders and government authorities in 16 http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Alignment-assessment-of-industry-programmes-with-the-OECD-mineral-guidance.pdf 17 OECD Guidance refers to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from ConflictAffected and HighRisk Areas 18 https://www.dmcc.ae/application/files/5915/4098/1432/IGC_Annual_Report_2018_-_final.pdf 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 73 Marketplace CASE STUDY: DMCC hosted the 7th Dubai Precious Metals Conference DMCC hosted the 7th edition of its industry-leading annual Dubai Precious Metals Conference (DPMC) in April 2018. The conference aimed at providing a fresh global outlook on the precious metals sector and was targeted towards the entire value chain – from mines to jewellers. The topics of discussion included the evolution and impact of taxations on gold, expectations and reality of responsible sourcing practices, the role and future of global exchanges and the pressing challenges in the precious metals sector. DMCC will continue to conduct industry events to build capacity and educate stakeholders in both the upstream and downstream precious metals sectors. DMCC’s internal sourcing DMCC's internal procurement policy requires that all DMCC procurement activity is conducted in a fair and transparent manner. Suppliers are chosen based on their ability to create the best value in terms of cost, quality and their ability to comply with legal and best practices requirements. DMCC contracts bind all thirdparty suppliers to be compliant to the UAE law and DMCC’s rules and regulations covering anticorruption, HSE and labour law. Supporting SMEs and local companies in the UAE increases DMCC’s contribution to the local GDP. When procuring any goods or services, the first choice is always a local supplier, provided they meet all technical, commercial and legal qualifications. In 2018, 94% of the total procurement budget was spent on local suppliers19 in comparison to 88% in 2017. 19 DMCC defines local suppliers as companies that are registered in the UAE. DMCC's significant location of operation is to be considered as UAE. The proportion of local procurement is based on processed payments. 74 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Marketplace WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT As a signatory of WEPs since March of 2018, DMCC actively adopts initiatives consistent with the WEPs seven principles to drive gender equality. Research shows that larger economic gains can be reached by having more women in the workforce. To facilitate women’s role in trade, DMCC is establishing a platform to support women in overcoming existing market barriers and to increase women’s participation in leadership and trade. The programme is expected to launch in 2019. As a signatory of WEPs since March of 2018, DMCC actively adopts initiatives consistent with the WEPs seven principles to drive gender equality. Research shows that larger economic gains can be reached by having more women in the workforce. To facilitate women’s role in trade, DMCC is establishing a platform to support women in overcoming existing market barriers and to increase women’s participation in leadership and trade. The programme is expected to launch in 2019. During 2018, the proportion of women among the workforce grew to 38.5%, with a 25% representation in governance bodies. Closing the gender inequity among leadership positions will drive better business results. DMCC plans to develop and implement a corporate-wide gender-balanced policy applicable to DMCC’s hiring strategy, training and development, leadership programmes and compensation. In addition, DMCC will collaborate with its member companies to establish a mentorship programme for high potential female employees and entrepreneurs creating an attractive business environment for women in the free zone. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 75 Environmental stewardship 76 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Environmental stewardship ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 77 Environmental stewardship ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP As an environmentally responsible organisation, DMCC is committed to minimising its environmental footprint. DMCC is in the process of establishing and implementing a streamlined data management system for energy, water and waste across its operations to improve natural resource use efficiencies. DMCC released revised HSE Guidelines in 2018, setting out the environmental requirements for all its contractors, sub-developers, owners’ associations and member companies. The purpose of the HSE policy is to promote a proactive approach to reducing environmental impacts. SDGs covered in this section Alignment to the UNGC ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 78 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Environmental stewardship Key Key Future objectives achievements objectives Energy • Introduced energy reduction • Conduct an audit of all DMCC assets on water efficiency initiatives via retrofitting consumption to improve the data and statistics interventions on OneJLT • Develop a strategy focused on the improvement building of consumption efficiency based on the audit • Registered OneJLT with • Automate data collection and monitor changes USGBC20 ARC platform in energy consumption • Uptown Dubai is being constructed in accordance with LEED Gold (BD+C) standards Water • Implemented smart initiatives • Initiate monitoring of the water quality by 2019 preservation to improve the water quality • Conduct an audit of all DMCC assets on water of JLT Lakes consumption to improve the data and statistics • Transitioned to chemicals-free • Develop a strategy focused on the improvement maintenance regime for the of consumption efficiency based on the audit lakes • Automate data collection and monitor changes in • Conducted initial workshops water consumption and briefing sessions to develop a landscaping master plan Waste • Initiated recycling of paper, • Establish a reporting system for waste generation management can, plastic and batteries and separation across the Master Community • Conduct an audit of all DMCC assets on waste management to improve the data and statistics • Engage with restaurants and hotels in JLT to facilitate the implementation of recycling • Develop a strategy focused on the improvement of consumption efficiency based on the audit • Automate data collection and monitor changes in waste management 20 United States Green Building Council 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 79 Environmental stewardship DMCC HSE Guidelines 2018 The revised 2018 HSE Guidelines mandate DMCC development projects fall within its direct environmental compliance requirements for sphere of influence. They are required to monitor not only DMCC and its member companies, but and report on environmental indicators including also for contractors, sub-developers, owners’ noise pollution, air pollution, water discharges, associations, facility management companies effluent and spills, energy consumption and and tenants. waste generation. The comprehensive Guidelines outline the To ensure that environmental risks are environmental protection requirements and well-managed, DMCC conducts regular monitoring of environmental impact including environmental inspections on construction atmospheric pollution levels, water emissions, sites, towers and the Master Community. The noise and vibrations, energy and waste inspections assess compliance with DMCC HSE management. DMCC requires all employers, Guidelines, Local Order No (61) issued by Dubai owners or owners’ representatives to submit Municipality, and UAE Federal Law No (24) of an environmental plan that details both their 1999 for the protection and development of the environmental impact and preventative environment. If DMCC identifies non-compliance measures. The plan should be developed in line from any concerned party, a formal warning is with applicable environmental laws and the initiated which can result in an improvement requirements of the DMCC HSE Guidelines. notice, prohibition from work notice, potential fines for serious breaches and termination of The Guidelines specify green building regulations license or contractor in extreme situations. that apply to all new buildings, extensions or refurbishment of the existing property. The In 2018, DMCC issued warning notices to subregulations cover ecology, planning, building developers breaching the HSE Guidelines in vitality, energy, water and waste dimensions. regards to noise levels, and a financial penalty New building projects must conduct an was raised for a concrete spill incident. By Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and closely reviewing performance against the require a building permit that is issued by DMCC. HSE Guidelines, DMCC can sustain continuous Contractors and sub-developers working on improvement towards a better environment. Smart Environment Launched in 2018, DMCC’s Smart and The Smart Environment theme also supports Sustainable District strategy has the environment SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities. integrated into its goals and forms a dedicated As part of the JLT landscaping and smart theme for DMCC’s environmental objectives. irrigation programme, DMCC conducted initial Under the Smart Environment theme, DMCC workshops and briefing sessions in 2018 with the puts a strong focus on developing new projects appointed contractor. The objective is to develop and properties with lower environmental a landscaping master plan for the community impacts. This is achieved through green incorporating smart and sustainable solutions design, environmentally friendly construction, that aim to maximise the efficient use of water. maintaining low pollutant and emissions levels and improving waste management practices. 80 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Environmental stewardship DMCC’s buildings retrofit initiative aims to solutions. The long-term target is to have all reduce energy and water demand, enhance buildings in the Master Community retrofitted by building environment, improve individuals’ well2030. This will positively contribute to the Dubai being, and reduce maintenance and operational Supreme Council of Energy 2030 targets, which costs. The initiative involves identifying partners aim to reduce electricity and water demands in who DMCC can collaborate with on retrofitting existing buildings by 30% by 2030. buildings across the Master Community. DMCC is partnering with energy services companies which will offer a broad range of energy CASE STUDY: One JLT Retrofitting pilot In 2018, retrofitting interventions were undertaken on One JLT, a LEED Gold Building, Design and Construction (BD+C) Certified building. Retrofitting activities included fire audits, live data monitoring of energy consumption, HVAC and chilled water use performance, automated water dosing treatment for water tanks, automated tracking of parking and building occupancy, external landscaping work, and a reserve fund study to ensure adequate future repair and maintenance provisions. Furthermore, One JLT was registered with USGBC ARC platform in 2018, and requires continuous reporting and tracking of the following sustainability KPIs: • Energy consumption • Water consumption • Waste generation • Transportation surveys • Air quality testing and occupants survey DMCC will be implementing the systems and processes required to monitor these KPIs in 2019. In addition, 2019 retrofitting initiatives for One JLT will include energy audits, instalment of enhanced air filtration systems, solar car parking shades, electric vehicle recharging stations and integration of existing building management system into DMCC’s centralised Asset Management system. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 81 Environmental stewardship ENVIRONMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE DMCC strives to improve its performance related to water and energy consumption and management of waste for its construction projects, in alignment with SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production. In 2018, DMCC had two ongoing construction projects – the Uptown Dubai district and the DMCC Coffee Centre. We have formalised our commitment to environmental stewardship through our latest HSE policy, fully acknowledging the impacts that our construction projects and activities can have on the environment. Beyond compliance, we continue making significant investments to reduce the environmental footprint of our operations and encourage our contractors and suppliers to follow suit. Paul Ashton, Executive Director, Property, DMCC 82 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Environmental stewardship 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 83 Environmental stewardship Uptown Dubai The Uptown Dubai district is under During 2017, the excavation phase for Uptown construction according to the LEED Gold was completed where a large majority of certification. The development consists onsite heavy-duty equipment operated on of seven towers and a central plaza that diesel fuel, thereby resulting in high diesel span an area of more than 10 million square consumption. In 2018, the foundation of the feet. The construction site operates a buildings was built which involved various systematic procedure of waste segregation, water-intensive construction activities such as regular monitoring of noise pollution levels, dust suppression, mixing concrete and testing implementation of dust control measures test pipes, tanks and vessels for leakage which to maintain air quality levels, and weekly caused the significant increase in water use. inspections. Environmental performance 2017 2018 Diesel consumption (GJ) 6,220 569 Water consumption (m3) 852 2,152 Recycled waste (tonnes) 698 0.6 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 13 233 DMCC Coffee Centre Opened in late 2018, the DMCC Coffee Centre a result, 2018 environmental indicators for offers world-class services for storage, the Coffee Centre show a significant increase processing, warehousing and delivery for up to across all metrics compared to 2017. The 20,000 tonnes of green coffee beans annually. large majority of onsite tools and equipment Its construction complied with DMCC’s HSE operated on diesel fuel. Water was sourced Guidelines and its contractor reported on the from the local utility to mix concrete and test required environmental indicators. pipes, tanks and vessels for leakage. The DMCC Coffee Centre construction was initiated in the last quarter of 2017, and most of the construction activities for the Centre were completed in the first half of 2018. As Environmental performance 2017 2018 Diesel consumption (GJ) 56 0 Electricity (GJ) 15 1,260 Water consumption (m3) 2,309 7,695 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 71 9,12321 21 The calculations for the waste figures under the DMCC Tea and Coffee Centre operations were converted from cubic metres to tonnes to ensure consistency and comparability. The conversion factor used was calculated by taking average density for medium-level compacted waste components – concrete, sand, metal – ferrous, and rubble as 749.5 kg/m3. Source: https://www.epa.vic.gov.au/business-andindustry/lower-yourimpact/~/media/Files/bus/EREP/docs/wastematerials-densities-data.pdf 84 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Environmental stewardship ENVIRONMENT AND OPERATIONS DMCC monitors its environmental performance to identify opportunities of enhancing its operations and efficiency. The DMCC Coffee Centre was launched after a soft opening in November 2018. The centre offers world-class infrastructure and services for the storage, processing and delivery of green coffee beans, as well as offices and a training campus. The 2018 data represents the combined environmental performance of DMCC Tea and Coffee Centres. The data for the Coffee Centre includes its operations in November and December of 2018 after its soft launch. In 2019, DMCC will be conducting a utility data management analysis to streamline the boundary between the two centres. DMCC Tea and Coffee Centre operations environmental performance 2016 2017 2018 Electricity (GJ) 3,331 3,804 3,738 Water consumption (m3) 3,665 4,419 3,655 Recycled waste (tonnes) 44 46 26.7 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes)22 47 60 288 22 The calculations for the waste figures under the DMCC Tea and Coffee Centre operations were converted from cubic metres to tonnes to ensure consistency and comparability. The conversion factor used was calculated by taking average density for medium-level compacted waste components – paper, dry and wet compacted cardboard, kitchen-type food waste, plastic bags, glass, and concrete as 339.28 kg/m3.Source: https://www.epa.vic.gov.au/business-and-industry/lower-yourimpact/~/media/Files/bus/EREP/docs/wastematerialsdensities-data.pdf 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 85 Environmental stewardship ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY In 2018, new environmental initiatives were introduced to improve the environmental performance of the Master Community. The lakes around the JLT community consist lakes, environmentally friendly bio-agents of salty shallow underground water naturally were selected to maintain the water quality found in the area. In 2018, water levels in without using added chemicals. the lakes have been reduced along with the removal of sludge to facilitate the installation Waste management was a key focus for of new boreholes to avoid stagnation and the Master Community in 2018. Waste preserve water. Automated water-filling of segregation systems and procedures were the lakes to maintain a constant water level introduced to the waste management and sewerage flow monitoring are planned. system. Recycling stations for paper, cans Following an investigation to source a and plastics are now available across the biological solution for the treatment of the Master Community. CASE STUDY: Great Battery Challenge In 2018, DMCC partnered with Duracell, a DMCC member company, to implement the Great Battery Challenge across all JLT towers. Batteries contain a number of heavy metals and toxic chemicals, which are often disposed as general waste in landfills leading to soil contamination and water pollution. The challenge encouraged all JLT residents to contribute towards reducing battery waste by recycling old batteries in any of the 26 designated containers placed around JLT, thereby reducing the burden on the environment. The challenge became a permanent environmental programme of DMCC and is now being promoted to the rest of the JLT towers. 86 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Environmental stewardship GRI 102-48 The environmental data collection for the The water consumption increase shown Master Community activities has been in the below table has resulted from the reviewed by DMCC, and certain metrics requirement of the Master Community to be have been identified as not being monitored in compliance with the Dubai Municipality accurately. The data presented in the 2018 Water Systems Monitoring and Inspection report is based on the latest analysis of the Guideline which requires all water tanks to available data. In 2019, a detailed analysis be cleaned at least once every six months will be performed to increase accuracy and from 2018 onwards. During 2017, one water streamline environmental data collection tank cleaning was undertaken and in 2018, across DMCC construction, operations two water tank cleanses were undertaken in and Master Community to enhance the conjunction with a further water tank refill, monitoring process and the identification of in line with the need to disinfect the water environmentally effective measures. pipe network. Overall environmental performance of the DMCC master community23 2016 2017 2018 Diesel consumption (GJ) 675 597 Electricity (GJ) 45,980 44,788 44,177 Water consumption (m3) 6,531 13,961 33,409 Recycled waste (tonnes) 90 123 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes)24 19,648 20,192 DMCC's total environmental performance The table below summarises the 2018 electricity consumption across different DMCC environmental performance for the Uptown construction activities and operations. The Dubai and Coffee Centre construction electricity consumed was sourced from the projects, Tea and Coffee Centres operations local utility authority. Furthermore, a major and the Master Community. The major proportion of the waste generated was sent share of the total energy consumption for for landfilling in line with the local regulatory 2018, approximately 97%, is attributed to requirements. 2018 Total Diesel consumption (GJ) 1,166 Electricity (GJ) 49,175 Total energy consumption (GJ) 50,341 Water consumption (m3) 46,910 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 29,836 Recycled waste (tonnes) 150.3 23 The environmental performance data for the Master Community has been restated as DMCC introduced a more holistic and detailed data collection and tracking mechanism in 2018, resulting in a change in some of the performance numbers for the previous years. 24 The calculations for the waste figures under DMCC Master Community were converted from cubic metres to tonnes to ensure consistency and comparability. The conversion factor used was calculated as the average density for different domestic solid waste components as 143.77 kg/m3. Source:https://www.researchgate.net/publication/261357543_Composition_of_Domestic_Solid_Waste_and_ The_Determin ation_of_its_Density_Moisture_Content_A_case_study_for_Tikrit_City_Iraq 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 87 Creating strong communities 88 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Creating strong communities CREATING STRONG COMMUNITIES 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 89 Creating strong communities CREATING STRONG COMMUNITIES DMCC builds sustainable communities through strategic investments, thought leadership and meaningful engagement with local communities. By building strategic partnerships and deploying diverse community initiatives, DMCC enhances the vibrancy of its communities. Creating a cohesive, safe and smart community is at the heart of DMCC’s approach for operations of its communal areas. The community programmes focus on physical safety and provide avenues for a healthy lifestyle and cultural engagement to community members. SDGs covered in this section 90 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Creating strong communities Key Key Future objectives achievements objectives Smart and • Advanced the development • Integrate DMCC’s Smart and Sustainable District sustainable of DMCC Asset Management strategy with the Dubai Smart City initiative community Systems by initiating the • Introduce five mobility related community development of a 3D services and initiatives in 2019 Digital Twin of the Master Community Safe and • Initiated a licensing process • Evaluate the current traffic challenges of the familyfor building managers Master Community to mitigate traffic incidents friendly who are employed by the • Remove the gas cylinders throughout the Master environment towers’ owners to increase Community oversight • Install Automatic Number Plate Recognition • 618 security guards (ANPR) systems received 430 hours of training on 27 security related topics Community • JLT hosted one of the • Increase the number of family-focused engagement Dubai Fitness Challenge community events villages over a period of • Enhance internal communication on DMCC’s one month, with more volunteering policy and provide volunteering than 125,000 visitors opportunities for employees • In 2018 the DMCC Grant • Develop and implement a policy for corporate Fund donated a total giving to financially support relevant of AED 365,000 to the communities, based on DMCC’s areas of impact Diamond Development • Provide support to the DDI and coffee and tea Initiative (DDI) producers to support educational • Development of a Community Portal initiatives in the • Establishment of smart kiosks Democratic Republic of Congo 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 91 Creating strong communities DMCC’S SMART AND SUSTAINABLE DISTRICT In 2018, DMCC launched its strategy to DMCC made significant progress against a transform the business, Master Community number of initiatives across the six themes and free zone into a smart and sustainable in 2018. It approved a new, transparent district. DMCC’s objective is to create an governance structure, under which an agile culture that transforms business independent legal entity was formed environments, supports disruptive and to manage the community on behalf of innovative technologies and adapts to DMCC. The entity has created new Master growing environmental requirements. Community plans and governance structure The six themes pursued under the strategy covering all land and infrastructure contained are detailed below. DMCC’s Smart and within the Master Community. The entity is Sustainable District strategy supports the registered with the Real Estate Regulatory UAE government’s contribution to the Agency (RERA). SDGs by driving progress towards the delivery of SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and Smart District Platform and Governance Infrastructure, SDG 11 Sustainable Cities – creating a central platform that stores, and Communities, SDG 12 Responsible analyses and visualises Smart and Sustainable Consumption and Production and SDG 13 District data, providing oversight of all Climate Action. DMCC’s performance criteria. It will be integrated with Smart Dubai’s platform. DMCC's strategy for a smart and sustainable district will leverage digital transformation to provide a better experience for our community, and to meet our environmental and sustainable responsibilties. James Garbutt, Head of Asset Management, DMCC 92 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Creating strong communities Smart District Platform and Governance DMCC is developing Smart Centralized Community including its energy and water Platform, Smart Asset Management System consumption, H&S metrics and environment in and Sustainable District data, providing real time. oversight of all DMCC’s performance criteria. It will be integrated with Smart Dubai’s As part of its asset management platform, platform. DMCC is developing a 5D virtual district. This 5D district project will reduce operating The DMCC Smart Asset Management system costs, generate revenue streams, encourage is part of Smart District Platform, a fivecollaboration and deliver greater visibility year plan to create a world-class system and transparency to the community. A key in line with the international framework element of the 5D district project is the requirements of ISO 55001.25 In 2018, a GIS development of a 3D Digital Twin of the DMCC and Computer Aided Facility Management Master Community. This Digital Twin district (CAFM) system were developed to help will be created via a community portal, the optimise the efficiency of DMCC’s asset use of data and analytics, and modelling and management. The Smart Asset Management visualisation. The smart digital community system continues to be developed and will portal will allow community members to be integrated with multiple systems including engage on a single platform and provide the Dubai Smart City system. The Master feedback on community-related issues such as Community assets were transferred into the physical damage, safety and maintenance. Smart Asset Management system in 2018 and are now being verified and enhanced, so that they accurately depict the Master Community and can be used in relation to monitoring and tracking multiple aspects of the Master Smart Mobility In 2018, bus services were initiated in partnership with the Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) across the JLT district. In 2019, DMCC will deploy a series of projects facilitating greater mobility services. Bike-sharing DMCC is partnering with RTA to implement a bike-sharing scheme across JLT. This will make DMCC the first district to adopt a bikesharing scheme, which is integrated with the city’s public transport systems. DMCC aims to make the bike-sharing option available within the district by the end of Q1 in 2019. 25 ISO 55001 is a suite of standards launched by the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO). The standards specify the requirements for establishing an asset management system within the context of the organisation, thereby supporting organisations in developing a structured, best practice approach to managing the lifecycle of their assets 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 93 Creating strong communities Electric DMCC will launch an electric-scooters sharing programme within the district scooters and that are tracked via a centralised system. buggies The electric buggies initiative from 2017 will be reintroduced with increased health and safety considerations, including speed limits, route management, centralised tracking and use of mobilisation technologies. Eco-car washing DMCC is identifying suitable car-washing service providers with high-quality, low water-consumption technologies and solutions. Smart Future plans include introducing a district-wide smart valet parking system parking for community members. Bus In collaboration with RTA, DMCC launched an initiative to develop new bus shelters shelters within the Master Community that include smart technology and Wi-Fi services for commuters. Three shelters are under approval and will be piloted for implementation in 2019. Smart living the installation of digital signage for improved aesthetics, security and safety across the Empowering property owners to better Master Community. manage their property by capitalising on opportunities to share information and Smart environment resources and reduce costs. Sustaining a clean environment enabled DMCC will be developing new design guidelines by cutting-edge ICT innovations such as to enhance the quality of the retail and a community portal, community app, and commercial units within JLT. These guidelines digital signage. This theme is detailed under are driven by community wellbeing and the environmental stewardship section. embed safety, accessibility, noise, amenities, maintenance and security considerations. Smart business Enhancing business processes with the Smart infrastructure adoption of new technology such as blockDigitising infrastructure assets, both physical chain and artificial intelligence to complete and ICT-based, to improve the efficiency and the digital transformation of DMCC’s various cost-effectiveness of development and delivery processes and services. of services. Under the Smart Business theme, 2018 As a further step to improving the quality of life initiatives included an online payment portal for community members, an implementation for fees and fines for sub-developers, the plan is already in place to set up digital smart introduction of a digital invoicing mechanism kiosks across the community and provide free and training and awareness sessions on ‘smart public Wi-Fi. The enhancement plans include skills enhancement programmes’. 94 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Creating strong communities SAFE AND FAMILY FRIENDLY ENVIRONMENT The security of DMCC’s Master Community management and emergency response. continues to be a major priority. DMCC During 2018, 618 attendees received 430 supports the government’s national agenda hours of training on 27 topics. In 2019, to offer a sense of security under the banner the impact of training will be integrated of a ‘Safe Public and Fair Judiciary’. Staffed into DMCC’s evaluations of security guard by 200 security officers and managed by workforce performance. Concordia, the DMCC Community Central Command Centre operates 24 hours a day, DMCC’s crisis management plan ensures seven days a week in collaboration with that when critical situations arise, its crisis Dubai Police, Dubai Civil Defence and Dubai management team has a well-coordinated Municipality. In case of any safety incidents, response with supporting departments the Security Central Command Centre alerts and the local emergency response teams, key members of the community immediately based on defined priorities and processes. by SMS and monitors JLT Towers to provide Comprehensive training for all senior and assistance whenever needed. The Security executive management is planned for Central Command Centre is being renovated 2019. In addition, DMCC is in the process of to integrate smart tools. consolidating a Business Continuity Plan that is expected to be completed during 2019. In terms of data collection and monitoring, security incidents cover many types of scenarios: vehicle accidents, property damage, unauthorised activity and fire incidents among others. Incidents recorded during 2018 included near misses. Overall, the number of reported incidents rose by 14% compared to 2017, an increase that is attributed to better and easier reporting mechanisms and to the increase of incident types that are monitored. DMCC regularly evaluates its security guard workforce. This includes on-the-job knowledge and communication skills to ensure all security personnel are up-to-date with security matters. External mandatory training is delivered by Dubai Police – Security Industry Regulatory Agency. Regular training is delivered on topics that include DMCC crisis management plan, conflict 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 95 Creating strong communities Community safety for DMCC is not just about incident prevention, but also about building a cohesive, vibrant and happy community. We aim to provide a space where people are safe, inspired and enjoy a high quality of life. Marwan AlBlooshi, Executive Director of Group Security, DMCC 96 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Creating strong communities COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT As a key objective of its sustainability strategy, DMCC strives to fulfil its role as a good DMCC aims to create a positive impact corporate citizen and supports community for local communities by transforming its contributions through donations and business model to address societal needs. volunteering work. It promotes the UAE spirit of giving and community participation by To create a vibrant and participatory encouraging all its employees to participate in community, DMCC offers opportunities to volunteering activities for up to 3 paid leave its local community to engage in various days a year. activities covering six key themes: fitness and sports, family and kids, markets, culture and community, sustainability, and corporate social responsibility. During 2018, more than 100,000 people participated in community events organised by DMCC. Fostering community engagement DMCC is establishing a community engagement policy to ensure a consistent approach towards community engagement in line with its corporate strategy and the government directives. DMCC’s framework will set out initiatives that promote positive change in its strategic focus areas, including education, health and wellbeing of community members. In 2018, DMCC supported community initiatives, which aimed at promoting cultural inclusion, driving community empowerment and encouraging fitness and healthy living of community members. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 97 Creating strong communities Key community events held in 2018 include: DMCC Family Day: DMCC organises an annual Family Day for JLT residents. The event is an opportunity for DMCC to engage more closely with the JLT residents / tenants and the property owners, thereby collecting informal feedback in a more direct and personal manner. This allows DMCC to gain community members’ confidence and promote its values and objectives during the event. The event includes food, entertainment, educational activities and other interactive arenas. In 2018, more than 900 people attended the Family Day. DMCC Social Impact Programme: The DMCC Social Impact Programme is a strategic community programme aligned with the UN SDGs and contributes to SDG 4 Quality Education. DMCC’s strategy includes partnering with leading community organisations that have a proven track record for delivering results. In 2018, DMCC granted funds to the DDI to support activities that focus on enhancing the artisanal mining sector. The fund will allow DDI to provide educational support to the Democratic Republic of Congo. DDI supports 112 girls and boys with their high school. The grant provided by DMCC will support the continuation of the children’s education in the next academic year. DMCC’s investments in the Social Impact Programme will continue to build talent by increasing access to quality education for communities in developing countries. DMCC Fitness Village: Introduced by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the annual Dubai Fitness Challenge encourages residents to engage in 30 minutes of activity a day for 30 days. In 2018, DMCC hosted one of the five dedicated Fitness Villages located across the city. During the four-week challenge, more than 125,000 people visited the DMCC Park Fitness Village, the most well-attended in Dubai by far. It offered hundreds of free sports and fitness activities classes such as pilates, yoga, volleyball, rugby and dance. An adrenaline play park encouraged children to take part as well. People of determination were able to access the event. 98 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Creating strong communities 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 99 GRI and UNGC index GRI content index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: General Organizational profile Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Front cover 102-2 Activities, brands, 13 For more information please products, and services refer to: https://www.dmcc.ae/ 102-3 Location of headquarters Dubai, UAE https://www.dmcc.ae/about-us 102-4 Location of operations United Arab Emirates https://www.dmcc.ae/about-us 102-5 Ownership and legal form DMCC is a Government https://www.dmcc.ae/about-us of Dubai entity. 102-6 Markets served 12, 13 https://www.dmcc.ae/about-us 102-7 Scale of the organization 12 https://www.dmcc.ae/about-us 102-8 Information on employees 32 and other workers 102-9 Supply chain 20, 74 102-10 Significant changes to No significant changes the organization and its supply to DMCC and its chain supply chain in 2018. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 16 Principle 7 approach 102-12 External initiatives 16, 58, 75 102-13 Membership of 16, 58, 75 associations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior 5 decision-maker Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, 31 standards, and norms of behaviour Governance 102-18 Governance structure 59 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder 19 groups 102-41 Collective bargaining Collective bargaining agreements agreements are prohibited under UAE labour law For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. 100 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) and/ Omissions and UNGC Standard or URL(s) clarifications Principles 102-42 Identifying and selecting 18 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns 20, 21, 23, 69 raised Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in DMCC is a government the consolidated financial entity and do not disclose statements its financial performance 102-46 Defining report content 7, 23, 24, 25 and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 23, 24, 25 102-48 Restatements of 87 The environmental information performance data for the master community has been restated as DMCC introduced a more holistic and detailed data collection and tracking mechanism in 2018, resulting in updating the performance of previous years 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes DMCC's first from previous sustainability report reporting periods 102-50 Reporting period 6 102-51 Date of most recent DMCC published its report first sustainability report in August 2018, covering its 2017 performance 102-52 Reporting cycle DMCC commits to report its sustainability performance on an annual basis 102-53 Contact point for 7 DMCC.sustainability@ questions regarding the report dmcc.ae 102-54 Claims of reporting 7 in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index To be updated 102-56 External assurance Assurance readiness was sought for this report Material Topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Indirect Economic Impacts 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 101 GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Emirate of Dubai Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 13 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 13 management approach GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments 12, 82, 84, 92, 93, 94 Economic and services supported Impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect 13 economic impacts Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 7, 74 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 74 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 74 management approach GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending 74 Procurement on local suppliers Practices 2016 Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 7, 24 Principle 10 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 60, 62, 63, 64 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 60, 62, 63, 64 management approach GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operations assessed for 63 corruption 2016 risks related to corruption 205-2 Communication and 22 training about anti-corruption policies and procedures DMCC did not face any 205-3 Confirmed incidents of 62 reported incidents of corruption and actions taken corruption in 2018. GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 25 Principle 8 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 78, 79, 80, 81 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 78, 79, 80, 81 management approach 102 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) and/ Omissions and UNGC Standard or URL(s) clarifications Principles GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption 84, 85, 87 Energy 2016 within the organization Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 25 Principle 8 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 78, 79, 80, 81 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 78, 79, 80, 81 management approach GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by 84, 85, 87 DMCC water usage is 2016 source sourced from the local utility. Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 25 Principle 8 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 78, 79, 80, 81 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 78, 79, 80, 81 management approach GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and 84, 85, 87 Effluents and disposal method Waste 2016 Environmental Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24 Principle 7 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 78, 80 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 78, 80 management approach GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with DMCC did not receive Environmental environmental laws and any penalties or Compliance regulations non-compliance with respect to 2016 environmental laws and regulations in 2018. GRI 400 Social Standards Series Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 28 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 28, 30, 31 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 28, 30, 31 management approach 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 103 GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and 35 Employment employee turnover 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to 33 full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 33 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 45 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 45, 47, 48, 49 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 45, 47, 48, 49 management approach GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates 50, 51 Occupational diseases, Occupational of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism Health and lost days, and absenteeism, and were not included due to Safety 2016 number of work-related fatalities lack of data 403-5 Worker training on 47 occupational health and safety Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24 DMCC employees Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 41, 42 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 41, 42 management approach GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training 43 Training and per year per employee Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading 42 employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees 41 receiving regular performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material 25 Management topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 36 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 36 management approach 104 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance 36 Diversity bodies and employees and Equal Opportunity 2016 Non-discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 25 Principle 6 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 44 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 44 management approach GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of In 2018, no incidents discrimination discrimination and corrective in relation to dis2016 actions taken crimination were recorded within the organisation. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Not applicable Principle 3 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management Not applicable approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Not applicable management approach GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers Collective bargaining Freedom of in which the right to freedom agreements are Association of association and collective prohibited under UAE labour law. and Collective bargaining may be at risk Bargaining 2016 Child Labour GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 28, 44 Principle 5 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 44 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 44 management approach GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers 44 DMCC operates in the Labour 2016 at significant risk for incidents UAE and complies with of child labour UAE Labour Law, which prohibits child labour. Forced or Compulsory Labour GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 28, 44 Principle 4 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 105 GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles 103-2 The management 44 Principle 4 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 44 management approach GRI 409: Forced 409-1 Operations and suppliers 32 DMCC operates in the or Compulsory at significant risk for incidents UAE and complies with Labour 2016 of forced or compulsory labour UAE Labour Law, which prohibits forced labour. Human Rights GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 28, 44 Principles 1 Management material topic and its Boundary and 2 Approach 2016 103-2 The management 44 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 44 management approach GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been 44 It is part of DMCC’s Human Rights subject to human rights reviews human rights impact Assessment or impact assessments assessment next steps. 2016 Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 25 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 90, 91 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 90, 91 management approach GRI 413: Local 413-2 Operations with 92, 93, 94, 95, 97, 98 Communities significant actual and potential 2016 negative impacts on local communities Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 64 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 64 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 64 management approach GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints 64 No customer data Customer concerning breaches of breach related issues Privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses of / complaints were received in 2018 customer data 106 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 62 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 62, 63, 64 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 62, 63, 64 management approach GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws 62 DMCC did not suffer any Socioeconomic and regulations in the social legal action or fine for Compliance and economic area non-compliance with social and economic 2016 laws or regulations in 2018 Organisation specific material topic Innovation and digitization GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 24, 68 Principle 9 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 68, 69 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 68, 69 management approach Innovation and New services and digitilisation 69 digitilisation of existing services Emergency & crisis management GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 25 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 95 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 95 management approach Emergency Safety of the JLT community 95 & crisis management 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 107 Glossary Glossary Academic Institutions An educational institution dedicated to education and research. Accident (s) An event that causes harm, illness, injury or death, or otherwise any other loss through damage to property. Communities Group of people with diverse characteristics who are linked by social ties, share common perspectives, and engage in joint action in geographical locations or settings. DMCC Coffee Center A facility developed by DMCC, offering world-class infrastructure and services for storage, processing, warehousing and delivery of coffee to precise specifications. DMCC Disputes Centre Centre provided by DMCC offering both workplace and commercial mediation services to member companies and its employees in respect of workplace related disputes. DMCC employee turnover DMCC defines its turnover as the number of employees that leave DMCC due to termination, change of jobs, change of country, or retirement divided by the total number of its permanent employees. DMCC License License issued by DMCC to operate within the DMCC Free Zone. DMCC Policies The relevant DMCC policies notified by DMCC to the Counterparty from time to time. DMCC Smart and Sustainable Strategy developed and implemented by DMCC to create a life and business District Strategy experience for the community through initiatives and projects focused on efficiency optimization, services integration and people and information protection DMCC Tradeflow A dedicated, online platform for registering the ownership of commodities stored in facilities in the UAE. DMCC’s Representative Concordia DMCC or such other facilities management provider as may be appointed by DMCC from time to time. DMCCA The regulating authority for DMCC. DMCCA Regulations All rules or regulations, directives and other orders, by laws, codes of practice and other subordinate legislation of DMCCA as may be amended from time to time. Employees and their DMCC employees and their families and dependents. representatives Global Reporting Initiative The Global Reporting Initiative is an international independent standards organization that helps businesses, governments and other organizations understand and communicate their impacts on issues such as climate change, human rights and corruption. Global Reporting Initiative The GRI Standards are the first global standards for sustainability reporting. They Standards feature a modular, interrelated structure, and represent the global best practice for reporting on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts. 108 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Glossary HSE Guidelines Working guidelines launched by DMCC in 2018, identifying and encompassing the working behaviours and safe working practices that are mandatory for Community Users within the DMCC Free Zone and the Master Community, whether used as a place of residence, work, leisure or otherwise. HSE Policy The policies, processes and procedures issued by DMCC to regulate HSE within the Master Community, may be amended from time to time, including the detailed HSE Guidelines. Industry and trade associations An industry trade group, business association, sector association or industry body, is an organization founded and funded by businesses that operate in a specific industry. Kimberley Process The Kimberley Process (KP) is a commitment to remove conflict diamonds from the global supply chain. Leadership in Energy and DMCC leads the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme in the UAE – a joint government, industry and civil society initiative to stop the flow and trade of conflict diamonds. Environmental Design (LEED) A global green building rating system, providing a framework to create healthy, highly efficient and cost-saving green buildings. Managing Agent Any person or body appointed by the Master Developer to represent or otherwise undertake or administer any of the functions of the Master Developer within the DMCC Free Zone or the Master Community. Master Community DMCC’s master community comprised in the JLT developed or to be developed on a portion of the land comprising Plot 814, Parcel ID No. 393 Emirates Hill First, Dubai and situated between 5th and 6th Interchanges, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, which is divided into plots and Common Areas and includes all and any reductions and extensions from time to time. Master Community Rules Rules of the Master Community, as may be amended from time to time Member company A company licensed to operate in or from the DMCC Free Zone or such other commercial entity regulated by DMCCA pursuant to the DMCCA Regulations. Near miss An unplanned event that did not result in injury, illness, or damage but has the potential to do so. Non-governmental Any non-profit, voluntary citizens group which is organized on a local, national or organizations international level. Outsourced employees DMCC contracted employees, such as the call centre, delivery service, the DMCC Tea Centre employees and others. Owner’s representative A Competent Person or organisation appointed or designated by an Owner to perform the Owner›s duties and responsibilities on the Owner›s behalf. The Owner is directly responsible for the Owner›s Representative›s conduct. An Owner›s Representative can include an Owner’s Association Manager. 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 109 Glossary Glossary Owners’ association An association of Owners of Jointly Owned Property formed pursuant to the Jointly Owned Property Law. Permanent employees Employees who have been hired for a position without a pre-determined time limit. Reporting agencies Reporting agencies are generally one of two types: reporting either on individuals or on businesses. Examples: MSCI, CDP, Bloomberg. Stakeholders Stakeholders are defined as entities or individuals that can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the organization’s activities, products, and services; and whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the organization to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its objective. Suppliers A supplier is an entity that supplies goods and services to another organization. This entity is part of the supply chain of a business. Sustainable Development Goals The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015 (including the UAE), provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. The Agenda encompasses 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are an urgent call for action by all countries developed and developing in a global partnership. Topic boundary As per GRI the topic boundary requests a description of ‘where the impacts occur’ for each material topic, and ‘the organization’s involvement with the impacts’. UN WEPs United Nations Women Empowerment Principles, emphasizing the business case for corporate action to promote gender equality and women empowerment in the workplace, marketplace and community. DMCC signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) in 2018 and became a member of the UAE WEPs taskforce UNGC United Nations Global Compact is a non-binding United Nations pact to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. DMCC, as signatories to the UNGC since August 2017, use the sustainability report as DMCC’s Communication on Progress (COP) on UNGC Principles Abbreviations AML Anti-money laundering ANPR Automatic Number Plate Recognition BD+C Building Design and Construction CAFM Computer Aided Facility Management CEO Chief Executive Officer CFT Combating the Financing of Terrorism COP Communication on Progress COSHH Control of Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission CSA Control Self-Assessment Policy 110 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade Glossary DDE Dubai Diamond Exchange DDI Diamond Development Initiative DGCX Dubai Gold & Commodities Exchange DGD Dubai Good Delivery Framework DMCC Dubai Multi Commodities Centre, established pursuant to Law No. 4 of 2001 and by virtue of Decision No. 4 of 2002 and Decision No. 2 of 2006, each issued in the Emirate of Dubai DPMC Dubai Precious Metals Conference EIA Environmental Impact Assessment ERM Enterprise Risk Management ESCo Energy Services Company FATF Financial Action Task Force GDP Gross Domestic Product GDPR European General Data Protection Regulation GIS Geographic Information System GJ Gigajoules GJEPC Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council GRI Global Reporting Initiative H&S Health and Safety HR Human Resources HSE Health, Safety and Environment HVAC Heating, Ventilation and Air-conditioning IGC Independent Governance Committee IIOSH International Occupational Safety & Health ISO International Organization for Standardization ISR Information Security Regulation JLT Jumeirah Lakes Towers KPIs Key Performance Indicators KYC Know Your Customer LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LTI Lost time injury LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate m3 Cubic metres MoU Memorandum of Understanding OECD Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ORI Operational Readiness Inspection RERA Real Estate Regulatory Agency RICS Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RJC Responsible Jewellery Council RTA Roads and Transport Authority SC Steering Committee SDG Sustainable Development Goals SMEs Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises STR Suspicious Transaction Reporting UAE United Arab Emirates UBO Ultimate Beneficial Owner UNGC United Nations Global Compact USGBC US Green Buildings Council VAPT Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing VAT Value Added Tax WEPs Women Empowerment Principles 2018 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 111 dmcc.ae
