Eiichi Shibusawa 1918: E  stablished the Den-en Toshi Company, the origin of the Group This term Den-en Toshi (literally, Garden City) simply means a city fully incorporating nature, streets interspersed with gardens that combine the good points of farming villages and cities. Every time I saw Tokyo spreading with increasing momentum, I wanted to create something resembling a Garden City in Japan and to make up even a little for the shortcomings of city life. Eiichi Shibusawa, Seien Kaikoroku Gekan [ Memoirs of Eiichi Shibusawa, Vol. II] (Seien kaikoroku kanko kai, 1927) Challenge-oriented DNA Having inherited Challenge-oriented DNA, the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group is genetically programmed to try solving social issues through its business activities, and is focusing on lifestyle creation, proposing new approaches to Home Styles, Work Styles and Play Styles. Keita Goto 1953: Established TOKYU LAND CORPORATION, serving as its first chairman We established TOKYU LAND CORPORATION as a separate company from TOKYU CORPORATION because, as part of TOKYU CORPORATION, the Den-en Toshi business and other real estate business was overshadowed by the railway business, and this tended to prevent free development. We wanted to turn this business into a separate company, freeing it from the constraints of a business incidental to the railway business, develop the business freely, branch out into other new fields, expand the business to equal leading real estate companies such as Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. and MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO., LTD., and become involved in national projects. Also, as shown in the postcards we handed out, we want to contribute to the development of the area around Shibuya by building high-rise buildings on a further four or five sites near Shibuya Station. Excerpt from Chairman Goto’s speech about the Shibuya District Development Plan at a meeting to announce the establishment of TOKYU LAND CORPORATION to Shibuya District officials in January 27, 1954 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 01 At a Glance Tokyu Fudosan Holdings First Business Period*1 FY2013 Tokyu Fudosan Holdings 6th Business Period FY2018 Operating profit Operating profit ¥61.4 billion ¥80.2 billion Innovation Urban Development Business Urban Development ¥31.9 billion 50.2% ¥41.6 billion ¥49.9 billion 57.1% Tokyu Hands 4.5% Innovation Urban Residential Business Urban ¥97.4 billion Development Residential ¥11.6 billion 18.2% ¥59.4 billion Development 10.4% ¥256.4 billion ¥5.4 billion 6.1% Tokyu Hands 8.1% ¥178.1 billion 27.5% Property Management ¥84.5 billion 24.3% Property Management ¥9.2 billion 14.4% 11.5% Wellness ¥8.6 billion 9.8% Operating revenue ¥123.9 billion Operating revenue Wellness 13.3% ¥901.9 billion Real Estate Agents Real Estate Agents ¥9.2 billion 14.4% ¥72.9 billion 9.9% ¥714.1 billion ¥13.9 billion 15.9% Elimination ¥(20.0) billion Elimination Wellness Real Estate ¥(31.6) billion Wellness Residential ¥1.9 billion 3.0% Agents ¥141.8 billion Real Estate Residential ¥7.9 billion 9.0% ¥58.4 billion 19.3% Agents ¥121.4 billion Property Tokyu Hands 8.0% Management ¥118.9 billion 13.0% Tokyu Hands ¥1.1 billion 1.7% ¥139.1 billion 12.7% ¥0.8 billion 0.9% 18.9% Property Management Innovation Business Innovation Business ¥(1.3) billion (2.0)% ¥173.9 billion ¥0.9 billion 1.1% 18.6% Elimination ¥(2.2) billion Elimination ¥(7.1) billion Assets under Condominium units Real estate agent Assets under Condominium units Real estate agent Total assets management under management transactions Total assets management under management transactions ¥1,789.8 billion ¥529.6 billion 641,591 19,435 ¥2,405.2 billion ¥1,251.9 billion 831,684 25,570 Ratio of Midori wo Tsunagu Project Ratio of Midori wo Tsunagu Project Facilities operated*2 Group employees*3 outside directors Facilities operated*2 Group employees*3 outside directors Area of Forest Protected*4 Area of Forest Protected*4 142 17,594 0% 843ha 175 21,976 30.8% 1,423ha *1. In April 2014, we reviewed and consolidated the segment categories from the existing 8 segments to 7 segments and the fiscal 2013 figures are estimates restated to reflect the new segments. *2. The number of facilities managed is the total number of urban style hotels, resorts facilities, golf courses, ski resorts, overseas facilities, senior housing, and fitness clubs operated by the Wellness segment and other facilities operated under contract. *3. The number of Group employees does not include temporary employees. *4. The cumulative value for the area of forest protected in Midori wo Tsunagu Project (since October 2011) 02 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 03 On Publishing the 2019 Integrated Report Contents Five years have passed since Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation was founded and three years have passed since we published the first Integrated Report for the Group. The 2019 Integrated Report is our fourth report published, and Section 1 Who We Want To Be........................................................ 06 we wanted to convey our desire To Become a Corporate Group that Continues Value Creation Process of to Create Value while also conveying that we are moving forward with our The Value Creation Story Tokyu Fudosan Holdings............................................... 08 Medium-Term Management Plan, a turning point for our company. For this Creating Value Alongside Social Issues.................... 10 report, we worked to improve the content by thinking about how to convey this to our stakeholders in a way that is easy to understand. Specifically, we visualized Our Group has created unique value while Our Three Core Strengths............................................ 12 our identity from key phrases Unique Value Creation, Sustainable Growth, constantly facing social issues head on. Unique Value Creation................................................... 14 and Our Three Core Strengths and created a story of our value creation that Learn about our past, present, and future Where we began confronting social issues (P.10) through a message from our president, Message from the President....................................... 16 is unique to our company, creating and proposing lifestyles that go beyond the bounds of physical structures. We were also committed to systemizing financial special articles, specific examples, and more. Special Article: Inheriting and Evolving Our Challenge-oriented DNA and non-financial information and displaying this information in a simple way. The Challenges of the Our group has constantly worked to solve social issues while inheriting the Greater Shibuya Area Concept................................. 22 founding spirit of Challenge-oriented DNA from our origin with the development The Challenges of Lifestyle Creation....................... 26 of Den-en Chofu, an ideal community development idea suggested and carried out by Eiichi Shibusawa and others, and through this report, I hope that you will The Challenges of the get a sense of our past, present, and future. Renewable Energy Business.................................... 28 We are quite aware of the fact that we sincerely confront social issues, and we participate in the UN Global Compact, supporting the 10 fundamental rules related to human rights, industry, the environment, and prevention of corruption. Joint development with startups in the Greater Shibuya Area (P.23) I’d like to report that we are also committed to contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a common set of goals for global Section 2 Value Creation Strategy................................................ 29 corporations aimed at creating a sustainable society. SDGs and Materialities.................................................. 30 For the creation of this report, we referenced the framework of the InterValue Creation Strategy Medium -Term Management Plan national Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and the Guidance for Integrated Based on Materialities.................................................. 32 Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Predictions and progress for our Medium-Term Business Overview Value Creation presented by the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry. The Management Plan 2017-2020, defined so Corporate Communication Department, which was started this fiscal year, was Urban Development Segment.................................. 34 that we can become who we want to be, and in charge of creating the report, with the Group Corporate Planning Strategy Residential Segment.................................................. 36 information about our initiatives towards social Department and Group General Administration Department operating as adminissues through our business activities. Property Management Segment.............................. 37 istrative offices. Each department coordinated closely in an effort to consolidate Revitalization of an area by progressive urban Group-wide approaches. Real Estate Segment.................................................. 38 development (P.35) We will continue the dialogue we have with our stakeholders through these Wellness Segment...................................................... 39 reports and many other tools and opportunities. Tokyu Hands Segment................................................ 40 Innovation Business Segment.................................. 41 Yuji Okuma President and Representative Director SHIBUYA SOLASTA, where the new headquarters is located August 2019 Section 3 Sustainable Growth....................................................... 42 Financial Capital Strategy............................................ 44 Sustainable Growth Together with local employees working in other countries (P.41) Financial Analysis.......................................................... 46 An introduction to our financial capital strategy ESG Management Covered in This Report: Our company and Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group and ESG management – the foundation of Work-Style Reform..................................................... 48 Dates Covered: April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 (including some information from April 2019 and later) our efforts to realize sustainable growth –, Social Needs................................................................ 49 Released: August 2019 interspersed with specific policies and initiatives. Environment................................................................. 50 Corporate Governance............................................... 51 Please check the corporate website for more detailed information Message from Outside Directors................................ 56 Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporate Site https://www.tokyu-fudosan-hd.co.jp/english/ Management Structure................................................. 58 Reconstruction support together with local children (P.49) Investor Relations Information About Sustainability https://www.tokyu-fudosan-hd.co.jp/english/ir/ https://tokyu-fudosan-hd-csr.disclosure.site/en Section 4 Financial and Non-financial Data............................... 60 About Corporate Governance Group Initiatives https://www.tokyu-fudosan-hd.co.jp/english/about/governance/ https://www.tokyu-fudosan-hd.co.jp/english/efforts/ Data Section Consolidated Financial Statements........................... 62 Independent Auditor's Report...................................... 97 Business Areas............................................................... 98 Note on Forward-Looking Statements The forecasts and other forward-looking statements in this report are based on currently available information and certain assumpHoldings Structure......................................................... 99 tions determined as rational. Consequently, the statements herein do not constitute assurance regarding actual results by the Company. Actual performance may significantly differ from these forecasts due to various factors in the future. Corporate Overview and Stock Information...........100 The thoughts and roles of our outside directors (P.56) 04 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 05 Section 1 The Value Creation Story The Value Creation Story Who We Want To Be The Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group proposes and creates lifestyles, going beyond the bounds of physical structures. Since our foundation, we have always been truly committed to solving social issues through our business activities and have consistently provided new value to our customers and society. Having inherited this Challenge-oriented DNA, we aim “To Become a Corporate Group that Continues to Create Value”, in order to realize a sustainable society and growth. Framework for Integrated Thinking of the Group with Challenge-oriented DNA To Become a Corporate Group that Continues to Create Value Become Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group Ideal Continues to Create Create Value a Corporate Group To Become a Corporate Group that P.12 P. 42 P.14 Continues to Create Value Our Three Sustainable Growth Unique Value Creation Core Strengths We go beyond the bounds of physical structures to propose and create new lifestyles Diverse Assets Financial Capital Strategy Lifestyle Creation and Customers We conduct business in varied life settings We aim to build on our stable financial base We are committed to solving various social and come into contact with diverse assets and increase shareholder value and corpoissues through the proposal of new Home and around 10 million customers. rate value by growing our earning power Styles, new Work Styles and new Play Sustainability Vision while maintaining financial discipline. Styles. We will solve social issues through our business activities and work Highly Specialized Wide Range of with stakeholders to realize a sustainable society and growth. ESG Management Personnel and Knowhow Business Fields Sustainability Policy About 30,000* employees from Group companies work in a wide range of business We are strengthening ESG initiatives from the viewpoints of work-style reform, We create value by providing diverse services to address social issues, ranging from fields, sharing urban development and busisocial needs, environment, and corporate real estate development to the management, ● We will strive for environmental and economic harmony through our ness knowhow built up over many years. governance. agents and operation of real estate. business activities. ● We will endeavor to collaborate properly with stakeholders and maintain and strengthen relationships with them. A Culture that Produces Unique Businesses ● We will pursue sound and highly transparent management and actively disclose sustainability information. Inheriting our founding spirit of Challengeoriented DNA, we are involved in many pioneering and highly original businesses. *Includes temporary employees 06 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 07 Section 1 The Value Creation Story P. 42 The Value Creation Story Sustainable Growth Increasing the Value of Our Process for Value Creation Real Estate / Stable Social Infrastructure To Become a Corporate Group Our creating value begins with confronting social issues. We gain an accurate understanding of the social issues that Continues to Create Value as they change with the times and create unique value, utilizing the three core strengths. Both ESG management and our financial capital strategy support our sustainable growth. Through this process cycle, we are able to implement our plan to become a corporate group that continues to create value. Improving Quality of Life / Creating Communities Contributing to Local Economies / A Comfortable Disaster-resistant Urban Life City Planning Our SDGs Materialities Confronting Social Issues Safe and (key social issues) Secure Housing Increasing Life Expectancy Economic, Political, Cr and Regulatory ea Changes tin g Mental and Physical Health Contributing to Smart Cities Diversification and Globalization of Ne Lifestyles Diverse Assets w and Customers C re Life at Safety and Security Preserving the Natural in Local Communities Fulfilling Environment / Leisure Time styles and Urban Areas Reducing Environmental ge Burden P.12 A Culture that Progression of Our Three Produces an a Low Birthrate and Aging Society Core Strengths Unique Businesses Social Inclusion eR Clean Energy IoT & Innovation Wid Highly Specialized We are contributing to the SustainPersonnel and i n g Va l u e i n a able Development Goals (SDGs) for Changes in the Knowhow Value Provided Value Provided 2030, adopted at the UN summit in Natural Environment 2015. We have defined what we will to Our Customers to Society take on from among the 17 goals set forth to achieve a sustainable world, More Stringent and we are using these as reference Social Demands of when creating materiality policies. Bu sin ess P.14 Fie ld s Unique Value Creation Challenge-oriented DNA, Our Founding Spirit A progressive spirit passed on since the development of Den-en Chofu, an effort aimed at solving social issues Financial Capital ESG Management Strategy 08 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 09 Section 1 The Value Creation Story The Value Creation Story Creating Value Alongside Social Issues FY 2018 Our origins lie with the development of Den-en Chofu, a pioneering effort to create the ideal town in a time of housing shortages. Since then, we have seriously faced the social issues in front of us, regardless of the times, and have taken a stand towards solving ¥901.9 billion those issues through our business activities, while also inheriting our Challenge-oriented DNA. Our history follows the changes in society. 1950s and 1960s 1970s and 1980s 1990s and 2000s 2010s Onwards Drastic Change in the World Economy and From Post-war Recovery to Rapid Economic Growth Post-bubble Period and Diversification of Lifestyles Towards a Sustainable Society Advancement of Living Standards Japan rebuilt its economy, boosted by special demand from the Korean The period of rapid economic growth in Japan came to an end with Due to prolonged economic stagnation, coupled with the declining Under globalization, a paradigm shift has taken place with both the War, and completing the postwar reconstruction, ushered in a period the oil crisis. In Japan, which had become an economic superpower, birthrate, aging population, and a drop in land prices, people began public and private sectors looking to achieve sustainable growth. of rapid economic growth. However, the housing shortage in urban people gained material well-being and began to seek spiritual ento return to the cities. Lifestyles and values became more diverse as Further advances in information technology will bring major innovaareas became a serious problem due to population concentration in richment. As a result, values in various areas of life, including society, a result of the advancement and diffusion of information technology tions to people’s lives, society and the industrial structure. the three major metropolitan areas and increasing urban sprawl. culture and lifestyle, diversified. and the tide of globalization. Establishment of the Company, Focused on Urban Development Pursuing Business Diversification from an Early Stage to Strengthening Our Revenue Base by Shifting the Focus to Towards Sustainable Growth Through Group Co-creation, in Shibuya, Daikanyama, etc., Starting with Den-en Toshi Become a Total Lifestyle Producer the Leasing Business in the Post-bubble Era Anticipating the Changes in Values and Needs TOKYU LAND CORPORATION was We expanded into related business Not only did we enter in to the hotel and We transitioned to a holdings system established as the real estate domains derived from real estate, senior housing businesses, but we also to anticipate changes and create new department was spun off from including management, real estate improved our finances and strengthened value. Aiming for mediumto longTOKYU CORPORATION. The Company agents, retail, fitness, resorts, our revenue base by shifting towards our term growth, we are creating lifestyles offered housing, which was in short and more early on. Through our urban development business, including as a Group while inheriting our supply, and commercial facilities to business diversification, we grew to office buildings and commercial facilities, Challenge-oriented DNA. support residents’ lives around our be a corporate group offering total in order to survive the post-bubble era. home base of Shibuya. The Company Advertisement from when TOKYU LAND lifestyle services. Asumigaoka New Town Advertisement from when Tokyu Fudosan CORPORATION was established Holdings Corporation was established sought value creation through the real estate business. 1970 Establishment of TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. 1993 Opening of former Tokyu Stay Kamata 2013 Establishment of Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Expansion into the property management business to create comfortable Urban style hotels that can be used for Setagaya Business Square Merger of TOKYU LAND CORPORATION, TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. and lives and living spaces mediumand long-term stays TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. 1953 TOKYU LAND CORPORATION is established New company inaugurated with Keita Goto as chairman and 1972 Establishment of Area Service Co., Ltd. (predecessor of TOKYU LIVABLE, INC.) 1993 Opening of Setagaya Business Square 2014 Establishment of Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation Noboru Goto as president Expansion into the real estate agents business as a pioneer in Tokyu Group’s first super-high-rise office building Merger of Group’s rental housing businesses real estate transactions 1955 Completion of Daikanyama Tokyu Apartment 1999 Start of the Real Estate Securitization Business 2016 Consolidation of NATIONAL STUDENTS INFORMATION CENTER CO., LTD. Japan’s first luxury rental residence developed for foreign nationals 1976 Establishment of TOKYU HANDS INC. Securitization of large-scale shopping centers, etc. into a Subsidiary A pioneer in true DIY activities, creating new lifestyles and culture Strengthening the management of rental housing business of student 1958 Completion of Tokyu Skyline 2004 Opening of Grancreer Azamino condominiums, etc. The first condominiums in the Japanese real estate industry 1982 Launch of the Asumigaoka New Town business One of the first in the industry to enter the senior housing business One of the largest urban developments in Japan, in harmony with natural 2019 Completion of SHIBUYA SOLASTA 1961 Start of Tokyu-Mitsubishi Home Loan Program surroundings A smart office supporting diverse work styles The prototype for the home loan system 1984 Opening of Palau Pacific Resort 1965 Opening of Shibuya Tokyu Building (later Tokyu Plaza Shibuya) An authentic resort hotel where development and environmental A multipurpose commercial facility in front of Shibuya Station conservation co-exist 1986 Opening of TOKYU SPORTS OASIS Esaka Our Origin: Den-en Chofu Urban Development A members-only fitness club offering programs to promote healthy lifestyles Shibuya Redevelopment Den-en Toshi Company was established 1988 Opening of Tokyu Harvest Club Tateshina Main Development Projects Since 2010 Continuing into the Future in 1918, focused on Eiichi Shibusawa A membership resort hotel offering new ways to enjoy leisure time and others. During a time of housing shortages, the English-originated Garden City urban concept, combining the merits of nature and the city, was incorporated, and Den-en Chofu was created as the Tamagawadai residential area – a beautiful, comfortable town Den-en Chofu at the time of development where housing and gardens coexisted. Rendering Futako Tamagawa Rise Tokyu Plaza Ginza SHIBUYA SOLASTA SHIBUYA FUKURAS Rendering of the Shibuya Station Tower & Residence Opened in 2016 Completed in 2019 Due to be completed area after completion Changes in Operating Revenue* Completed in 2010 in October 2019 Around in 2027 1953 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 * From fiscal 1953 to fiscal 1992, non-consolidated operating revenue from TOKYU LAND CORPORATION, from fiscal 1993 to fiscal 2012, consolidated operating revenue from TOKYU LAND CORPORATION, and from fiscal 2013 onward, consolidated operating revenue from Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation. (fiscal 1989 was only a 6-month fiscal term, as the fiscal term was changed from September to March that year) 10 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 11 Section 1 The Value Creation Story The Value Creation Story Our Three Core Strengths Our strengths, developed through our commitment to solving social issues in a changing society, can be broadly divided into three core strengths. Business Foundations, Corporate Culture and Human Capital. A Culture that Produces Unique Businesses Each of these strengths nurtures the uniqueness of the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group and the inheritance and evolution of Challenge-oriented DNA since our foundation leads to unique value creation. We have always anticipated the needs of the times and created innovative, unique businesses. This Challenge-oriented DNA is deeply rooted in the Group as a whole as our organizational culture. Diverse Assets and Customers The Group’s Three Core Strengths We are involved in diverse assets through a wide range of businesses Developed Through the Inheritance of in the varied life settings of live, work and spend time, and create opportunities for contact with a variety of customers. Challenge-oriented DNA Strength of Involvement in Diverse Assets Business Foundations Palau Pacific Resort balances protection Tokyu Harvest Club private membership resort ● Office buildings ● Commercial facilities of the natural environment with continued hotels propose new ways of spending leisure development. time. 60 33 Diverse Assets Rental housing units Condominium units and Customers ● ● under management (cumulative number) Approx. 137,000 Approx. 93,000 ● Condominium units ● Real estate agent under management*1 transactions Strength of Approx. 831,000 Approx. 25,000 Corporate Culture Business-Airport membership-based satellite Morinomiya Q's MALL BASE specializes in sport ● Hotels and resorts*2 ● Senior housing facilities office service offers people the opportunity to and health. 84 16 cater for diverse work styles. A Culture that Produces Customer Contact Points: Approx. 10 Million Customers Unique Businesses ● TOKYU HANDS Club members ● Consignment welfare members Approx. 4,760,000 Approx. 3,840,000 ● BRANZ CLUB members ● Fitness club members Strength of Approx. 117,000 Approx. 102,000 Human Capital RAKUTIVE adult health salons help extend healthy life expectancy. Hi! Tenshu Project at TOKYU HANDS Shinjuku Store makes life more enjoyable through ● Tokyu Harvest Club members customer service. Approx. 26,000 Highly Specialized Examples of Services Utilizing the Characteristics of Each Business *1. Includes public housing *2. Includes urban style hotels, resort facilities, golf courses, ski resorts and overseas facilities. Personnel and Knowhow Highly Specialized Personnel and Knowhow Around 30,000 employees (including temporary employees) work in these business fields. They also share their knowhow with other Group employees through opportunities such as seminars and workshops. Number of employees Knowledge Café Knowledge Forum with professional qualifications 7,282 (held 28 times with a total of 3,381 participants) (held 22 times with a total of 2,935 participants) First-class registered architects: 328 We hold seminars for Group employees around five We hold awareness raising seminars for Group emSecond-class registered architects: 414 times a year to promote understanding of the Group’s ployees, inviting professionals and leaders from various Real estate notaries: 5,960 businesses and create opportunities for cooperation business fields and industries. The Knowledge Forum Condominium managers: 580 between Group companies. We invite employees who is held around four times a year and these are popular work at various Group companies as speakers and seminars, providing employees with an opportunity to share advanced initiatives at each company. increase their knowledge. Dai Tamesue giving a lecture on the topic of Sports Business (November 5, 2018) 12 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 13 Section 1 The Value Creation Story The Value Creation Story Unique Value Creation The originality of our Group can be discussed in terms of creation of value on the time axis and creation of value on the spatial axis. On the time axis, we create new lifestyles by offering diverse services at every life stage of our customers. Meanwhile, on the spatial axis, we create value by harnessing our wide range of business fields in all kinds of urban settings. Value Creation on Time Axis Value Creation on Spatial Axis Creating New Lifestyles Creating Value in a Wide Range of Business Fields We offer diverse services at every life stage to all generations of customers, from students and professionals to families and retired people. We create lifestyles that go beyond the bounds of physical structures in all kinds of settings, ranging from urban living to resort life. Value creation in a Proposing new Home Styles, Work Styles and Play Styles in various life settings leads to the creation of new lifestyles. wide range of business fields creates diverse business models, including management, agents and operation, and generates new sources of earnings. Life Stage Schooling Career Post-Retirement Office Higher education Employment Marriage Parenting Job transfer Leisure Retirement Nursing care buildings Real estate rental (rent) Facility operation (charges) Proposals for Office buildings Condominiums Urban style hotels Consignment welfare and Real estate sales New Work Styles health support (sale proceeds) Membershipbased business Building and facility management (sale proceeds) Career support Renewable energy Condominium management Real estate Renewable management Commercial energy business Student residences (fees) facilities (revenue from sales of electric Proposals for New condominiums Ski resorts power) Logistics Rental housing facilities New Home Styles Senior housing Real estate agents (sales and leasing) Real estate agents (commission) Renovation construction TOKYU HANDS Senior life Detached Membership resort housing hotels Commercial facilities Proposals for Renovation Student Golf courses Hotels residences (construction fees) New Play Styles Resorts Fitness Fitness Various services Asset (commission) management Area Management Initiatives (dividends and Retail commission) (payment for goods) Renewable energy Logistics facilities 14 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 15 Message from the President Addressing Social Issues Through Our Business, We Create the Value Needed When Emotions Are Valued President and Representative Director Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation The Peak of Redevelopment in Our Home, Shibuya nervous system and capillaries of the area, the building of an underhigh added value in the main areas of the capital. Figure 1. Shibuya’s Superiority ground shopping center and bus terminal to eliminate above-ground Shibuya Station, a leading Tokyo train terminal, is used by about 3.3 congestion, and the need for financial centers and buildings occupied Aiming for Further Increases in Shareholder and Decline in Vacancy Rate (among 5 central wards of Tokyo) million people per day. by branches of financial institutions. Looking back at his words makes Corporate Value (%) The landscape around the station is undergoing a transformation. me feel that I must inherit this incredibly wonderful insight. 12 From SHIBUYA SOLASTA, our new headquarters at the top of DogenWe completed the 2nd year of our Medium-Term Management Plan Chiyoda City 10 zaka, you can clearly see the cone-shaped topography of Shibuya. Expanding Urban Development from Shibuya to 2017-2020, reaching a turning point. Fiscal 2018 resulted in increases Chuo City Minato City Large-scale redevelopment, said to be a once-in-a-100-year chance, the Greater Shibuya Area in revenues and profit compared to the previous year, and we were 8 Shinjuku City is progressing around the station, located right at the center of the able to reach a new record profit, beating the previous record set in the Shibuya City cone-shaped valley, and the multi-year construction is reaching its As members of Tokyu Group, we are moving forward with wide-scale first year of the Plan. 6 peak. We are focusing on our redevelopment business, with SHIBUYA urban development known as the Greater Shibuya Area, widening the Looking back at the first half of the Medium-Term Management SOLASTA completed in March 2019, where we created a new Group scope of development and integrally connecting the unique areas of Plan, we were able to make good progress on plans centered around 4 headquarters from August. In October, SHIBUYA FUKURAS, a largeAoyama, Omotesando, Harajuku, Ebisu, and Daikanyama, while also large-scale projects, while steadily moving forward with the three scale multi-purpose facility, will be completed, hosting a new Tokyu working to realize the Entertainment City Shibuya concept. See page growth strategies we defined: Urban development that proposes new 2 Plaza Shibuya on the commercial floor and opening in December. 22, “The Challenges of the Greater Shibuya Area Concept” lifestyles, Expansion of the scope of cyclical reinvestment business, 0 We’ve called Shibuya home for many years, and increasing the The attractive Greater Shibuya Area encompasses diverse urban and Reinforcing stock utilization. In addition to SHIBUYA SOLASTA 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 area’s international competitiveness is an important initiative in the functions for work, life, leisure, education, rest, creation, and more, and SHIBUYA FUKURAS, at the Takeshiba District Development Plan national interest. Since the urban development of Den-en Chofu, we and we believe it has great potential for the future. It has the lowest (tentative name) where development continues in the Takeshiba and Increase in Average Rent* (among 5 central wards of Tokyo) have continued to inherit our Challenge-oriented DNA and gather vacancy rate and the highest standard for average rent in the five Hamamatsucho areas, the SoftBank Group, one of the largest group 130 general Group ability, and we hope to contribute to the long-term central wards of Tokyo. Rent is steadily increasing, and I hope that you companies in Japan, has decided to use offices in our largest office improvement of the overall value of the area. can see how Shibuya is a promising area (Figure 1. Shibuya’s Superiority). building yet, with contracts signed for all floors ahead of completion in Chiyoda City First, the Shibuya redevelopment was a concept thought up and We offered a public stock offering in October 2018 to further promote fiscal 2020. Chuo City 120 Minato City drafted by Keita Goto, the first chairman of the TOKYU LAND CORPOcontinuous investments to the Greater Shibuya Area. Some ¥350 Based on transitioning results that exceeded expectations and the Shinjuku City RATION. Chairman Goto, who established the Company in 1953, said billion's worth of investment plans were established through fiscal holding of a public stock offering, we readjusted the Medium-Term Shibuya City the following at a founding establishment meeting the following year. 2023, offering strengthening of the leasing business base and imManagement Plan in May 2019. There are two areas that we read110 provement of net asset value (NAV). The business environment that we justed. First, we upwardly revised the targets set in fiscal 2020, the “I hope to contribute to the maintenance and development of the area are surrounded by is steadily transitioning, and among this transition, final year of the Plan. Second, we added earnings per share (EPS) centered around Shibuya, building skyscrapers in 4 or 5 locations there is an extremely high standing with Shibuya’s superiority. There and return on equity (ROE) as new indicators from the perspective of 100 around Shibuya Station.” were reports of an overcapacity of offices within central Tokyo since capitalization strategy. See page 32, “On Readjusting Our Medium-Term 2018, but this ended as a baseless fear, and office tenant contracts Management Plan” It seems as if his statement was a prediction of today’s redevelwere signed ahead of the 2019 completion of SHIBUYA SOLASTA and We recognize that our stakeholders strongly desire an increase in 90 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 opment. Through this speech, Chairman Goto touched on Shibuya’s SHIBUYA FUKURAS. corporate value over shareholder value. Moving forward, we are aim*Value indexed as 100 as of January 2012 Source: Miki Shoji Co., Ltd. general redevelopment plan, described how Tokyo and Shibuya are Expectations are high among investors in Shibuya, a gathering ing to grow EPS and increase ROE through strengthening our earning responsible for the transportation artery, and then spoke passionately place for people from around the world, and we are working to incapacity while also maintaining financial discipline as a fundamental about a specific urban design idea that included the desire for a corcrease the attractiveness of global Tokyo centered around the Greater policy towards improving shareholder and corporate value. See poration to carry out the development that would act as the central Shibuya Area, an important base, through promoting projects with page 44, “Financial Capital Strategy” 16 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 17 Section 1 The Value Creation Story / Message from the President From Eiichi Shibusawa’s Gapponshugi to In the early 1990’s, the bubble economy burst, and the real estate The idea of creating lifestyles is a key point in this value creation. point of workers, the old work-life balance concept is transforming into Darwin’s Theory of Evolution industry faced great danger. At that time, I had been made a superWe are working to solve a variety of social issues through proposing a work-as-life concept. Rather than placing work or one’s personal visor of new housing development, something I had wanted since new Home Styles, new Work Styles and new Play Styles as a corpolife over the other, this idea considers work as one part of one’s life, I’d like to once again review our history. Our origins lie with Den-en Toshi entering the Company. I thought about ways to make a profit amidst rate group that creates and proposes lifestyles that go beyond the and is a lifestyle that realizes one’s ideals. Following the increase in Company, established in 1918 by Eiichi Shibusawa and others. Den-en a time when business financing was strict, and arrived at the concept bounds of physical structures. See page 14, “Unique Value Creation” freelancers who have no restrictions on working hours or location, Chofu was developed, combining the merits of nature and the city based of conversion into securities, something that had been in the news in so-called “workcations” combining work and vacation have started to on the English-originated Den-en Chofu Urban Concept, which was dethe United States. at the time. We immediately converted real estate The Key to Lifestyle Creation is How You Spend Time become commonplace. The problems faced by modern society, includveloped as urbanization and population inflow were advancing in Tokyo into securities in Japan, and were able to create a path connected to ing work-style reform, childcare and nursing issues, and increases and as people began to see signs of a housing shortage. Since then, we rapid growth of our leasing business by applying this scheme to office I’d like to explain the concept of lifestyle creation that we deal with, in life expectancy, all overlap into the three areas, and I feel like these have inherited Eiichi Shibusawa’s Challenge-oriented DNA for over more buildings, etc. broken down into three evolutionary phases (Figure 2. The Evolution of issues require lifestyle creation that fuses all manners of everyday life than 100 years, facing a variety of social issues head on. Afterwards, we were able to overcome each danger by constantly Lifestyle Creation). Involved in developing the comprehensive real estate together (Lifestyle Creation 3.0). The attitude of working to solve social issues through business setting our eyes on the future, quickly understanding changes, and then industry, we began our business with real estate development, namely From among the three areas, I think that we are able to show our activities is exactly the Gapponshugi philosophy that Eiichi Shibusawa flexibly adapting to those changes as our company itself underwent with buildings. We first worked with residences. We offered the value unique abilities to the max in Play Styles. We have strength in having advocated for. Gapponshugi, which makes the purist of profit a mission large changes, including restructuring after the Lehman Brothers’ of housing to our customers through the development and sales of developed commercial and resort facilities over many years, and we while promoting businesses that gather appropriate personnel and bankruptcy and re-organization into a holding company. When concondominiums and detached houses. Our business, which began are excellent in understanding business from the viewpoint of Play financing, differentiates itself from management that monopolizes sidering the history of great changes in the structure of the industry with buildings, later spread to commercial facilities, hotels, and resort Styles, including management and operation. businesses and profits and forms financial groups. Gapponshugi over a 10-year span, I am convinced that it is important to understand facilities, including golf courses and ski resorts. Office buildings, which I feel that we may succeed in future business with further deidealizes overall wealth through synchronizing private and public environmental changes with a long-term perspective for the future. raised our profits through rent payments, were added as the third velopment of ways of spending time. Expanding the cycle of lifestyle profits and long-term interest formation. We have certainly inherited In Darwin’s theory of evolution, in addition to the need for environpillar (Lifestyle Creation 1.0). creation that utilizes ways of spending time is what we are aiming for this recent management style that considers both economic value and mental adaptability as humans evolved, it is explained that diversity is From there, we expanded the boundaries of the real estate and therefore we can be particular about services offered for all ages social value and strives for sustainability. required to continue evolving. Evolution is the history of branching, with industry towards management, real estate, and operations centered (value creation based on time) and in all areas (value creation based I have returned to the Gapponshugi philosophy, especially in individuals with characteristics that differ from others surviving and around the building, and created new added value that didn’t end with on space), developing a wide range of businesses. today’s world with harsh environmental changes, and I think we need evolving in a variety of ways amongst the repetition of natural selection. sales. Before long, the need for non-material services increased in long-term management rooted in high aspirations for solving social The spread of our business is a lineage of evolution that has surely readdition to material services, together with the process of the JapaRealizing a Sustainable Society and Sustainable Growth issues. Our history and the later expansion of business tells the story peatedly branched off, and you could say that the aggregate of our varinese economy becoming richer, and we began to propose new Home of how we have continued to be deemed necessary by society, and we ously evolved businesses has created a unique group unlike any other. Styles based on the needs of the times, making use of the building. The evolution of our lifestyle creation was born out of our Challengetry to always be aware of the public side of our corporation. I treasure In the same way, commercial and resort facilities brought about a oriented DNA, which works to solve social issues through our busiCharles Darwin’s theory of evolution as a way to connect the next genValue Creation is Born from Dialogue with Customers change from consumption of things to consumption of services, and ness. If we reexamine the Gapponshugi philosophy proposed by Eiichi eration with our Challenge-oriented DNA. I was influenced by Darwin we sought to propose new Play Styles. In the wellness field, which Shibusawa, we see that it is our mission to continue seeking sustainafter reading his book, On the Origin of Species, while in university. In addition to our unique Group history, we also are different from covers the leisure, senior, and health fields, we offer a wide range of able growth through lifestyle creation. We established a Sustainability other comprehensive real estate companies in that we have many support services to allow people from every generation to live a full Vision and a Sustainability Policy in fiscal 2018 to show our Group “It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelbusinesses where we connect directly with our customers. Because and lively life. We are evolving to be able to propose new Work Styles, stance on sustainability. See page 6, “Who We Want To Be” ligent that survives. It is the one that is most adaptable to change.” there are a wide variety of points of contact with customers, from our as our office buildings have been subject to work-style reform and Environmental problems and the energy crisis are both a risk and operations businesses, such as commercial facilities and hotels, to our health management. We have expanded our businesses and our profit a chance for our Group, while also being long-term issues that require I think that an existential tip for business management can be retail business, such as TOKYU HANDS, we carefully observe changes model has evolved through creating solutions by utilizing each of our efforts on a global scale. As members of the global society, we are found in this concept said to be offered by Darwin. Darwin teaches us in society and customer needs on-site, and this is connected to the buildings (Lifestyle Creation 2.0). contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals how important it is to clearly understand the changes to our environcreation of new value. One of my theories is that value creation is born We are now approaching a new phase in the lifestyle creation that (SDGs) for 2030, adopted at the UN summit in 2015. We are actively ment and the needs of society, and to flexibly respond to those changfrom dialogue with customers. we produce. By accepting the diversification of lifestyles and sense of developing new measures in 2019 to combat climate change, includes, in addition to corporations surviving long-term. Our cultivated strengths can be explained in three large categovalues, the evolution of technology, and more, the barriers are lowered ing support of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures The businesses and services that we have developed are quite ries. See page 12, “Our Three Core Strengths” to Home Styles, Work Styles, Play Styles. For example, from the view(TCFD)’s proposals and participation (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) in diverse. This is a result of a history of continuing to evolve while strivThe first is our Diverse Assets and Customers. We are involved in ing for the public benefit, and is a testament to the fact that we have a wide range of assets under the safe and trustworthy TOKYU brand, responded to society’s various needs according to the times. offering a variety of services to meet the life stages of our customers, Figure 2. The Evolution of Lifestyle Creation When taking another look back at our history from this viewpoint, from children to seniors. The second is a Corporate Culture that Proyou can see that we began with the Residential business, including duces Unique Businesses. Our progress from constantly looking ahead new housing development and sales of condominiums. If the period at the needs of society and creating unique businesses, such as our Lifestyle Creation 1.0 Lifestyle Creation 2.0 Lifestyle Creation 3.0 when we expanded into a value chain through our Property Manageresort business for enjoying leisure time and the Tokyu Hands busiDeveloping Businesses from Buildings Proposing Solutions Using Buildings Combining Every Aspect of Life ment and Real Estate businesses was the dawn of our business, then ness which has expanded true DIY activities, is rooted as the Group’s you can say that the period after that where we have expanded our culture in all of us. The third is our Highly Specialized Personnel and business fields to the real estate investment business centered around Knowhow. Our approximately 30,000 employees*1 from over 100 Commercial office buildings, commercial facilities, and other urban development companies in the Group participate actively using their own strengths. Facilities was our developing period. And now, I think it may be time to seriously We also work towards creating new value while our highly specialized Proposals for Hotels Proposals for Play Styles consider how we ought to evolve our future business at a time when personnel share their knowhow within the Group. Golf Courses Play Styles technological innovations are rapidly progressing. See page 10, “CreStarting in the real estate business, our business fields have Ski Resorts ating Value Alongside Social Issues” gradually expanded amid the changing times. In particular, lifestyles Proposals for Proposals for and values have become more diversified and city dwellers’ needs Home Styles Work Styles Overcoming Dangers by Quickly Understanding Changes have become more fragmented, leading to a time where the role of Condominiums Office Proposals for Proposals for real estate as requested by customers and society is greatly changing. Detached Buildings Home Styles Work Styles I treasure future-oriented management that isn’t afraid of change, and Among this changing environment, we are creating new value in the Houses Lifestyle Creation this may largely depend on my own personal career. local area and in society by making use of our three core strengths. 18 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 19 Section 1 The Value Creation Story / Message from the President the international RE100 initiative, which aims for business operations increase the depth of the leasing business through high added value Figure 3. The Five Types of Satisfaction that Raise Corporate Value with 100% renewable energy. urban development. But the issue of how to incorporate rapid techIn our Medium-Term Management Plan, we offered ESG Managenological advances in our business must be considered seriously. It ment as an initiative for strengthening our management foundation is also said that we will reach the singularity*3, where AI surpasses that supports our growth strategy. We established four themes – the human intelligence, in 2045. In response to these changes, I think it omer Satisfaction Cust environment, work-style reform, social needs, and corporate goverwill become important in how we produce added value through collabnance – from the viewpoint of ESG (Environment, Society, and Goveroration including innovative technology between existing businesses n Pursuit of Local and Socia nd Investor nance), and in addition to establishing KPI goals for fiscal 2020, we are and partners outside the Company. Emotional Value er a progressing on initiatives aimed at achieving these goals while also New business models are emerging in the various fields that l Sa old action following the PDCA cycle. See page 48, “ESG Management” surround our businesses. In the real estate industry, platformer-style tis eh tisf Regarding corporate governance, we are improving our managecompanies operating co-working spaces and offering places for Pursuit of Pursuit of fac ak Sa Public Economic ment efficiency and continuing to strengthen our governance system community-building have emerged, and cloud funding has caught Increasing St Profit Value Increasing these levels of tio towards creating a healthy and highly-transparent management the attention of even the real estate financing world. There are also Satisfaction of satisfaction and expanding system. There was a surge in social requests in fiscal 2018, including industries with rapidly changing competitive environments due to All Stakeholders this cycle helps boost movements towards amending the Company Act, and we established innovations, and even in the real estate industry, there is a considercorporate value corporate governance guidelines among other things. We also had our able possibility that players from completely different industries may first female outside director, allowing us to have diverse debates over compete through the advancement of real estate tech. Pursuit of Pursuit of at Job Satisfaction Co-creation Value isf the long term. See page 51, “Corporate Governance” In the Japanese domestic market, with its decreasing birthrate Em ac tio and aging population, the labor shortage issue due to a decrease in plo ye n eS S ati er Establishing Strategies to Continue Creating Value the working age population is becoming apparent. For us, with our sfa artn ctio P in an Era of VUCA strengths in operations and management, this is an unavoidable n and Client issue. Although the future is highly uncertain, it is predicted that there We are living in an era of VUCA*2 today, full of unpredictable elements. will be an increase in single-person households and empty houses Our readiness determines whether we are threatened by this or take and a population drain from regional areas. I think it is important to it as an opportunity. I think that our desire to be a corporate group carefully understand these changes. that continues to create value will become an important anchor as a In addition to working towards operational efficiency and increascompass for management during these uncertain, violently changing es in assets in various ways, including the use of robotic process autothe opportunities and risks surrounding our business in order to conlocation, something we have come to think of as a given. When this times. Looking past fiscal 2021, we will begin to formulize discussions mation (RPA), we are making use of innovative technology and creating tribute to the realization of Society 5.0*4, a new society that will arrive happens, will we still be separated by long distances that take a long aimed at establishing the next Medium-Term Management Plan to synergies through corporate venture capital (CVC). Even so, we have after the information society, as put forward by governments through time to cover? How will the roles of tourist attractions and resorts further pursue our vision. only just begun these initiatives. We are searching for the seeds for the creation of smart cities. change? I wonder how much the roles held by tourist attractions and We in the comprehensive real estate industry will continue to growth and are creating the next growth strategy, while reexamining resorts will change. A time may be coming when robots take over our Management that Speaks to the Sympathies of jobs and we don’t need to work at all. When that time comes, I wonder All Stakeholders if we will continue to pursue job satisfaction, sensing meaning and allure from working. Finally, I’d like to explain what I value with the Group’s management. When visualizing this future, I think what we will pursue is the huIt’s the improvement of each stakeholder’s satisfaction. This is the manity and creativity that is felt and the joy that is shared – something management philosophy that I have arrived at through all my experithat we already have. From here on, we are in the times when emoence. tions are valued, a time when a society in which each person strives Pursing public benefit for regional and social satisfaction while for self-fulfillment is trying to take hold. I wonder how emotional satisalso pursuing economic value for stakeholder and investor satisfacfaction that will come from Play Styles time through rich experiences tion. Balancing both of these while synchronizing private and public and time will change economic value when each individual attempts benefit is the concept of Gapponshugi, which could be called our to pursue their self-fulfillment through their own values. I feel that it is origin. Through pursuing emotional value through our strong lifestyle necessary for future management to properly confront this. creation for customers, co-creation value that fosters further value for If you go out in Shibuya, you will encounter many diverse people. our clients and partners, and joy in working and job satisfaction for Young and old, businesspersons and street performers. There are no our employees, we can raise satisfaction levels for all these groups. other places with this kind of diversity. Many chances to create and I believe that increasing these five types of satisfaction and expanding propose new lifestyles have fallen into our hands as we built our home this cycle is connected to increasing namely corporate value (Figure 3. base here in Shibuya. We ourselves have practiced new Work Styles The Five Types of Satisfaction that Raise Corporate Value). from Shibuya and spread the cycle of interaction outside the Company, I think that corporations, beyond being public institutions in sociand I want us to become a professional group that values unseen valety, should pursue universal satisfaction, without focusing solely on ue – that is, humanity. In the end, our way of living itself will create new specific stakeholders, while constantly being aware of the viewpoints lifestyles. I want to offer this situation as a dream for our Group. of commonality and utility. Said another way, this is perhaps management that speaks to our sympathies. Society cannot be changed if we rid ourselves of our sympathies. *1. Includes temporary employees Just as I said before, there is the potential of great change to *2. VUCA: Volatility, Uncertainty, Complexity, and Ambiguity, referring to an unpredictable socio-economic environment. our world from the speed of technological evolution and innovation. *3. Singularity: refers to a technological singularity or the changes to the world brought about by this transformation. Ray Kurzweil, an American futurist, predicts that AI will exponentially evolve, In other words, this means that there is the potential for our lives to reaching a technological singularity where human intelligence and AI are reversed by 2045. change greatly. For example, the Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS) initiative *4. Society 5.0: The 5th new society in human history, as advocated by The 5th Science and Technology Basic Plan. It refers to an incredibly smart society where new values and services are created one may overthrow the foundation of the concepts of transportation and after another following the 4th industrial revolution. 20 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 21 Section 1 The Value Creation Story / Special Article: Inheriting and Evolving Our Challenge-oriented DNA Special Article: Inheriting and Evolving Our Challenge-oriented DNA (1) The Challenges of the Greater Shibuya Area Concept Initiatives to Support Startups Greater TOKYU LAND CORPORATION established SHIBUYA Startup 100 to further Since the development of Den-en Chofu, we have offered value to our customers and society, increase the attraction of Shibuya, an area which fascinates many entreworking on urban development while also facing social issues. The Greater Shibuya Area is preneurs. We laid out our goal of creating 100 an example of inheriting our Challenge-oriented DNA and implementing new value creation support businesses by 2020, and as of July 2019, SHIBUYA throughout the area. we have already accomplished 45 challenges. Establishing Incubation Facilities to Social Issues We Are Facing Value Provided to Our Customers Value Provided to Society Connect Shibuya with the World ● Improving the value of areas following We established Plug and Play Shibuya intensified competition between cities ● Increasing the value of real estate / Stable social infrastructure powered by TOKYU LAND CORPORATION ● Creating urban charm in a society ● Improving quality of life / Creating communities through cooperation with Silicon Valley ● A comfortable urban life with a decreasing population ● Contributing to local economies / Disaster-resistant city planning accelerators, supporting global creation ● Safe and secure housing ● Realizing a variety of lifestyles ● Contributing to smart cities among corporations. ● Fulfilling leisure time ● Responding to globalization ● Preserving the natural environment / Reducing environmental burden 1/100 18/100 ● Preparing for the risk of large-scale ● Social inclusion 100 challenges!! natural disasters Harajuku Aoyama Startup Creation Through Cooperation with Venture Capital We are developing the GUILD series of Jingumae 6-chome Block co-creation facilities, together with venture Urban Redevelopment Project Increasing the Area’s Overall Value (tentative name) capital. We are supporting the growth of startups by offering services that respond Omotesando to their needs. by Bringing Together All that 5/100 13/100 36/100 the Area Has to Offer SHIBUYA CAST 100 challenges!! Shibuya, our home base, is an area overflowing with unique charm IoT Farm Demonstration Utilizing Shoto Unused Building Space and vitality. Creative content, including movies, music, and fashion, and start-up ventures gather in the area, and we think perhaps Shibuya is the only place with such diverse urban functions for Shibuya Through cooperation with PLANTIO, a company aiming to create urban gardens using IoT, we opened a rooftop garden at work, life, leisure, education, rest, creation, and more. SHIBUYA FUKURAS Shibuya Hikarie Ebisu Prime Square, introducing a proof Said to be a once-in-a-100-year project, what we are aiming (P.25) SHIBUYA SCRAMBLE SQUARE of concept for greening and community for with this large-scale redevelopment is the realization of the soSHIBUYA STREAM building. 34/100 39/100 100 challenges!! called Entertainment City Shibuya concept, which would transform SHIBUYA SOLASTA the area into a stage that draws the world in and showcases (P.24) business and culture. For the three redevelopment projects that Next Shibuya are progressing around the station, we are actively proposing Sakuragaoka Block* SHIBUYA BRIDGE Initiatives in Area Management new Home Styles, Work Styles, Play Styles centered around Shibuya Lifestyle Creation, which we’ve come to be quite good at. We will Sakuragaoka Block We are participating and cooperating in a wide range of local activities, inRedevelopment Project create attractive features for Shibuya that will be selected by a (P.25) Hiroo cluding trash pick-up volunteering with increasing number of participants wide variety of customers. At the same time, we are dealing with Ikejiri each year. We are expanding our initiatives, contributing to the revitalizasocietal problems that modern-day cities face and contributing to Daikanyama tion of the area and continuous development. We participate in the Shibuya increasing the area’s international competitiveness. Station Area Management Conference, working towards creating appeal in The Greater Shibuya Area Concept expands Shibuya’s urban Shibuya through public-private partnerships. Ebisu development to the surrounding areas, increasing the overall potential of the greater area made up of smaller areas full of indiExamples of Initiatives viduality. The character of each of these areas is exuded by people ● Trash pick-up volunteer activities / and locations and will be brought together. Based on this concept, Nakameguro Creation of the greenbird Shibuya we are moving ahead with urban development that merges the Dogenzaka Team tangible with the intangible. We will add to the management and ● Participation in the Shibuya wo operations from the development of each individual project and Tsunageru 30 persons, made up of people from Shibuya corporations, expand start-up support, area management, and a variety of other government organizations, and measures that develop the character of the area, raising the value non-profit organizations of the Greater Shibuya Area. ● Offering shows and appearing on greenbird trash pick-up Shibuya no Radio, a community radio channel Greater Shibuya Area Refers to the area full of towns rich with character, ● Participation in the Konnoh Shibuya's Attractive Points Hachimangu Shrine Festival, including the area around Shibuya Station, Aoyama, Omotesando, Harajuku, Ebisu, and Daikanyama. Our main properties are gathered in and other events Concentration of IT firms Abundant residential properties this area, and the area has great transportation access. Growth of creative industry Including embassies and foreign residents ● Redevelopment project ● Commercial facility ● Office building Yasuhiro Samejima Major hub of commercial and ● Properties held by Activia Properties Inc. Good access ● Joint-investment properties with Norges Bank Operating Officer cultural activity Links up to 8 lines (JR and private train lines) ● Redevelopment project (led by TOKYU CORPORATION) Division Manager of Shibuya Project Division, A district that attracts new trends Urban Business Unit * TOKYU LAND CORPORATION is involved in this project as a Next Shibuya Sakuragaoka Block TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Redevelopment Preparatory Association and as a project cooperator 22 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 23 Section 1 The Value Creation Story / Special Article: Inheriting and Evolving Our Challenge-oriented DNA The Challenges of the Greater Shibuya Area Concept Three Redevelopment Projects Progressing Around Shibuya Station SHIBUYA FUKURAS Completion: October 2019 (planned) Business entity: Dogenzaka 1-chome Shibuya-station Front District Redevelopment Associate / Use: Retail stores, offices, etc. / SHIBUYA SOLASTA Completion: March 2019 Total floorspace: Approx. 58,970 m2 /Building scale: 18 floors above ground (19 floors according to the Building Standards Act of Japan) and 4 basement levels Business entity: Dogenzaka 121 General Incorporated association (Operating Company created by TOKYU LAND CORPORATION and a land owner) / Use: Offices, etc. /Total floorspace: Approx. 46,954 m2 /Building scale: 21 floors above ground and 1 basement level A multi-purpose facility will be created out of the combined development of the area and the land of the former Tokyu Plaza Shibuya building in front of Shibuya Station. A new Tokyu We developed a hard-to-find, large-scale office building in Shibuya, built on the site of 4 Plaza Shibuya will occupy the commercial floor, and we are proposing MELLOW LIFE, an buildings, including our former headquarters building. We support a highly-productive urban lifestyle meant to enjoy the passing of time. We will also build a bus terminal as the work style through offering a space filled with the power of plants and a smart office western gate to Shibuya. utilizing IoT. We also installed a unisex bathroom and prayer room, supporting the advancement of diversity. Lifestyle Creation Initiatives to Increase the Area’s Value Proposing MELLOW LIFE ● Improving the transportation and accessibility of the Lifestyle Creation Initiatives to Increase the Area’s Value for mature people area around Shibuya Station Play Styles ● Establishing a drop off and pick up point for airport Realizing a highly-productive ● Building a rare, large-scale office building in buses work style with a comfortable Play Shibuya environment Home Work ● Strengthening disaster prevention and initiatives for Styles ● Creating a lush, green, environmentally-friendly Styles Styles the environment Rendering office Home Work ● Initiatives towards diversity Styles Styles * The name, SHIBUYA FUKURAS, comes from the Japanese word, fukurasu, meaning “to inflate or expand”. This expresses our desire to greatly “expand” the happiness of all who visit Shibuya. High Environmental Value Shibuya Sakuragaoka Block Redevelopment Project Completion: FY2023 (planned) The construction for SHIBUYA Business entity: Shibuya Sakuragaoka Block Redevelopment Associate / Use: Offices, retail stores, residences, etc. / Total floorspace: Approx. 254,830 m2 /Building scale: Block A: 39 floors above ground and 4 basement levels, Block B: 29 floors above ground and 2 basement levels, Block C: 4 floors above ground SOLASTA, taking biodiversity and global warming into consideration, was rated highly, receiving multiple ABINC DBJ Green CASBEE Edo-Midori Green * The name, SHIBUYA SOLASTA, is made from the words SOLA (meaning We will create an area complete with places to live, work, and play, establishing a unified facility southwest of Shibuya Station. We will implement barriCertification Building S Rank Area Registration “sky” in Japanese), SOLAR, and STAGE, suggesting a desire for this environmental certifications. Certification in Tokyo building to become a stage where diverse workers can flourish under er-free access from the station and operate office buildings and commercial facilities, as well as serviced apartments. We are also planning on establisha radiant sky. ing an international medical facility and other livelihood support facilities, as well as temporary shelters for people stranded after a natural disaster. Lifestyle Creation Initiatives to Increase the Area’s Value Offering a lifestyle home ● Connecting the flow of traffic in the southwestern base that meets the needs Play part of Shibuya Station of the world Styles ● Establishing global livelihood support facilities ● Initiatives to maintain safety and security of the area Home Work when natural disaster strikes Styles Styles An indoor entrance with natural sunlight An open terrace installed in the common A sky terrace that can be used as a third View from the roof Rendering through the trees as if in a forest area on all office floors place by tenants Headquarters Relocation and Work-Style Reform Initiatives at Our New Headquarters Slogan for Work-Style Reform Advanced by the Group We returned to our hometown of Shibuya in August 2019. Our At our new headquarters, where most of our employees work, headquarters was relocated to the completed SHIBUYA SOLASTA, Challenge for all we’ve created a work space that revitalizes communication, creating a new communication base for the Group. encouraging each person’s challenges. In addition to Green Work It is a time when one can work anywhere, anytime, without Communication for all Style incorporating the power of plants, we are also involved in going to the office. We wanted to create a place where people improving productivity and health maintenance through use of IoT, Each employee takes on challenges, putting into practice new Work Styles that only we can create as would want to go to work. A place where you can meet everyone, and the whole Group connects where ideas are born, and where you can work productively. We we develop our office and wellness businesses. 5th floor SCRAMBLE! interaction space 10th floor COLABO! Group base gave our new home base the name “Call”, referring to the idea of Examples of Initiatives the headquarters calling the employees. ● Creating communication at SCRAMBLE!, a space for customer interaction If each employee takes on challenges and we all connect, we ● Hosting events at COLABO!, a base for Group employee interaction will become an enormously large energy. We are progressing New Home Base for Group Communication with work-style reform for our approximately 30,000 Group ● Visualizing work-style reform through EEG measurements, etc. employees (including temporary enployees) from Call . Facing ● Implementing face recognition for entry and exit of the building and social issues regardless of the times and demonstrating our a web-based meeting system Challenge-oriented DNA by creating and proposing new lifestyles, Call ● Establishing a concierge to handle reception, concentration booths, we are connecting to value co-creation that goes beyond workand nap rooms Work space filled with plants EEG measurements determining level of style reform. ● Utilizing an exercise and fitness app through TOKYU SPORTS OASIS concentration, etc. 24 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 25 Section 1 The Value Creation Story / Special Article: Inheriting and Evolving Our Challenge-oriented DNA Special Article: Inheriting and Evolving Our Challenge-oriented DNA (2) The Challenges of Lifestyle Creation Proposing New Home Styles We are proposing new Home Styles in response to the needs of the times, including the advancement of the decreasing birthrate and aging We value the concept of Lifestyle Creation in order to continue unique value creation. population and the diversification of lifestyles. From student residences to senior housing, we’re offering a rich life that matches the many stages in Through proposals for Home Styles, Work Styles and Play Styles, we are facing issues the lives of our customers. that modern society is dealing with and working on solutions to those issues. CASE 1 LIFE STORY TOWN CASE 2 Student Connection Support We developed LIFE STORY TOWN, urban development that proposes new lifestyles TOKYU LAND CORPORATION has developed student residences in cooperation with Social Issues We Are Facing Value Provided to Our Customers Value Provided to Society starting with housing. With the development of large complexes that combine condoNATIONAL STUDENTS INFORMATION CENTER CO., LTD. (NASIC). We are supporting miniums with senior housing, we are responding to social needs by placing value on students living away from their parents through creating safe and secure environday care and nursing care support. ments, and hosting welcome parties and other events that encourage interaction ● Realizing a variety of lifestyles ● Improving quality of life / Creating communities between students. ● Responding to work-style reform and A comfortable urban life ● Contributing to local economies / Disaster-resistant city planning Setagaya Nakamachi Project health management Safe and secure housing ● Contributing to smart cities CAMPUS VILLAGE ● Responding to the healthy lifestyle needs of Tokaichiba Project Mental and physical health ● Increasing life expectancy the aging society Fulfilling leisure time ● Preserving the natural environment / Reducing environmental burden ● Connecting with the region and revitalizing Kyutaromachi Project the community ● Social inclusion Ofuna Project Grancreer Setagaya Nakamachi Welcome Party Response from a Tenant at Grancreer Setagaya Nakamachi Proposing New Work Styles Feeling Youthful From Active Youth We are seeking a place where business people can work comfortably against the backdrop of work-style reform and health management. As we are involved in the office business, we are getting closer to the workers themselves and proposing new, creative, and productive Work Styles based on a With great access to the ikebana studio I supervise and charmed by the environment with abundant nature concept of building smiles: giving workers smiles. despite being in the city, I decided to live here. It is different from a so-called retirement home, and I can feel youthful here because of the children who visit the on-site nursery school and the young people who live in the condominiums. If urban development like this where all generations live together become more established, the world will be better off. CASE 1 Office Full of the Power of Plants We are developing our Green Work Style project based on a concept of designing Japanese working styles with plants. Focusing on the power of plants with positive effects, such as stress reduction and creative stimulation, we are moving forward with creating offices full of plants. We are also holding scientific tests on the effects of plants, including EEG measurements. Hibiya Parkfront SHIBUYA SOLASTA Hibiya Parkfront Proposing New Play Styles We are proposing new Play Styles, getting close to various aspects of life, including shopping, hotels and resorts, fitness, and more. We are offering CASE 2 Smart Office Utilizing IoT rich times and rich experiences to a variety of customers while understanding the change from product consumption to service consumption and the increase in inbound tourism needs. We added a service allowing real-time confirmation of toilet use and worker location and other services, supporting diverse work styles and productivity improvement based on the concept of Human Centered IoT. At Takeshiba District Development Plan (tentative name), we are utilizing cutting edge technology over the entire area through cooperation with CASE 1 Shopping Styles Adapted to Personality CASE 2 Resort Life to Enjoy the Stay SoftBank Corp., working towards the co-creation of a smart city. We are creating commercial facilities from the viewpoint of the customer in response At our hotel and resort facilities developed across the country, we are offering a Takeshiba District Development Plan (tentative name) SHIBUYA SOLASTA Takeshiba District Development Plan (tentative name) to the character of the area. At Tokyu Plazas in the heart of the capital region, a sense resort life where the stay itself can be enjoyed through proposing tangible and Rendering of elegance is added to everyday life, and at Q'sMALLs in the Kansai region, we aim intangible services adapted to the local characteristics, including programs to fully to offer community-based friendly shopping malls. enjoy nature. CASE 3 Creating a Place for a Variety of Working Styles Tokyu Plaza Hyatt Regency Seragaki Island Okinawa Q PLAZA We offer work spaces responding to the needs of the times, including Business-Airport, a membership-based shared KYUKARUIZAWA KIKYO, office developed in main business areas of Tokyo, and GUILD, a start-up co-creation facility opened in the Greater Shibuya Q's MALL Area. We support the realization of a variety of work styles, even responding to the need for corporate satellite offices. Curio Collection by Hilton Market Square Tokyu Harvest Club Nasu Retreat Business-Airport ASIA BUILDING GUILD Tokyu Resort Town Tateshina: Hyatt Regency Business-Airport Aoyama Tokyu Plaza Omotesando Harajuku Seragaki Island Okinawa MORIGURASHI Response from a Tenant at Hibiya Parkfront Response from a Guest at Hyatt Regency Seragaki Island Okinawa Happy Employees in an Office Overflowing with Green Luxury of Leisurely Spending Time at the Hotel I think that there is a direct connection between employees’ lives and the level of comfort of the office space where employees spends more than half of each day. This is where an environment overflowing with green The whole island is a resort, and we were able to leisurely spend time as a family here. It is troublesome comes in, where employees relax while developing active communication. I am very happy because it feels carrying our small child when we go out, but the resort has a variety of restaurants and activities, so we were as if my dream from when I was younger of having an office overlooking Central Park in New York has come able to enjoy ourselves within the facility. I’d like to bring my parents, who have never been to Okinawa, and true. I am realizing the effects of moving to this office, as there has been a great increase in applicants. stay here again next year. Hiroshi Fujiwara, Ph.D. Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Broadband Tower, Inc. 26 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 27 Special Article: Inheriting and Evolving Our Challenge-oriented DNA (3) The Challenges of Renewable Energy Business Renewable energy is one project to realize harmony with the environment and the economy through business, laid out in our sustainability policy. We are developing solar, wind, and more types of energy projects across the country under the ReENE brand name. Social Issues We Are Facing Value Provided to Our Customers Value Provided to Society Section 2 ● Response to climate change, control on ● Increasing the value of real estate / Stable social infrastructure output of CO2 ● Clean energy ● Contributing to local economies / Disaster-resistant city planning Value Creation Strategy ● Improving energy self-sufficiency rate ● Preserving the natural environment / Reducing environmental burden Realizing the Compatibility of Environmental Consideration and Regional Development Total Number Expanding to a wide range of businesses of Businesses 43 Hokkaido while dealing with societal problems, we Rated began working in the renewable energy business in 2014. Expectations are rising Capacity 829MW* 2 for renewable energy that uses the Aomori power of nature as a way of contributing SDGs that Tokyu Fudosan Holdings is Working on Iwate to the control of CO2 emissions and the Ishikawa rate of energy self-sufficiency in Japan. Miyagi Kyoto An infrastructure fund was established Fukushima at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and this is Tottori a field where demand and investments Yamaguchi Ibaraki are expected to grow globally as renewTakashi Ikeuchi Chiba able energy isn’t easily influenced by Managing Officer economic climate and is a unique asset Unit Manager of Urban Business Unit, Fukuoka Shizuoka with stable profits. We are steadily exDivision Manager of Infrastructure & Osaka Mie Industry Business Department panding the business, and at the ReENE TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Matsumae Wind Farm which started Kagoshima Kagawa Nara Solar Power Complete ● 17 operating in April 2019, we built 12 of In Development ● 19 the largest (when operations began) wind turbines in Japan, enabling Wind Power Complete ● 1 a level of power generation equal to the yearly power consumption of In Development ● 5 30,000 households.*1 Biomass In Development ● 1 7 Businesses for a Sustainable Society and Growth Based on SDGs We hold consideration for the environment and regional coop(as of end of June, 2019) eration as important points when developing and operating power plants. At the Ichinoseki City Yoshitaka Solar Power Plant, which began operating in June 2018, wheat and barley are grown under the solar panels, expanding the solar sharing business by allowing power generation and farming to coexist. We were able to realize a renewable business model structure while promoting regional vitalUrban Development Residential Property Management Real Estate ization through using income from the power generation to support agriculture. We will continue promoting the business from a sustainable ReENE Matsumae Wind Farm Ichinoseki City Yoshitaka Solar Power Plant perspective, together with all of our business partners, in order to *1. Calculated as 3,530 kWh/year per household deliver new value and clean energy for the future. *2. 100% converted / value of total involved businesses, including joint ventures Wellness Tokyu Hands Innovation Business Participating in RE100, Aiming for Use of Renewable Energy Exclusively TOKYU LAND CORPORATION joined RE100*3 in April 2019. The Company is working to realize the goal of 100% Renewable Energy including renewable energy used by the Company by 2050, based on our established goal. Goal To use 100% renewable energy for power used in business activities by 2050 *3. RE100: an international incentive where participating corporations set a goal of attaining 100% renewable energy use for business operations (189 participating corporations as of July 2019) 28 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 29 Section 2 Value Creation Strategy Value Creation Strategy SDGs and Materialities Materialities of the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group (key social issues) Issues of social security by the Japanese government, privatization, uncertainty in the global economy, and other In fiscal 2017, the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group launched Medium-Term Management Plan 2017-2020. When formulating this plan, we 1 Economic, political, and regulatory changes factors will have major impacts on business opportunities and capital procurement. determined the SDGs we will focus on and identified seven materialities (key social issues) based partly on the input of experts. Factors such as the diversification of lifestyles and consumer needs and the revitalization of regional communities We remain committed to solving social issues through our business activities in order to realize sustainable society and growth. 2 Diversification and globalization of lifestyles significantly affect our business opportunities as an urban development company. Safety and security As a real estate developer, the increase and aging of existing stock and rising need to respond to disasters will have 3 in local communities and urban areas a major impact on business opportunities. As a Group that develops business in residences and senior housing, the low birthrate, aging population, and declining 4 Progression of a low birthrate and aging society population in Japan will have a major impact on business opportunities. Materiality Identification Process As a company that provides both products and services, advances in IoT technology will have a major impact on 5 IoT & Innovation innovation and changes in business models. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 6 Changes in the natural environment As a company that performs urban development, changes in infrastructure development and investor interests in conjunction with intensifying climate change will have a major impact on business opportunities and continuity. Determination and Organization of Integration and Consolidation of Issues Interviews of Management Staff and Diverse demands from consumers, corporate governance, and various other factors will have a major impact on 7 More stringent social demands Social Issues Experts management systems. When identifying key issues, the Group ascertained We integrated and consolidated the 470 social issues We conducted interviews of management staff and social issues while making reference to the Group’s by organizing similar items and taking into account experts with high levels of knowledge in specialized management plans, the GRI Guidelines, ISO 26000, the relevancy to the Group. Based on the results, we tentafields. We also gathered opinions regarding the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), issues recogtively evaluated importance based on relevancy to the importance of social issues from within the Group nized by the Japanese government and economic orgaGroup’s value creation process and stakeholder expecand society. (See below) Related Segments nizations, and other information, and generated a long tations and demands and selected 31 materialities. list comprising 470 items. Urban Development Residential Property Management Real Estate Agents Wellness Tokyu Hands Innovation Business Value Provided to ● Soundness and sustainable management requires an emphasis on the opinions of independent outside Our SDGs Materialities Major Opportunities and Risks Society Management directors, arrangement of issues, and investigation of the details of measures. President and Representative Director Yuji Okuma ● In order to enhance our competitiveness even further, we need to emphasize items that will make use of the Group’s diversity and differentiate the Group from other companies. ● In a society with an aging population and advances in the Internet of Things (IoT), business will be born from Director, Operating Officer Hironori services that combine various issues and can be provided in an integrated manner. Responsible for general administration Nishikawa ● When engaging in the resort business, it is necessary to take measures to mitigate environmental impact from 1 Opportunities Capturing new business opportunities divisions Increasing the value of business activities with regard to the issue of climate change. Economic, political, ● ● ● ● ● ● ● real estate / and regulatory Stable social infrastructure Low Birthrate and Aging Society ● It is important to create business from means of preventing the elderly from needing nursing care (such as changes Risks Risk of long-term interest rate increases Specialized Field Experts Research Director and Chief Producer Tomoo sports, diet, and lifelong learning) — in other words, the perspective of preventing rather than addressing issues. Platinum Society Center, Mitsubishi Research Matsuda ● In an aging society, there is potential for the Internet of Things (IoT) including the use of big data relating to Institute, Inc. health to play extremely important roles and become a new growth business. Expanded inbound demand 2 Opportunities Expanded opportunities for overseas business ● It is important to consider what type of space people will come to in order to spend their time. Diversification and ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Improving quality of life / Living and Lifestyles anonymous ● Businesses need to realize that minority groups are becoming the majority (e.g., unmarried persons, globalization of Creating communities Research institution Decline in total domestic demand double-income no-kids households, at-home workers). lifestyles Risks (diversification of demand) Environment ● Platform-like spaces and services that can change flexibly according to the diversity of individual consumers Professor, Department of Environmental and Shiro Wakui will be expected in the future. Expansion of markets related to existing stock, Information Studies, Tokyo City University ● The key is how to create value with environmental measures. 3 Opportunities and accelerated privatization of public asset Contributing to Safety and security processing and operation local economies / ● With regard to changes in work styles, emphasis will be placed on flexible working styles not limited to a single ● ● ● ● ● ● ● in local communities Disaster-resistant city Work Styles site, such as work from anywhere (a work style whereby employees can work not just at a single office, but also Issue of vacant homes planning Keiko and urban areas Risks General Manager, Personnel Division and at home, satellite offices, and other locations). Deterioration of existing stock Tsuchiya Director, Adecco Ltd. ● As society becomes increasingly diverse, there will be calls for this to be reflected in buildings and the environment. 4 Opportunities Increasing demand related to senior citizens ESG Investment ● What is currently being emphasized with regard to ESG investment is governance. Masaru Arai Whether Board of Directors are functioning properly is being called into question. Progression of ● ● Increasing life Chairman, Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF) ● Policies, plans, and structures must be formulated, PDCA implemented, and the information disclosed. a low birthrate and expectancy aging society Falling demand in conjunction with the decline of Risks the working age population * Titles are as of June 2016 when the interviews were conducted. Opportunities Business innovation 5 Contributing to ● ● ● ● ● ● ● IoT & Innovation Lowering of barriers to entry into existing business smart cities Risks fields, delayed market entry, and increasingly High STEP 4 rigorous information security and control 1 2 3 4 6 Opportunities Expansion of environmental markets Preserving the natural Identification of Materialities Materialities Importance to society Changes in ● ● ● environment / (key social issues) 5 6 7 the natural Reducing environmental Based on the interview results, we verified the burden environment Risks Expansion of climate change risks appropriateness of the importance of each issue that should be prioritized by the Group. The evaluation results were plotted and organized as a materiality map and categorized into seven groups. The materialities were Opportunities Increase in non-financial value reported to the Board of Directors by the CSR Promotion 7 (Groupwide issue / Committee and identification was finalized. More stringent Social inclusion ESG management) social demands Increasingly stringent responses to various types Risks High of risk Importance to the Group 30 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 31 Section 2 Value Creation Strategy Value Creation Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan Based on Materialities KPI Targets for FY2020 KPI FY2020 Targets FY2018 Results Results In our Medium-Term Management Plan 2017-2020, we created strategies based on materiality, as it was investigated and determined to be an issue that we should prioritize and work on. In the Plan, we established our fiscal 2020 KPI goals, Operating profit ¥95.0 billion ¥80.2 billion and our three growth strategies are progressing, making use of our overall ability as a Group in accordance with our two Net profit ¥50.0 billion ¥37.5 billion fundamental Group policies of expansion of associated assets and creation of new demand. Debt-Equity ratio 2.3 times or below 2.3 times ● Financial EBITDA multiple 10 times level 11.7 times EPS ¥69.53 ¥56.84 Mediumand Long-term Management Plan ROE Over 8.0% 7.3% Value Frontier 2020 To Become a Corporate Group that Continues to Create Value To a New Stage CO2 emissions 25% reduction 27.9% reduction ● compared to FY2005 compared to FY2005 Group Basic Policy From 2021 Onward 25% reduction 0.9% reduction Water use compared to FY2005 compared to FY2005 Expansion of Associated Assets Creation of New Demand Environment 25% reduction 23.6% reduction Waste emissions compared to FY2005 compared to FY2005 Acquisition of environmental certifi cations such as CASBEE and DBJ*1 100% 100% ● STAGE 1 STAGE 2 Green buildings (roofs, walls, etc.) * 1 100% 100% ● Medium-Term Medium-Term Management Plan 2014 2016 Management Plan 20172020 Midori wo Tsunagu Project (Area of Forest Protected) 2,000ha 1,423ha Working hours (average overtime hours per month) (Internal target) 14.4hours − Ratio of employees who undergo the stress check 100% 91.9% Ratio of employees who undergo physical examinations 100% 99.0% Medium-Term Management Plan 20172020 Work-style reform Ratio of female hires At least 30% 39.5% ● Three Growth Strategies Ratio of female managers (Internal target) 8.3% − Ratio of disabled employees 2.20% 2.23% ● Urban Development that Expansion of the Scope of Reinforcing Stock Utilization Proposes New Lifestyles Cyclical Reinvestment Business Securing space for use during disasters* 1 100% 100% ● Making use of the regional characteristics fused We have expanded the scope of our investments Understanding the change from a flow-based Buildings certified under the Barrier Free Act* 1 100% 100% ● Social needs with many living, working, and spending time to new asset types, including infrastructure society to a stock-based society, we are strengthCondominiums with stockpiles of disaster relief goods* 2 100% 100% ● functions and our strengths gathered by our and industry, hotels, and student residences, in ening our stock utilization-based business centered Group’s major projects, development and participaaddition to office buildings, commercial facilities, around management and real estate agents. We Persons who have nursing care or other professional qualifications* 3 80% 72% tion are progressing on the surface in the Greater and rental housing units, increasing our earning are utilizing real estate information from the inAt least 1/3 4/13 Shibuya Area. Our initiative of promoting lifestyle power through cyclical reinvestment. Our AUM is creasing management stock and real estate agents Number of outside directors (approx. 33%) (approx. 31%) communities with alteration of generations is also anticipated to reach ¥1.3 trillion by fiscal 2020. as much as possible, based on the rich connection progressing, responding to the diverse residential points we have with our customers, increasing our Board of Directors meeting attendance rate 100% 99% needs in our super-aging society. profits through businesses without investments. Corporate governance ● Female directors At least one 1 Reinforcing the Management Foundations that Support the Growth Strategies Strict adherence to the Compliance Code of Conduct 100% 99% Awareness of the Compliance Helpline Counter 100% 80% Strengthening Measures to Optimizing Group Management Assets and Generate Synergy Effects Among Businesses ESG Management *1. For TOKYU LAND CORPORATION’s newly constructed, large-scale properties, including office buildings and commercial facilities *2. For TOKYU LAND CORPORATION’s newly constructed condominiums *3. For caregiving employees We will maximize use of the Group’s business foundations (stock, customer To achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value over the long information, and human capital), acquire derivative business opportunities, term, we are optimizing Group management assets and undertaking ESG and create added value. management. Business Portfolio On Readjusting Our Medium-Term FY2020 target FY2020 target FY2018 We have created a business portfolio to flexibly Targets Urban Management Plan (before readjustment) (after readjustment) (actual) respond to social issues and changes in the Asset Utilization Development Residential Wellness business environment as a Group. We plan to Businesses P.36 P.39 Operating profit ¥93.0 billion ¥95.0 billion ¥80.2 billion P.34 We readjusting our Medium-Term Management investigate a business portfolio strategy in the Plan in May 2019, taking into account the shift in Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥42.0 billion ¥50.0 billion ¥37.5 billion future, categorizing our seven business into Property achievements that exceeded our expectations and three categories: Asset Utilization Businesses, Stock Utilization Real Estate Agents Debt-Equity ratio About 2.3 times 2.3 times or below 2.3 times Management the holding of a public stock offering. In addition including the Urban Development, Residential, Businesses P.38 P.37 to increasing the financial goal value for fiscal EBITDA multiple 10 times level 10 times level 11.7 times and Wellness businesses; Stock Utilization 2020, the final year of the Plan, we also added Businesses, including the Property ManageEPS ¥69.53 ¥56.84 Innovation Business earnings per share (EPS) and return on equity ment and Real-Estate Agents businesses; and Strategic Tokyu Hands (Overseas Businesses) (ROE) as goals to improve shareholder value from Strategic Businesses, including the Innovation Businesses P.40 ROE Over 8.0% 7.3% P.41 the perspective of capitalization strategy. and Tokyu Hands businesses. 32 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 33 Section 2 Value Creation Strategy / Business Overview Creating cities that bustle with activity Urban Development Segment Business fields: Office buildings and commercial facilities / Investment management / Management of rental housing / Renewable energy and infrastructure We are involved in improving the value of Tokyo, a global city, through urban development projects that bring out the potential of the area amongst the intensifying competition between cities. In addition to development and operations of office buildings and commercial facilities, we are also working with infrastructure and industry related businesses, such as renewable energy and logistic facilities, management of rental housing, etc., contributing to a comfortable and bountiful urban lifestyle. Jimbocho Kita Tokyu Building (Completion: July 2019) Business-Airport Shibuya Nanpeidai (Open: May 2019) Q Plaza Ikebukuro (Open: July 2019) Expanding Management of Rental Housing Business Value Provided to Our Customers A Comfortable Urban Life Safe and Secure Housing Clean Energy Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation, which began operating in 2015 from Changes in Rental Housing Units Under Management (FY) the integration of the Group’s management of rental housing business, 2019 2017 2018 and NASIC, which became a part of the Group in 2016, are driving our (Planned) Current Situation Business Strategy management of rental housing business. The management stock of both 128,000 units 137,000 units 142,000 units companies is expected to surpass 140,000 units in fiscal 2019. ・Superior office building portfolio in the city center A solid and unique Urban Development business Strengths ・Production of unique facilities and business driving force at the core of the Group Weaknesses ・Lack of large-scale flagship buildings Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation Initiatives NASIC Initiatives Create urban and area value through urban development We are responding to the need for asset management, aiming to We are aiming to become a comprehensive platform corporation, in the Greater Shibuya Area, Takeshiba and elsewhere become a service provider in the real estate industry. We are also organically connecting students, schools, property owners, and ・Increased opportunity for redevelopment of the Greater Shibuya Area focusing on improving our operational strength and expanding corporations together. Understanding the opportunities from the Opportunities ・The offering of working places following changes in working styles our supplementary services in the city, differentiating ourselves increase in foreign exchange students, etc., we are continuing to Expand the scope of cyclical reinvestment business to from others. We are unique in that we are engaged in pioneering grow while remaining close to university operations sought out from ・Overheated investment environment for profitable real estate*1 include infrastructure and industry Risks initiatives, including the promotion of open innovation and the education to the workplace. We are creating wide-reaching Group ・Intensifying competition between the different areas in city center introduction of robotic process automation (RPA). synergies by utilizing our strong connections with each stakeholder. *1. Corresponding to office buildings, commercial facilities, etc. Examples of Services Examples of Synergies ● Owner Box, an income management site for property owners ● Development of the CAMPUS VILLAGE Advancing and Prospecting Our Medium-Term Management Plan ● Kanaeteiku LIBR, a members-only site for residents series of student residences (Residential business) ● IMAoS, an electronic contract service for real estate leasing contracts, etc. Together with the competition between global cities, the competition between the different Changes in Operating Profit (Billions of yen) ● Repair work for student dorms areas of Tokyo is progressing. Against the backdrop of these markets trends, we are (Property Management business) 50.7 54.0 44.8 49.9 50.0 ● Proposals for effective use of promoting our large-scale project development centered around the Greater Shibuya Area 44.9 38.7 university-owned land (Real Estate and the Takeshiba area with the goal of creating urban development that city dwellers will Agents business) CAMPUS VILLAGE Shiinamachi choose, and aiming for the creation of a stable cash flow. The investment environment is overheating, with expected yields for investors at an all-time low, for profitable real estate in the real estate investment market that includes office buildings and commercial facilities. This is why investments have been advancing 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Planned Goal towards infrastructure and industry where growth can be expected from changes in the industrial structure, and we are working on strengthening our earning power through Changes in Total Floor Space*2 (in 1,000m2) Initiatives for Social Issues Through Our Business: Environmentallyand Socially-friendly Real Estate Development expanding the scope of cyclical reinvestments. We are realizing a steady and unique urban development business that plays a core role in the Group, while also showing off our 1,548 1,580 1,458 1,438 1,427 1,640 We are involved in environmentallyand socially-friendly real estate development, receiving DBJ Green Building certification presence through our wide range of activities, from urban development to the energy field. from the Development Bank of Japan for 20 of our office buildings and commercial facilities as of July 2019. We have In the first half of our Medium-Term Management Plan, steady progress was being received overall high evaluations for our responses to various stakeholders, including consideration for disaster prevention made on SHIBUYA SOLASTA and SHIBUYA FUKURAS, due to open by fiscal 2020, as well and the community, in addition to the environmental performance of these buildings. as on other development projects, and all tenant leasing has been completed for these projects. We were also selected as the first Japanese local partner for Norges Bank. We 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 (FY) are expanding our AUM and improving our presence in the Greater Shibuya Area through Goal 5 stars Properties with the best class environmental & social awareness joint investments and operations of five commercial facilities in the area. SHIBUYA SOLASTA, Hibiya Parkfront, In ReENE, our renewable energy business, we have expanded to 43 locations (as of Changes in Average Rent*2 and Vacancy Rate*3 and Takeshiba District Development Plan (Office Building) (tentative name) * Plan certification June 2019) including those in development, and we are working on both environmental 23,270 23,770 24,210 24,410 24,500 consideration and regional development. We are also progressing on the development of 4 stars Properties with exceptionally high environmental & social awareness the LOGI’Q logistic facility to meet the needs of increasing logistical efficiency, and we are Spline Aoyama Tokyu Building, Shin-Aoyama Tokyu Building, Nihombashi Front, aiming for wide-reaching measures for the realization of a sustainable society. 2.8 Shin-Meguro Tokyu Building, Amagasaki Q’s MALL, and Tokyu Plaza Omotesando Harajuku 2.0 In our management of rental housing business, we are steadily increasing the number 0.9 0.5 0.4 of units under management. In addition to establishing the Central Tokyo Sales Center 3 stars Properties with excellent environmental & social awareness aimed at strengthening city center properties for Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Kasumigaseki Tokyu Building, Minamiaoyama Tokyu Building, Nihombashi Maruzen Tokyu Building, Average Rent (average ¥/month) Vacancy Rate (%) we also established the Nagoya Center as a strategy for area expansion. We have been Uchisaiwaicho Tokyu Building, Shibuya Minami Tokyu Building, Nihonbashi Honcho Tokyu Building, entrusted with management and operations of student dorms, etc., at the NATIONAL STUIchigaya Tokyu Building, Hamamatsucho Square, Ebisu Business Tower, and Ebisu Prime Square Tower *2. Only for office buildings DENTS INFORMATION CENTER CO., LTD. (NASIC). Operating CAMPUS VILLAGE, a student *3. For office buildings and commercial facilities Takeshiba District Development Plan 2 stars Properties with high environmental & social awareness residence that we developed, in the capital area and the Kansai region is connected to the (Office Building) (tentative name) Rendering expansion of the number of units under our management. Shimbashi Tokyu Building 34 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 35 Section 2 Value Creation Strategy / Business Overview Shining a new light on housing Providing lifelong support for buildings and customers Residential Business Segment Property Management Segment Business fields: Condominiums development / Rental housing units development (rental condominiums and Business fields: Condominium management / Building and facility management / Renovation construction student residences) We are pursuing residential development that responds to the changes of the times, We offer comprehensive support for management, operations, and renovations of a including the advancement of the decreasing birthrate and aging population and the variety of buildings, including condominiums, buildings, commercial facilities, public diversification of lifestyles. We are contributing to local societies through disaster facilities, and public housing. We are contributing to the sustained enhancement of prevention and deterioration measures, revitalization of local communities, and our customers’ living environment and value of our assets through the formation of BRANZ Rokubancho (Completion: February 2019) initiatives that are energy-saving and environmentally-friendly. high quality social stock. Value Provided to Our Customers A Comfortable Urban Life Safe and Secure Housing Value Provided to Our Customers A Comfortable Urban Life Safe and Secure Housing Current Situation Business Strategy Current Situation Business Strategy ・Mixed use development making use of our strength as a comprehensive ・Number of units under management among the top in the industry and Strengths developer Establish a unique presence in business domains Strengths wide-reaching management domain Overwhelming No. 1 comprehensive ・Resident services offered by our entire Group utilizing the combined total capabilities of the Group ・Personnel with highly-specialized skills, including technical abilities property management company ・Low number of large-scale flagship projects Weaknesses Weaknesses ・A business model where rapid expansion is difficult ・Business size and number of units sold not among the top in the industry Expansion in scale of urban area, redevelopment, Add a broad range of management stock including mixed use development, and new domains condominiums, office buildings, ・The offering of residences that responds to the diversification of lifestyles (student residences, etc.) commercial facilities and public facilities ・Increase in demand for renovations following building deterioration Opportunities ・The increase in need for having one’s workplace near one’s home and the Opportunities ・Expanded utilization of public projects (PFI and Designated Manager System) population inflow to cities Drive development and sale of Acquire additional business opportunities originating rental housing for investors ・Securing a work force required by stock expansion from currently managed stock Risks ・Acquisition of land for business and increase in construction costs Risks ・Intensifying competition in replacing condominiums Advancing and Prospecting Our Medium-Term Management Plan Advancing and Prospecting Our Medium-Term Management Plan We are expanding our scale with the high added value of redevelopment, etc., to offer Changes in Operating Profit (Billions of yen) We are aiming to become the overwhelming No. 1 comprehensive property management Changes in Operating Profit (Billions of yen) residences that customers will choose amongst the yearly changes to the environment 9.7 company, utilizing our wide-reaching management domain and rich knowledge against a 9.0 10.3 surrounding the newly built condominium market. Particularly, BRANZ-branded condo7.0 7.6 7.5 backdrop of expanded utilization of public projects and an increase in demand for reno9.1 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.6 9.0 miniums are a result of experience and wisdom gained since construction was completed 5.5 5.4 vations following building deterioration as management stock expansion through offering on the industry’s first condominiums, Tokyu Skyline, in 1958, and we are focusing on domestic newly built condominiums becomes limited. market penetration for the brand. In the first half of our Medium-Term Management Plan, in addition to receiving orders In the first half of our Medium-Term Management Plan, we strengthened our city from RIKEN Wako Campus and Shinagawa HEART, we steadily increased our achievements center properties and redevelopment business, offering BRANZ Rokubancho, BRANZ 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) with buildings, commercial facilities, and condominiums in our major property management 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Planned Goal Planned Goal Tower Midosuji Honmachi, etc. We also developed LIFE STORY TOWN, urban development business. At the same time, we were also focused on public projects that made use of PFI that proposes new lifestyles starting with housing, working to solve the social issues of Number of Condominium Units Sold (Units) and Designated Manager System, receiving contracts for cultural facilities, including The Changes in Management Stock (in 1,000 units) an aged society with a low birthrate. With the development of the Setagaya Nakamachi 2,100 Minato City Local History Museum, and a variety of other facilities, including stadiums and 2,027 1,892 Project and the Tokaichiba Project, large complexes that combine condominiums with airports. In 2018, the number of public housing units for which we were the designated 1,560 1,627 1,652 310 340 350 senior housing, we have provided intangible services, including support for day care and manager exceeded 200,000 units – the highest number of units managed by a private 230 300 1,266 190 210 child rearing and regional cooperation, responding to the social needs of various home company in Japan. We are smoothly expanding our public projects, including being selected styles and healthy living. for the Tokyo Kiba Park Multi-purpose Project in February 2019, advertised publicly by the 490 500 520 520 530 530 540 Additionally, we are also developing and dividing COMFORIA, rental housing units, and Tokyo metropolitan government. Overseas, we established a local corporation in Indonesia 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) CAMPUS VILLAGE, student residences, making use of our abilities in information gatherand began offering a meticulous, Japanese-style management service there. In the conPlanned Goal 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) ing, planning, and development accrued through the apartment housing field, and we are Planned Goal struction industry, we are offering proposals that meet the needs of each building utilizing Condominium Management (Comprehensive Management) Condominium Management (Facility Management) contributing to the expansion of our associated assets. the connection points we have with our various customers in management stock, increasing our achievements in condominiums, office buildings, and more. Initiatives for Social Issues Through Our Business: Revitalization of the Hoary Area in Front of the Station Through Redevelopment Initiatives for Social Issues Through Our Business: Achieving a 75% Rate of Energy Savings at a New Training Center The area around Ofuna Station, a prominent terminal station in Yokohama, had an area with Cutting edge environmental technologies were introduced at TOKYU COMMUNITY Technolmany hoary wooden buildings. Preparations for the foundation of urban development were put ogy Training Center NOTIA, which opened in May 2019, earning the Nearly ZEB certification in place through the Ofuna Station north second district Urban District Redevelopment Project, – a first for any office building in Tokyo. Zero Energy Building (ZEB) is a public certification with construction scheduled to be completed in 2020. system run by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure Transport and Tourism, and Nearly ZEB TOKYU LAND CORPORATION became a participating member in the project, working on certification means that a building has achieved an energy efficiency of 75% or higher. preparations and development of public facilities, commercial facilities, and more, in addition At this Center, harmony with the natural environment is also considered based on the to offering the BRANZ Tower Ofuna, improving the creation of activity, convenience, and safety. concept of having the building itself be the research material, and TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. In total, we are involved in area management activities together with the managing TOKYU trains over 1,600 technical employees here. We are responding to customers’ expectations, Rendering COMMUNITY CORP., supporting sustainable development for the local community. realizing an improvement in technical ability, the ability to make proposals, and service quality. 36 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 37 Section 2 Value Creation Strategy / Business Overview Connecting customers and real estate Providing quality time and experiences Real Estate Agents Segment Wellness Segment Business fields: Real estate agents (sales and leasing) / Consignment sales / Real estate sales / Business fields: Hotels and resorts / Senior life / Fitness / Consignment welfare Real estate solutions We are responding to each and every need related to real estate transactions, To realize a healthy society with longevity and to work on regional revitalization including real estate sales agents, consignment sales, and real estate sales, with and other social issues, we are expanding our healthcare domain that offers advanced services and suitable solutions. We aim for further evolution as a real cross-sectional services aimed at life extension and our hotel and resort domain estate transaction multi-value creator. that supports the quality and quantity of time spent by our customers enjoying life. Tokyu Harvest Club Karuizawa & VIALA (Open: July 2018) Value Provided to Our Customers A Comfortable Urban Life Safe and Secure Housing Value Provided to Our Customers A Comfortable Urban Life Mental and Physical Health Fulfilling Leisure Time Current Situation Business Strategy Current Situation Business Strategy ・Strong brand power, rich connection points we have with our customers ・Strong brand power, rich connection points we have with our customers Establish top position in the industry Strengths Real estate information multi-value creator Strengths ・Rich real estate transaction information and information processing ability ・Operational knowledge and diverse assets as a leading company in the wellness domain ・A business model that is easily influenced by the condition of the real estate ・A business model that is easily influenced by climate Weaknesses Weaknesses market Acquire business opportunities and expand business (hotel and resort domain) Development of new businesses making use of our domains by evolving into a real estate brokerage business connection points with customers and operational ability ・The expansion of the existing real estate transaction market that provides value-added information (healthcare domain) ・The increase in needs related to seniors (healthcare domain) Opportunities ・The continuation of the good real estate purchasing environment due to Opportunities ・The expansion in inbound tourism needs (hotel and resort domain) low interest rates Achieve three No.1 positions in the industry: Expanding business domains making use of development ・The reduction in the value of information through AI and other technology in customer recognition, business competitiveness and and operational knowledge of various facilities Risks meaningfulness of work Risks ・Securing a work force required by expanding scale (hotel and resort domain) advances Advancing and Prospecting Our Medium-Term Management Plan Advancing and Prospecting Our Medium-Term Management Plan Although growth is limited for the newly built housing market, there are high expectations Changes in Operating Profit (Billions of yen) Large growth is expected in health and leisure-related domains, including the expansion Changes in Operating Profit (Billions of yen) for expansion in the existing housing market, supported by the increase in quality housing of facilities and caregiving services for elderly persons due to the progression of the 156 10.0 stock and policy support. Meanwhile, it is necessary to look at the effects of the rapid 139 150 aging society and the expansion of tourist and lodging facilities against the backdrop of 132 7.6 7.9 development of real estate tech through AI and other technological advancements and the 113 increasing overseas tourists. We are proposing new lifestyles seeking a better life to the 7.2 102 6.0 6.4 5.8 94 entry of other industries into the market. We will process the information and needs relatworld in order to respond to the needs of the times, aiming the secure the top position in ed to real estate – the desires to sell, buy, lease, rent, and operate – through our portfolio of the industry in the wellness domain. In the healthcare domain, we are developing a variety various businesses, aiming to become a real estate multi-value creator that offers diverse of services to contribute to healthy life extension, including Grancreer, senior housing value to our customers. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) offering a quality life, and TOKYU SPORTS OASIS, offering healthy lifestyles. In the hotel 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Planned Goal Planned Goal In the first half of our Medium-Term Management Plan, our initiatives towards operaand resort domain, we are offering a varied resort life throughout the year, maintaining tional assets, such as hotels, have progressed, along with advancing the opening of new Changes in Retail comfortable spaces and environments that go beyond the mundane. Changes at Tokyu Stay stores in our main Real Estate Agents business. In the real estate sales business, pur30,000 In the first half of our Medium-Term Management Plan, we opened Tokyu Harvest Club 4,700 26,924 4,310 chase and resale renovations and investment property sales have continued to expand, 23,268 24,554 Karuizawa & VIALA and the Hyatt Regency Seragaki Island Okinawa, utilizing the develop3,687 20,851 22,264 and even new domains have achieved satisfactory results, including commercial facilities 18,573 ment and operational abilities cultivated over many years. We also accelerated the opening 2,735 and hotels. We are steadily taking steps towards realizing our goal of being No.1 in three 189 197 of Tokyu Stay, urban style hotels, in core regional cities, such as Sapporo and Fukuoka, 2,085 2,445 2,445 27 29 166 171 181 24 respective industries through the development of GRANTACT, a store specializing in central 149 152 steadily making progress towards exceeding our original goal for number of guest rooms 19 15 17 17 Tokyo luxury condominiums, the advancement of our retail brand strategy with continuous by fiscal 2020. This is a policy that, through initiatives such as this, will grow this segment 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) advertisement expansion, and work on creating workplaces with job satisfaction. Planned Goal towards becoming a new core business in the Group. Planned Goal Number of Transactions Number of Stores Number of Guest Rooms Number of Hotels Initiatives for Social Issues Through Our Business: Providing Secure Living Through Quality Renovation Initiatives for Social Issues Through Our Business: Promoting Intergenerational Exchange Starting with Senior Housing Revitalization of the existing real estate transaction and renovation markets is progressing Creer Residence Yokohama Tokaichiba was opened in April 2019 as part of the Tokaichiba as a policy amongst the declining population and progression of a decreasing birthrate and Project, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION promoted jointly with the city of Yokohama, TOKYU aging population. On the other hand, we’ve heard from customers looking into renovated CORPORATION, and other companies. This facility comprises senior housing for active condominiums that they can’t see the frame of the building and that they are uncertain about seniors and care housing designed for seniors with dementia, and it also includes a comthe post-purchase warranty system. munity café that can be used by local residents, in-home nursing care, and more. With TOKYU LIVABLE, INC., we developed Lideas renovated condominiums, deploying a As part of our area management encouraging regional exchange, we are also planning system responding to everything from purchase of a single unit to inspection with specialized to host events. We are aiming for urban development that allows anyone and everyone to equipment after room disassembly, installation, installation and updating finishes, inspections live securely over a long period of time, while also fostering intergenerational exchange after construction is complete, and after-service warranties. We are contributing to the formathrough workshops hosted by locals, explanations of initiatives to revitalize the town by Pre-event: Wakuwaku 10 Garden tion of quality housing stock through providing a stable life that resolves customers’ concerns. university students, and more. 38 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 39 Section 2 Value Creation Strategy / Business Overview Making life fun Developing new fields Tokyu Hands Segment Innovation Business Segment Business fields: TOKYU HANDS / hands be Business fields: Overseas (North America and Asia) / Landscaping and greening We are offering ideas for a fruitful life, employing a brand slogan of “Its Hint Market” We are creating and expanding new business fields, including our overseas and gathering together a diverse selection of products from a wide range of fields business and our landscaping and greening business. In our overseas business, as an aid in realizing the unique lifestyles of each customer. centered around Indonesia and the United States, we are developing a business aimed at demonstrating our presence as a comprehensive developer. BRANZ SIMATUPANG (Completion: December 2018) Overseas Businesses Value Provided to Our Customers A Comfortable Urban Life Fulfilling Leisure Time Value Provided to Our Customers A Comfortable Urban Life Safe and Secure Housing Current Situation Business Strategy Current Situation Business Strategy ・Strong, unique brand power and name recognition ・Development knowledge cultivated in Japan Make the most of our presence as a comprehensive Strengths No.1 brand for lifestyle creation proposals Strengths ・A wide selection of products and staff with high product knowledge ・Large presence as a foreign developer (Indonesia) developer in overseas businesses Weaknesses ・A delay in initiatives for digital strategies, including EC Weaknesses ・Overseas development only in specific regions and reputation Propose products aligned with customer Strengthening of the North American business, utilizing needs through consulting sales our redevelopment business presence in New York ・Increase in the emphasis on lifestyle and service consumption ・The potential of business development in Asian countries with continuing Opportunities Opportunities ・Expanding inbound tourism demand for the retail business economic growth Strengthen business in Indonesia as the leading Transition to and reinforce a structure that can generate ・Political risks, and worsening of the state of affairs abroad due to war, ・Reduction in-store share through expanded EC (showrooming) foreign-affiliated developer and expand business to Risks stable profits and strengthen the TOKYU HANDS brand Risks conflict, terrorism, etc. ・Increase in similar companies and intensification of competition other Asian countries ・Abrupt exchange rate fluctuations Advancing and Prospecting Our Medium-Term Management Plan Advancing and Prospecting Our Medium-Term Management Plan Competition is intensifying in the retail industry through the expansion of e-commerce. Changes in Operating Profit (Billions of yen) We are working to demonstrate our presence as a comprehensive developer in our Changes in Operating Profit* (Billions of yen) Although it is an intense business environment, positive trends are also forecast due to the overseas business, based around North America, with anticipated stable growth, and Asia, 1.3 0.9 hosting of the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games and the increase in inbound tourism 1.5 with its continuing economic growth. 1.3 needs. There is also a shift occurring towards service consumption where value is found in 1.1 In the first half of our Medium-Term Management Plan, we focused on the United 0.9 0.8 (0.5) experiences. In response to this environment, we are developing consulting sales utilizing States investment and redevelopment businesses, moving forward with the development (0.6) our three strengths – Products (wide selection of trustworthy products), Services (a place 0.3 0.4 of properties meeting investors’ needs and high quality offices with environmental perfor(1.9) (2.2) to find exciting ideas), and People (reliable staff with ample product knowledge) –, aiming mance. The developing and leasing of 425 Park Avenue in New York is progressing steadily (3.0) to create No.1 brand of lifestyle creation and proposing. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) In Indonesia, we are expanding BRANZ, our condominium brand developed in Japan, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Planned Goal Planned Goal In the first half of our Medium-Term Management Plan, we moved forward with and we began handing overt two properties in 2018. This is the first experience as creating flagship stores with unique, strong originalities compared to the competition, Changes in the TOKYU HANDS* (stores) a Japanese developer in expanding our own brand abroad. Working on establishing an * Total value Innovation Business while also moving forward with opening new stores both in Japan and abroad. At our 3 5 5 image and penetrating the market with our brand by appealing to the quality of BRANZ, 3 3 Shinjuku store, staff well-acquainted with a field are appointed as “shop owners” for each 2 we are receiving high evaluations locally, including being the first foreign developer Rendering product category, and we’re expanding out Hi! Tenshu Project, offering lifestyle proposals 3 selected by BCI Asia for their TOP TEN 2017 DEVELOPERS – INDONESIA. through conversations with customers. At our Shibuya store, which celebrated its 40th 39 43 46 49 52 52 We also established a local corporation in Singapore in 2019, expanding our business anniversary, we set up Agaru! STUDIO, where customers can casually experience hand32 in Asia, with its potential for future growth, by utilizing our experience and knowledge from made crafts, and Tsukuru Kobo, where customers can see professional craftsmen’s work each Group company fostered through our overseas business up until now. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) process, in various locations throughout the store, appealing to customers’ enjoyment Planned Goal 425 Park Avenue (Completion: FY2019 [planned]) and excitement. We will continue creating stores based on this era of product, service, and Domestic Global * Includes franchised stores people consumption. Initiatives for Social Issues Through Our Business: Traveling Craft Workshop Teaching the Joy of Handmade Crafts Initiatives for Social Issues Through Our Business: Contributing to the Improvement of Consumer’s Living Environment with Japanese-style Condominiums We host the TOKYU HANDS Hint Club, a traveling craft workshop, in cooperation with local governments, etc. In these workshops, TOKYU HANDS staff members act as teachers, Since expanding into Indonesia in 1975, we have developed about 4,500 detached houses conveying the joy of handmade crafts and the fun of making something oneself. Starting there in total, accumulating trust and results. We completed construction of BRANZ BSD in 2010, we’ve held the workshops twice a year at each store, with total attendance at Ai and BRANZ SIMATUPANG in 2018, utilizing the knowledge fostered through our long 16,000. In fiscal 2018, workshops were held in 69 locations all over Japan, with about history. 2,500 children participating. BRANZ SIMATUPANG was an all-Japan project, with everything from development We have also hosted traveling craft workshops since 2012 at the Kumin no Hiroba and design to construction handled by Japanese corporations. The Property Management Festival, hosted by the Shibuya City Office, with total attendance at 2,000 by fiscal 2018. segment’s TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. also established a local corporation, offering We have placed these activities as CSR-related activities, contributing all participation fees Japanese-style management services. We will continue to propose new Home Styles Sales lecture for a local employee to Save the Children Japan. while fusing Japanese and Indonesian cultures together. 40 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 41 Financial Capital Strategy A stable financial base is essential for sustainable growth. We readjusted our Medium-Term Management Plan in May 2019 based on our steady business environment and an increase in capital through public offering. We are aiming to improve earnings per share (EPS) growth and return on equity (ROE) through strengthening our earning power while maintaining financial order aimed at further improving shareholder and corporate value. Section 3 ESG Management We have established ESG as a significant management issue. In our Medium-Term Management Plan, we specified our Group mateSustainable Growth riality (key social issues), and formulate four themes from the perspective of ESG: work-style reform, social needs, environment, and corporate governance. We established KPI goals for fiscal 2020 for each of these themes, and we are progressing across the Group with initiatives aimed at achieving these goals, while following the PDCA cycle. Materialities ESG Themes Economic, political, and regulatory changes Social We will solve social issues through our business activities and work with Work-style reform Diversification and Social needs stakeholders to realize a sustainable society and growth. globalization of lifestyles Safety and security in local communities and urban areas Environment Progression of a low birthrate and aging society Environment Sustainability Committee IoT & Innovation Changes in the natural environment Governance Corporate governance More stringent social demands ESG Management Structure Directors discussion on SDGs Secretariat Board of Directors Group Internal Audit Department Group Legal Affairs Department Corporate Communication Department Implement / Respond Report Related Departments Group Corporate Planning Risk Management Department Propose Group Finance Department Support Committee Group General Administration Group Companies Department Sustainability Monitor Group Human Resources SDGs badge made from timber cut to thin the conserved Committee Department forest as part of the Midori wo Tsunagu Project Photo: The view from our new headquarters, SHIBUYA SOLASTA 42 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 43 Section 3 Sustainable Growth Sustainable Growth Financial Capital Strategy Figure 2. Changes in Equity and Interest-bearing Debt Figure 3. Changes in Debt-Equity Ratio (Billions of yen) (Times) We readjusted the goals of our Medium-Term Management Plan based on our steady business environment and an increase in capital through 1,500 1,289.8 1,380.0 3.0 2.8 1,210.4 2.6 2.6 2.6 public offering, and added ROE and EPS goals as indicators of increased shareholder value. We are aiming to improve EPS growth and ROE 1,125.4 1,106.1 1,137.9 2.3 times 2.3 2.3 or below through strengthening our earning power while maintaining financial discipline aimed at further improving shareholder and corporate value. 1,000 2.0 561.4 500 395.3 418.8 442.3 468.1 Fiscal 2018, the second year in our Medium-Term Management in the future through the operation of the Greater Shibuya Area and Plan 2017-2020, resulted in an operating revenue of ¥901.9 billion, other redevelopment projects. For our Stock Utilization and Strategic an operating profit of ¥80.2 billion, and earnings of ¥37.5 billion Businesses, with investments remaining at about 16% of our total 0 1.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) updating our record for highest profits ever earned. We readjusted assets, we are seeing stable growth of profits through improvements Planned Goal Planned Goal ■ Equity ■ Interest-bearing Debt our Medium-Term Management Plan in May 2019 just as we hit in profit margin, etc. the midpoint of the 4-year Plan, based on the active office building A stable financial base is required for sustainable growth, and market and other robust business environments, the results that maintaining financial order is essential. We will control the debt-equity exceeded our original Plan, and the increase in capital through public ratio in the future based on increases in equity through yearly profit. Figure 4. Changes in EBITDA Ratio Figure 5. Changes in EPS offering in October 2018. In fiscal 2018, our interest-bearing debt increased through new (Times) (¥) Dilution from increased capital See page 32, “On Readjusting Our Medium-Term Management Plan” investments, etc., but our debt-equity ratio fell below 2.3x through the through public offering, etc. 15 80 ¥69.53 First, we upwardly revised our anticipated values. We increased the expansion of equity via an increase in capital through public offering. (3.93) +22.3% 12.8 anticipated operating profit by ¥2 billion and the anticipated earnings We anticipate that our interest-bearing debt will increase again in fis12.1 10 times 57.80 11.7 11.7 60 51.77 by ¥8 billion, and changed the debt-equity ratio from 2.3 to less than cal 2019 through continued investments in Shibuya’s redevelopment, 11.2 11.4 level 47.18 41.45 56.84 54.24 2.3. Second, we added new goal indicators. We added ROE and EPS as but we plan for the debt-equity ratio to remain at 2.3x (Figures 2 and 3). 40 10 indicators of increased shareholder value, with the ROE goal value set We received a high evaluation for our financial improvements 60.77*1 68.99*2 at ¥69.53 and EPS set at over 8%. through capital increases through public offering and our high stan20 We are aiming to improve EPS growth and ROE through strengthdard of accumulated net income, increasing our rating in January ening our earning power while maintaining financial discipline aimed 2019 from Ato A on the Japan Credit Rating Agency’s Long-term 0 5 at further improving shareholder and corporate value as a basic policy. Issuer Rating Scale. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Planned Goal Planned Goal In order to do so, we are working on three missions: to grow earnings, As a future goal, we are aiming to control the debt-equity ratio so *1. Original anticipated value as of May 10, 2018 to increase return on assets (ROA), and to maintain financial order that it is below 2.3x, and keep the EBITDA ratio at the standard 10x *2. Original anticipated value as of May 11, 2017 (Figure 1). To achieve these missions, it is essential to increase the (Figures 3 and 4). We have a policy of directing our investment capabiliprofitability of each business, and we are going to investigate future ty, created through an increase in equity, towards excellent properties, portfolio business strategies, categorizing our businesses into three including the Greater Shibuya Area. Figure 6. Changes in ROE Figure 7. Changes in Dividends (Per Share) categories: Asset Utilization Businesses, Stock Utilization Businesses, For our capitalization strategy, we will enrich stockholder returns and Strategic Businesses. through the stable growth of EPS, while also establishing an ROE goal (%) (¥) 10.0 20.0 In our Asset Utilization Businesses, making up about 84% of our of over 8% for fiscal 2020, keeping the cost of capital stock in mind total assets, we are increasing our revenue base and improving ROA (Figures 5 and 6). Through this readjusting of our Plan, EPS exceeded 15.5 16.0 Over 8.0% 15.0 14.5 through operating large-scale projects under development centered the anticipated standard before the increase in capital through public 8.0 7.7 12.0 13.0 around our Urban Development business, promoting highly efficient offering, and we anticipate that the diluted portion will recover by 7.1 7.3 7.3 8.0 8.0 6.8 10.0 7.5 6.6 10.0 6.5 business, and continuing cyclical reinvestment. For our highly effifiscal 2020 through capital increases. 8.0 6.5 5.0 cient businesses, we are actively developing our socially-important We are making it a basic policy for shareholder returns to make 6.0 4.5 5.0 renewable energy business, our housing redevelopment business, the dividend payout ratio at 25% or more while also continuing stable 6.5 7.0 7.5 8.0 5.0 5.5 our Tokyu Stay, urban style hotels, and more. NOI Yield for already dividend payments. We anticipate a record profit for fiscal 2019 as 3.5*3 4.0 0.0 operating properties accounts for about 5% of the non-current assets well, planning for a ¥16.0 dividend (per share) – the 7th consecutive 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) in our urban development business. We are anticipating improved ROA increase. We anticipate the dividend payout ratio to be 29.5% (Figure 7). Planned Goal ■ End of Period ■ Interim Planned *3. Interim dividends for fiscal 2013 are the dividends for TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Figure 1. Basic Policies Aimed at Further Improving Shareholder and Corporate Value Breakdown of Assets by Segment Improved Corporate Value Business Portfolio Strategy Tokyu Hands Innovation Business Increased Earnings EBITDA Growth ¥37.8 billion ¥130.0 billion Asset Utilization Businesses Improved Shareholder Value Real Estate Agents (Urban Development, Residential, and Wellness) ¥104.9 billion Strengthened Revenue Base and Improved ROA Property Management ¥102.5 billion EPS Growth/Improved ROE Improved ROA Increased Profitability of Stock Utilization and Breakdown of the Urban Development Segment Each Business Strategic Businesses Stock Utilization Businesses 16% (Property Management and Real Estate Agents) Wellness Urban Development ¥1,534.1 billion ¥273.7 billion Total Assets Stable Profit Growth (before liquidation) Urban Development ¥1,534.1 billion Maintained Increased Equity Through ¥2,419.3 billion Non-current Assets Real Estate Other Financial Discipline Yearly Profit for Sale ¥959.8 billion ¥303.9 billion Asset Utilization ¥270.4 billion Strategic Businesses Residential (Tokyu Hands and Innovation Business) Businesses ¥236.4 billion 84% Real Estate Book Value (Rent, etc.) ¥816.1 billion Cash Equivalent, Controlled Debt-Equity Ratio Stable Profit Growth (NOI Yield of Properties Operated: approx. 5%) Investment and EBITDA Rate Securities, etc. 44 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 45 Section 3 Sustainable Growth Sustainable Growth Financial Analysis Financial Position Assets, Liabilities, and Total Net Assets (Billions of yen) ● Total assets at the end of fiscal 2018 were ¥2 trillion 405.2 billion, FY2016 FY2017* 2 FY2018 Comparison Operating Results an increase of ¥232.0 billion compared to the end of the previous Real estate for sale 418.6 473.7 568.0 94.3 fiscal year. There was an increase in monetary capital (including “Other”) from multiple temporary increases, including lags in payProperty and equipment, Intangible assets 1,164.1 1,165.6 1,142.4 (23.3) Summary of Results (Billions of yen) ment periods and deposits received from subsidiaries. There was Goodwill 88.0 82.6 77.1 (5.4) ● The results for fiscal 2018 include an operating revenue of ¥901.9 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Comparison also an increase in land and buildings for sale mainly in facilities Other investment 214.7 258.1 294.4 36.3 billion (4.1% increase from previous year), an operating profit of Operating revenue 808.5 866.1 901.9 35.8 related to infrastructure and commercial facilities currently in ¥80.2 billion (3.5% increase), an ordinary profit of ¥70.7 billion (3% Other 181.8 193.2 323.3 130.1 operation. increase) and a profit attributable to owners of parent of ¥37.5 billion Operating profit 73.2 77.5 80.2 2.7 ● Total liabilities were ¥1 trillion 836.6 billion, an increase of ¥138.7 Total assets 2,067.2 2,173.2 2,405.2 232.0 (6.5% increase). 1,137.9 1,210.4 1,289.8 79.4 Ordinary profit 63.6 68.7 70.7 2.1 billion compared to the end of the previous fiscal year. Total net Interest-bearing debt ● Following the opening of Tokyu Harvestclub Karuizawa & VIALA, assets were ¥568.7 billion, an increase of ¥93.4 billion from the end Other 483.0 487.5 546.7 59.2 a member’s only resort hotel as part of the Wellness segment, coProfit attributable to 31.5 35.2 37.5 2.3 of the previous fiscal year due to capital increases mainly through Total liabilities 1,620.8 1,697.9 1,836.6 138.7 owned shares were handed over, and there was an increase in sales owners of parent public offering. and profits through the strong condition of the Real Estate Agents Total net assets 446.3 475.3 568.7 93.4 EBITDA multiple*1 11.2 times 11.4 times 11.7 times 0.3 segment. ● After shifting to a holdings system, we’ve achieved an increase in ROA 3.6% 3.7% 3.5% (0.1)P operating profit, ordinary profit, and profit attributable to owners of Breakdown of Inventories Innovation Business Other Breakdown of Short-term loans payable Current portion of bonds ROE 7.3% 7.7% 7.3% (0.5)P 5% ¥27.3 billion 2% ¥14.3 billion Interest-bearing Debt 6% ¥80.5 billion 2% ¥20.0 billion parent over 6 consecutive terms. Wellness 5% ¥27.2 billion Current portion of Urban Development long-term loans payable Real Estate Agents 46% ¥270.4 billion 6% ¥36.4 billion 6% ¥82.8 billion Operating Revenue/Operating Profit by Segment Operating Revenue by Segment Adjustment for (Billions of yen) Residential Bonds payable Long-term loans payable ● There were increases in both revenue and Profit for the Property Maninter-company 35% ¥205.3 billion 14% ¥185.8 billion 71% ¥920.7 billion Tokyu Hands transactions agement, Real Estate Agents, Wellness, and Tokyu Hands segments, +0.3 (8.3) a decrease in revenue but an increase in profit for the Innovation Innovation Business Business segment, and decreases in both revenue and profit for the (0.1) Wellness Urban Development and Residential segments in fiscal 2018. +26.9 Market Value Appraisal for Leased Properties (Billions of yen) Urban Development Although we started operations at new facilities ● The carring value at the end of fiscal 2018 for leased properties, inand improved lease revenues from existing real estates, there was a FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Comparison decrease in both revenue and profit due to a decrease in gains on the Real Estate Agents cluding office buildings and commercial facilities, was ¥816.1 billion, Urban +19.5 901.9 Carring value 797.5 791.4 816.1 24.8 sales of buildings to investors, a loss in income from properties sold Development Property with a fair value of 1 trillion ¥61.5 billion – a difference of ¥245.3 last fiscal year, and an increase in costs for redevelopment projects. (13.3) Management billion. Properties that are planned but not yet opened (¥52.9 billion Fair value 928.5 937.1 1,061.5 124.4 +13.0 at the end of fiscal 2018) are not included in year-end fair value or Residential Difference 131.0 145.7 245.3 99.6 Residential Although there was an increase in gains for rental 866.1 carring value, as it is difficult to determine their value.*3 (2.1) housing aimed at investors, there was a decrease in both revenue and profit due to a decrease in the total number of condominiums. FY2017 FY2018 Cash Flows (Billions of yen) Property Management There was an increase in both revenue and ● Cash flows from investing activities in fiscal 2018 decreased by profit due to an increase in construction sales for buildings, etc., in FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Comparison ¥60.4 billion due to the non-current asset investments from office addition to the expansion of management stock for condominiums and Cash flows buildings, commercial facilities, etc., but cash flows from financing 68.9 12.3 44.5 32.3 buildings. from operating activities activities were appropriated the decrease, including cash flows from Operating Profit by Segment Real Estate Agents There was an increase in both revenue and profit (Billions of yen) Adjustment for operating activities, issued shares, and the procurement of interCash flows (71.0) (96.4) (60.4) 36.0 due to sales including purchase and resale and an increase in the inter-company est-bearing debts. from investing activities transactions ● Cash flows from operating activities increased when compared to number of building residences for investors, in addition to the strong (0.8) the previous fiscal year through consignment sale deposits, as well Cash flows condition of the real estate sales agent retail department against a 23.0 82.4 139.1 56.7 from financing activities backdrop of a robust real estate market. as profit before income taxes. Innovation Business Wellness There was an increase in both revenue and profit due to the +3.2 start of new facilities operations at Tokyu Stay, an urban style hotel, in Return to Shareholders (yen) Urban Tokyu Hands addition to the handing over of co-owned shares of a members-only Development +0.3 ● We consider returns to shareholders as one of the most important resort hotel and sales of assets. (0.9) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Comparison Residential policies in our Medium-Term Management Plan 2017-2020, (2.2) Wellness Tokyu Hands There was an increase in both revenue and profit due to +2.0 80.2 comprehensively considering achievements, the future business Dividends per share 13.00 14.50 15.50 1.00 Real Estate environment, and capital requirements including medium-term the opening of new stores and a decrease in expenses. Agents 77.5 Property +0.7 development. We have made it a policy to determine the distribution Innovation Business Although there was a decrease in revenue due Management of profits with a target payout of 25% or more while maintaining EPS (earnings per share) 51.77 57.80 56.84 (0.96) +0.4 to the impact of transferring part of the renovation business to the stable dividend policies. property management segment, there was also an increase in revenue ● In fiscal 2018, we’ve achieved an increase in dividends over 6 Dividend payout ratio 25.1% 25.1% 27.3% due to an increase in sales of properties from overseas operations and consecutive terms through a steady increase in profit attributable to the number of condominiums in Indonesia. FY2017 FY2018 owners of parent. *2. The Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting (ASBJ Statement No. 28, February 16, 2018) took effect at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and this Accounting Standard was applied retroactively to the main management indexes from fiscal 2017. *1. EBITDA multiple: Interest-bearing debt/EBITDA (Operating profit before depreciation) *3. The following properties, set to open from fiscal 2019, are included as their market value was able to be determined: SHIBUYA SOLASTA, SHIBUYA FUKURAS, and the Takeshiba District Development Plan (tentative name). 46 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 47 Section 3 Sustainable Growth / ESG Management ESG Management ESG Management Work-Style Reform Social Needs The Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group believes that the meaningfulness of work is important to continue The Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group sees the social issues that various stakeholders must resolve, build its human capital strength and to achieve sustainable growth. We are reforming work styles with such as neighborhood safety and security, as social needs. We are working to resolve these issues the aim of creating a vibrant workplace where all employees can take full advantage of their abilities. through our businesses and focusing on the development of a sustainable, enriched society. Basic Approach Basic Approach Management Structure Management Structure The Group believes that creating workplaces ・We have established the Sustainability Committee, which is under the direct The Group believes that creating products and ・We have established the Sustainability Committee, which is under the direct where each employee can work to the best authority of the president and representative director. The committee conducts services that can resolve social issues and authority of the president and representative director. of his or her abilities with enthusiasm and in Group-wide management for various work-style reform programs. making them widely available will lead to the ・The committee conducts Group-wide management and promotes individual good health is crucial for sustainable corpo・Numerical targets are set and progress in achieving KPIs is monitored for key issues. development of an enriched society and susprojects to resolve social issues and create value through business in areas such rate development. To this end, the Group is ・Information relating to occupational health and safety is shared through the Group tainable companies. We strive to understand as urban revitalization, reducing environmental impact, and creating barrier-free proactively undertaking work-style reform Labor Liaison Committee. increasingly diverse social issues and needs, buildings. with the five priority themes of diversity and ・Annual stress checks are conducted. including the pursuit of safety and security and ・Targets are set in each business department and progress is monitored based inclusion, work-life balance, engagement, ・Physical examinations are performed. regional revitalization, and work in collaboraon KPIs. human resource development, and health tion with all stakeholders toward the creation of Division with Authority Division with Authority management. Our aim is to create a group that and Responsibility Group Human Resources Department KPI targets See P.33 a sustainable and prosperous society through and Responsibility Each business department KPI targets See P.33 facilitates work and makes work meaningful. our business activities. Diversity and Inclusion Work-Life Balance Pursuit of Safety and Security Creation of Society in Which Everyone Thrives Advancement of Female Employees To encourage the advancement Flexible Work Styles In 2019, TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. introduced the Disaster Management In 2018, TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. added Inclusive Office Building Design Developed by TOKYU LAND CORof female employees, including female managers, we monitor the agent system for estate agents enabling them to be lifelong profesa disaster response support function to its Field’s EYES large-scale PORATION as a base for Group companies, SHIBUYA SOLASTA has progress of each Group company and are moving forward with the insionals as a new work style option after mandatory retirement. repair construction management system. In the event of disaster, such gender-neutral toilets and a multi-faith prayer room to cater for a ditroduction of an interview system and a mentoring program for people as typhoon or heavy rain, this support function can be used to issue verse workforce. Both are situated on the top floor, which is a common Telework TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. was selected as a Telework who are taking childcare leave. instructions from head office disaster management headquarters use area, and can be accessed freely by our own employees and the Pioneer 100 Company by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Comto those in charge of construction work and to centrally monitor the employees of all other tenants. Selection for Inclusion in Index In recognition of our initiatives to munications in recognition of its track record in utilizing a telework status of onsite construction work. promote the progress of female employees, we have been selected as system that uses IT. Response to Aging As Japan becomes a super-aged society, cona constituent of the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN). This dominium managers are required to communicate effectively with Improvement of Business Efficiency Tokyu Housing Lease Corpoindex has been adopted by the Government Pension Investment Fund diverse tenants. TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. is focusing on activities to ration introduced robotic process automation (RPA) to improve the (GPIF) as an index for its operation of ESG investments. efficiency of troublesome office work and plans to automate 150,000 Regional Revitalization train staff in providing support to dementia sufferers and is working to increase understanding of dementia by holding regular seminars for Certification as an Excellent Company TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. hours of office work per year by the end of fiscal 2020. Area Management We leverage the knowhow we have built up in condominium managers. and TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. received the highest of the three levels of urban development that addresses social issues to promote area Eruboshi certification, which is granted by the Minister of Health, Labor Support for International Student Exchange Activities NATIONAL management. In our initiative for the Greater Shibuya Area and largeand Welfare (MHLW) based on the Act on the Promotion of Women’s Health Management/Engagement STUDENTS INFORMATION CENTER Group continuously supports the scale development projects such as the Takeshiba District Development Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. international exchange activities of students in Japan and Vietnam. Plan (tentative name) and the Ofuna Station north second district Urban Promotion of Health Management Tokyu Fudosan Holdings CorpoThe 12th Nasic Cup Nihongo Speech Contest held at Hanoi University Employment of People with Disabilities We disclose employment District Redevelopment Project, we have helped to make regions more ration, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION, TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP., Tokyu in September 2018 had more than 100 entrants and, for the 16th rates of people with disabilities and check progress toward achieveattractive by promoting wide-ranging activities mainly aimed at creating Housing Lease Corporation, TOKYU SPORTS OASIS Inc. and EWEL, Japan Vietnam Student Exchange Conference held in October, 30 ment of the statutory rate. At TOKYU LIVABLE, INC., people with mental bustle in collaboration with local communities, local governments and Inc. were certified as Health and Productivity Management OrganizaVietnamese students including the contest winners, were invited to and developmental disorders are engaged in work such as the proother stakeholders. tions (White 500). Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation, TOKYU LAND Japan to foster exchange with Japanese students. duction of gifts for customers, and our efforts to promote the creation Creation of Bustle Revamped as part of the Tokyu Plaza Ginza develof comfortable wokplace environments where all employees can CORPORATION and TOKYU SPORTS OASIS Inc. were listed for the opment, Sukiyabashi Park was transformed into a place where people demonstrate abilities are leading to increased employment of people third successive year. can relax in comfort, providing a bustling gateway to the Ginza District. with disabilities. Making Work Meaningful TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. was selected by Thanks to the cooperation of ISHIKATSU EXTERIOR INC. with the planting Employment of Elderly Persons TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. received the Great Place to Work® Institute Japan as one of Japan’s best design, the park won the special prize in the 2018 Urban Public Space the Minister prize in the MHLW’s Contest for the Employment Developworkplaces in the Large Enterprise Division of the Best Workplaces Design Competition. ment for Older Persons for Fiscal Year 2018 in recognition of its initiaranking both in 2018 and 2019, in recognition of its efforts to create tives to promote the employment of older persons such as increasing an organizational climate where employees are proud of their work the mandatory retirement age of engineers to 65 and raising the age and feel it is meaningful. limit for continuous employment after reemployment by job type. Three Years after Kumamoto Earthquakes – Supporting Local Community on Road to Recovery Aso Tokyu Golf Club was forced to close due to damage suffered in the April 2016 Kumamoto Earthquakes. We have supported the local community on its road to recovery, selling specialty products from Kumamoto Prefecture via the online shop and providing beekeepers with unused land free of charge to make honey. We kept up our reconstruction support activities even Female employees’ networking lunch meeting Golf course immediately after the earthquake Local children helping to make honey (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) Eruboshi Accreditation Health and Productivity Enterprises after Aso Tokyu Golf Club fully reopened in April 2019. (3rd rank) (White 500) 48 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 49 Section 3 Sustainable Growth / ESG Management ESG Management ESG Management Environment Corporate Governance The Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group recognizes that environmental issues such as climate change are important issues that The Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group places the utmost emphasis on ensuring thorough risk management and have a major impact on business continuity. Based on our Environmental Vision established in 1998, we are implementing strict compliance and are enhancing the transparency and accountability of our management. We are constantly ongoing initiatives to address environmental issues through our business activities. endeavoring to strengthen corporate governance in a bid to ensure bold and timely decisions. Basic Approach Management Structure Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors The Group understands that five environ・We have established the Sustainability Committee, which is under the direct mental issues – climate change, biodiversity authority of the president and representative director. The committee conducts The Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group’s sustainability vision is to solve social conservation, pollution and resources, water Group-wide management for each of the environmental issues. issues through its business activities and to work with stakeholders to use, and supply chains – can have a major ・Targets are set for CO2 emissions, waste generation, and water use, and progrealize a sustainable society and growth, with the aim of becoming a corimpact on business activities. The Group ress of KPIs is monitored. porate group that continues to create value. To realize this vision, I will work seeks to actively solve these issues in the Division with Authority Related departments to strengthen governance aiming for more agile group management by KPI targets See P.33 development and operation of business sites and Responsibility in each company ensuring active discussions at Board of Directors meetings as the chair of and office buildings, commercial facilities, board meetings and ensuring management fairness and transparency. resort facilities and other properties. Believing Five years have passed since we transitioned to a holding company that business which excels in environmental Environmental Vision (Basic Policy developed in 1998, revised in 2015) structure in 2013 and, during this time, the environment surrounding initiatives will enhance competitiveness Environmental Philosophy corporate management, has changed significantly and public pressure for and create new business opportunities, the We will create value to connect cities and nature, and people with the future. good governance is mounting year by year, with developments such as the Group cooperates with various stakeholders Environmental Policy application of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. including design companies, construction We will make efforts to harmonize the environment and the economy through In anticipation of this trend, we established the Group Corporate Govercompanies, and customers to carry out business activities. nance Guidelines in December 2018, and are pushing ahead with optimiongoing measures. Environmental Action zation of the governance system in view of social conditions and the global We will tackle five environmental issues from three viewpoints. business environment. Regarding outside directors who give advice on growth strategies and enhancement of governance from an independent perspective, we elected our first female outside director in fiscal 2018. This Three Viewpoints Five Environmental Issues ・Publicize a goal and implement action ・Climate change gives us a total of four outside directors, who are highly diverse from the ・Endeavor to implement progressive ・Biodiversity conservation viewpoint of gender and international experience and who leverage their Creating Cities Co-exisiting with Nature. activities ・Pollution and resources specialist knowledge and vast experience to actively make comments and Creating a Future for People. ・Conduct community-based activities in ・Water use collaboration with local people ・Supply chains raise questions at board meetings. Moving forward, we will keep implementing measures to strengthen the Board of Directors’ supervisory function and enhance our corporate value Kiyoshi Kanazashi and will continue providing value to our stakeholders in order to achieve Chairman and Representative Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors Climate Change Biodiversity Conservation long-term sustainable growth. Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Support for TCFD Recommendations In 2019, we announced our Harmony with Nature At Palau Pacific Resort, opened in 1984, we support for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related have always conducted business in line with a policy of balancing Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and we also participate in the TCFD development with the need to protect the environment. We have Consortium which discusses related initiatives. upheld this original principal and, when developing a new area, which Progress in Strengthening Corporate Governance included independent bungalows, in 2019, we placed importance on Renewable Energy Business TOKYU LAND CORPORATION conducts harmony with nature in our operation and development activities, FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 the renewable energy business under the brand name ReENE and opting for a layout that preserved the existing trees as much as contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions through solar power and ● Enactment of Mediumand Long-term Management Plan “Value Frontier 2020: A Corporate Group that Continues to Create Value” possible and adopting a landscape plan that was considerate of the Establishment of wind power generation. Tokyu Fudosan ecosystem. Holdings Corporation ● Enactment of Mediumand Long-term Management Plan Stage 2 Participation in RE100 In 2019, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION joined “Medium-Term Management Plan 2017-2020” Planting Greenery in Urban Areas The Group is working to form the global corporate leadership initiative RE100, with a commitment to ecological networks that take biodiversity into consideration by source 100% renewable energy by 2050. Established with 13 internal directors Established independence standards for outside directors (also apply to Audit & Supervisory Board members) proactively adding greenery to the buildings we develop and operate. Reduction of CO2 Emissions TOKYU LAND CORPORATION installed a Clarified policy regarding shares as cross-shareholding At Omohara Forest, the rooftop garden of Tokyu Plaza Omotesando liquified natural gas (LNG) satellite station and a gas cogeneration sysHarajuku that features tall trees such as Japanese zelkova serrata and Elected first outside director Elected two more outside directors Elected first female outside director tem that also serves as an emergency generator at the Hyatt Regency katsura, we promote activities to monitor changes in the ecosystem of E  stablished Nomination and  stablished Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group E Seragaki Island Okinawa, a resort hotel opened in 2018, contributing to the greenery such as conducting wildlife surveys in cooperation with Compensation Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Guidelines the reduction of CO2 emissions and disaster management. environmental protection experts.  egan evaluating effectiveness of B the Board of Directors Set KPIs for corporate governance as part of Medium-term Management Plan See P.33 for fiscal 2020 KPI targets Introduced stock-based compensation system for directors and delegated managing officers Outside director Outside director Outside directors Outside directors 0 (0%) 1 (11.1%) 3 (23.1%) 4 (30.8%) New area at Palau Pacific Resort 50 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 51 Section 3 Sustainable Growth / ESG Management Corporate Governance forward, these issues will be addressed and the status of improvefluctuations with shareholders and increase the contribution to the ments will be continuously verified through annual assessments. improvement of mediumand long-term earnings performance and Basic Approach As one example, revisions made in areas evaluated as inadequate, corporate value. Also, for the levels of remuneration for officers (exCorporate Governance Structure In order to fulfill its responsibility to its such as the method and timing of provision of information to directors cluding outside directors and non-executive directors), first, the level of stakeholders surrounding Tokyu Fudosan and Audit & Supervisory Board members, led to improvement in the remuneration for the president and representative director is deterTokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Holdings Group, including shareholders, evaluation of initiatives for following year. mined, and then, the levels of remuneration for other directors and customers, business partners, local Office of Corporate Lately, results show improvement in evaluation of the effectiveAudit & Supervisory Board members are determined based on fixed Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory communities and employees, Tokyu Fudosan Auditors ness of our Board of Directors. We will continue striving to improve differences in positions. The level of remuneration for the president Holdings Corporation strives to ensure its effectiveness in the future. and representative director (monetary compensation plus stock-based sustainable growth and increase corporate Accounting Auditor compensation) is set around 0.1% of the operating profit for the previBoard Board members value over the medium and long term Diverse Composition We believe that having a Board of Directors with ous consolidated fiscal year, as consolidated operating profit is adopted by engaging in social issues through its a good balance of diverse knowledge, experience and abilities is key to as the target index under the Medium-Term Management Plan. business. To that end, the Company will increasing its effectiveness. One precondition for election as director Target percentages for fixed remuneration and variable remunerawork to ensure soundness and transparency Group Executive Group Internal is that candidates have the moral character and integrity required of a tion and the approach to determining the remuneration of each officer Committee Audit Department of management and build a corporate director and have no health issues and we also give consideration to are as shown in the following table. General Meeting of Shareholders Group Companies governance system that contributes to the overall balance to ensure a sufficiently diverse board both in terms Fixed Remuneration Variable Remuneration of gender and international mindedness. Board of Directors expediting decision making. All Divisions Item Monthly Stock-based Chairman President Bonus Remuneration Compensation Independent Outside Directors For the Company’s corporate govRisk Management Short-term Medium-to-long-term Committee ernance, independent outside directors should have rich experience Positioning Basic remuneration incentive incentive Corporate Governance Guidelines in management and a high level of discernment and character as Target percentage of 60% 30% 10% In December 2018, we organized/systemized our Sustainability well as other pertinent attributes together with an understanding of total remuneration governance initiatives into the Tokyu Fudosan Committee the Group’s wide-ranging business fields and the value they create. Linked to business results Group level: Approach to fluctuation Linked to stock price Holdings Group Corporate Governance Guidein a single fiscal year lines, which we then approved and enacted as They are to provide advice from a broad, high-level perspective, while Determined with reference guidelines for our future initiatives and a basic appropriately supervising executives from an independent position. Group level: Fluctuation from base amount to employees’ bonuses Linked to stock price policy that will facilitate constructive dialogue Nomination and Compensation We currently have four independent outside directors who have vast Linked to performance with shareholders and investors. At the same Advisory Committee Individual level: Approach to fluctuation experience of their own specialist areas, including management, legal evaluation time, we also set out the Group’s basic approach to corporate governance. affairs and accounting, etc. To enable appropriate and flexible deciIndividual level: Fluctuation from base amount 60-140% Linked to stock price sion-making on business activities and the supervision of execution, the Company considers it advantageous for the Board of Directors to A remuneration proposal prepared by the president and represenbe composed of directors from inside the Company who have specialtative director based on the above is referred to the Nomination & ist capabilities and insight into business fields, management plans, Compensation Advisory Committee and compensation is determined Roles of Key Organizations Extraordinary meetings are held as and when necessary. In order to personnel, finance and accounting, and so forth, and independent within the limits of the total compensation amount by a resolution clarify the management responsibility of directors and establish a outside directors who are able to proactively offer opinions on growth of the Board of Directors. For stock-based compensation, a transfer system that is able to respond rapidly to changes in the management strategies as well as the enhancement of governance, and raise Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee The Nomirestriction period of three years from the time of delivery of the stock environment, the term of office of directors is set at one year. concerns, from the perspectives of diverse stakeholders and society. nation and Compensation Advisory Committee, chaired by an indeis set. The compensation of Audit & Supervisory Board members is pendent outside director, was established as an advisory body to the determined within the limits of the total amount of compensation Board of Directors to increase the objectivity and transparency of proAudit & Supervisory Board The Company has adopted a statutory Criteria for Determining Independence through consultation among Audit & Supervisory Board members. cedures for matters related to the election of directors and operating auditor system. Under this system, Audit & Supervisory Board The Company deems independent outside directors to be indeThe following table contains the total amount of remuneration, etc. officers and matters relating to compensation. The Board of Directors members attend important meetings including those of the Board of pendent when, in addition to meeting the independence stanin fiscal 2018. consults the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee beDirectors to receive business reports from directors and other officers. dards for independent officers stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Audit & Supervisory Board members peruse documentation on imExchange, they have not been any of the following for any of the Total Amount of Remuneration fore passing resolutions on matters relating to the election of director Category Number of Persons (Millions of yen) candidates and the election of operating officers and matters relating portant decisions and listen to reports as well as other presentations previous three fiscal years. to the compensation of directors. from the Internal Audit Department, subsidiaries, other parties, and 1. An executive of a business partner to which the Company’s net Directors* 17 248 the accounting auditor as a part of their audit of the status of business sales account for 2% or more of the Company’s consolidated (of which, independent outside 6 40 execution at the Company, its subsidiaries, and related companies. net sales directors) Composition of Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee Audit & Supervisory Board members form fair audit opinions by 2. An executive of a business partner whose net sales to the ComAudit & Supervisory Board 4 63 (as of June 26, 2019) members accurately grasping information based on on-site visits and other pany account for 2% or more of the business partner’s net sales Koichi Iki (Independent Outside Director, Chair of Nomination and activities, which are mainly conducted by full-time Audit & Supervisory 3. An executive of a lender from which the Company borrows (of which, outside Audit & 2 9 Supervisory Board members) Compensation Advisory Committee) Board members, and effectively audit directors in the performance of funds that account for 2% or more of the Company’s consoliMakoto Kaiami (Independent Outside Director) Total 21 312 their duties as an independent body under the mandate of shareholddated total assets Kiyoshi Kanazashi (Chairman & Representative Director) ers by utilizing the fast responsiveness and flexibility of the Audit & 4. An executive of a major shareholder or investor of the Compa(of which, outside officers) 8 49 Yuji Okuma (President & Representative Director) Supervisory system. ny with an investment ratio of 10% or more 5. A consultant, accounting professional, or legal professional * Includes the four directors who retired at the close of the 5th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held in June 2018. Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee was who receives compensation of more than ¥10 million a year Board of Directors The Board of Directors functions as a supreme set up as an entity to deliberate, discuss and report on matters in two from the Company besides officer compensation decision-making body second to the General Meeting of Shareholders, areas: important plans and proposals relating to Group management 6. A spouse or relative within two degrees of kinship of a director, Internal Control and makes decisions on important issues related to business operapolicy, management strategies and Group management; and importetc. of the Company or a consolidated subsidiary tions. The Board of Directors develops internal rules such as the Board ant investment plans and proposals as well as business strategy The Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group has taken active steps to put in of Directors Regulations and the Duty Authority Regulations in addition proposals for subsidiaries. Comprising the chairman and representaplace and implement internal control systems for all members of to the matters stipulated in laws and regulations and the Articles of tive director, president and operating officers from directors on down, the Group, including the Board of Directors and other organizations, Incorporation. Based on these rules, the Board of Directors makes the Group Executive Committee convenes, in principle, once a month. System of Remuneration for Officers management and employees, with the aims of thoroughly impledecisions on important matters related to the Group’s management, menting compliance-based management, ensuring proper business such as management policies, business plans, and large-scale inThe system of remuneration for officers (excluding outside directors operations, achieving management priorities such as earnings targets vestment plans. Authority for the execution of business and decisions Strengthening the Functions of the Board of Directors and non-executive directors) consists of fixed remuneration, by raising the levels of efficiency and effectiveness, and undertaking relating to the execution of duties for issues other than the important performance-based remuneration and stock-based compensation. the appropriate disclosure of information; all of which will contribute matters listed above is delegated to the Group Executive Committee Evaluating the Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board of DirecFixed remuneration is a consideration for the day-to-day execution of to the sustainable development of the Group and the consistent and other subordinate meeting bodies, officers and others in charge tors is evaluated annually. Evaluations and opinions of its effectiveness internal operations, whereas performance-based remuneration takes improvement of its corporate value. In addition, Audit & Supervisory of business operations. Meanwhile, the Board of Directors supervises according to each director and Audit & Supervisory Board member into consideration the business results in a single fiscal year and the Board members are monitoring and validating the progress of develthe performance of duties by the meeting bodies as well as officers are reported to and shared with the Board of Directors, and issues for achievement level of management plans. Stock-based compensation opments in its internal control system in accordance with the Audit and others. In principle, the Board of Directors meets once a month. reassessment are identified to raise effectiveness even further. Going is designed to have officers share the benefits and risks of stock price Practice Standards for Internal Control Systems. 52 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 53 Section 3 Sustainable Growth / ESG Management Corporate Governance Risk Management Basic Risk Management Policy Risk Management System In addition to the Group Executive ComCompliance mittee and Board of Directors, the Company has established the Risk Basic Stance on Risk Management Guided by its Basic Risk ManThe Company makes every effort to clearly identify all major risks Management Committee to ensure the proper management of risks The Company has positioned the establishment of risk management agement Policy, the Company has put in place and maintains a risk as they apply to the Group as a whole and takes systematic and on a comprehensive Group-wide basis (See Risk Management Structure on through compliance-based management as a priority management management structure and systems. The Company recognizes as continuous steps to implement all necessary measures on the previous page). A department has also been formed to oversee indiissue. We are keenly aware that the practice of such risk management potential risks all internal and external factors that negatively impact a priority basis in order to comprehensively manage all risks that vidual risks within the Company. This department is responsible for is the foundation of our operations, and we undertake educational the Group’s business operations resulting in financial loss, damage to have the potential to hinder the Group from achieving its objecascertaining, evaluating, and analyzing the Group’s risk management measures so that all offi cers and employees not only comply with its brand or reputation, or interruption and suspension of activities as structure and systems as well as the status of operations. laws and regulations applicable to our corporate activities, but also tives or to create a loss. a going concern. The Company evaluates, analyzes, and manages all Complementing these initiatives, the Company takes steps to make decisions and act in accordance with the Tokyu Fudosan Holdrelevant risks in each Group company. confirm the efficacy of its risk management structure and systems as ings Group Code of Conduct. The Company has classified the aforementioned risks into three Individual Risks well as its risk management operations through internal audits. Audits The Company also created the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group broad categories: operating and management risks; business process of major risks are systematically undertaken in accordance with their Compliance Manual as a concrete manual for understanding the Tokyu 1. Investment risks 5. IT strategy risks priority. risks, and; other major risks including crisis management. The ComFudosan Holdings Group Code of Conduct and putting it into practice. pany manages each risk on an individual basis as follows. 2. Financial and capital risks 6. Information management and In the event of a major loss or emergency that could cause serious All officers and employees are thoroughly informed about compliance 3. Personnel and labor risks leakage risks damage to the Group, the Company takes appropriate steps in line with through periodic training. its Emergency Response Provisions. These include the distribution of Compliance helplines were established at the Company and 4. Legal and compliance risks 7. Crisis management risks information and decisive action as necessary to minimize damage. individual Group companies for consultations and reporting relating to violations of laws and regulations, internal rules, and the Tokyu Risk Management Process The Company takes steps to identify the Fudosan Holdings Group Code of Conduct. The Company’s helpline can wide variety of risks to which the Group is susceptible. At the same be used by all Group employees (including contract employees, tempotime, the Company undertakes an evaluation and analysis of risks in rary employees, and part-time workers). There is an internal reporting line with the degree of impact and likelihood of occurrence. Based desk that allows anonymous reports to be made and an external on the results of evaluations and analyses, the Risk Management reporting desk handled by an outside advising attorney. The aim of Committee has identified the following parameters with respect to the these desks is to discover and rectify violations at the earliest possible continuous management of major risks. time. A total of 125 consultations and reports including consultations Risk Management Structure and questions on minor matters were received by the Company and Major Risks Group companies in fiscal 2018. ・Occurrence of an accident that negatively impacts the safety of Risk Management Committee Group Executive Committee customers, business partners, and/or employees Reinforcing Information Security Roles Roles ・Leakage or loss of confidential or personal information 1. D  etermines the structure under which risks are Deliberates on important matters ・Prolonged working hours and unpaid overtime The Company has established rules on proper information retention managed as well as all policy initiatives governing risk as they relate to the management ・Inadequate customer service and product quality and management, and as a part of its efforts to raise information Direction with respect security levels even further and reinforce development of the internal management activities for the Group as a whole. to deliberations relating and operations of the Group; ・Breach of statutory or regulatory requirement (industrial, 2. O  versees the distribution and sharing of information conducts overall control over control environment, we adopted a fundamental policy on information to investment, finance, financial, commercial, and other legislation) or compliance in connection with measures aimed at preventing any and capital risks deliberations, reports, and the management, reorganized the Fundamental Rules on Information ・Inadequate crisis management systems Management, and put them into practice on April 1, 2017. recurrence of a major incident*1 as well as any data implementation of major investrelating to risks that require management on a Groupment projects for each business ・Improper or inappropriate work-related conduct by offi cers The Fundamental Rules on Information Management clarify wide basis company as well as business and and employees responsibility for information management and specify basic require3. M  onitors the frameworks that oversee major risk other strategies from a Group・Inadequate internal control system development and operation ments and principles of information management pursuant to the mitigation activities for each Group company and wide perspective fundamental policy on information management. individual unit, etc. *2 In addition, a Group Information Security Committee was estabNote: Also includes responses to major 4. E  valuates the efficacy of Group risk management syslished. The committee is establishing PDCA cycles including receipt of incidents of a special nature from the Major Risks Relating to Investment and Financing Capital tems as well as improvement measures (as required) management and operating perspective reports on annual activities from each Group company. Similar rules ・Deviations from or delays in new investment strategies have been established by each company of the Tokyu Fudosan Hold5. P  rovides support in promoting increased awareness toward risks as well as educational activities across ・Inappropriate decision-making with respect to changes in the ings Group, and measures are being taken throughout the Group. the Group as a whole (as required) Risks Requiring Management external environment Reports on the overall status, frequency, and Risks relating to business ・Changes in economic and business conditions Risks Requiring Management other important matters strategies, investment, finance Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors relating to activities ・Delays in the application of Group management resources Risks relating to compliance, business management and capital, marketing, and the aimed at improving (personnel, customers, information, etc.); errors in the use, (personnel, labor management, quality assurance and major managed risks use of management resources The Company engages in constructive dialogue with shareholders and education, or training of human resources safety, information management, customer service, (personnel, customers, other investors to contribute to sustainable growth and the improverelationship management, etc.), and crisis management information, etc.) ・Sharp rise in personnel and raw material prices including the ment of corporate value over the medium to long term. In addition to prices of lumber; changes in construction costs individual meetings with shareholders and investors, the Company ・Inadequate mediumand long-term IT strategies; errors in regularly holds results briefi ngs for institutional investors and anaReport on major projects from both systems investment lysts, and for individual investors. Through these and other events, the Report on Group-wide management and business strategy ・Slump in overseas business development president and the relevant directors and departments actively engage risk information perspectives (including incidents) in dialogue. The views aired by shareholders and investors during ・Drop in the values of assets held (drop in operating rents) these events are regularly reported to the Board of Directors and used ・Errors in identifying customers’ needs in improving the Company’s management. Each Group Company and Individual Unit, etc. ・Implement management and business activities ・Implement major risk improvement activities (PDCA) Roles ・Formulate incident response and preventive measures *1. Incident: Incidents accidents or injuries that have occurred or are likely to occur *2. Includes Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation, each unit (Urban Development, Residential, Wellness, Investment) of TOKYU LAND CORPORATION, other businesses (Tokyu Homes Corporation, ISHIKATSU EXTERIOR INC.), TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP., TOKYU LIVABLE, INC., TOKYU HANDS INC., Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation and NATIONAL STUDENTS INFORMATION CENTER CO., LTD. 54 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 55 Section 3 Sustainable Growth Sustainable Growth Messages from the Outside Directors Using Experience from the Legal World to Contribute to Compliance and Diversity Makoto Kaiami Outside Director (Independent Officer) Discovering social problems, one after the next, and connecting those the legal world where women are highly active. problems to the business through participating in various assets and What I have come to feel as a member of the Board of Directors is connecting with diverse customers are the strengths of this Group. that it is hard to see what kind of opinions were brought up inside the Another strong point is the way that awareness of the Group’s posiCompany since opinions had been screened or filtered through the tion of sincerely going head to head with societal problems – with the thorough discussion at the management meeting and the like. Up until Senior Life business as an example – and compliance with laws and now, I have made statements focusing on compliance about the signifregulations has taken root. If this can be maintained, we will produce icance of an internal reporting system and the importance of clarifying results as a corporate group that contributes to society in the mid-topolicies that do not create disadvantages for whistleblowers. I hope to long term, even when challenges arise. contribute to the development of this Group as I increase the number However, I feel like we have recently become a bit settled in relation of statements like these that make use of knowledge and actively to bold business development ideas, for example, the starting of TOKYU discuss and exchange opinions with internal directors. HANDS INC. in the past. I want the Group to rise to the occasion more, including industrial-academic initiatives and in the use of women’s PROFILE Worked as a judge at district courts in Tokyo, Hiroshima, etc., family courts, and the high opinions. I hope we can create an environment where many different court. Retiring from the courts after experience as a chief judgje at the Tokyo District Court and others, he became a registered lawyer. He became an outside director in 2018. He mainly advocates for goverpeople can be active through my suggestions based on experience in nance and compliance, making use of his legal expert knowledge and experience in the legal world. Increasing the Group’s Value to Society from the Viewpoint of Accounting and Sustainability Saeko Arai Outside Director (Independent Officer) Our Group, which provides diverse services and assets for every life our governance, and activating discussion, I feel like we ought to instage, is promoting urban development that proposal new lifestyles. crease the number of women and outside personnel that are directors, I visited the Setagaya Nakamachi Project, selected as the first and I hope to speak about that, as well. project of the Serviced Development Project for Seniors Together From a mid-to-long range standpoint, the key to growth will be with General Housing initiative in Tokyo, and I felt like it was a good drawing up business strategies while watching the changes in the example of demonstrating this strength. Implementing the ESG Japanese economy and increasing our value to society. It is also immanagement-conscious Medium-Term Management Plan and our portant to aim for the creation of explosive innovation that reacts to reliability and dependability that meets goals ahead of schedule while the changes in the real estate industry. This is where I stand, striving to also improving the Tokyu brand are some of the merits of this Group. enable more beneficial discussions through remembering to integrate Since becoming an outside director here in 2018, I have tried to the perspective of myself as the consumer together with the perspecact based on our fundamental problems from a different viewpoint tives of accounting and sustainability. from others. For example, in addition to requesting the establishment PROFILE Worked as a certified public accountant on audits and more. Later, she became a co-founder of a comparable KPI from a mid-to-long range perspective, I also have of an IT company, becoming Japan’s first female CFO, and also had experience in management at an Left to right, Makoto Kaiami, Koichi Iki, Saeko Arai, and Michiaki Ogasawara spoken about the considerations needed in introducing IT systems for American corporation. She became an outside director in 2018. She also teaches at a university. She works in management in the Group while incorporating consumer’s viewpoint, aided by her knowledge accounting. From the viewpoint of furthering inclusion, strengthening from her experience and work in management. Fostering the Future-Oriented “Outsider” and Creating a Climate of Free and Open Discussion Responding to Technical Innovations for Corporate Value and National Development Koichi Iki Outside Director (Independent Officer) Michiaki Ogasawara Outside Director (Independent Officer) As someone involved in management, I’ve come to emphasize the example, has a network outside the Company and fosters the “outsidLately, I get the sense that the hopes and requests from society for and the changes in the competitive environment based on these techimportance of forward thinking that anticipates the future. Japan is in er” who shakes up the organization. I am also urging all employees outside directors are progressively increasing. As a new outside direcnological advances. I think that our ability to respond to changes is a a whirlwind of change, including the approaching not-too-distant fuin the Company whenever I connect with one of you to be aware of tor, I hope to appropriately carry out my role to realize highly-effective strength of this Group – a Group that has striven to continuously create ture of 2025 when the Baby Boomers become elderly aged 75 or over. long-term perspectives. corporate governance in the Group. new value since our founding. Thinking about what the corporation or business should look like while For the Board of Directors, I expect more active statements from Corporate survival and development depends on whether the I spent many years in government, thinking about measures from looking over the mid-to-long term and executing plans is crucial for the inside directors, and through further increasing the proportion corporation can flexibly respond to what is being sought after by the a long-term perspective that could allow Japanese society to smoothly continued corporate growth. But I get the sense that the Group is still of outside directors, the Company ought to become a place of even society in which the corporation belongs. How will we create a society utilize the results of developing information and communications techweak with these kinds of actions. It is necessary to draw up strategies greater fruitful discussion. As my duty as an outside director who has that allows people of varying ages, nationalities, and genders to comnologies. It is my intention to contribute to the establishment of suitthat weren’t mere expansion of the past business, while predicting worked in this company for about 5 years, I plan to offer even more fortably live together under the large constraints of the simultaneous able governance based on this experience that will allow the Group’s technological innovations and looking firmly into the future of each active statements than in previous years, supporting the activation of progression of a declining population and an aging society – problems efforts to lead to an increase in our corporate value and to national debusiness, taking intangible risks, and exposing problems. discussion and growth of the Group. that our country is facing now? How will we foster new businesses velopment. This is why it’s important to create a climate that allows open and and create an environment that allows new businesses to successnatural discussion. However, upon surveying the Company, I get the fully become independent? I feel that society is seeking further Group PROFILE Worked in information and communication administration, etc., at the Ministry of Internal AfPROFILE Worked as an executive vice president, working in real estate development, personnel, and fairs and Communications, taking on the role of Vice-Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications impression that it is a group that somewhat lacks aggressiveness. more at The Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Company. After resigning and working at asset management and initiatives that develop a wide range of businesses. in 2012. During his tenure there, he oversaw the restructuring of NTT, the digitalization of broadcasts, If everyone has the same way of thinking, discussions can never go other companies, he took on his current role in 2014. He has had the longest career out of all the current outside directors. He makes active statements, making use of his abundant knowledge and At the same time, I think it is essential to have an attitude of and more. After leaving the Ministry, he worked as a director, etc., at a stock brokerage group before assuming the role of outside director in 2019. He offers statements utilizing his experience as a govdeep. The Group ought to create an environment of discipline that, for experience in management. promptly changing in response to the rapid progression of technology ernment administrator and his expert knowledge. 56 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 57 Section 3 Sustainable Growth Sustainable Growth Management Structure Directors April 1970 Joined The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company April 1978 Appointed as a judge June 2001 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, April 2000 Division-head Judge, Tokyo District Court TOKYU LAND CORPORATION July 2007 Associate Vice-Minister of Justice in charge of Litigation Affairs, Minister’s April 2007 Director & Executive Vice President, Secretariat, the Ministry of Justice The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company November 2012 Division-head Judge, Tokyo High Court June 2008 President and Representative Director, July 2014 Chief Judge, the Tokyo Family Court The Dai-Ichi Building Co., Ltd. June 2015 Chief Judge, Tokyo District Court June 2009 Chairman & CEO, DIAM Co., Ltd. February 2017 Registered as attorney at law June 2014 Outside Director, February 2017 Special Advisor, SophiaCity Law Office Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation (current) June 2017 Outside Director, FUJIFILM Holdings July 2014 Representative Director, Toho Kinzoku Co., Ltd. Corporation (current) June 2018 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, SEIREN CO., LTD. (current) Chairman and President and Director Director Director Outside Director Outside Director Representative Director Representative Director (Independent Officer) (Independent Officer) June 2018 Outside Director, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Shinji Sakaki Hitoshi Uemura Katsuhide Saiga Corporation (current) Kiyoshi Kanazashi Yuji Okuma Chairman, TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. Vice Chairman and Representative President and Representative Director, Koichi Iki Makoto Kaiami September 2018 Member of Otemachi Law Office (current) Chairman, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION President and Representative Director, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Director, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. Reasons for nomination The Company nominated Mr. Koichi Iki as an independent outside director with Reasons for nomination The Company nominated Mr. Makoto Kaiami as an outside director so that Outside Director, TOKYU CORPORATION Director, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION the expectation that he will continue to utilize his extensive operational experience as a former executive his expert insight as a judge and attorney at law and his extensive experience in corporate legal Director, TOKYU RECREATION CO.,LTD. officer at The Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance Group and broad insight of corporate management in general affairs may be refl ected in the management of the Company. for the management of the Company. October 1987 Joined Eiwa Audit Corporation April 1976 Joined the Ministry of Posts and (currently KPMG AZSA LLC) Telecommunications (current the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications) October 1993 Joined Sasaki Certified Public Accountants January 2003 Director-General, Tohoku Bureau of Office Telecommunications, the Ministry of Internal September 1998 Director, Managing Director & CFO, Affairs and Communications Internet Research Institute, Inc. February 2005 Deputy Director-General, Minister’s Secretariat, the Ministry of Internal Affairs November 2002 Established Gratia, Inc. (currently Acuray, Inc.), and Communications assumed position as Representative (current) July 2008 Director-General, Global Strategy Bureau, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and November 2002 IRI USA, Inc. President & CEO Communications April 2018 Professor, Showa Women’s University January 2010 Vice Minister for Policy Coordination, June 2018 Outside Member, Board of Directors, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Ltd. (current) September 2012 Vice-Minister, the Ministry of Internal Affairs June 2018 Outside Director, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings and Communications Corporation (current) October 2013 Advisor, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. June 2015 Outside Director, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. April 2019 Specially-Appointed Professor, (current) Director Director Director Director Outside Director Hakuoh University (current) Outside Director June 2018 Chairperson of the Board, Foundation for (Independent Officer) (Independent Officer) Hironori Nishikawa Masashi Okada Shouhei Kimura Hirofumi Nomoto Multimedia Communications (current) June 2019 Outside Director, Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Representative Director, Director, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Director, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Chairman of the Board and Saeko Arai Michiaki Ogasawara Corporation (current) TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Director, TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. Representative Director, TOKYU CORPORATION Reasons for nomination The Company nominated Ms. Saeko Arai as an outside director with the expecReasons for nomination The Company nominated Mr. Michiaki Ogasawara as an outside director Director, TOKYU HANDS INC. Director, TOKYU RECREATION CO.,LTD. tation that she will utilize her broad knowledge in accounting as a certifi ed public accountant, as well as so that his rich experience in and wide-ranging knowledge of government administration may be Outside Director, TOEI COMPANY, LTD. her extensive experience in corporate management as a CFO, for the management of the Company. reflected in management. Outside Director, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Audit & Supervisory Board Members Operating Officers President & CEO Operating Officer NATIONAL STUDENTS INFORMATION CENTER CO., LTD. Supervisor Group Internal Audit Department Supervisor (President and Representative Director of NATIONAL STUDENTS Yuji Okuma (President and Representative Director of TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) Katsuhiro Yoshiura INFORMATION CENTER CO., LTD.) Operating Officer Jurisdiction over TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Residential Business Unit and Operating Officer TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Residential Business Unit Supervisor Shinji Sakaki TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. (Chairman of TOKYU LIVABLE, INC.) Shigeyuki Furusawa Operating Officer Jurisdiction over the TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Investment Business Unit, Operating Officer TOKYU HANDS INC. Supervisor Group Overseas Planning Department Supervisor Hitoshi Uemura (Vice Chairman and Representative Director of TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) Seiichi Kimura (President and Representative Director of TOKYU HANDS INC.) Full-time Audit & Supervisory Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Member Operating Officer TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. Supervisor Operating Officer Supervisor for General Management, and for the Group Corporate Kazuo Mochida Masahiko Hashizume Katsuhide Saiga (President and Representative Director of TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP.) Hiroaki Hoshino Planning, Group Planning Strategy, and Group Solutions Promotion Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member, TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Audit & Supervisory Board Member, TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. Audit & Supervisory Board Member, TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation Audit & Supervisory Board Member, TOKYU HANDS INC. Operating Officer Jurisdiction over General Management and TOKYU HANDS INC. and Operating Officer President’s Assistant TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. Supervisor Hironori Nishikawa (Representative Director of TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) Akiyoshi Komuro April 1978 Joined The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company April 2000 Public Prosecutor, Civil Affairs Bureau, Jurisdiction over TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Urban Business Unit, Operating Officer Operating Officer June 2009 Director and Managing Executive Officer, Ministry of Justice TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP., Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation, TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP. Supervisor The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited August 2003 Assistant Judge, Tokyo District Court Masashi Okada and NATIONAL STUDENTS INFORMATION CENTER CO., LTD. Tomoyuki Hayakawa April 2010 Director and Managing Executive Officer, October 2003 Registered as attorney The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited October 2003 Joined Anderson Mori & Tomotsune Operating Officer Operating Officer June 2011 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, January 2006 Partner, Anderson Mori & Tomotsune Jurisdiction over TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Wellness Business Unit TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Urban Business Unit Supervisor TOKYU LAND CORPORATION November 2006 Partner, Kataoka & Kobayashi Shouhei Kimura Takashi Ikeuchi October 2013 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, July 2011 Founded Takechi & Partners, assumed Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation (current) the role of Representative Director (current) Operating Officer Operating Officer October 2016 Director and Senior Managing Executive Officer of TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. Supervisor Supervisor for the Corporate Communication and June 2017 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation (current) Youichi Ohta (President and Representative Director of TOKYU LIVABLE, INC.) Kazuhiro Nishimura Group Finance Departments June 2017 Advisor, The Cardiovascular Institute (current) Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Supervisor for the Group General Administration, Board Member (Independent Officer) Board Member (Independent Officer) Operating Officer Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation Supervisor Operating Officer Group Legal Affairs, Group Human Resources, Tomoyasu Asano Katsunori Takechi Katsushi Miki (President and Representative Director of Tokyu Housing Lease Corporation) Shigeyuki Kameshima and Group IT Strategy Departments 58 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 59 Section 4 Data Section Data Section Financial and Non-Financial Data Financial Indicators (Unit) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Operating revenue Billions of yen 574.4 552.1 571.4 556.8 595.9 714.1 773.1 815.5 808.5 866.1 901.9 Operating gross profit Billions of yen 114.3 106.5 131.7 123.3 126.8 145.3 148.8 163.8 173.0 182.5 193.4 Operating profit Billions of yen 35.0 35.5 62.5 50.1 52.0 61.4 63.3 68.8 73.2 77.5 80.2 Ordinary profit Billions of yen 27.7 28.2 54.9 34.9 39.9 50.6 51.7 56.4 63.6 68.7 70.7 Net profit*1 Billions of yen 10.2 11.1 11.6 34.2 22.1 23.7 25.2 28.7 31.5 35.2 37.5 Total assets*2 Billions of yen 1,035.7 1,055.4 1,161.4 1,744.8 1,718.4 1,789.8 1,973.8 1,984.4 2,067.2 2,173.2 2,405.2 Current assets Billions of yen 289.0 283.5 274.9 300.7 324.0 416.0 572.6 491.9 588.0 649.8 872.7 Real estate for sale* 3 Billions of yen 200.0 172.2 155.7 172.7 175.3 245.9 394.7 364.4 418.6 473.7 568.0 Non-current assets Billions of yen 746.7 771.9 886.5 1,444.1 1,394.4 1,373.8 1,401.2 1,492.4 1,479.1 1,523.4 1,532.2 Total net assets Billions of yen 222.5 231.0 239.8 275.3 307.0 369.2 398.3 422.4 446.3 475.3 568.7 Equity Billions of yen 195.7 203.1 208.6 240.8 268.7 364.5 395.3 418.8 442.3 468.1 561.4 Interest-bearing debt Billions of yen 477.0 478.9 559.8 1,064.0 974.1 991.0 1,125.4 1,106.1 1,137.9 1,210.4 1,289.8 Cash flows from operating activities Billions of yen 13.4 72.5 66.2 44.9 70.2 (13.5) (38.5) 87.9 68.9 12.3 44.5 Cash flows from investing activities Billions of yen (83.0) (26.7) (146.2) (28.8) 42.5 19.7 (100.3) (112.4) (71.0) (96.4) (60.4) Cash flows from financing activities Billions of yen 68.0 (30.9) 79.0 (16.4) (90.5) 3.0 139.2 (30.5) 23.0 82.4 139.1 Capital investment Billions of yen 40.0 46.9 199.5 41.6 43.8 77.5 126.7 78.8 60.3 44.6 89.8 Depreciation Billions of yen 13.3 13.2 14.9 20.8 20.2 20.0 20.2 21.0 23.5 23.1 24.6 EPS (Net profit per share of common stock) Yen 19.18 20.82 21.84 64.40 41.71 41.61 41.45 47.18 51.77 57.80 56.84 BPS (Net assets per share of common stock) Yen 368.39 382.43 392.87 453.46 505.99 598.73 649.40 687.92 726.59 768.85 780.78 Dividends (per share) Yen 8.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 7.00 8.00 10.00 12.00 13.00 14.50 15.50 ROA % 3.5 3.4 5.7 3.5 3.0 3.5 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.5 ROE % 5.2 5.5 5.6 15.2 8.7 7.5 6.6 7.1 7.3 7.7 7.3 Equity ratio % 18.9 19.2 18.0 13.8 15.6 20.4 20.0 21.1 21.4 21.5 23.3 Debt-equity ratio Times 2.4 2.4 2.7 4.4 3.6 2.7 2.8 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.3 Dividend payout ratio % 41.7 33.6 32.1 10.9 16.8 19.2 24.1 25.4 25.1 25.1 27.3 EBITDA*4 Billions of yen 49.7 49.1 77.8 71.0 72.4 84.6 88.0 94.3 101.7 106.1 110.2 EBITDA multiple*5 Times 9.9 9.8 7.2 15.0 13.5 11.7 12.8 11.7 11.2 11.4 11.7 *1. N et profit has been reclassified as profit attributable to owners of parent from fiscal 2015. *3. Real estate for sale: includes real estate for sale in process and costs of uncompleted construction contracts *2. The Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting (ASBJ Statement No. 28, *4. EBITDA: Operating profit before depreciation = Operating profit + Depreciation + Amortization of goodwill February 16, 2018) took effect at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and this Accounting *5. EBITDA multiple: Interest-bearing debt/EBITDA (Operating profit before depreciation) Standard was applied retroactively to the main management indexes from fiscal 2017. Human Capital Indicators (Unit) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Environmental Indicators (Unit) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of employees Person 17,594 18,243 19,230 20,421 21,091 21,976 CO2 emissions 1,000 t of CO2 228.3 234.8 210.7 233.0 227.5 227.8 Ratio of female managers % 4.8 5.7 5.9 5.7 8.6 8.3 Basic unit kg-CO2/m 2 98.6 101.9 98.4 106.7 101.0 95.9 Female directors (non-consolidated) Person 0 0 0 0 0 1 Energy consumption 1,000 GJ 4,596.8 4,660.2 4,374.3 4,542.6 4,463.5 4,492.1 Female Audit & Supervisory Board members (non-consolidated) Person 0 0 0 0 0 0 Water use 1,000 m3 3,042 3,141 2,811 2,650 2,548 2,612 Female operating officers Person 1 2 2 2 2 2 Basic unit m3/m2 1.33 1.39 1.32 1.23 1.14 1.11 Male average years of service Year 13.2 13.2 13.0 12.9 12.7 14.9 Number of target facilities* 6 Facility 213 226 210 192 204 211 Female average years of service Year 8.8 9.0 8.7 8.8 8.7 9.2 Ratio of female full-time employees % 23.7 24.2 25.3 26.5 27.2 28.5 Waste emissions t 14,189 18,796 18,908 25,127 25,569 22,932 Ratio of new female employee hires to total hires % 31.5 33.0 35.4 41.6 40.1 39.5 Basic unit kg/m2 10.3 10.2 10.1 12.5 12.6 10.1 Number of target facilities* 6 Facility 124 152 161 151 159 170 *6. Includes office buildings, commercial facilities, resort facilities, other facilities, and overseas facilities 60 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 61 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation U.S. dollars (thousands) U.S. dollars (thousands) Yen (millions) (Note 2) Yen (millions) (Note 2) Account title As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 As of March 31, 2019 Account title As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2019 As of March 31, 2019 Assets Liabilities Current assets Current liabilities Notes and accounts payable trade ¥ 36,977 ¥ 45,765 $ 416,045 Cash and deposits (Note 7) ¥ 62,785 ¥ 185,091 $ 1,682,645 Short-term loans payable (Notes 7, 8, 9) 179,532 163,275 1,484,318 Notes and accounts receivable trade 31,042 33,766 306,964 Current portion of bonds (Note 8) 10,000 20,000 181,818 Securities (Notes 3, 10, 17) 15,831 17,480 158,909 Accounts payable – other 29,892 31,503 286,391 Merchandise 11,759 12,107 110,064 Income taxes payable 8,739 14,179 128,900 Real estate for sale (Notes 7, 10) 207,705 229,459 2,085,991 Advances received 41,292 46,488 422,618 Real estate for sale in process 260,138 331,980 3,018,000 Deposits received from consignment sales 10,353 34,201 310,918 Costs on uncompleted construction contracts 5,858 6,564 59,673 Deposits received 28,556 33,761 306,918 Supplies 746 791 7,191 Deposits received for special joint ventures 17,500 14,000 127,273 Other 54,084 55,585 505,318 Provision for bonuses 9,839 11,263 102,391 Allowance for doubtful accounts (110) (88) (800) Provision for bonuses for directors (and other officers) 224 234 2,127 Provision for warranties for completed construction 297 746 6,782 Total current assets 649,841 872,740 7,934,000 Other provision 1,674 3,602 32,745 Non-current assets Other 19,468 16,727 152,064 Property, plant and equipment Total current liabilities 394,348 435,750 3,961,364 Buildings and structures 404,150 413,188 3,756,255 Non-current liabilities Accumulated depreciation (179,695) (190,587) (1,732,609) Bonds payable (Notes 7, 8) 185,825 185,825 1,689,318 Buildings and structures, net (Note 7) 224,455 222,601 2,023,645 Long-term loans payable (Notes 7, 8) 835,018 920,707 8,370,064 Land (Notes 6, 7) 813,087 722,691 6,569,918 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 20) 29,131 30,641 278,555 Construction in progress (Note 7) 79,430 129,299 1,175,445 Deferred tax liabilities for land revaluation (Note 6) 4,980 4,980 45,273 Other 64,322 75,660 687,818 Long-term leasehold and guarantee deposits 179,963 197,598 1,796,345 Accumulated depreciation (40,624) (44,051) (400,464) Deposits received for special joint ventures 14,000 – – Retirement benefit liability (Note 19) 29,646 29,262 266,018 Other, net 23,698 31,608 287,345 Provision for loss on guarantees 17 21 191 Total property, plant and equipment (Notes 10, 21) 1,140,671 1,106,201 10,056,373 Provision for retirement benefits for directors Intangible assets (and other officers) 67 55 500 Leasehold right (Note 7) 8,758 19,129 173,900 Other (Note 7) 24,881 31,709 288,264 Goodwill 82,553 77,131 701,191 Total non-current liabilities 1,303,531 1,400,801 12,734,555 Total liabilities 1,697,879 1,836,551 16,695,918 Other 16,186 17,033 154,845 Net assets Total intangible assets (Note 10) 107,498 113,294 1,029,945 Shareholders’ equity (Note 23) Investments and other assets Capital stock 60,000 77,562 705,109 Investment securities (Notes 7, 10, 17) 159,863 180,720 1,642,909 Capital surplus 119,188 166,675 1,515,227 Long-term loans receivable (Note 7) 282 266 2,418 Retained earnings 270,095 298,411 2,712,827 Leasehold and guarantee deposits 72,829 89,310 811,909 Treasury shares (2,197) (367) (3,336) Retirement benefit asset (Note 19) 821 118 1,073 Total shareholders’ equity 447,087 542,281 4,929,827 Deferred tax assets (Note 20) 17,423 18,596 169,055 Accumulated other comprehensive income Other 24,343 24,004 218,218 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 13,796 15,183 138,027 Allowance for doubtful accounts (351) (359) (3,264) Deferred gains or losses on hedges (Note 18) (169) (1,066) (9,691) Revaluation reserve for land (Note 6) 8,067 8,067 73,336 Total investments and other assets 275,213 312,657 2,842,336 Foreign currency translation adjustment 1,319 (1,304) (11,855) Total non-current assets 1,523,383 1,532,153 13,928,664 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (Note 19) (1,959) (1,754) (15,945) Deferred assets Total accumulated other comprehensive income 21,053 19,124 173,855 Share issuance cost – 355 3,227 Non-controlling interests 7,204 7,292 66,291 Total deferred assets – 355 3,227 Total net assets 475,345 568,698 5,169,982 Total assets ¥2,173,225 ¥2,405,249 $21,865,900 Total liabilities and net assets ¥2,173,225 ¥2,405,249 $21,865,900 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 62 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 63 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation U.S. dollars (thousands) U.S. dollars (thousands) Yen (millions) (Note 2) Yen (millions) (Note 2) 2018 2019 2019 2018 2019 2019 (From April 1, 2017 (From April 1, 2018 (From April 1, 2018 (From April 1, 2017 (From April 1, 2018 (From April 1, 2018 Account title to March 31, 2018) to March 31, 2019) to March 31, 2019) Account title to March 31, 2018) to March 31, 2019) to March 31, 2019) Operating revenue ¥866,126 ¥901,884 $8,198,945 Profit ¥35,377 ¥37,353 $339,573 Operating cost (Note 11) 683,650 708,435 6,440,318 Other comprehensive income Operating gross profit 182,476 193,448 1,758,618 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (1,996) 1,387 12,609 Selling, general and administrative expenses 104,956 113,243 1,029,482 Deferred gains or losses on hedges (8) (916) (8,327) Operating profit 77,519 80,205 729,136 Foreign currency translation adjustment 1,921 (1,369) (12,445) Non-operating income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax 715 204 1,855 Interest income 116 139 1,264 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity method (1,673) (1,279) (11,627) Dividend income 533 712 6,473 Total other comprehensive income (Note 13) (1,040) (1,973) (17,936) Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method 190 204 1,855 Comprehensive income 34,337 35,379 321,627 Subsidy income 59 616 5,600 Comprehensive income attributable to Other 530 720 6,545 Comprehensive income attributable to owners of parent 34,126 35,529 322,991 Total non-operating income 1,430 2,392 21,745 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests ¥ 210 ¥ (150) $ (1,364) Non-operating expenses See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Interest expenses 7,936 9,291 84,464 Foreign exchange losses 883 444 4,036 Other 1,438 2,115 19,227 Total non-operating expenses 10,258 11,852 107,745 Ordinary profit 68,691 70,744 643,127 Extraordinary income Gain on sales of non-current assets 18 117 1,064 Gain on sales of investment securities 28 – – Total extraordinary income 47 117 1,064 Extraordinary losses Impairment loss (Note 12) 8,037 7,768 70,618 Other 1,292 1,875 17,045 Total extraordinary losses 9,329 9,644 87,673 Profit before income taxes 59,409 61,218 556,527 Income taxes – current 17,950 24,063 218,755 Income taxes – deferred (Note 20) 6,080 (198) (1,800) Total income taxes (Note 20) 24,031 23,865 216,955 Profit 35,377 37,353 339,573 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 192 (105) (955) Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ 35,185 ¥ 37,459 $ 340,536 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 64 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 65 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation 2018 (from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Yen (millions) Yen (millions) Shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity Total Total Retained shareholders’ Retained shareholders’ Account title Capital stock Capital surplus earnings Treasury shares equity Account title Capital stock Capital surplus earnings Treasury shares equity Balance at beginning of current period ¥60,000 ¥118,704 ¥243,131 ¥(1,790) ¥420,045 Balance at beginning of current period ¥60,000 ¥119,188 ¥270,095 ¥(2,197) ¥447,087 Changes of items during period Changes of items during period Issuance of new shares – Issuance of new shares 17,562 17,562 35,124 Dividends of surplus (8,223) (8,223) Dividends of surplus (9,143) (9,143) Profit attributable to owners of parent 35,185 35,185 Profit attributable to owners of parent 37,459 37,459 Purchase of treasury shares (532) (532) Purchase of treasury shares (1) (1) Disposal of treasury shares 484 126 610 Disposal of treasury shares 29,930 1,831 31,761 Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with non-controlling interests – non-controlling interests (5) (5) Reversal of revaluation reserve for land 2 2 Reversal of revaluation reserve for land – Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity – Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity – Total changes of items during period – 484 26,963 (406) 27,042 Total changes of items during period 17,562 47,486 28,315 1,829 95,194 Balance at end of current period ¥60,000 ¥119,188 ¥270,095 ¥(2,197) ¥447,087 Balance at end of current period ¥77,562 ¥166,675 ¥298,411 ¥ (367) ¥542,281 Accumulated other comprehensive income Accumulated other comprehensive income Valuation Total Valuation Total difference on Foreign Remeasureaccumulated difference on Foreign Remeasureaccumulated availableDeferred gains Revaluation currency ments of other NonavailableDeferred gains Revaluation currency ments of other Nonfor-sale or losses on reserve for translation defined benefit comprehensive controlling Total net for-sale or losses on reserve for translation defined benefit comprehensive controlling Total net Account title securities hedges land adjustment plans income interests assets Account title securities hedges land adjustment plans income interests assets Balance at beginning of current period ¥15,792 ¥ – ¥8,069 ¥1,089 ¥(2,675) ¥22,275 ¥3,987 ¥446,307 Balance at beginning of current period ¥13,796 ¥ (169) ¥8,067 ¥1,319 ¥(1,959) ¥21,053 ¥7,204 ¥475,345 Changes of items during period Changes of items during period Issuance of new shares – Issuance of new shares 35,124 Dividends of surplus (8,223) Dividends of surplus (9,143) Profit attributable to owners of parent 35,185 Profit attributable to owners of parent 37,459 Purchase of treasury shares (532) Purchase of treasury shares (1) Disposal of treasury shares 610 Disposal of treasury shares 31,761 Change in ownership interest of Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with – parent due to transactions with (5) non-controlling interests non-controlling interests Reversal of revaluation reserve for Reversal of revaluation reserve for land 2 land – Net changes of items other than Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (1,996) (169) (2) 229 715 (1,222) 3,217 1,995 shareholders’ equity 1,387 (897) – (2,623) 204 (1,929) 87 (1,841) Total changes of items during period (1,996) (169) (2) 229 715 (1,222) 3,217 29,037 Total changes of items during period 1,387 (897) – (2,623) 204 (1,929) 87 93,352 Balance at end of current period ¥13,796 ¥(169) ¥8,067 ¥1,319 ¥(1,959) ¥21,053 ¥7,204 ¥475,345 Balance at end of current period ¥15,183 ¥(1,066) ¥8,067 ¥(1,304) ¥(1,754) ¥19,124 ¥7,292 ¥568,698 66 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 67 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) U.S. dollars (thousands) Yen (millions) (Note 2) U.S. dollars (thousands) (Note 2) 2018 2019 2019 (From April 1, 2017 (From April 1, 2018 (From April 1, 2018 Shareholders’ equity Account title to March 31, 2018) to March 31, 2019) to March 31, 2019) Total Cash flows from operating activities Retained shareholders’ Account title Capital stock Capital surplus earnings Treasury shares equity Profit before income taxes ¥ 59,409 ¥ 61,218 $ 556,527 Balance at beginning of current period $545,455 $1,083,527 $2,455,409 $(19,973) $4,064,427 Depreciation 23,133 24,567 223,336 Changes of items during period Amortization of goodwill 5,421 5,421 49,282 Issuance of new shares 159,655 159,655 319,309 Share of loss (profit) of entities accounted for using equity method (190) (204) (1,855) Dividends of surplus (83,118) (83,118) Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability 583 338 3,073 Profit attributable to owners of parent 340,536 340,536 Increase (decrease) in other provision 657 1,415 12,864 Purchase of treasury shares (9) (9) Impairment loss 8,037 7,768 70,618 Disposal of treasury shares 272,091 16,645 288,736 Loss on valuation of inventories 3,200 2,416 21,964 Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with Loss on retirement of non-current assets 2,716 1,073 9,755 non-controlling interests (45) (45) Interest and dividend income (649) (851) (7,736) Reversal of revaluation reserve for land – Interest expenses 7,936 9,291 84,464 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity – Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable–trade (3,236) (3,805) (34,591) Total changes of items during period 159,655 431,691 257,409 16,627 865,400 Decrease (increase) in inventories (70,734) (55,586) (505,327) Balance at end of current period $705,109 $1,515,227 $2,712,827 $ (3,336) $4,929,827 Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable–trade (3,798) 7,635 69,409 Increase (decrease) in deposits received for consignment sales 2,820 23,847 216,791 Increase (decrease) in deposits received for special joint ventures 2,400 (17,500) (159,091) Accumulated other comprehensive income Other, net 1,015 4,118 37,436 Valuation Total difference on Deferred Foreign Remeasureaccumulated Subtotal 38,723 71,166 646,964 availablegains or Revaluation currency ments of other Nonfor-sale losses on reserve for translation defined benefit comprehensive controlling Total net Interest and dividend income received 504 1,104 10,036 Account title securities hedges land adjustment plans income interests assets Interest expenses paid (7,741) (9,366) (85,145) Balance at beginning of current period $125,418 $(1,536) $73,336 $ 11,991 $(17,809) $191,391 $65,491 $4,321,318 Income taxes paid (19,221) (18,380) (167,091) Changes of items during period Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities ¥ 12,265 ¥ 44,522 $ 404,745 Issuance of new shares 319,309 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends of surplus (83,118) Payments of loans receivable (245) (13) (118) Profit attributable to owners of parent 340,536 Collection of loans receivable 3,267 28 255 Purchase of treasury shares (9) Purchase of short-term and long-term investment securities (48,847) (24,672) (224,291) Disposal of treasury shares 288,736 Proceeds from sales and redemption of short-term and long-term Change in ownership interest of investment securities 1,103 5,748 52,255 parent due to transactions with (45) non-controlling interests Payments for leasehold and guarantee deposits (8,692) (9,557) (86,882) Reversal of revaluation reserve for Proceeds from collection of leasehold and guarantee deposits 4,424 5,061 46,009 land – Purchase of non-current assets (47,965) (74,957) (681,427) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 12,609 (8,155) – (23,845) 1,855 (17,536) 791 (16,736) Proceeds from sales of non-current assets 44 37,769 343,355 Total changes of items during period 12,609 (8,155) – (23,845) 1,855 (17,536) 791 848,655 Other, net 487 202 1,836 Balance at end of current period $138,027 $(9,691) $73,336 $(11,855) $(15,945) $173,855 $66,291 $5,169,982 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities ¥(96,423) ¥(60,389) $(548,991) 68 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 69 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries U.S. dollars (thousands) Yen (millions) (Note 2) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 2018 2019 2019 (From April 1, 2017 (From April 1, 2018 (From April 1, 2018 (a) Basis of Presenting Consolidated Financial Statements Educational Solution Co., Ltd. after it ceased to exist following an abAccount title to March 31, 2018) to March 31, 2019) to March 31, 2019) The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company sorption-type merger with NATIONAL STUDENTS INFORMATION CENCash flows from financing activities and its consolidated subsidiaries are prepared on the basis of acTER as the surviving company; Since the settlement of TLC Pasadena Net increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable ¥(14,982) ¥ 3,042 $ 27,655 counting principles generally accepted in Japan, which are different in LLC, TLC-MAC Union street, LLC, TLC-MAC Union street GP, LLC and Net increase (decrease) in commercial papers (60,000) – – certain respects as to the application and disclosure requirements of TLC-MAC Union street, LP has been completed, Silent Partnerships of Proceeds from long-term loans payable 255,197 213,159 1,937,809 International Financial Reporting Standards, and are compiled from Libra has sold the involved assets and has completed the liquidation. Repayments of long-term loans payable (155,022) (152,260) (1,384,182) the consolidated financial statements prepared by the Company as Each is excluded from the scope of consolidation. Proceeds from long-term lease and guarantee deposited 27,752 24,497 222,700 required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan. Repayments of long-term lease and guarantee deposited (19,604) (15,159) (137,809) The notes to the consolidated financial statements include infor(c) Securities Proceeds from issuance of bonds 75,825 20,000 181,818 mation which is not required under accounting principles generally The Company classifies its securities into the following three categoRedemption of bonds (20,000) (10,100) (91,818) accepted in Japan but is presented herein as additional information. ries; trading, held-to-maturity, or available-for-sale securities. Based Cash dividends paid (8,223) (9,143) (83,118) As permitted by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law on this classification, all of the Company’s securities were classified Proceeds from share issuance to non-controlling shareholders 3,071 746 6,782 of Japan, amounts of less than one million yen have been rounded as either held-to-maturity or available-for-sale securities. down. As a result, the totals shown in the accompanying consolidated Held-to-maturity securities are carried at amortized cost. Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (211) (70) (636) financial statements (both in yen and U.S. dollars) do not necessarily Available-for-sale securities with determinable market values Repayments of finance lease obligations (1,398) (1,555) (14,136) agree with the sums of the individual amounts. are carried principally at market value. The difference between the Payments for investments in silent partnership that do not result in change in scope of consolidation – (421) (3,827) acquisition cost and the carrying value of these securities, consisting Proceeds from issuance of common shares – 47,213 429,209 (b) Consolidation Policy of unrealized gains and losses, is recognized net of the applicable Purchase of treasury shares (2) (1) (9) The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the acincome taxes in “Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities” Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares 0 19,148 174,073 counts of the Company and significant subsidiaries controlled directly in “Net assets.” Available-for-sale securities without determinable Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ¥ 82,400 ¥139,093 $1,264,482 or indirectly by the Company. Significant affiliates over which the market values are carried principally at cost. The cost of availableEffect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents 1,743 (155) (1,409) Company exercises significant influence in terms of their operating for-sale securities sold is principally determined by the moving Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ¥ (13) ¥123,071 $1,118,827 and financial policies have been included in the consolidated financial average-method. Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 61,865 61,729 561,173 statements by applying the equity method. All significant intercompaFor investments in silent partnerships and preferred equity securiIncrease (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from ny balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. ties of special purpose companies, the ownership interest equivalent change of scope of consolidation (122) – – Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates which are not consoliprofits and losses attributable to the Group are recorded as operating Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 14) ¥ 61,729 ¥184,800 $1,680,000 dated nor accounted for by the equity method are carried at cost or revenue or operating cost, and the corresponding amounts are added See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. less. Where there has been a permanent decline in the value of such or deducted to the securities or investment securities account. investments, the Company has written down the investments. There were 145 consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2019. (d) Inventories The following companies have become consolidated subsidiaries: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Real estate for Silent Partnerships of Kesennuma Urushihara, Kesennuma Izumisale, real estate for sale in process and costs on uncompleted consawa, Jack, Diocorina, Kakegawa Wind power development, Zeas, struction contracts are determined by the gross average method or Ichinoseki Daito, Orb, and TLCM1 are treated as consolidated subindividual method, merchandise by the retail method and supplies by sidiaries following new investments in them. Mie Matsuo became a the moving average method. consolidated subsidiary due to additional investment. Tokyu Livable US, Inc., Tokyu Livable Texas Investment Advisors, LLC, TFCM SINGA(e) Property, Plant and Equipment (except for leased assets) PORE PTE.LTD., TLUS Renton Holdings, LLC, TLUS Renton, LLC, TLUS Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost except for land revalPortland Holdings, LLC, TLUS Portland, LLC, Tokyu Land Asia Pte. Ltd., ued pursuant to the Law Concerning Land Revaluation. Property, plant TLUS Midtown Atlanta LLC, TLUS Vinings LLC, TLUS Fort Worth, LLC, and equipment are principally depreciated by the declining-balance and Tokyu Small-amount Short-term Insurance Co., Ltd. are treated method over their estimated useful lives. as consolidated subsidiaries given that they were newly established. Depreciation for buildings acquired after April 1, 1998 and structures On the other hand, the following companies were excluded from acquired after April 1, 2016 are computed by the straight-line method. the scope of consolidation due to the following reasons, respectively: Most of estimated useful lives are as follows: TS Community Corp. is excluded from the scope of consolidation after Buildings and structures 3 to 65 years it ceased to exist following an absorption-type merger with CommuniRepairs and maintenance that do not improve or extend the life of ty One Co., Ltd. as the surviving company. So are K.K. Homic and Nasic the respective assets are charged to expense as incurred. 70 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 71 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements (f) Intangible Assets (except for leased assets) (m) Recognition of Revenue attributable to tax operating loss carry forwards. Valuation allowances As a result, in the consolidated balance sheet of the previous Intangible assets are amortized by the straight-line method. Software Revenue from the sale of real estate is recognized when they are are provided in order to reduce the deferred tax assets in case some consolidated fiscal year, deferred tax assets under current assets of (for internal use) are amortized over their estimated useful lives of 5 delivered and accepted by the customers. or all are not realized. ¥8,712 million are included in deferred tax assets under investments years. and other assets of ¥17,423 million. Deferred tax liabilities under (n) Foreign Currency Translation (s) Reclassification current liabilities of ¥1,766 million are included in deferred tax liabil(g) Leases All receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies at the Certain reclassifications have been made to the previous year’s conities under non-current liabilities of ¥29,131 million. Due to the offset Finance leases are principally recognized as assets. Leased property balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rates in effect as of solidated financial statements to conform to the presentation used for of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities of the same taxable is depreciated over the lease term by the straight-line method with no the balance sheet date, and the translation gain or loss is included in the year ended March 31, 2019. entity, total assets decreased by ¥3,536 million. residual value. other non-operating income or expenses. In addition, the contents of Note 8 (excluding the total amount Finance leases, which commenced on or before March 31, 2008, The assets and liability accounts and the revenue and expense (t) Changes in presentation method of valuation allowance) and Note 9 in the “Accounting Standard for other than those in which the ownership of the leased assets is to be accounts of the consolidated foreign subsidiaries are translated The Company has applied the “Partial Amendments to Accounting Tax Effect Accounting” stipulated in Paragraphs 3 to 5 of the Partial transferred to the lessees at the end of the lease term, are accounted into yen at the year-end rates and the average rates in effect during Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” (ASBJ Statement No. 28, February Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting have for using the same method as that of operating leases. the period, respectively. Differences resulting from the translation 16, 2018; hereinafter “Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard been added to the notes on income taxes. Of the contents concerned, are presented as “Foreign currency translation adjustment” and for Tax Effect Accounting”) effective from the beginning of the conhowever, that pertaining to the previous consolidated fiscal year is not (h) Deferred assets “Non-controlling interests” in the “Net assets” section. solidated fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. Deferred tax assets are disclosed in accordance with the transitional treatment stipulated in Share issuance cost is amortized by the straight-line method over presented under investments and other assets, deferred tax liabilities Paragraph 7 of the Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for three years. (o) Derivative Financial Instruments are presented under non-current liabilities, and the note on income Tax Effect Accounting. Bond issuance costs are charged to income as incurred. The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries utilize derivataxes has been changed. tive financial instruments for the purpose of hedging their exposure (i) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts to adverse fluctuations and changes in interest rates (interest rate The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries provide for an allowswaps), but do not enter into such transactions for speculative or 2. Basis of Financial Statements Translation ance for doubtful accounts to cover the estimated probable losses trading purposes. The accompanying consolidated financial statements presented Tokyo Foreign Exchange Market on March 31, 2019. This translation on collection. The allowance consists of a general reserve calculated Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value with any herein are expressed in Japanese yen, and solely for the convenience should not be construed as a representation that all the amounts based on the historical write-off rate, and a specific reserve calcuchanges recognized in income or expense, except for those which meet of readers, have been translated into United States dollars at the rate shown could be converted into U.S. dollars at that rate. lated based on the estimate of uncollectible amounts with respect to the criteria for deferral hedge accounting under which the gain or loss of ¥110=U.S. $1.00, the approximate exchange rate prevailing on the each identified doubtful account. is deferred and presented in “Deferred gains or losses on hedging”. When the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements (j) Provision for Bonuses to hedge the interest rate risks and the agreements meet certain The estimated amount of bonus payments relevant to the consolcriteria, the interest rate swap agreements are eligible for a special 3. Investments in Silent Partnerships and Operational Investment Securities idated fiscal year is provided to cover the payment of bonuses to treatment. Under the special treatment, the hedged debt is accountInvestments in silent partnerships and TMKs holding properties for sale, and operational investment securities included in securities at March 31, employees. ed for as if it had the interest of the debt and the interest rate swap 2018 and 2019 are summarized as follows: combined, not the original interest rate of the debt by itself. Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) (k) Provision for Warranties for Completed Construction 2018 2019 2019 A warranty reserve for completed construction contracts is provided (p) Amortization of Goodwill Investments in silent partnership 4,489 4,730 43,000 at an estimated amount, based on the historical level of warranty Goodwill is amortized by the straight-line method over the estimated Securities ¥10,921 ¥12,706 $115,509 costs incurred on completed construction contracts. period (from one year to twenty years) of its effect. (l) Net defined benefit liability (q) Cash and Cash Equivalents Liability for retirement and severance benefits for employees is For purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash equiv4. Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates recorded based on the retirement benefit obligation and the fair value alents are defined as low-risk, highly liquid, short-term investments Investments in and loans to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates at March 31, 2018 and 2019 consisted of the following: of the pension plan assets as of the balance sheet date. (maturing within three months from the acquisition date) which are Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Actuarial gain and loss are amortized from the year following the readily convertible to cash. 2018 2019 2019 year in which the gain or loss is incurred by the straight-line method Investment securities ¥75,612 ¥83,263 $756,936 over the period of principally from 3 to 10 years, which is shorter (r) Income Taxes than the average remaining years of service of the employees. Prior Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differencservice cost is amortized by the straight-line method over the period es between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of the assets and of principally from 5 to 12 years, which is shorter than the average liabilities, using the enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which remaining years of service of the employees. those temporary differences are expected to be reversed. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for the estimated future tax effects 72 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 73 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements (2) Secured liabilities Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 5. Contingent Liabilities 2018 2019 2019 At March 31, 2018 and 2019 the Company and consolidated subsidiaries have the following contingent liabilities: Short-term loans payable ¥ 24,120 ¥ 38,926 $ 353,873 Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Bonds payable 5,825 5,825 52,955 2018 2019 2019 Long-term loans payable 337,184 321,674 2,924,309 Guarantee of loans on behalf of: Other non-current liabilities 2,261 2,261 20,555 Individual customers for principally housing loans ¥ 85 ¥ 16 $ 145 ¥369,391 ¥368,687 $3,351,700 Employees for their purchase of residential houses 4 1 9 PT. TTL Residences 183 173 1,573 In addition to the above, Investment securities of ¥767 million and has made preferred equity investment and treated the transaction as 425 Park Owner LLC 9,859 10,300 93,636 ¥294 million (U.S. $2,673 thousand) at March 31, 2018 and 2019, rea finance transaction according to the Practical Guidelines on AcPT. Tokyu Land Indonesia* 5,850 – – spectively were pledged as collateral for guarantee of the real estate counting by Transferors for Derecognition of Real Estate Securitized Shiba Park TMK 10,000 10,000 90,909 agent business. by means of Special Purpose Companies (the Accounting System Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. : The real-estate trust beneficiary company 5,500 5,500 50,000 TOKYU LAND CORPORATION, a subsidiary of the Company, transCommittee Statement No. 15 of the Japanese Institute of Certified Yonago Biomass power plant Joint company – 998 9,073 ferred land to another company in which TOKYU LAND CORPORATION Public Accountants (JICPA) dated November 4, 2014). Rhapsody TMK – 3,000 27,273 ¥31,483 ¥29,991 $272,645 * Represents the guarantee for borrowings that were made by PT. Tokyu Land Indonesia, which is a consolidated subsidiary and whose closing date is different from the Accordingly, the figures above include such assets offered as security and the secured obligations as follows. consolidated closing date, which took place between those dates. Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 Real estate for sale ¥2,261 ¥2,261 $20,555 6. Revaluation of Land Other non-current liabilities ¥2,261 ¥2,261 $20,555 Land owned by TOKYU LAND CORPORATION and IZU KANKOU KAIHATSU, based on Item 2, 3, and 4 of the Government Ordinance. subsidiaries of the company, were revalued pursuant to the Law Concerning Land Revaluation (Law No. 34, promulgated March 31, 1998). Date of revaluation Of the long-term loans payable, the following are in the form of non-recourse loans where security is limited to certain specified assets. TOKYU LAND CORPORATION March 31, 2000 Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Method of revaluation (Revaluation on merger of subsidiaries) March 31, 2001 2018 2019 2019 Value of land is determined based on the price which is described in IZU KANKOU KAIHATSU January 31, 2001 Short-term loans payable (Current portion of long-term loans payable) ¥ 24,034 ¥ 39,086 $ 355,327 Article 2, Item 5 of the Ordinance Implementing the Law Concerning The market value of the revalued land was higher than the book value Bonds payable 5,825 5,825 52,955 Land Revaluation (Government Ordinance No. 119, promulgated after revaluation at March 31, 2018 and 2019 respectively. As such, Long-term loans payable ¥337,184 ¥321,514 $2,922,855 March 31, 1998). Value of certain portions of the land is determined the difference is not stated. Specified assets subject to allowances for the payment of such debt are as follows: 7. Pledged Assets and Secured Liabilities Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 Pledged assets and secured liabilities at March 31, 2018 and 2019 are summarized as follows: Cash and deposits ¥ 292 ¥ 1,516 $ 13,782 (1) Pledged assets Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Real estate for sale 15,629 22,433 203,936 2018 2019 2019 Land 580,658 533,830 4,853,000 Cash and deposits ¥ 292 ¥ 1,516 $ 13,782 Buildings and structures 91,577 84,391 767,191 Inventories (Real estate for sale) 18,909 25,343 230,391 Construction in progress − 11,126 101,145 Buildings and structures 92,543 84,391 767,191 Leasehold right − 9,510 86,455 Land 583,485 533,830 4,853,000 Investment securities ¥ − ¥ 0 $ 0 Construction in progress 11,126 101,145 Leasehold right 9,510 86,455 Investment securities 170 136 1,236 Long-term loans receivable 207 193 1,755 ¥695,608 ¥666,049 $6,054,991 74 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 75 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements 8. Short-term Loans Payable and Long-term Debt 9. Commitment Lines Short-term loans payable at March 31, 2018 (¥78,197 million) and 2019 (¥80,485 million ($731,682 thousand)) consist of loans principally from The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries entered into contracts for overdraft with 28 banks at March 31, 2018 and 2019 and commitment banks with weighted average interest rates of 1.74% in 2019. lines with 3 banks at March 31, 2018 and 2019 respectively. These contracts at March 31, 2018 and 2019 are summarized as follows: Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Long-term debt at March 31, 2018 and 2019 are summarized as follows: 2018 2019 2019 Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Limit of overdraft ¥259,019 ¥261,219 $2,374,718 2018 2019 2019 Line of credit 54,000 54,000 490,909 0.390% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2019 ¥ 10,000 ¥ − $ − Borrowing outstanding 44,297 43,807 398,245 0.639% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2021 10,000 10,000 90,909 Available commitment lines ¥268,722 ¥271,412 $2,467,382 0.298% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2020 10,000 10,000 90,909 0.856% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2025 10,000 10,000 90,909 0.968% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2026 10,000 10,000 90,909 0.371% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2021 10,000 10,000 90,909 10. Change in Purpose of Possession 0.190% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2022 10,000 10,000 90,909 The following amount was transferred due to a change in the purpose of possession. 0.780% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2032 10,000 10,000 90,909 0.800% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2032 10,000 10,000 90,909 Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 0.180% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2022 10,000 10,000 90,909 2018 2019 2019 0.001% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2020 10,000 10,000 90,909 From property, plant and equipment to real estate for sale ¥ 7,353 ¥ 42,297 $ 384,518 0.455% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2027 10,000 10,000 90,909 From intangible assets to real estate for sale 861 − − 0.160% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2023 10,000 10,000 90,909 From real estate for sale to property, plant and equipment − 2,868 26,073 0.790% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2033 10,000 10,000 90,909 From securities to investment securities ¥ − ¥ 519 $ 4,718 0.410% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2028 10,000 10,000 90,909 0.170% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2023 10,000 10,000 90,909 0.780% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2033 10,000 10,000 90,909 0.390% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2028 10,000 10,000 90,909 11. Loss on Valuation of Inventories 0.980% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2038 10,000 10,000 90,909 The balance of inventories at the end of the fiscal year is the amount after a write-down corresponding to declined profitability. The following loss on 0.180% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2024 − 10,000 90,909 valuation of inventories is included in “Operating cost”. 0.455% unsecured corporate bond, maturing 2029 − 10,000 90,909 0.199% specified corporate bond issued by special purpose company, Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 5,825 5,825 52,955 maturing 2021 2018 2019 2019 Loss on valuation of inventories ¥ 3,200 ¥ 2,416 $ 21,964 Loans principally from Japanese banks and insurance companies (including loans in foreign currencies), maturing 2021 to 2038 with weighted average interest rates of 0.65% in 2019. Secured 361,305 360,600 3,278,191 Unsecured 575,049 642,896 5,844,509 1,132,179 1,209,322 10,993,836 Less current portion (111,335) (102,790) (934,455) ¥1,020,843 ¥1,106,532 $10,059,382 The aggregate annual maturity of long-term debt after March 31, 2020 are as follows: Year ending March 31, Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2021 ¥ 118,740 $ 1,079,455 2022 89,232 811,200 2023 141,164 1,283,309 2024 135,628 1,232,982 2025 and thereafter 621,766 5,652,418 ¥1,106,532 $10,059,382 76 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 77 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements 12. Impairment Loss on Fixed Assets 13. Other Comprehensive Income 2018 The following table presents components of other comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2019: For the year ended March 31, 2018, the Company recognized impairment loss on fixed assets in the following asset groups: Impairment loss Impairment loss (1) Reclassification to income for the year of other comprehensive income Primary use Type Location Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Land, buildings and structures, 2019 2019 Golf course other fixed assets Oita-shi, Oita ¥2,600 $24,528 2018 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities: Land, buildings and structures, Yokohama-shi, Senior housing other fixed assets Kanagawa ¥2,384 $22,491 Amount arising during the year ¥ (2,877) ¥ 1,998 $ 18,164 Land, buildings and structures, Reclassification to income for the year (3) − − Golf course other fixed assets Miki-shi, Hyogo ¥1,956 $18,453 Total valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (2,880) 1,998 18,164 Land, buildings and structures, Others (25 assets) other fixed assets Other area ¥1,095 $10,330 Deferred gains or losses on hedges: To determine impairment losses, assets are divided into groups that as impairment loss of ¥8,037 million ($75,821 thousand). Amount arising during the year (11) (1,320) (12,000) are minimal units that generate cash flows independently of other The recoverable value of the asset groups was measured by their Reclassification to income for the year − − − assets and asset groups. Consequently, the Group wrote down the net selling price or value in use. The net selling price was determined Total deferred gains or losses on hedges (11) (1,320) (12,000) carrying amounts of 28 asset groups to their recoverable values. by value based on real estate appraisal standards, value at which the These asset groups were those where sales or retirement were asset group could be sold, or market price of land and other assets. Foreign currency translation adjustment: planned, and those where losses were recorded from operating activValue in use is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows Amount arising during the year 1,921 (1,002) (9,109) ities for consecutive years. The amounts written down were recorded using 2.0%. Reclassification to income for the year − (367) (3,336) Total foreign currency translation adjustment 1,921 (1,369) (12,445) 2019 Remeasurements of defined benefits: For the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company recognized impairment loss on fixed assets in the following asset groups: Amount arising during the year (229) (461) (4,191) Impairment loss Impairment loss Primary use Type Location Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Reclassification to income for the year 1,204 690 6,273 Land, buildings and structures, Total remeasurements of defined benefits 974 228 2,073 Golf course other fixed assets Miki-shi, Hyogo ¥4,852 $44,109 Buildings and structures, other Leased assets fixed assets Shibuya-ku, Tokyo ¥1,922 $17,473 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity method: Land, buildings and structures, Others (9 assets) other fixed assets Other area ¥ 993 $ 9,027 Amount arising during the year (1,673) (1,279) (11,627) Reclassification to income for the year − − − To determine impairment losses, assets are divided into groups that as impairment loss of ¥7,768 million ($70,618 thousand). Total share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity method (1,673) (1,279) (11,627) are minimal units that generate cash flows independently of other The recoverable value of the asset groups was measured by their assets and asset groups. Consequently, the Group wrote down the net selling price or value in use. The net selling price was determined Amount before tax effect (1,669) (1,742) (15,836) carrying amounts of 11 asset groups to their recoverable values. by value based on real estate appraisal standards, value at which the Tax effect 629 (231) (2,100) These asset groups were those where sales or retirement were asset group could be sold, or market price of land and other assets. Total accumulated other comprehensive income ¥(1,040) ¥(1,973) $(17,936) planned, and those where losses were recorded from operating activValue in use is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows ities for consecutive years. The amounts written down were recorded using 2.0%. 78 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 79 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements (2) Tax effect of other comprehensive income 14. Supplementary Cash Flow Information Yen (millions) 2018 For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments with little risk of changes in value that have maBefore tax effect Tax effect After tax effect turities of generally three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. The components of cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2018 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities ¥ (2,880) ¥ 884 ¥ (1,996) and 2019 are as follows: Deferred gains or losses on hedges (11) 3 (8) Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Foreign currency translation adjustment 1,921 − 1,921 2018 2019 2019 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 974 (258) 715 Cash and deposits ¥62,785 ¥185,091 $1,682,645 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for (1,673) − (1,673) Time deposits with maturity over three months (1,085) (321) (2,918) using equity method Short-term loans receivable 30 30 273 Total accumulated other comprehensive income ¥ (1,669) ¥ 629 ¥ (1,040) Cash and cash equivalents ¥61,729 ¥184,800 $1,680,000 Yen (millions) 2019 The details of significant non-cash transactions Before tax effect Tax effect After tax effect Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities ¥ 1,998 ¥ (611) ¥ 1,387 2018 2019 2019 The amount transferred from property, plant and equipment to real Deferred gains or losses on hedges (1,320) 404 (916) estate for sale due to change in purpose of holding the real estate ¥8,214 ¥42,297 $384,518 Foreign currency translation adjustment (1,369) − (1,369) The amount transferred from real estate for sale to property, plant and equipment due to change in purpose of holding the real estate. − 2,868 26,073 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 228 (24) 204 The amount transferred from securities to investment securities Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for due to change in purpose of holdings the securities − 519 4,718 using equity method (1,279) − (1,279) Assets related to finance leases 1,343 5,097 46,336 Total accumulated other comprehensive income ¥ (1,742) ¥ (231) ¥ (1,973) Liabilities related to finance leases ¥1,478 ¥ 6,234 $ 56,673 U.S. dollars (thousands) 2019 Before tax effect Tax effect After tax effect 15. Information Regarding Certain Leases Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities $ 18,164 $(5,555) $ 12,609 (Finance Lease Transactions as lessee) Deferred gains or losses on hedges (12,000) 3,673 (8,327) Finance leases, which commenced on or before March 31, 2008, other than those in which the ownership of the leased assets is to be transferred Foreign currency translation adjustment (12,445) − (12,445) to the lessees at the end of the lease term, are accounted for using the same method as that of operating leases. Additional information on these Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 2,073 (218) 1,855 finance leases as of and for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 are as follows: Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity method (11,627) − (11,627) Total accumulated other comprehensive income $(15,836) $(2,100) $(17,936) (1) Acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment loss, and carrying amount of leased properties (mainly office equipment) at March 31, 2018 and 2019 if they were capitalized Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 Acquisition cost ¥7,174 ¥6,251 $56,827 Accumulated depreciation 3,804 3,666 33,327 Carrying amount ¥3,369 ¥2,584 $23,491 (2) Future lease payments at March 31, 2018 and 2019 Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 Due within one year ¥ 590 ¥ 517 $ 4,700 Due after one year 4,937 3,717 33,791 Total ¥5,528 ¥4,234 $38,491 80 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 81 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements (3) Amount of lease payments, reversal of impairment loss account on leased assets, depreciation expense equivalent, and interest expenses equiv(b) Monitoring of market risks (4) Supplementary explanation of the estimated fair value of finanalent thereof at March 31, 2018 and 2019 (The risks arising from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, cial instruments Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) interest rates and others) The fair value of financial instruments is based on quoted market 2018 2019 2019 To minimize the risks arising from fluctuations in interest prices, if available. When there is no quoted market price, fair value Lease payments ¥ 596 ¥ 517 $ 4,700 rates on loans payable, the Group uses interest rate swaps. In is reasonably estimated. Since various assumptions and factors are Reversal of impairment loss account on leased assets − − − relation to investment securities, the Group regularly monitors used in estimating the fair value, different assumptions and factors Depreciation expense equivalent 362 312 2,836 the fair values and financial positions of the issuers (countercould result in different fair value. Interest expenses equivalent ¥ 242 ¥ 192 $ 1,745 parties). The Group reviews the status of its holdings of financial instruments, other than bonds held to maturity, considering (Operating Lease Transactions as lessee) market trends and relationships with counterparties. Future lease payments of non-cancellable leases at March 31, 2018 and 2019 are as follows: (c) Monitoring of liquidity risk Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 (The risk that the Group may not be able to meet its obligations on scheduled due dates) Due within one year ¥ 23,021 ¥ 25,194 $ 229,036 Based on reports from each division, the Group prepares Due after one year 337,849 428,773 3,897,936 and updates its cash flow plans on a timely basis to manage Total ¥360,870 ¥453,968 $4,126,982 liquidity risk. (Operating Lease Transactions as lessor) Future lease payments of non-cancellable leases to be received at March 31, 2018 and 2019 are as follows: Estimated Fair Value of Financial Instruments Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Carrying value of financial instruments on the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019 and estimated fair value are shown in the following 2018 2019 2019 table. The following table does not include financial instruments for which it is extremely difficult to determine the fair value (Please refer to Note 2). Due within one year ¥ 30,702 ¥ 30,230 $ 274,818 Yen (millions) Due after one year 100,349 88,364 803,309 Book value Estimated fair value Difference Total ¥131,052 ¥118,595 $1,078,136 (1) Cash and deposits ¥ 185,091 ¥ 185,091 ¥ − (2) Securities and investment securities Held-to-maturity securities 238 240 2 Available-for-sale securities 68,591 68,591 − 16. Financial Instruments Total assets ¥ 253,921 ¥ 253,923 ¥ 2 Financial instruments at March 31, 2018 and 2019 are summarized Investments in silent partnerships are investments in special (1) Short-term loans payable 80,485 80,485 − as follows: purpose companies and are exposed to the credit risks of issuers and (2) Bonds payable 205,825 207,038 1,213 interest rate risks. (3) Long-term loans payable 1,003,497 1,011,818 8,321 Overview Lease and guarantee deposits for leased properties are exposed to Total liabilities ¥1,289,807 ¥1,299,342 ¥9,535 (1) Policy for financial instruments the credit risks of counterparties. Derivatives The Group raises funds (primarily bank loans payable) needed for The purpose of loans payable and bonds payable is the raising of Derivatives to which hedge accounting is not applied (328) (328) − its capital expenditure plans. In fund management, the Group emoperating funds (primarily short-term funds) and funds for capital Derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied ¥ (1,564) ¥ (1,564) ¥ − phasizes liquidity and avoids market risks as much as possible by expenditure (long-term funds). Floating-rate loans and bonds are exinvesting short-term. The primary purpose of derivative transactions posed to interest rate risks, but the risks are hedged using derivatives is to hedge interest rate risks and reduce interest payments. The (interest rate swaps). Group does not enter into derivative transactions for the purpose of speculation. (3) Risk management for financial instruments (a) Monitoring of credit risk (The risk that customers or counter(2) Types of financial instruments and related risk parties may default) Primary operational investment securities and investment securities Each operating department monitors the status of major counare preferred equity securities of special purpose companies under terparties and manages the due dates and balances of lease the Asset Liquidation Act, shares in companies with which the Group and guarantee deposits made by each counterparty. The Group has business relationships, and bonds held to maturity. The Group seeks to identify at an early stage any collectability issues due has exposures to the credit risks of issuers, interest rate risks, and to financial difficulties of counterparties to mitigate credit risk. market price fluctuation risks. 82 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 83 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements U.S. dollars (thousands) 17. Securities Book value Estimated fair value Difference (1) Cash and deposits $ 1,682,645 $ 1,682,645 $ − Securities held by the Company as of March 31, 2018 and 2019 are summarized as follows: (2) Securities and investment securities (1) Held-to-maturity Securities Held-to-maturity securities 2,164 2,182 18 Yen (millions) Available-for-sale securities 623,555 623,555 − 2018 Total assets $ 2,308,373 $ 2,308,391 $ 18 Book value Fair value Difference (1) Short-term loans payable 731,682 731,682 − Securities whose fair value exceeds book value: (2) Bonds payable 1,871,136 1,882,164 11,027 National and local government bonds ¥711 ¥716 ¥5 (3) Long-term loans payable 9,122,700 9,198,345 75,645 Corporate bonds − − − Total liabilities $11,725,518 $11,812,200 $86,682 Other − − − Derivatives Subtotal 711 716 5 Derivatives to which hedge accounting is not applied (2,982) (2,982) − Securities whose fair value does not exceed book value: Derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied $ (14,218) $ (14,218) $ − National and local government bonds − − − Corporate bonds − − − Notes: Yen U.S. dollars (millions) (thousands) Other − − − 1. Methods to determine the estimated fair value of financial instruments and other matters related to securities and derivative transactions Lease and guarantee deposits ¥ 89,310 $ 811,909 Subtotal − − − Long-term lease and guarantee deposited ¥197,598 $1,796,345 Total ¥711 ¥716 ¥5 Assets Because no quoted market price is available, calculation of the substantial deposit Cash and deposits period is difficult, and the amount is not significant, the above financial instruments Yen (millions) Since these items are settled in a short period of time, their carrying value approxiare not included in the table of financial instruments with estimated fair values. 2019 mates fair value. Book value Fair value Difference Securities and Investment securities 3.  Redemption schedule for receivables and marketable securities with maturities Securities whose fair value exceeds book value: The fair value of held-to-maturity securities is based on prices provided by Japan at March 31, 2019. Securities Dealers Association. The fair value of available-for-sale securities is based Yen (millions) National and local government bonds ¥238 ¥240 ¥2 on quoted market prices. Due after Due after Corporate bonds − − − Liabilities one year five years Due in one through through Due after Other − − − Short-term loans payable and Commercial papers year or less five years ten years ten years Since these items are settled in a short period of time, their carrying value approxiSubtotal 238 240 2 Cash and deposits ¥185,091 ¥ − ¥ − ¥ − mates fair value. Investment securities Securities whose fair value does not exceed book value: Bonds payable (Including current portion of bonds) Held-to-maturity securities National and local government bonds − − − The fair value of bonds is based on present value of the total of principal and interest (1) National and local government bonds 228 9 − − Corporate bonds − − − discounted by an interest rate determined taking into account the remaining period of each bond and current credit risk. (2) Corporate bonds − − − − Other − − − Available-for-sale securities Long-term loans payable (Including current portion of long-term loans payable) with maturities Subtotal − − − The fair values are estimated by discounting the total principal and interest, using (1) National and local 25 11 − − Total ¥238 ¥240 ¥2 rates at which similar new loans would be made. Floating-rate long-term loans government bonds payable satisfy the requirements for special treatment of interest rate swaps and are (2) Corporate bonds − − − − U.S. dollars (thousands) estimated by discounting the total principal and interest of the loans and the interest Total ¥185,345 ¥20 ¥ − ¥ − 2019 rate swaps combined, using rates at which similar loans would be made. U.S. dollars (thousands) Book value Fair value Difference Derivatives Please see Note 18. Derivatives. Due after Due after Securities whose fair value exceeds book value: one year five years Due in one through through Due after National and local government bonds $2,164 $2,182 $18 2. Financial instruments for which it is extremely difficult to determine the fair value year or less five years ten years ten years Corporate bonds − − − Yen U.S. dollars Cash and deposits $1,682,645 $ − $ − $ − (millions) (thousands) Investment securities Other − − − Operational investment securities ¥ 3,050 $ 27,727 Held-to-maturity securities Subtotal 2,164 2,182 18 Unlisted stocks – current 9,656 87,782 (1) National and local government bonds 2,073 82 − − Securities whose fair value does not exceed book value: Unlisted stocks – non-current 108,685 988,045 Investments in silent partnerships – current 4,730 43,000 (2) Corporate bonds − − − − National and local government bonds − − − Investments in silent partnerships – non-current ¥ 3,248 $ 29,527 Available-for-sale securities with maturities Corporate bonds − − − Because no quoted market price is available and future cash flows cannot be (1) National and local 227 100 − − Other − − − government bonds estimated, it is extremely difficult to determine the fair value. Therefore, the above (2) Corporate bonds − − − − Subtotal − − − financial instruments are not included in the table of financial instruments with estimated fair values. Total $1,684,955 $182 $ − $ − Total $2,164 $2,182 $18 84 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 85 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements (2) Available-for-sale securities Notes: Securities for which it is extremely difficult to determine the fair value Yen (millions) U.S. dollars Yen (millions) (thousands) 2018 Available-for-sale securities 2018 2019 2019 Book value Acquisition cost Difference Operational investment securities ¥ 3,149 ¥ 3,050 $ 27,727 Securities whose book value exceeds acquisition cost: Unlisted stocks, etc 32,532 35,060 318,727 Investments in silent partnerships ¥ 5,190 ¥ 7,978 $ 72,527 Stocks ¥ 58,375 ¥ 38,349 ¥20,026 Because these instruments do not have quoted market prices and is considered National and local government bonds 46 45 0 to be extremely difficult to determine their fair values, they are not included in “Available-for-sale securities” in the table above. Other − − − Subtotal 58,421 38,395 20,026 Securities whose book value does not exceed acquisition cost: (3) Sales of Available-for-sale securities Stocks 77 81 (4) Sales of Available-for-sale securities and corresponding aggregate gains and aggregate losses for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019: National and local government bonds − − − Other − − − 2018 Yen (millions) Subtotal 77 81 (4) Type Sales amount Aggregate gains Aggregate losses Total ¥ 58,498 ¥ 38,476 ¥20,022 Stocks ¥62 ¥28 ¥2 National and local government bonds − − − Yen (millions) 2019 Other − − − Book value Acquisition cost Difference Total ¥62 ¥28 ¥2 Securities whose book value exceeds acquisition cost: Stocks ¥68,474 ¥46,466 ¥22,008 2019 Not applicable. National and local government bonds 36 35 0 Other − − − (4) Loss on valuation of securities Subtotal 68,510 46,502 22,008 Loss on valuation of securities for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2019: Securities whose book value does not exceed acquisition cost: Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Stocks 80 81 (0) 2018 2019 2019 National and local government bonds − − − Loss on valuation of investment securities (Note) ¥10 ¥274 $2,491 Other − − − Note: Securities which market value is very difficult to determine Subtotal 80 81 (0) Total ¥68,591 ¥46,583 ¥22,007 U.S. dollars (thousands) 2019 Book value Acquisition cost Difference Securities whose book value exceeds acquisition cost: Stocks $622,491 $422,418 $200,073 National and local government bonds 327 318 9 Other − − − Subtotal 622,818 422,745 200,073 Securities whose book value does not exceed acquisition cost: Stocks 727 736 (9) National and local government bonds − − − Other − − − Subtotal 727 736 (9) Total $623,555 $423,482 $200,073 86 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 87 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements Interest rate-related transactions 18. Derivatives 2018 Yen (millions) Contract /notional amount and the estimated fair value of the derivative instruments as of March 31, 2018 and 2019 are summarized as follows: Contract/ Amount due Hedge accounting method Type of derivatives Major hedged items Fair value notional amount after one year (1) Derivatives to which hedge accounting is not applied Deferred treatment on hedge ¥ 4,762 ¥ 4,613 ¥ (232) Currency-related transactions Interest rate swaps Long-term debt Special treatment for Receive/floating Pay/fixed Yen (millions) ¥ 300,511 ¥ 257,614 (Note 1) interest rate swaps Contract/ Amount due 2018 Type of derivatives notional amount after one year Fair value Unrealized gain (loss) 2019 Yen (millions) NDF Contract/ Amount due Non-market transaction To sell foreign currency: ¥11,934 ¥ 2,340 ¥ 185 ¥ 185 Hedge accounting method Type of derivatives Major hedged items notional amount after one year Fair value Indonesian rupiah Deferred treatment on hedge ¥ 14,785 ¥ 14,638 ¥ (664) Interest rate swaps Long-term debt Yen (millions) Receive/floating Pay/fixed Special treatment for Contract/ Amount due interest rate swaps ¥ 269,660 ¥ 242,217 (Note 1) 2019 Type of derivatives notional amount after one year Fair value Unrealized gain (loss) NDF 2019 U.S. dollars (thousands) Non-market transaction To sell foreign currency: ¥10,040 ¥ 6,160 ¥ (328) ¥ (328) Contract/ Amount due Indonesian rupiah Hedge accounting method Type of derivatives Major hedged items Fair value notional amount after one year Deferred treatment on U.S. dollars (thousands) hedge $ 134,409 $ 133,073 $ (6,036) Interest rate swaps Long-term debt Special treatment for Receive/floating Pay/fixed Contract/ Amount due $2,451,455 $2,201,973 (Note 1) 2019 Type of derivatives notional amount after one year Fair value Unrealized gain (loss) interest rate swaps NDF Notes: 1. Interest rate swaps which qualify for the special treatment for interest swaps is treated together with the hedged long-term debt. Accordingly, the fair value of those Non-market transaction To sell foreign currency: $91,273 $56,000 $(2,982) $(2,982) interest rate swaps are included in the fair value of the long-term debt. Indonesian rupiah 2. The fair value is determined based on the quoted price obtained from the counterparty financial institutions of the derivatives transactions. Note: The fair value is determined based on the quoted price obtained from the counterparty financial institutions of the derivatives transactions. (2) Derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied Currency-related transactions 2018 Yen (millions) Contract/ Amount due Hedge accounting method Type of derivatives Major hedged items Fair value notional amount after one year Forward exchange contract Deffered treatment on Buy: hedge U.S. dollars ¥ 1,050 ¥ 61 ¥ (8) Scheduled transactions Euro in foreign currency ¥ 3,457 ¥ 202 ¥ (2) 2019 Yen (millions) Contract/ Amount due Hedge accounting method Type of derivatives Major hedged items Fair value notional amount after one year Forward exchange contract Deffered treatment on Buy: hedge U.S. dollars ¥ 13,834 ¥ 13,772 ¥ (889) Scheduled transactions Euro in foreign currency ¥ 197 ¥ − ¥ (10) 2019 U.S. dollars (thousands) Contract/ Amount due Hedge accounting method Type of derivatives Major hedged items Fair value notional amount after one year Forward exchange contract Deffered treatment on Buy: hedge U.S. dollars $125,764 $125,200 $(8,082) Scheduled transactions Euro in foreign currency $ 1,791 $ − $ (91) Note: The fair value is determined based on the quoted price obtained from the counterparty financial institutions of the derivatives transactions. 88 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 89 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements III. Table of reconciliation of retirement benefit obligations and pension assets as of March 31, 2018 and 2019 and net defined benefit liability and 19. Employees’ Retirement and Severance Benefits net defined benefit asset recorded in the consolidated balance sheet The Group have defined benefit plans (i.e., welfare pension fund plans ed a defined contribution pension plan for part of their retirement Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) and lump-sum retirement benefit plan). The amounts of benefit are benefit system. Under the defined-benefit corporate pension plan 2018 2019 2019 determined by reference to their basic rates of pay, length of service, and lump-sum retirement benefit plan owned by certain consolidated Retirement benefit obligations under the savings-type plan ¥ 9,651 ¥ 9,233 $ 83,936 and the conditions under which termination occurs. subsidiaries, net defined benefit liability and retirement benefit cost Plan assets at fair value (7,269) (7,309) (66,445) The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have adoptare calculated using the simplified method. 2,381 1,924 17,491 Defined benefit plan Retirement benefit obligations under the non-savings-type plan 26,442 27,219 247,445 I. Table of reconciliation of retirement benefit obligations as of the beginning and end of the fiscal period Net amount of liability and asset recorded in the consolidated balance sheet ¥28,824 ¥29,143 $264,936 Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 1. Principle method 2018 2019 2019 Net defined benefit liability ¥29,646 ¥29,262 $266,018 Retirement benefit obligations at beginning of year ¥34,059 ¥34,971 $317,918 Net defined benefit asset (821) (118) (1,073) Service cost 2,124 2,211 20,100 Net amount of liability and asset recorded in the consolidated balance sheet ¥28,824 ¥29,143 $264,936 Interest cost 229 230 2,091 Actuarial loss 96 178 1,618 Retirement benefits paid (1,806) (2,205) (20,045) IV. Components of retirement benefit cost for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2019 The amount of transfer in association with changing from the simplified method to the principle method 41 2 18 Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 Prior service cost that arose in the fiscal year 226 (0) (0) Service cost ¥ 2,124 ¥ 2,211 $ 20,100 Retirement benefit obligations at end of year ¥34,971 ¥35,389 $321,718 Interest cost 229 230 2,091 Expected return on plan assets (210) (225) (2,045) 2. Simplified method Amount expensed associated with the change from the Retirement benefit obligations at beginning of year ¥1,205 ¥ 1,122 $10,200 simplified method to the principle method 10 − − Retirement benefit cost 103 76 691 Amortization of actuarial loss 1,149 652 5,927 Retirement benefits paid (155) (130) (1,182) Amortization of prior service cost 54 38 345 The amount of transfer in association with changing from the Retirement benefit cost calculated using the simplified method 103 76 691 simplified method to the principle method (30) (2) (18) Retirement benefit cost for the defined benefit plan ¥ 3,460 ¥ 2,982 $ 27,109 Contributions to the system (2) (18) Retirement benefit obligations at end of year ¥ 1,122 ¥ 1,063 $ 9,664 V. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax II. Table of reconciliation of pension assets as of the beginning and end of the fiscal period Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Prior service cost ¥ 172 ¥ (38) $ (345) 2018 2019 2019 Actuarial loss (1,146) (190) (1,727) Pension assets at beginning of year ¥ 6,846 ¥ 7,269 $ 66,082 Total ¥ (974) ¥ (228) $ (2,073) Expected return on plan assets 210 225 2,045 Actuarial loss 93 (282) (2,564) Contributions from employer 667 652 5,927 Retirement benefits paid (549) (556) (5,055) Pension assets at end of year ¥ 7,269 ¥ 7,309 $ 66,445 90 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 91 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements VI. Remeasurements of retirement benefit plans 20. Income Taxes The following items are recorded under remeasurements of retirement benefit plans (before deduction of tax effects) for the year ended March 31, 2018 and 2019. Significant components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at March 31, 2018 and 2019 are as follows: Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 2018 2019 2019 Unrecognized prior service cost ¥ (280) ¥ (242) $ (2,200) Deferred tax assets: Valuation loss on inventories ¥ 1,039 ¥ 569 $ 5,173 Unrecognized actuarial loss (2,119) (1,928) (17,527) Valuation loss on securities 2,420 2,280 20,727 Total ¥(2,400) ¥(2,171) $(19,736) Amortization of intangible assets 3,739 3,972 36,109 Allowance for doubtful accounts 129 115 1,045 Accrued expenses 164 777 7,064 VII. Pension assets Accrued bonuses to employees 3,874 3,879 35,264 1. The ratio by major category of the total pension assets as of March 31, 2018 and 2019 are set forth below. Net defined benefit liability 8,410 8,589 78,082 Net operating loss carry forwards 5,018 7,915 71,955 2018 2019 Unrealized inter-company profits 481 825 7,500 Bonds 37% 38% Impairment losses on fixed assets 3,659 6,109 55,536 Stocks 18% 13% Loss of investments in silent partnerships 5 7 64 General account 28% 28% Undistributed loss from consolidated subsidiaries 300 226 2,055 Others 17% 21% Accrued enterprise tax/business office tax 869 1,452 13,200 Revaluation of assets for merger 7 7 64 Total 100% 100% Asset retirement obligations 1,460 1,898 17,255 Asset adjustment account 5,017 3,473 31,573 2. Method of establishing the long-term expected rate of return on pension assets Other 4,711 5,837 53,064 To determine the long-term expected rate of return on pension assets, the current and forecast allocation of pension assets and the current and Gross deferred tax assets 41,310 47,939 435,809 expected long-term rates of return on various assets constituting the pension assets are considered. Valuation allowance related to tax loss carried forward (Note 2) − (4,854) (44,127) Valuation allowance related to future deductible temporary differences − (12,762) (116,018) VIII. Matters regarding assumptions for actuarial calculations Less: valuation allowance (Note 1) (12,906) (17,617) (160,155) Total deferred tax assets ¥ 28,403 ¥ 30,321 $ 275,645 Major assumptions for actuarial calculations as of March 31, 2018 and 2019 Deferred tax liabilities: 2018 2019 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities ¥ 6,057 ¥ 6,664 $ 60,582 Discount rate 0.03% 1.58% 0.03% 1.58% Valuation difference on consolidated Subsidiaries 28,300 28,072 255,200 Reserve for advanced depreciation of non-current assets 2,793 2,286 20,782 Long-term expected rate of return on pension assets 0.75% 3.20% 0.75% 3.20% Loss on approval for exchange of land rights 24 591 5,373 Expected rate of salary increase 1.85% 7.47% 1.85% 7.47% Property, plant and equipment corresponding to asset retirement obligations 839 1,129 10,264 Other 2,095 3,623 32,936 Total deferred tax liabilities 40,111 42,366 385,145 Defined contribution plan Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) ¥(11,707) ¥(12,045) $(109,500) The amount required to be contributed to the defined contribution plan are ¥1,377 million and ¥1,498 million ($13,618 thousand) for the year ended Notes: 1. The valuation allowance increased by ¥4,710 million. The main reason for the increase was that the valuation allowance was additionally recognized for consolidated March 31, 2018 and 2019. subsidiaries whose deferred tax assets were deemed non-recoverable in full due to the occurrence of impairment losses, etc. 2. Tax losses carried forward and the amounts of their deferred tax assets according to carry-forward period deadlines. Yen (millions) One year More than one year but More than two years but More than three years More than four years More than five Total 2019 or less two years or less three years or less but four years or less but five years or less years Tax loss carried forward (Note 1) − − − 14 100 7,800 7,915 Valuation allowance − − − (6) (71) (4,777) (4,854) Deferred tax assets − − − 8 29 3,023 3,061 (Note 2) Notes: 1. Tax losses carried forward indicate amounts multiplied by legally-designated effective tax rates. 2. Deferred tax assets amounting to ¥3,061 million have been posted in conjunction with the tax loss carried forward of ¥7,915 million (multiplied by the legally designated effective tax rate). The portion of the said tax loss carried forward that is deemed recoverable based on expected future taxable income is not recognized as a valuation allowance. Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 2018 2019 2019 Deferred tax assets – non-current 17,423 18,596 169,055 Deferred tax liabilities – non-current ¥29,131 ¥30,641 $278,555 92 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 93 Section 4 Data Section / Consolidated Financial Statements Breakdown by major items that caused a significant difference between the statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate is as follows: 22. Per Share Information 2018 2019 Statutory tax rate (Adjustments) 30.9% 30.6% Basic net income per share was computed based on the net income available for distribution to shareholders of common stock and the weighted Items not included in tax deductions permanently, such as average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year. entertainment expenses 0.7% 0.8% Diluted net income per share is not presented as there are no dilutive potential shares. Items not included in taxable income permanently, such as dividend income (0.1)% (0.1)% Yen U.S. dollars Temporary difference for consolidation − (2.0)% 2018 2019 2019 Inhabitant tax on a per capita basis 0.6% 0.5% Net asset per share of common stock as of March 31 ¥768.85 ¥780.78 $7.10 Increase/decrease in the amount of valuation reserve 6.7% 6.5% Net income per share of common stock for the year ended March 31 ¥ 57.80 ¥ 56.84 $0.52 Amortization of goodwill 2.8% 2.8% Tax credit for wage increases and productivity improvement and Bases of calculation for net income per share are as follows: tax incentives to promote capital expenditure on productivity (1.4)% (0.5)% Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) enhancing equipment 2018 2019 2019 Equity in earnings of entities accounted for by the equity method (0.1)% (0.1)% For the year ended March 31 Exclusion from tax deductions directors’ bonuses 0.1% 0.1% Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ 35,185 ¥ 37,459 $ 340,536 Others 0.3% 0.5% Profit attributable to owners of parent of common stock ¥ 35,185 ¥ 37,459 $ 340,536 Effective tax rate 40.5% 39.0% Weighted average number of shares of common stock (thousands) 608,772 659,059 Bases of calculation for net asset per share are as follows: Yen (millions) U.S. dollars (thousands) 21. Investment and Rental Properties 2018 2019 2019 The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries own office the consolidated balance sheet and corresponding fair value of those As of March 31 buildings for lease in Tokyo and other areas. The carrying value in properties at March 31, 2018 and 2019 are as follows: Total net assets ¥475,345 ¥568,698 $5,169,982 2018 Yen (millions) Amount deducted from total net assets 7,204 7,292 66,291 Carrying value Fair value Non-controlling interests (7,204) (7,292) (66,291) As of April 1, 2017 Net change As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2018 Net assets of common stock at March 31 ¥468,140 ¥561,405 $5,103,682 ¥797,488 ¥(6,107) ¥791,381 ¥937,080 Number of shares of common stock at March 31 (thousands) 608,883 719,028 2019 Yen (millions) Carrying value Fair value 23. Shareholders’ Equity As of April 1, 2018 Net change As of March 31, 2019 As of March 31, 2019 The Corporation Law of Japan provides that an amount equal to at The portion of such aggregated amount in excess of 25 percent of ¥791,381 ¥24,767 ¥816,148 ¥1,061,489 least 10 percent of distributions paid in cash be appropriated as a common stock may become available for distributions subsequent to legal reserve until the aggregated amount of the capital reserve and release of such excess to retained earnings. 2019 U.S. dollars (thousands) the legal reserve equals 25 percent of common stock. Carrying value Fair value As of April 1, 2018 Net change As of March 31, 2019 As of March 31, 2019 $7,194,373 $225,155 $7,419,527 $9,649,900 24. Segment Information Notes: 1. The carrying value represents the acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and cumulative impairment loss. 2. Of the changes, the increase during the year ended March 31, 2019 is mainly attributable to the acquisition of properties and progress of properties to be developed The business of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries is and country houses and, ( ii) ownership and management of resort before opening of ¥100,159 million ($ 910,536 thousand). The increase during the year ended March 31, 2018 were mainly attributable to the acquisition of properties of ¥2,773 million. composed primarily of seven segments: facilities, urban style hotels, senior housing and membership sports The decrease during the year ended March 31, 2019 were mainly due to the sales of properties of ¥37,283 million ($338,936 thousand), and transfers to real estate for (1) Urban Development; ( i) development, leasing, and operation of clubs, (6) Tokyu Hands; retail sales of materials and products for living sale of ¥32,847 million ($298,609 thousand), respectively. 3. Fair value is estimated by internal appraisers in accordance with appraisal standards issued by the Japanese Association of Real Estate Appraisers. office buildings, retail facilities, rental residences and other properties and D-I-Y, and (7) Business Innovation and Others, (i) development, 4. Determining the fair value of properties in the planning stage (consolidated balance sheet amount of ¥137,364 million and ¥52,883 million ($480,755 thousand) as of March 31, 2018 and 2019) is extremely difficult, since they are in the early stages of development. For this reason, they are not included in the table above. and, ( ii) sales of properties for investors, (2) Residential; development sales, and leasing of condominiums and other properties in overseas, and sales of condominiums and detached housing, (3) Property Man( ii) construction of residential homes and others. agement; ( i) property management of condominiums, buildings and Information by geographic areas is omitted as overseas sales of retail facilities and, ( ii)construction of common areas of condominithe Company for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are less ums, (4) Real Estate Agents; real estate brokerage and property sales, than 10 percent of consolidated revenue. (5) Wellness; ( i) development and sales of membership resort hotels 94 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 95 Section 4 Data Section / Independent Auditor's Report Independent Auditor's Report Summarized information by business segment for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Yen (millions) Year ended Urban Property Real Estate Innovation Elimination/ Residential Wellness Tokyu Hands Consolidated March 31, 2018 Development Management Agents Business Headquarters Revenues: Third party customers ¥ 266,875 ¥123,490 ¥150,416 ¥96,305 ¥ 96,315 ¥96,378 ¥ 36,346 ¥ − ¥ 866,126 Inter-segment 2,902 48 10,532 3,044 704 736 5,343 (23,311) − Total ¥ 269,777 ¥123,538 ¥160,948 ¥99,349 ¥ 97,019 ¥97,114 ¥ 41,689 ¥ (23,311) ¥ 866,126 Operating profit/loss 50,745 7,595 8,212 13,238 5,823 413 (2,220) (6,288) 77,519 Total assets ¥1,427,090 ¥211,898 ¥ 92,559 ¥75,358 ¥258,878 ¥38,700 ¥117,627 ¥ (48,889) ¥2,173,225 Depreciation expenses 10,928 503 1,136 1,212 7,413 1,460 92 386 23,133 Amortization of goodwill 1,008 − 1,922 − 0 − 1 2,488 5,421 Investment in entities accounted for using equity − − − 89 − − 72,613 707 73,410 method Additions to property, plant and equipment and 21,811 1,102 2,081 1,838 17,001 1,273 1,001 1,222 47,331 intangible assets Yen (millions) Year ended Urban Property Real Estate Innovation Elimination/ Residential Wellness Tokyu Hands Consolidated March 31, 2019 Development Management Agents Business Headquarters Revenues: Third party customers ¥ 252,452 ¥121,276 ¥158,276 ¥112,068 ¥123,200 ¥96,485 ¥ 38,123 ¥ − ¥ 901,884 Inter-segment 3,975 142 15,627 6,793 704 907 3,456 (31,607) − Total ¥ 256,427 ¥121,419 ¥173,904 ¥118,862 ¥123,904 ¥97,392 ¥ 41,580 ¥ (31,607) ¥ 901,884 Operating profit/loss 49,882 5,363 8,573 13,918 7,864 759 931 (7,086) 80,205 Total assets ¥1,534,097 ¥236,351 ¥102,457 ¥104,886 ¥273,720 ¥37,828 ¥129,961 ¥ (14,052) ¥2,405,249 Depreciation expenses 11,004 641 1,322 1,322 8,290 1,339 66 579 24,567 Amortization of goodwill 1,008 − 1,922 − 0 − 1 2,488 5,421 Investment in entities accounted for using equity − − − 154 − − 76,379 816 77,350 method Additions to property, plant and equipment and 48,402 1,239 2,862 1,897 30,178 1,216 171 644 86,614 intangible assets U.S. dollars (thousands) Year ended Urban Property Real Estate Innovation Elimination/ Residential Wellness Tokyu Hands Consolidated March 31, 2019 Development Management Agents Business Headquarters Revenues: Third party customers $ 2,295,018 $1,102,509 $1,438,873 $1,018,800 $1,120,000 $877,136 $ 346,573 $ − $ 8,198,945 Inter-segment 36,136 1,291 142,064 61,755 6,400 8,245 31,418 (287,336) − Total $ 2,331,155 $1,103,809 $1,580,945 $1,080,564 $1,126,400 $885,382 $ 378,000 $ (287,336) $ 8,198,945 Operating profit/loss 453,473 48,755 77,936 126,527 71,491 6,900 8,464 (64,418) 729,136 Total assets $13,946,336 $2,148,645 $ 931,427 $ 953,509 $2,488,364 $343,891 $1,181,464 $ (127,745) $21,865,900 Depreciation expenses 100,036 5,827 12,018 12,018 75,364 12,173 600 5,264 223,336 Amortization of goodwill 9,164 − 17,473 − 0 − 9 22,618 49,282 Investment in entities accounted for using equity − − − 1,400 − − 694,355 7,418 703,182 method Additions to property, plant and equipment and 440,018 11,264 26,018 17,245 274,345 11,055 1,555 5,855 787,400 intangible assets 96 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 97 Section 4 Data Section Data Section Data Section Business Areas Holdings Structure (As of April 1, 2019) Sapporo Main Domestically Operated Facilities Niseko Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation TOKYU LAND TOKYU COMMUNITY Tokyu Housing Lease NATIONAL STUDENTS TOKYU LIVABLE, INC. TOKYU HANDS INC. CORPORATION CORP. Corporation INFORMATION CENTER CO., LTD. Tokyu Homes Corporation COMMUNITY ONE CO., LTD. Tokyu Livable Staff HANDS LAB INC. Tokyu Corporate Housing Nasic I support Co., Ltd. TOKYU SPORTS OASIS Inc. MARIMO COMMUNITY Corporation TOKYU HANDS Management Inc. SIGMA JAPAN CO., LTD. ISHIKATSU EXTERIOR INC. CO., LTD Livable Asset Management SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. Residential Partners K.K. HOKUWA CONSTRUCTION, TOKYU BLDG. MAINTENANCE Inc. INC EWEL, Inc. TOKYU LIVABLE (TAIWAN), Okinawa TLC REIT Management Inc. SHONAN COMMUNITY INC. Tokyu Land Capital DAI-ICHI Building Service Inc. Tokyu Livable US, Inc. Management Inc. YOGA DISTRICT HEATING AND COOLING CO., LTD. Tokyu Livable Texas Madarao TOKYU LAND SC Investment Advisors, LLC MANAGEMENT CORPORATION TC FORUM CORP. Karuizawa Tokyu Stay Co., Ltd. INFIELD INC. Urabandai Tokyu Resort Service Co., SHINDAI-BYOIN PARKING Tateshina Ltd. SERVICE Nasu Tokyu Resort Corporation Tokyu Re・design Katsuyama TOKYU E-LIFE DESIGN Inc. Corporation Hiroshima Pacific Islands PT. Tokyu Property Development Corporation Management Indonesia Tokyo Kansai Other Facility Unit Metropolitan Total PT. Tokyu Land Indonesia Area Areas Fukuoka Area Tokyu Land US Corporation ● Office buildings Building 58 2 0 60 TOKYU LAND CORPORATION ● Commercial facilities Facility 25 7 1 33 (SHANGHAI) LTD. Atami, Izu Nagoya ● Urban style hotels Facility 18 2 4 24 Tokyu Land Asia Pte. Ltd. ● Resort facilities Facility 4 3 24 31 and others Tokyo Metropolitan ● Golf courses Facility 7 4 9 20 Area*1 Segment ● Ski resorts Facility 0 0 8 8 Kansai Area*2 ● Senior housing Facility 16 0 0 16 Urban Development Property Management Real Estate Agents Tokyu Hands Urban Development Urban Development ● Fitness Club 22 13 1 36 Residential Urban Development Urban Development ● TOKYU HANDS*3 Store 20 9 20 49 Wellness *1. Including Tokyo, Kanagawa, Chiba, and Saitama Prefectures *2. Including Osaka, Kyoto, Hyogo, Shiga, Nara, and Wakayama Prefectures *3. Includes franchised TOKYU HANDS stores Innovation Business Main Overseas Bases Asia China Shanghai 01 TOKYU LAND CORPORATION (SHANGHAI) LTD. (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) Hong Kong 02 Tokyu Livable Hong Kong Branch (TOKYU LIVABLE, INC.) Support of International Initiatives 01 Taiwan 03 TOKYU LIVABLE (TAIWAN), INC. (TOKYU LIVABLE, INC.) Palau 04 Pacific Islands Development Corporation (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) We actively support the progressive 03 02 creation of a framework (international Singapore 05 Tokyu Land Asia Pte. Ltd. (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) initiatives) for realizing a sustainable 06 Investment in OrangeTee Holdings Pte Ltd. (TOKYU LIVABLE, INC.) society together with corporations and 04 07 TOKYU HANDS SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. ( TOKYU HANDS INC.) organizations all over the world. (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) (Tokyu Land Capital Management Inc.) TOKYU HANDS Jurong East Store 05,06,07 TOKYU HANDS Orchard Store Selection for SRI Indexes TOKYU HANDS Suntec City Store 08,09 Indonesia Jakarta 08 PT. Tokyu Land Indonesia (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) We were selected for multiple Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indexes. 09 PT. Tokyu Property Management Indonesia (TOKYU COMMUNITY CORP.) This is likely due to an evaluation as a The United States Los Angeles 10 Tokyu Land US Corporation (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) promising corporation for sustainable The United States 11 Tokyu Livable US, Inc. (TOKYU LIVABLE, INC.) future growth. 12 10,11 Participated in the 425 Park Avenue redevelopment project New York 12 13 (TOKYU LAND CORPORATION) Dallas 13 Tokyu Livable Texas Investment Advisors, LLC (TOKYU LIVABLE, INC.) ( As of March 31, 2019) 98 TOKYU FUDOSAN HOLDINGS 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT 99 Data Section Corporate Overview and Stock Information Corporate Overview Corporate name Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation Business activities Management and administration of the Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Group Address 1-21-1 Dogenzaka, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0043, Japan Established October 1, 2013 Representative Yuji Okuma, President and Representative Director Capital ¥77,562 million (As of March 31, 2019) Employees 52 (consolidated : 21,976) (As of March 31, 2019) GROUP SLOGAN Stock Information (As of March 31, 2019) Listed stock market Tokyo Stock Exchange  Shareholder registry Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited administrator 1-4-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8233, Japan Securities code 3289 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Stock Transfer Agency Share trading unit 100 shares Mailing address 2-8-4 Izumi, Suginami-ku, Tokyo, 168-0063, Japan Shares authorized to be 2,400,000,000 shares Website URL https://www.smtb.jp/tools/english issued by the Company Shares issued 719,830,974 shares Fiscal year April 1 to March 31 of the following year GROUP PHILOSOPHY Ordinary General Meeting June each year of Shareholders Shareholders’ record date ・Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders: March 31 ・Dividends: March 31 We hold this philosophy in common as we work together ・Interim dividend: September 30 ・Other: Certain days for which prior notice is provided. to create and support Tokyu Group. Shareholder Composition (As of March 31, 2019) Mission Statement We will create a beautiful living environment, where each person can pursue individual happiness in a harmonious society. Breakdown of Shares by Shareholder Breakdown of the Number of Shareholders Distribution of Stock by the Size of Holdings Treasury stock Foreign companies, etc. Financial instruments More than 5 units More than 10 units 271,284 745 business operators but less than 10 units but less than 50 units 52,040,730 Management Policy Work independently and in collaboration to raise Tokyu Group synergy and 6,835,183 0.04% 0.79% 54 Individuals and others 0.06% 0.95% 7.23% More than 50 units establish a trusted and beloved brand. Financial instruments 118,693,707 More than 1 unit but less than 100 units business operators 16.49% Treasury stock but less than 5 units 6,235,239 19,209,549 • Meet current market expectations and develop new ones. Other 2.67% 13,845,302 1 0.87% 1.92% domestic 0.00% More than 100 units • Manage in harmony with the natural environment. Total No. of Total No. of but less than 500 units companies Foreign Shares Issued: 759 Total: Less than 1 unit Shares Issued: 29,599,235 • Pursue innovative management from a global perspective. 94,323 4.11% companies, etc. 719,830,974 0.80% shareholders 58,314 0.01% 719,830,974 More than 500 units • Value individuality and encourage the best from each employee. 212,807,707 shares shares but less than 1,000 units 29.56% Financial Financial institutions Individuals Treasury 10,641,972 1.48% Through these means, we will fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. institutions and others stock Other domestic 98 271,284 250,952,167 92,666 More than 1,000 units companies 0.04% More than but less than 5,000 units 0.10% 5,000 units 123,260,807 34.86% 98.24% 39,949,254 17.12% 554,990,214 77.10% 5.55% Guidelines for Action F  ulfill your responsibilities. Collaborate to enhance each other’s abilities. Reinvent yourself with a global awareness. Major Shareholders Number of Percentage of Name Shares Held Shares Held* (thousands) TOKYU CORPORATION 114,379 15.90% The Master Trust Bank of Japan Ltd. (Trust Account) 54,233 7.54% Japan Trustee Services Bank Ltd. (Trust Account) 53,955 7.50% Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited 16,008 2.22% The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited 14,918 2.07% SSBTC CLIENT OMNIBUS ACCOUNT 14,240 1.98% Japan Trustee Services Bank Ltd. (Trust Account 4) 11,176 1.55% Japan Trustee Services Bank Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 10,410 1.45% JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 9,453 1.31% * The percentage of shares held is calculated after Japan Trustee Services Bank Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 9,259 1.29% deducting 271,284 of treasury stock. 100
