Title Subtitle 1 2018 Sustainability Progress Review A Sense of Tomorrow Givaudan – 2017 Sustainability Report 2 Title2018 Key achievements Subtitle Key 2018 achievements Progress Progress Targets 2017 (restated) 2018 -30% absolute scope 1 + 2 -7.0% ¹ -13.9% ¹ -24.4% GHG emissions between Water use since 2009 2015 and 2030 Target: -15% by 2020 from 2009 baseline -20% absolute scope 3 + 13.6% ¹ + 21.6% ¹ GHG emissions between 2015 and 2030 69.4% Renewable electricity 100% renewable 57.8% 69.4% electricity by 2025 Target: 100% by 2025 -15% water per tonne of -19.4% ¹ -24.4% ¹ product by 2020 (use of municipal and groundwater, Givaudan’s leadership on climate baseline 2009) change action was recognised in 2018 by CDP. We were among the 120 global 4% waste per tonne -4.4% p.a. on -1.7% p.a. on companies awarded and earned an of product, year on year average (-8.8% average (-5.2% average (baseline 2015)² since baseline since baseline Afor reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 2015) 2015) emissions and an Afor outstanding water stewardship. We also earned a 1. Compared to baseline year. position on CDP’s Supplier Engagement 2. Includes incinerated and landfilled waste. leader board in recognition of our actions and strategies to reduce Disclosure 305 – 5 emissions and lower climate-related risk across our supply chain. Waste1 Our 2018 assessment achieved a gold level rating of 67/100 and positions 2018 -1.7% 3 43.3 us in the top 5% of suppliers in the -4.4% 3 41.7 2017 2 chemical industry who complete the 20152 45.7 EcoVadis assessment. Waste in kg/tonne of product Target between 2015 and 2020: -4% p.a. Disclosure 102 – 15 1. Includes incinerated and land-filled waste. 2. Restated. 3. P.a. since 2015. Lost time injury rate 2018 -76% 1 0.25 2017 -68% 1 0.33 2009 1.03 -90% LTI rate Target by 2020 from 2009 baseline 1. Compared to baseline year. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review About this report 3 About this report Our reporting suite Table of contents Readers are advised to consult our entire reporting suite to get a complete overview: 4 Our sustainability approach 6 Sourcing for Shared Value – The 2018 Integrated Annual Report offers a holistic 16 Innovating Responsibly explanation of our value creation, financial and non-financial capitals and performance, including our Governance, 28 Acting for Our Environment Compensation and Financial reports. 40 Environmental performance indicators – The 2018 Sustainability Progress Review offers case studies 42 Our People and Partners and progress data for the three focus areas of our sustainability approach as well as eco-efficiency targets versus progress. The GRI Content Index is included in this report. 47 Appendix 48 GRI Content Index – Our Sustainability Approach offers a strategic overview 54 Performance indicators – of A Sense of Tomorrow, the approach for each of the three restatement table sustainability focus areas, and related issues such as stakeholder engagement and material topics. 58 Independent Assurance Statement 60 Our reporting suite Cross-references help readers navigate through the reports: a GRI icon signals information related to GRI Disclosures; SDG icons are used to show which content contributes to the ten United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) we References used believe we can have the most impact on; and the magnifying in Givaudan reports glass icon refers the reader to a specific page in the report or to the website or to another publication for further information. References to other pages, reports, documents or websites for more Sustainability reporting information This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. It covers the sustainability activity of References to GRI Standards disclosures Givaudan’s wholly-owned companies from January to December 2018. GRI disclosures are spread across all three publications. The References to UN Sustainable GRI Content Index and the GRI reference icons used throughout the Development Goals reports show where the content to each disclosure can be found. Givaudan reports on sustainability once a year; the previous report was published in March 2018. The GRI Materiality Disclosures Service verified that the Disclosures 102–40 to 102–49 were correctly located both in the GRI Content Index (p. 48) and in the text of the report. External assurance is provided by Ernst & Young LLP (p. 58). Our GRI reporting also represents Givaudan’s annual communication on progress (COP) towards our commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles. For more information see the principles of the UN Global Compact (Our Sustainability Approach p. 54) and our GRI Content Index (p. 48). Comments and questions can be sent to: global.sustainability@givaudan.com Disclosure 102 – 50 to 102 – 54 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 4 Our sustainability approach Our sustainability approach Our sustainable practices allow Our framework for meeting these goals is A Sense of Tomorrow, an approach that gives our vision for 2030 and us to better meet our customers’ beyond. A Sense of Tomorrow is built on three main focus areas. This is why we are: needs and ultimately transform a Sourcing for Shared Value: ensuring that all of our raw challenge into new possibilities. materials are produced in a way that respects people and the environment. We are committed to a more sustainable future and believe that corporations should be leaders in a movement to address Innovating Responsibly: driving innovation that benefits our social, environmental and economic issues. By expanding customers, society and the environment. sustainable practices in sourcing, product development and in reducing our environmental footprint, we can better meet Acting for Our Environment: leading climate action and today’s needs and ultimately transform challenges posed by improving processes to continuously reduce the footprint of diminishing natural resources and impacts of climate change our products. into new opportunities for responsible economic growth. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Our sustainability approach 5 and Par eople tne u rP rs O We cannot do this alone: the support of Our People and Our Enviro or Partners is essential. This is why managing the talent of those n gf nm who are passionate about their work and committed to ti e Ac nt creating a sustainable society and choosing like-minded partners are also key to meeting our business and sustainability e d V alue goals. Our initiatives support our own objectives, but also I n n o v a ti n g address no fewer than 10 of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Details on our progress in all of these areas can be found in the har chapters that follow. rS Re po s fo ns g ibl rc in y Sou Meeting needs today. Deﬁning what’s next. SDGs Sourcing for Shared Value Innovating Responsibly Acting for Our Environment Our People and Partners Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 6 Sourcing for Shared Value Sourcing for Shared Value Givaudan depends on natural partners – we run numerous community projects around the world. From promoting schools and good agricultural practices to resources and the communities finding ways to mitigate climate change, we help strengthen the social, economic and environmental fabrics of these communities who grow them: Sourcing for while also supporting the supply of the raw materials we rely on. Shared Value ensures we generate Our approach allows us to satisfy our own ethical convictions, benefits for everyone involved. but also those of consumers. Inspired by a flavour or a fragrance, they increasingly want to know where ingredients come from and be assured that they have been produced in a We are committed to sourcing our raw materials responsibly, sustainable way: the transparency ingrained in our supply chain working with suppliers who respect people and the helps our customers meet this consumer need. environment. We want to bring long-term stability to our supply chains, but also to the communities we source from. We call our overall approach Sourcing for Shared Value because it brings new value to all involved. It is based on the Developing farming partnerships and collection networks, we three practices of Responsible Sourcing, Sourcing at Origin source directly from producers whenever possible and – in and Communities at Source. collaboration with the Givaudan Foundation, NGOs and local Our Sustainability Approach Supplier screening Operations and suppliers with significant social risks All new relationships between Givaudan and vendors are Since 2008, Givaudan has been an active user of the Sedex developed using vendor requirement guidelines as reference platform which incorporates human rights risks in its material. We encourage selected suppliers to improve their assessments. Child labour or the exposure of young workers to performance. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers hazardous work can be an issue across the entire supply chain to register with Sedex, a data-sharing platform to improve covering our own operations and those of our suppliers, and supply chain practices. 100% of our operations are assessed for risk in this area. –– Total number of significant suppliers identified: 400 Since 2010, all Givaudan production sites have been registered on Sedex and completed Sedex self-assessment questionnaires –– Total number of suppliers assessed to date: 310 (SAQ) to share information with customers. Givaudan annually reviews and updates the SAQ. To date, 39 Givaudan sites have –– Percentage of suppliers assessed to date: 78% been audited according to SMETA standards. –– Total number of suppliers assessed in 2018: 13 Significant suppliers are assessed for risk, and in 2018 a total of 318 key raw material suppliers were registered with Sedex. –– Percentage of suppliers assessed in 2018: 3% These suppliers represent over 65% of our spend. We have also worked to ensure that audited suppliers had closed all open Disclosure 308 – 1, 414 – 1 non-conformities. At the end of 2018, our supplier compliance rate was 78%. Disclosure 407 – 1, 408 – 1, 409 – 1, 412 – 1 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Sourcing for Shared Value 7 Progress on main direct suppliers KEY ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 The first step is to introduce suppliers to the Responsible –– Worked with our main direct suppliers on site audits, Sourcing Policy. So far, we have sent it to 14,028 of our raw 78% now fully compliant material and indirect materials & services (IM&S) suppliers, representing 87% of our total spend for 2018. –– Verified that 24 raw material categories are sourced in a responsible way Our Procurement team and implementation partners work –– Developed a new partnership for a litsea collection closely with suppliers to guide them through our policy, network in China identify gaps, agree on remediation plans and prepare for the –– Improved conditions for smallholder producers in Indonesia audit. Most direct supplier sites are audited according to Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), one of the most widely used ethical audit formats in the world. Responsible Sourcing We source more than 10,000 raw materials from all over In total, 318 key raw material suppliers representing around the world and managing supply chains at such a scale is a 65% of our raw materials spend are now registered with Sedex. complicated task. We are nonetheless committed to working In 2014, we started to include our indirect materials and with our suppliers to make sure we all meet the requirements services suppliers in the Sedex initiative and to date, 25 such of our Responsible Sourcing Policy, which outlines the high suppliers have joined Sedex. standards we expect in terms of health and safety, social and environmental responsibility and business integrity. SUPPLY CHAINS TARGET MAIN DIRECT SUPPLIERS TARGET Our target is to ensure that 90% of our raw materials volume of natural origin is We aim to have all main direct suppliers meet responsibly sourced by 2020. the requirements of our policy and to reach full compliance with their site audits by 2020. Progress on supply chains of raw materials of natural origin We work together with partners and suppliers to increase transparency in our supply chains and improve their sustainability practices. Spending on local suppliers We source a wide variety of raw materials, often from various It is the Company’s common practice to prefer sourcing suppliers through multiple supply chains. In order to better from locally based suppliers (defined as suppliers who are understand the origin of raw materials we map supply chains based in the same country as the Givaudan ‘facility’). beyond our direct suppliers. This creates the transparency we This is reflected in the 84% by value of non-raw material need to assess whether or not practices throughout the supply purchased locally in 2018. For raw materials, 26% by value chains meet our Responsible Sourcing Policy. were sourced locally in 2018. Several of the raw materials we buy cannot be sourced in countries other than the ones Our aim is to source these raw materials responsibly by either where it naturally grows. identifying existing best practices or by reaching agreements with our suppliers on improvement plans to close gaps in Disclosure 204 – 1 relation to our policy. For raw materials sourced in several countries through multiple supply chains, we carry out assessments gradually over time. This continuously increases our responsible sourcing coverage in volume, and means that some raw material categories are partially covered. By the end of 2018 we were mapping 32 raw material categories and were sourcing 24 raw material categories in a responsible way. Sharing best practices with partners involved in geranium sourcing in Egypt is an example of how we look to work with our suppliers. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 8 Sourcing for Shared Value EGYPT Improvements in site management practices benefit employees and the environment in geranium sourcing Geranium oil is another widely used An audit team’s visit to the site in reviewed the storage and handling floral component of perfumes and 2017 nonetheless revealed that there of pesticides and are continuing to sweet-smelling personal care products was room for improvement. Though evaluate the best ways of doing so like soaps and shampoo. Our Fridal shares our vision for the product while protecting both the growers longstanding partnership with Fridal, and the way it is sourced, there has and the environment. a leading supplier of the oil in Egypt, been a learning curve and the Egyptian Amr is convinced that sharing helps us secure a high-quality supply company has benefitted in many best practices on everything from of this precious natural ingredient and ways from Givaudan’s approach composting to solar panels has been meet the demand of our customers – to responsible sourcing, said Amr, and will continue to be valuable in a responsible way. General Manager of Fridal’s division to both sides. Fridal started growing the flowers for essential oils, herbs and spices. “A sustainable approach and on 3,000 acres of virgin land in an oasis “There is a huge cultural gap for fair-trade practices make Fridal more area of the Western Desert. Thanks developing countries like Egypt, but attractive as a supplier and also enables to their investments in modern education and dialogue are helping us to increase loyalty among our equipment and renewable energy to change attitudes,” he said. workers, which ultimately is a boost technology, the wells and pumps at Since that visit, Fridal has been to our business,” he said. the site are run on solar power. They working consistently to implement key This long-term partnership with also carry out detailed monitoring to improvements for employees. They Fridal exemplifies our approach to limit water consumption. The Fridal have installed first aid equipment and Responsible Sourcing. Through operation now includes two large provided training to 150 workers transparency and exchange, bestdryers for herbs and spices and several through the Egyptian Red Crescent practice sharing and continuous steam distillation units, providing work organisation. They have also introduced improvement, we are working to to more than 800 people, including a policy to stop burning crop residues, improve conditions for growers in around 700 full-time employees. instead converting them into valuable Egypt while ensuring a stable supply The company continues to grow. compost. Finally, they have completely of this essential ingredient. Management Approach 103 – 3: Topic 308, 407, 408, 409, 412, 414, pages 6 – 8 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Sourcing for Shared Value 9 Sourcing at Origin directly from farmers, distillers and producer associations. We Our Sourcing at Origin initiatives target the direct sourcing of build trust through personal relationships with producers and raw materials. We do this by working with local smallholder work together to ensure the long-term future of raw materials. farmers, intermediate suppliers and partners, sourcing The field teams also engage in knowledge transfer on technical whenever possible directly from producers. These initiatives solutions and practices, enabling smallholder farmers to strengthen the fabric of the local economy by contributing to enhance the quality of their crops and gain more value from more stable incomes for thousands of farmers. cultivation or distillation. Our dedicated procurement teams, who are based where our Some of our most recent work on Sourcing at Origin involved natural raw materials are produced, are a key element of this opening a new collection network for litsea seeds in China and approach. Operating in countries all over the world, these field boost sustainable sourcing of innovative natural ingredients for teams travel to remote sourcing regions to visit and buy the Fragrance Division in India. CHINA New partnership expands litsea seeds collection network, improves sustainability Our new partnership with a supplier located in the heart of the litsea growing area is allowing us to source litsea cubeba seeds directly from seed collectors, increasing transparency in the supply chain through better visibility of the source and helping us secure our supply. The inauguration of a distillation plant in collaboration with the same partner, Yongzhou Samshiang Flavours & Fragrances Corporation, is ensuring an environmental friendly production of the associated products. Litsea cubeba oil is used in detergents and oral care products and its derivative, natural citral, is mainly used in flavours products and for fortifying lemon oil. Grown naturally in six provinces in southern China, the seeds are harvested during July and August and those collected by the network provide us with 25-40% of our supply need. The association of our field buyers and the sourcing expertise of our partner will allow us to extend the collection network to more litsea oil distillers, meeting our remaining need. After collection, the seeds are and then reusing them as fuel for transparent and economically distilled at the plant into litsea oil. Some the distillation process. competitive position. of that oil is then further processed into This and other GMP are expected “This partnership is a great natural citral. The distillation and to improve the impact of litsea cubeba example of our ‘Sourcing for Shared processing plant which features new distillation on the environment. Value’ programme; it secures supply for technology and clean and controlled Together with Yongzhou Samshiang, us, helps to stabilise the livelihoods for processes operates on Good we will keep working towards a litsea seeds collectors and finally to Manufacturing Practices (GMP) such continuous improvement of the supply protect the environment,” said Olivier, as, for example, drying litsea oil residues chain and aim to implement a strong, Head of Origination. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 10 Sourcing for Shared Value INDIA Synthite partnership targets sourcing and innovation The home of legendary flowers and research into and development spices such as jasmine, tuberose, ginger of exceptional qualities of floral and cardamom, we have long been and spicy natural ingredients, we active in India, an important country will enrich Givaudan’s palette of for the Fragrance Division. A new ingredients for perfumers, allowing strategic partnership with Synthite, an them to create the winning fragrances independent family business based in of tomorrow. Cochin, India, allows us to strengthen The cooperation has already our presence and secure the sourcing resulted in exclusive qualities – Ginger of natural ingredients according to Fresh Oil Shimoga India Orpur®, our standards. Cardamom Oil India Orpur® and Jasmin This new partnership with Synthite, Grandiflorum India Orpur® – that which is engaged in sustainable support our Best Palette approach. sourcing at origin through their A blend built around cinnamon and Farmtech programme, will focus on turmeric is yet to come. the development of exclusive innovative “In revisiting every step of cultivation natural ingredients for the Fragrance and production from the plant to the final Division. We will also benefit from ingredient, we should be able to obtain a the company’s unique techniques product that has the same olfactory for extraction, crafting and purification relevance, at the right price, all while of naturals – innovation is a key aspect respecting our sustainability goals,” said of the alliance. Working together on Fabien, Innovation Naturals Director. MADAGASCAR First Givaudan-sponsored local students gain rural studies diplomas Two local students, the very first to be time both in the field and in the sponsored by Givaudan in Madagascar, classroom over the 12 months. Both are have earned their diplomas in rural from Givaudan clove leaf oil collection studies after 12 months of hard study areas and each was sponsored by a and work. Their success create added Givaudan Field Buyer, while our local value through the development of local office paid tuition fees and other costs talent, an approach taken throughout such as accommodation. the Company. Part of their field work was One student, Christian, has decided supporting local teams in a programme to stay with Givaudan as a Junior Field of replanting ‘firewood’ trees as part Technician, while Niny has decided of a long-term partnership between to start a career in agricultural the Givaudan Foundation and AIM, entrepreneurship. She remains focusing on responsible sourcing committed to sharing her knowledge practices. of good agricultural practices with “We are all very proud of Christian’s other farmers in her district and and Niny’s achievement,” said Renaud, is continuing on as a Givaudan General Manager of Givaudan ambassador in Madagascar. Madagascar. “They are the seeds of the Trained by CEFTAR (Centre de next generation of Givaudan‘s talent Formation de Techniciens Animateurs and will help us grow our presence in Ruraux), Christian and Niny spent countries of origin.” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Sourcing for Shared Value 11 Communities at Source Our Communities at Source initiative encompasses 14 ongoing Natural raw material producers make an important contribution projects in 9 supply chains across 7 countries. They touch more to our business. In return, we are committed to supporting them than 10,000 people worldwide, going beyond the immediate to build stable lives. We have supported local producer beneficiaries to positively impact their families and communities for more than a decade through a variety of social communities as well. and environmental projects, in the past four years, through a partnership with the Givaudan Foundation, a not-for-profit Some projects, such as efforts surrounding our patchouli organisation that funds projects to help build more secure supply chain in Indonesia, manage to combine the goals of both futures for communities and their environments. Sourcing at Origin and Communities at Source. Management Approach 103 – 3: Topic 413, pages 11 – 12 INDONESIA Givaudan strengthens sustainable patchouli supply chain Like most precious ingredients, patchouli oil is difficult to come by: obtaining a single kilogramme of essential oil requires 200 times that amount of fresh leaves, which, once collected, must be air dried for several days and then distilled for a minimum of eight hours. The resulting essential oil is a key natural ingredient prized by perfumers for its powerful, earthy and long-lasting character – it inspires their palettes in the creation of everything from fine fragrances to fabric care products. This year, we expanded our sustainable sourcing efforts for the oil and made a move to improve the conditions of the smallholder producers in our collection network on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. The ultimate goal of the new families and local government, we want gardening and the importance of multi-year project – funded by the to help increase smallholder production nutrition, with the goal of enabling the Givaudan Foundation and in cooperation yields, promote the protection of natural households to grow their own food and with the international non-governmental resources and create local ownership in sell the excess production for additional organisation Swisscontact – is to the project. income. Training also covers good promote best practices and improve We are doing this through a number financial practices to further strengthen living standards among the Indonesian of ways. For example, we are offering household management of budget, cash producer community while protecting training programmes to patchouli flow, planning and record keeping. The precious natural resources on the island. producers and their families on good nutrition and finance training sessions “Strengthening our commitment to agricultural and distillation practices and target the family member who manages sustainable patchouli production in to date, 939 households have received meal preparation and household finances Indonesia is part of our approach to training on the former and 329 operators – most often the women. We will also Sourcing for Shared Value,” said Willem on the latter. look to renovate smallholder patchouli Mutsaerts, Head of Global Procurement It is also important to target distillation units to improve energy and Sustainability. “This means being improved management of household efficiency and reduce firewood present at source and supporting income as well as education on nutrition. consumption and plant trees as part of patchouli producers in the development To date, we have reached more than the climate-smart cultivation approach. of their smallholder businesses in a way 980 local producer families with The efforts represent a first for that is respectful of the environment.” information on good nutritional sustainable Indonesian patchouli In partnership with producers, their practices, including advice on home production in terms of scope. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 12 Sourcing for Shared Value SOUTH HAITI Improved access to clean water and sanitation for vetiver farmer communities Access to safe drinking water and sanitation installations is limited in many parts of the world, and this is particularly true in Haiti. Facing this challenge, a group of local women and members of the vetiver cooperative we partner with called on the Givaudan Foundation to support a project to improve access to both. The people who live and work at the sources of strategic raw materials are critical to our business and the Givaudan Foundation is committed to supporting these communities. The new sanitation and hygiene facility – operational since July 2018 – features showers, toilets and a washing area for clothes. Open to all villagers in the area, it is already being used by I had to go into town to buy treated cooperative of vetiver root famers across approximately 100 families, and is water,” said Léonce, a local woman who three villages in South Haiti. Going back to expected to contribute to a reduction of lives in a family of nine people in the 2012, the relationship has helped Givaudan water-borne diseases in the community. village of Faucault. “Buying 20 litres cost source organic and fair-trade vetiver The project also involved, in partnership me 25 gourdes for the water and as much essential oil and allowed more than 270 with the NGO Terre des hommes, the for the transportation. This meant we vetiver farmers to benefit from price installation of a drinking water kiosk on could only buy 20 litres per week. Today, premiums and technical support. The the same premises. The women who thanks to the new system, I can get the three villages have also benefitted from initiated the whole project sell purified quantity my family needs – I now buy community infrastructure projects. water to the community at low prices, about 60 litres per week on average. The This supports our goal of and use the profit to ensure the water is of good quality.” strengthening the social, environmental maintenance of the sanitation facility. This project was just the latest and economic prospects of the people “Before the installation of this system achievement in our collaboration with this producing precious natural ingredients. Minimising deforestation to support on Biological Diversity (CBD), and particularly on local a biodiverse world legislation and regulations for implementing the Nagoya Biodiversity underpins much of what we do at Givaudan and is Protocol, can be found on our website. essential to the long-term survival of life itself. Natural ecosystems are being replaced by agriculture, energy, and www.givaudan.com – Our company – settlement as populations increase and levels of consumption Corporate governance – Position statements rise. Deforestation and land degradation threaten the ecosystems and biodiversity that underpin the sources of natural ingredients that we buy for our flavour and fragrance products. In 2018, we initiated a review of our ABS policy and internal procedures, updating them to keep them aligned with the The impact of climate change and the loss of habitat are clearly ever-changing landscape of local ABS regulations. of critical interest: Access and Benefit-sharing (ABS) and the preservation of biodiversity through approaches such as Our broad ABS working group has been extended to cover a minimising deforestation are therefore integral parts of how wider range of functions affected by ABS, playing a particularly we manage risk. significant role in Procurement, Regulatory and S&T. This group oversees the coordination of ABS-related activities and the Access and Benefit-sharing management of ABS-relevant data across Givaudan. We base our approach on the principle of sharing the benefits of biodiversity as promoted by the Nagoya Protocol, which In terms of internal procedures, we have, following the we actively support. Our position statement on the Convention integration of the Naturex business, initiated a review to align Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Sourcing for Shared Value 13 ABS procedures and ensure a consistent approach to both which asks suppliers of raw materials to respect a set of upstream supply aspects as well as a coordinated approach to environmental value requirements. In 2018, as part of our delivering appropriate information to our customers. Responsible Sourcing Programme, we started mapping five Externally, we continue to maintain close links with expert raw material supply chains with potential risk for deforestation advisors on ABS and have chosen to work more closely with issues: palm, beef, cheese, butter and soy. We completed the the Union for Ethical Biotrade (UEBT), while continuing to work mapping of beef and cheese supply chains in 2018 and observe with industry bodies such as the International Fragrance that these products have limited exposure to deforestation Association (IFRA) and the International Organization for the risks because of their countries of origin: Sweden, the UK, Flavor Industry (IOFI) to ensure access to the most recent Australia, New Zealand, the US, Netherlands, Germany, information and interpretation of ABS topics. Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Ireland and other EU countries. The mapping of palm, butter and soy supply chains is still From the perspective of innovation, all our programmes take underway which will provide further visibility and a solid basis the principles of the Nagoya Protocol into account. Research for further dialogue with our suppliers. teams have initiated internal processes to record and manage information related to the use of genetic resources for We have also implemented several initiatives through our research. We also assess the potential impact of biodiversity Communities at Source programme. We continued work on laws worldwide. reducing fuelwood consumption and replantation of fuel wood trees in the distillation of key ingredients such as clove leaf oil, Biodiversity preservation ylang ylang and patchouli. We planted more than 96,000 trees We have initiatives to preserve biodiversity in three areas, all of in clove leaf oil -producing regions in Madagascar in 2018 and which fall under our approach to Sourcing for Shared Value, installed energy-efficient distillation units for ylang ylang which is based on a best practice approach and has brought production in Comoros and for patchouli in Indonesia. We significant improvement. estimate that producers will be able to reduce their fuel wood consumption by as much as 50% with these new units. We address specific issues of biodiversity preservation such as those related to deforestation, in our supply chains by including Management Approach 103 – 3: Topic 204, pages 6 – 13, it as a key component of our Responsible Sourcing Policy, Topic 304, Disclosure 304 – 2, page 13 SINGAPORE Singapore Botanic Gardens – a collaboration in Ethnobotany Our flavours and fragrance teams in Singapore are continuing their successful collaboration with the Singapore Botanic Gardens with a new project showcasing our creativity, innovation and sustainability in a permanent exhibition that will be a part of the Centre of Ethnobotany for years to come. A six-month interactive scent station was specially created for visitors of the gardens to test their olfactive skills via an online quiz. The new Centre of Ethnobotany is the first of its kind in Singapore and explores how plants are used by indigenous people in South-east Asia. The garden was opened in June and, cultural or craft purposes. said APAC Head of Fragrances, housed in a 1-hectare space historically “Working with the Singapore Ben Webb. “It also strengthens our known as the economic garden, it Botanic Gardens on the Centre of ongoing relationship with the features more than 300 species of Ethnobotany was a perfect partnership Singapore Botanic Gardens and it is plants native to Southeast Asia, which due to the focus of our work in both always such a pleasure to contribute are traditionally used for medicinal, Flavours and Fragrances in the region,” to the community we work in.” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 14 Sourcing Title Subtitle for Shared Value Lavender, lavandin France Cistus Labdanum Bergamot Chilli Spain Italy India Benzoin Laos Geranium Vetiver Egypt Haiti Responsible Ylang ylang Sourcing Tonka bean Patchouli Comoros Venezuela Indonesia Sourcing at Origin Communities Guarana at Source Brazil Clove leaf oil, vanilla Madagascar Vetiver in Haiti Guarana in Brazil A cooperative of more than A cooperative of 67 producer 270 vetiver farmers benefit families receives technical from technical support and and agricultural training. The price premiums, which are cooperative uses modern used to fund development equipment to improve projects such as the repair of production processes and an important local road. The boost quality. vetiver roots and essential oil are certified Fair for Life. Cistus Labdanum Tonka bean in in Spain Venezuela Producers of labdanum Tonka bean collectors, a gum benefit from our community of 46 families, collaboration with a local receive incentives and supplier to increase technical assistance in return production efficiency, for their commitment to improve conditions and joint preserve the local forest and efforts to preserve the local its biodiversity. natural environment. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Sourcing for Shared Value 15 Clove leaf oil in Madagascar A Givaudan collection network of 1,000 smallholder producers supplies our clove leaf oil. Sustainable production is supported via a natural resources preservation project, which plants more than 80,000 trees for firewood per year. A first Fair for Life certification has been achieved. Lavender, lavandin Benzoin in Laos in France Benzoin producing A cooperative of 100 lavender communities are assisted producers benefits from our with the provision of work with research institutes educational infrastructure to fight plant diseases and to in their villages to improve promote the long-term access to secondary future of the crop. We also schooling in rural areas. collaborate with producers to Vanilla in Madagascar improve quality. More than 3,000 vanilla farmers and their Geranium in Egypt communities take part in a A partnership with a local programme to develop local supplier to secure a higheducation and healthcare quality and consistent longinfrastructure and to term supply of geranium oil promote food security. by sourcing from a modern, large-scale plantation. Ylang ylang in Comoros Ylang ylang oil producer communities are supported through social and environmental projects. Energy efficient equipment Patchouli in Indonesia for the distillation of ylang A Givaudan collection ylang oil is used to boost the network of around yield and reduce the impact 1,000 smallholder producers on the environment Chilli in India on the island of Sulawesi supporting over 50 producers. More than 100 chilli producers supplies our patchouli oil. benefit from assistance to They benefit from training Bergamot in Italy increase productivity and in sustainable production In close collaboration and reduce the impact of their methods to improve yields with the active support of our production processes on the and reduce the impact on direct suppliers, improvement environment. the environment. plans are implemented to share best practices and close any gaps in agricultural and farm management practices against our Responsible Sourcing Policy. Some of the projects are funded by the Givaudan Foundation. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 16 Innovating Responsibly Innovating Responsibly We look to integrate sustainability HIGHLIGHTS 2018 into all of our innovation, –– Launched portfolio of kitchen ingredients developing products that benefit –– Concluded major consumer research on vegans, vegetarians and flexitarians society and the environment. –– Closed taste gaps between plant and animal proteins –– Launched a new product development approach that enables We have long looked for ways to innovate, encouraging our taste with reduced sugar; “Beyond Sweetness” scientists, technologists, flavourists and perfumers to explore relevant questions and many of today’s questions are linked to –– Progressed multiple partnerships for shared success sustainability. How can we best meet demand for natural –– Filed two new patents covering work in Innovating products? How can we improve processes to make them more Responsibly from our Flavour Division sustainable? How can we increase access to nutritious food? –– Advanced two new alternatives to animal testing How can we increase overall well-being? –– Introduced a malodour combatting technology, Neutrazap, The curiosity that drives our innovation is helping us to to restore consumer self confidence find answers to all of these questions. Creating and –– Partnered with customer in development of innovative new collaborating, we are looking to make sustainability part of perfume based on upcycling every breakthrough and add value by enhancing scientific research and developing products that benefit both society –– Created a new cosmetic ingredient based on upcycled and the environment. vetiver roots –– Moved ahead with microbiome research, paving the way for Our Sustainability Approach personalised skin care Innovating for Sustainable Flavours Ensuring universal access to safe, nutritious and sufficient food produced in a way that respects the environment is critical to a sustainable future and we are committed to pursuing this goal with our innovative flavour ingredients. A sustainable approach to naturals with natural citrus oils We take a responsible approach to from the effects of greening disease, as naturals, always striving to maximise well as some natural disasters like the use of natural resources in an hurricanes, particularly in Florida. efficient way. We continue to collaborate with the Our Sunthesis programme University of California, Riverside continues to be an important supporting the care and preservation of sustainability driver in citrus, ensuring the wonderful natural resource that is the continued supply of natural citrus their citrus collection, the largest and oils, at a time when citrus is suffering most biodiverse in the world. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Innovating Responsibly 17 In developing ways to make more efficient use of natural resources, working to enable the dietary shifts that may ‘Kitchen Ingredients’ benefit both human health and the environment and meeting consumer needs perfecting the innovative processes and technologies that will facilitate both, we are doing our part to meet increased for clean, clear labels demand for a truly sustainable work. Innovation in areas such as biotransformation In 2018, we made progress in patent applications in novel and new processes areas like flavour and consumable compositions. based on culinary techniques have helped us Naturals and sustainable processes develop great ingredients. Consumers increasingly demand simple, natural ingredients In 2018, we launched a portfolio of and clean and clear labels with words they recognise. As one of ingredients that are derived directly from the largest buyer of natural raw materials in our industry, we recognised foods and that are minimally need to meet this increased demand in a responsible, processed. We call these our ‘Kitchen sustainable way – natural resources must be used efficiently. Ingredients’ and with them we offer a broad portfolio of delicious flavours used We strive to use as few resources as possible, incorporating in kitchens around the world. These are circular thinking and using scientific knowledge to replicate diverse ingredients for foods and traditional natural processes on a large scale to produce beverages such as citrus, vanilla, cheese, sought-after flavour ingredients. Using our know-how in meat and poultry, marine extracts, as agricultural practices and biotechnology, we look to increase well as stocks, fonds, spices and herbs. yield and go beyond fully natural ingredients, helping us We also made progress with patent alleviate pressure on sourcing and supply chains as well as the applications for improved flavour planet’s limited resources. compositions such as in green herb and vegetable freshness as well as in fresh A key success this year has been the roll-out of ‘Kitchen citrus for savoury applications. The Ingredients’, a line of flavours providing great taste from recent acquisitions of Spicetec, Activ natural ingredients that consumers recognise from their International and Vika have provided us own kitchens. with additional, powerful conceptual, technical and regulatory expertise that complements our innovation. Our acquisition of Centroflora Nutra allows us to offer botanical extracts and dehydrated fruits and the integration of our acquisition Naturex adds a strong portfolio of plant extracts and natural ingredients. The ‘Kitchen Ingredients’ portfolio We spoke at the Sustainable allows our customers to provide Food Summit in different locations consumers with great taste from natural around the world in 2018 (San ingredients they recognise from their Francisco, Amsterdam, Singapore own kitchens, meeting increased demand and São Paulo), sharing our perspective for more natural ingredients and on a sustainable approach to transparent food labelling. Here as well, natural ingredients including the we made advances with patents on importance of responsible sourcing processes allowing the delivery of clean and innovation. label kitchen ingredients. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 18 Innovating Responsibly Health & Wellbeing This is where we can play a big role. Using pioneering Providing access to safe, nutritious and sustainable food is the processes, food technology and flavour expertise, we can help key food challenge of our time. A shift to a more plant-based customers develop and introduce great-tasting plant-based diet is emerging as a critical component. Some research suggests food and meat substitutes that effectively mimic more familiar that meat consumption can impact our health as well as the ingredients. environment: pound-for-pound, gallon-for-gallon, animalsourced foods use more resources to produce than plant-based We have finished an extensive study into the motivations and foods and produce more greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. needs of vegan, vegetarians and flexitarians, moved closer to While meat and dairy products provide just 18% of calories and convincing meat substitutes, and have continued to develop 37% of protein, they use 83% of farmland and produce 60% of solutions to mask off-notes in plantor dairy-based applications. agriculture’s GHG emissions.¹ Our “Beyond Sweetness” approach allows for a 50% reduction in sugar while maintaining customer preferences. Although increasing numbers of people are aware of these links, it is not always easy to incorporate more plant-based food or meat substitutes into their diets. Many of these products lack visual or taste appeal and our research has shown that most people are unwilling to make these sacrifices. 1. Reducing food’s environmental impacts through producers and consumers, J. Poore, T. Nemecekc, Science, 01 Jun 2018: Vol. 360, Issue 6392, pp. 987 – 992, DOI: 10.1126/science.aaq0216 Getting inside the heads of vegans, vegetarians and flexitarians with Plant Attitude The team behind what would eventually blogs of those who do not eat meat, the finding is that 90% of all vegan products become known as Plant Attitude – the next step required them to get out in can be found in refrigerators that also programme around our plant protein the field, making vegan treks. The contain actual meat. capabilities – started out with a simple experience, which took teams through “In the end, we are not talking about hypothesis: you cannot assume that all seven different cities, involved going an alternative community, but rather people who do not eat meat have the vegan for 48 hours and visiting vegan mass consumers,” Thomas said. same habits, ideas or lifestyles. This theory establishments including restaurants Having been the first Company to was contrary to what other sources were but also less obvious places such as launch a scientific investigation into the saying – there was an underlying vegan hairdressers or shoe stores. They topic, they have been invited to speak at assumption that everyone who eats vegan took what they learned from these two conferences around the world to share food is doing so because of concerns initial steps, developed hypotheses and their insights. A key take-home message? about animal welfare or because they theories, which then formed the basis of Vegan products need to taste better. It is want to pursue a healthier diet. their usage and attitudes study. The something Thomas experienced himself “But this is absolutely not true,” said study – carried out through 2,500 on a vegan trek. One of the things that Thomas, Category Manager Savoury at consumers in the U.K., France, Germany surprised him most was the gap between Givaudan. “Almost a quarter of all and Spain – delivered preliminary the quality of food found in vegan consumers of those products eat them results, which were then reviewed and restaurants and that found on the shelves just because it is very trendy. Our fine-tuned and clarified through focus in the grocery stores. competitors, but also our customers, groups in the same countries. “In restaurants it can be so mindwere sort of putting all of the consumers Their results were just released in blowingly good that you do not miss the into the same pot. We were the first June. Among their findings was a meat,” he said. “And while there are ones who really separated out those confirmation of their original hypothesis: some fantastic products in the consumer groups and that is allowing us not everyone who eats vegan food is supermarket, there is also a lot of room to make much more tailor-made motivated by the same things. Another for improvement. You ask yourself how programmes and solutions.” thing they learned? More people would be these two worlds even go together.” The work of exploring their willing to eat more plant-based products As Givaudan works on the next hypothesis and identifying the if they tasted better. While one group of generation of ingredients to help their motivations and similarities between consumers – those primarily motivated by customers develop tasty plant-based the consumers of plant protein-based concerns about animal welfare and the products, Thomas, who “loves meat,” calls products took them two years. While environment, who make up only 20% of on all of us to take the 48-hours vegan the first step was done from behind the market – are willing to sacrifice on trek challenge. “Just see how it is,” he said. their desks, screening homepages and taste, nobody else is. Another interesting “You will see that you can live without it.” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Innovating Responsibly 19 Encouraging dietary shifts with convincing meat substitutes Flavio, Global Business Development Manager for Protein at Givaudan has a dream: he wants to help create a piece of meat that is made entirely out of vegetable products but indistinguishable from the real thing in every element of how consumers experience it. Flavour, texture, colour, how it cooks – everything. He is motivated by consumers who, with dietary approaches including vegetarianism, veganism and flexitarianism, want to completely eliminate or reduce the amount of meat they eat. They are motivated by ethical concerns regarding the ways animals are treated, concerns for the environment as well as concerns for their health: they We are dedicated to developing ways to transform vegetable are looking to reduce their consumption proteins into a real meat experience and to playing our part of saturated fat while still getting the in contributing to SDG 2 in terms of increasing access to protein they need. Furthermore, leading-edge researchers in the fields nutritious food as well as helping to protect the environment. of food, nutrition and environment We estimate that sales of meat substitutes that we have worked recommend that we eat a more planton over the last few years have reduced CO₂ emissions by about based diet because it is one of the main ways in which we can reduce our 563 tonnes – our goal is to multiply that by 100 times. greenhouse gas emissions. Still, many people are unable to fully commit or wind up going back to meat. substitute products was among those Givaudan also developed and Thanks to Plant Attitude – the we published in 2018 and we developed launched a product that is the programme around our plant protein the know-how and technology to culmination of three years of research capabilities – we know that taste and produce a really good chicken-like into the characteristics of vegetable experience play a big role. texture as well as the capacity to flavour protein and the difference between that Flavio and Givaudan are getting it. “We clearly need to provide our and animal proteins. Understanding the closer to the goal with the further customer with the right flavour, but we gap between them, we created a meat development of our portfolio of products. are going to need to provide the right protein enhancer flavour that addresses A patent for flavour modifiers for meat container as well,” he said. the taste aspect of this difference. Plant-based work also targets dairy solutions Working with plant-based foods goes well beyond finding ways to replace meat. Another area we are working on is built around technology for overcoming off-notes from proteins that are common to many foods of dairy or plant origin; for example, bitterness, astringency, and mouth-drying perceptions. Our expertise allowed us to identify the right masking ingredients that specifically target particular attributes within individual proteins. We are continuing to develop new solutions and concepts of what is next in dairy and meat substitutes, and further expand what we offer in terms of vegan and vegetarian products such as dairy-free and meat-free items. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 20 Innovating Responsibly Reduce sugar, retain great taste with Beyond Sweetness In November, we launched “Beyond consumer research found that consumers Sweetness”, a new product development often notice more than just an absence approach that combines new ingredients of sweetness when sugar is reduced. and a proprietary sensory language and They might find products bland, tasteless, deep understanding of sweetness and boring or watery. So formulating satisfaction to deliver up to 50% products that are less sweet is more reduction in sugar while maintaining complicated than simply adding water. consumer preference. It allows for the Through our Beyond Sweetness platform, creation of natural sugar reduced we enable customers to recreate the products that are fully satisfying without overall sensory experience and develop added sweeteners. great tasting products that consumers Continuing our long-standing work love and are better for them, with in TasteSolutions Sweet™, our extensive reduced sugar. Givaudan leading the way in international forums on plant-based foods Our work in general – and, especially in of taste and visual appeal with a Showcase in their “Sustainable Food 2018, the work around Plant Attitude – comparison tasting of chicken nuggets Futures Seminar” in London. has established us as a sought-out partner versus soy-based nuggets. We also spoke at the inaugural for a number of leading organisations in At the Bridge2Foods Protein Good Food Institute (GFI) conference, the area of plant-based foods. We were Summit in Lille, France in October, we that is focused on accelerating the delighted to participate in several spoke about protein solutions and gave commercialisation of plant-based conferences and events. Some of the a look at Givaudan’s understanding and clean meat, two promising food highlights include our participation in and excellence in formulating with technologies that will allow us to feed November in the EIT Food Government alternative, non-animal proteins. We almost 10 billion people by 2050. Executive Academy, speaking about the had another opportunity to talk with We were also invited as a keynote need for a shift in the way food is industry representatives at Food Matters speaker at the Startupbootcamp produced and eaten, and our multi Live, which is a unique event focused FoodTech, taking the audience through stakeholder work and Plant Attitude. We on the future of food, drink and the evolution of taste through time, and even showcased how real meat and meat sustainable nutrition where we explaining how it is defined by survival, substitutes are coming together in terms participated with our Plant Attitude success and failure. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Innovating Responsibly 21 Partnering for shared success is central to our approach to In Flavours, we are collaborating with multiple partners. responsible innovation, and we work with like-minded partners We collaborate as thought leaders, across sectors, with across many sectors from industry to academia to ensure that customers and to close the research gaps: working with our work is informed with the latest best in class thinking. This leading edge institutions and researchers can significantly fast is also a key contributor to SDG 17, which targets multitrack development work, enabling us to bring solutions to stakeholder partnerships that mobilise and share knowledge, market more quickly. expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Working to close the research gap with university partners Consumers may not realise it, but programme whereby their field there is a lot of technology behind scientists worked on specific technical vegan foods. Made from ingredients challenges we identified for them, such such as chunks of soy, which look as introducing ‘meat-like colour’ to plant like pieces of dry sponge, and other based meat substitutes. We also taught ingredients, they need to result in end an autumn session of one of their food products that could either be meant to development courses. duplicate a chicken nugget or pulled We continue to participate with pork. Advances have been significant Wageningen University on the Plant Partnering across sectors over recent years: technology is Meat Matters programme. The project getting better, the masking flavours is in the second year of a four-year During 2018 we were active partners are better and the textures are programme. We are the only flavour in FReSH, a project by the WBCSD improving every year. Still, as we company involved, working with other and EAT Foundation. FReSH brings learned in our Plant Attitude study, partners such as equipment suppliers together multiple stakeholders in a there is still room for improvement. on a holistic programme. This year, consortium to develop business In the past year, we participated we developed the know-how and solutions that aim to create healthy, with the University of California, technology to produce a really good enjoyable diets for all, produced Berkeley in a variety of initiatives. We beef-like texture as well as the capacity responsibly, within planetary sponsored a product development to flavour it. boundaries by 2030. Acknowledging that business has played a key role in the food system both on the positive and the negative side, FReSH members are joining forces to develop solutions whilst still contributing to socioeconomic MISTA innovation platform focused on meat substitutes development and minimising (and Our innovation platform, MISTA, is focused on unlocking eventually eliminating) environmental opportunities for both larger and early stage companies by impacts and waste. Building on the incubating, accelerating and optimising ideas, products, food system mapping work that was people and investments to address the biggest challenges conducted by FReSH in 2017, Givaudan and opportunities in creating the future of food. One of participated in dedicated workshops the key innovation spaces focuses on the meat substitute in Mexico aimed at reducing sugar in category. This includes ‘clean meat’ and plant-based meat the Mexican diets as well as and we are partnering with amazing start-ups including increasing consumption of plantMISTA members Wild Type and Five Sons Foods. based foods. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 22 Innovating Responsibly Innovating Responsibly in Fragrances Another example is the new perfume “I am Trash, Les fleurs In Fragrances, we look for innovative ways to improve peoples’ du Déchêt”. Inspired to create a fragrance that reuses the daily lives while minimising the impact on the environment. waste created from other perfumes, État Libre d’Orange Consumers want to look good and feel good, and seek products worked with Givaudan’s Science & Technology department promoting mental and bodily health and well-being as well as to develop a perfume with upcycled materials. Made by beauty. They seek fresh scents that can banish bad odours in using exclusive upcycled ingredients from our palette such clothing and in the environment and boost self-confidence, as Apple Oil, Rose NeoAbsolute™, and Akigalawood®, the enabling social inclusivity – they want fragrances that positively perfume is a floral, fruity and woody unisex scent that influence how they feel. They also seek sustainable products that embodies the sustainable future of the fragrance industry. are produced in ways that respect the environment. The approach was also used to create a new sustainable beauty ingredient, VetivyneTM. Naturals and sustainable processes Upcycled materials – those obtained by valorisation of side Health and well-being streams, natural or not, which are normally disposed or Promoting health and well-being also means helping people downgraded, and then transformed into ingredients used in feel better throughout their lives and we approach this goal fragrance creations – is one key approach. in multiple ways. For instance, consumers wish to feel and smell fresh as they go about their busy lives, reducing Another critical area involves developing methods that give the interfering odours from their clothing and environment, fragrance industry a way of screening new ingredients for their helping them to remain integrated in society. To address this potential risks to humans and the environment. Safe by need, our Health & Well-being Centre of Excellence in Ashford Design™ is part of our vision to develop new molecules more (UK) has a dedicated programme of innovation focused on efficiently and it demonstrates our commitment to increasingly malodour control. using non-invasive test methods to screen them. Research on alternatives to animal testing form the basis of the approach. It How we look also contributes to our sense of well-being and makes development more efficient, but also speeds up the self-esteem and in Active Beauty, we create products that product development process in a cost-effective way. This leads enhance skin and hair throughout life. Ageing, active to safer products that can be brought to market more quickly, populations want to live better as they are living longer and we all while side-stepping the ethical dilemmas posed by using are looking to address such issues with approaches to, for sentient creatures for commercial gain. example, aging hair. Our growing understanding of the skin microbiome allows us to develop more personalised solutions Upcycling results in innovative fragrances for better skin for everyone. The work we lead in our Applied produced in a sustainable way Microbiomics Centre of Excellence in Toulouse (France) on the Cedarwood Atlas NeoAbsolute™ is obtained by solvent skin microbiome is another key approach of how we strive to extraction of dust already distilled. This process highlights new offer our customers products that they can use to improve the facets and completes the olfactive profile of the original lives of consumers. essential oil with woody leathery and apricot kernel facets. Inspiring a sense of well-being that contributes to a positive state of mind is our goal as well as a key strategy for many of our customers and consumers. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Innovating Responsibly 23 Upcycled vetiver roots deliver sustainable beauty ingredient with fragrance synergies short, it was a feat in line with our commitment to sustainability and consumers’ demand for products that are both highly effective and produced in a responsible way. It won first prize in the Natural Products, Raw Materials, actives category at the 16th European BSB Innovation awards and it marks the first time ever that the fragrance and cosmetic worlds share ingredients with the same sustainable, ethical origin. Over the years, we have been actively supporting a local cooperative of vetiver roots producers through our Sourcing for Shared Value programme in Haiti. The vetiver roots are certified Fair For Life, an organic and fair-trade standard. This initiative ensures the social and environmental responsibility of vetiver production, enabling perfumers and formulators to craft the most inspiring products from responsibly-sourced vetiver. “We deeply believe in the synergies Vetivyne™ isn’t just a new cosmetic stream waste materials, useless or between the beauty and fragrance ingredient offering powerful beauty unwanted products into new materials worlds,” Laurent, Head of Active Beauty. benefits – it is an exemplary model of or products of better quality and better “Vetivyne™ exemplifies the many our sustainability approach that builds environmental value. That is, the process possibilities we have in creating synergies between Fragrances and is meant to reduce waste and minimise innovative and disrupting ingredients Active Beauty. environmental impact. which fulfils our commitment to offer The ingredient was discovered when In our case, the cutting-edge process not only efficient, but also natural and our scientists and sustainability experts also revealed a powerful active ingredient sustainable products for our customers.” investigated a water-soluble extract with anti-ageing benefits as well as This innovation allows us to do more from exhausted Haitian vetiver roots, properties that enhance fragrance wear. with less, finding two applications from themselves a side-stream of the Vetivyne™ is fully natural, concentrated, just one source. This concept aims to use production of vetiver oil for fragrances. odour-free and offers clinically proven all parts of the plant to optimise the They used the ground-breaking skin benefits. By acting on skin lipids, it usage and reduce waste, further approach of ‘upcycling,’ or creative helps enhance skin hydration and emphasising the synergies between re-use, which involves turning side suppleness – it also removes wrinkles. In fragrance and the cosmetics world. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 24 Innovating Responsibly Safe by Design™: A vision to develop safer molecules faster New fragrances must be pleasing, but animal data remains a challenge. factors such as safety and sustainability Thanks to innovative research, play a huge role too: Safe by Design™ Givaudan has developed early stage is part of Givaudan’s vision to develop testing methods that give the safer molecules, faster. fragrance industry a way of screening Cosmetic regulations prohibit new ingredients for their potential animal testing for safety assessments, risks to humans and the environment but fragrance ingredients must and to select those with a minimal nonetheless be assessed in areas impact. This will bring high quality such as allergic reactions and molecules to market faster, reduce environmental impact. Trying to derive reliance on animal testing, and lessen the information needed from nonthe impact on the environment. Alternative to animal testing for predicting skin sensitisation Building on the success of KeratinoSens® dose can be safely used. working towards that using information – a reference test already leading This is referred to as the No Expected about the structure of the molecule, non-animal testing for skin sensitisation – Sensitization Induction Level (NESIL), a reactivity data and KeratinoSens® results we have been working with BASF and dose not expected to cause induction of to predict an LLNA result as a starting the Institute for In Vitro Sciences (IIVS), skin sensitisation in humans. point. They used in vitro and in vivo data to validate a new approach to predicting Until recently, these levels were on molecules with similar structures to skin sensitisation. determined using a local lymph node estimate uncertainty of the prediction Skin sensitisation is an immune assay (LLNA) in mice, a test that involves and applied the approach to three reaction that occurs when molecules applying the substance to the ears of molecules which were subsequently react with skin protein. The modified skin mice and then measuring cell proliferation tested in the LLNA to verify the results protein appears foreign to the immune in the local lymph nodes. New regulatory and 22 molecules with available and system, which reacts. Skin sensitisation is guidelines state however that this test sometimes discordant human and LLNA a threshold effect however and only should only be conducted if in vitro data data. Four additional case studies occurs above a given exposure. Skin cannot give sufficient information. We illustrate how this approach is being sensitising molecules can still be used in need another solution. applied to recently developed molecules products, we just need to know what Givaudan researchers have been with no animal data. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Innovating Responsibly 25 OECD in vitro method for bioaccumulation assessment Molecules should not harm the tissues. We have to make sure our The approach therefore replaces environment and so screening is molecules are not enriched in fish, so animal testing which used living fish needed to weed out potentially that they do not enter the animal food and is predictive: higher metabolism dangerous substances: assessing the chain. Traditionally, this question has of the molecule means lower risk of characteristics of persistence (linked to been addressed through fish bioaccumulation in fish. It is routinely biodegradability), bioaccumulation in bioaccumulation studies which require used to develop non-bioaccumulative the fish’s fatty tissues and toxicity is an however a large number of animals. new molecules as part of Givaudan’s integral part of chemical legislation. Our researchers were interested Safe by DesignTM strategy. Therefore, another research project then in whether it was possible to These innovative test methods aims to find a better way to ensure predict fish bioaccumulation with on fragrance molecules provide that fragrance ingredients are safe for real accuracy by testing fish cells or multiple benefits: removing the the environment. With our latest enzymes as alternative test. They need for testing on animals, ensuring bioaccumulation testing validated by developed a method that puts safety for use on human skin, and the OECD in 2018, we are leading the fish liver cells or fish enzymes in protecting aquatic species and the fragrance industry with new noncontact with fragrance molecules, environment. For customers, animal testing alternatives for and measures the decrease of the particularly in the cosmetics industry, bioaccumulation assessment. molecule. This test allows to evaluate this means that products can be Bioaccumulation occurs when whether the molecule is highly brought quicker to market, with the molecules are taken up by fish and metabolised indicating a lower risk assurance that the ultimate beneficiary accumulate in the fish’s fatty of bioaccumulation in fish. is the consumer. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 26 Innovating Responsibly Innovative microbiome research leading to new cosmetic ingredients and healthier skin We may not notice it, but billions of field: while many researchers have been swabbing to DNA extraction and micro-organisms known as ‘microbiota’ working to identify which kinds of sequencing until the bioinformatics data live on the surface of our skin. And just microbiota live in the microbiome, we analysis. We gathered almost 1 trillion as each of us has our own set of genes in have gone a step further. We want to DNA data from volunteers’ microbiota our DNA, our personal community of know which ‘ jobs’ the microbiota allowing us to explore all the different skin microbiota is unique too. This perform and how they can help us: this bacteria that we can have on our skin. microbiome helps protect the health and forward-thinking approach marks a The research has already contributed well-being of our skin, and imbalances major milestone in skincare and a key to the development of several active result in conditions such as eczema, direction for the future. ingredients, making this unique in our allergies, dandruff or acne. “The microbiome is much more than industry. Givaudan scientists were the Understanding the microbiome is a trend – it is a key element of the future first to discover the creation of then essential for better health and skin: of skin care,” explains Romain, R&D ‘microbiome activated’ ingredients as knowing that our microbiome is unique Director Active Beauty. “Consumers well as ‘microbiome protecting’ agents, leads to exciting possibilities in already have a perfect understanding of resulting in two award-winning active developing personalised skincare. the gut microbiome and how good cosmetic ingredients: Brightenyl™, Already a leader in the study of the bacteria can have positive effect on our which is activated by the microbiota to microbiome – and the only fragrance health. Now they are ready to embrace trigger skin brightening and skin tone company with in-house microbiome the concept of the skin microbiome too.” optimization, and Revivyl™, which research capabilities – we progressed Our continued investments have speeds up skin renewal while protecting further in 2018 by installing state-of-theresulted in a fully equipped centre ready the microbiota. Yogurtene Balance™ art automation equipment at our to create innovative products based on balances the composition of the Applied Microbiomics Centre of our studies, our strong knowledge of microbiota. Excellence in Toulouse, France. The new consumers and the large internal The new investments and our equipment will allow us to accelerate database we have built up throughout dedication to the field will help us high throughput screening and advance this project, the most in-depth study on continue to develop a revolutionary new our research into more disruptive the subject by any fragrance house. We range of ingredients delivering healthier, solutions for customers. have mastered the entire research better protected, more radiant-looking We are already at the forefront of the process for microbiomics – from skin – all backed by solid science. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Innovating Responsibly 27 Restoring self-confidence and well-being with odour neutralising technology Urinary incontinence is not just a medical problem: it can affect lives emotionally, psychologically and socially, leaving people afraid to do normal daily activities. Indeed, one of the biggest concerns of people who suffer from it is having an incident in public and having others find out – odour is a potential flag. Givaudan has been working on solutions, perceived or not as fragranced, to remove this element of the problem. After developing a realistic urine malodour model, we used a trained panel to get consistent sensory performance data on different technologies and benchmarks, before using real urine for final validation. solution mainly targets individuals who perfumed version has been created This has allowed us to develop fragrance wish to avoid any recognisable fragrance mainly for the care-giver market, for design solutions NeutraZap™, both highly scent that might signal in itself an odour soft furnishings and the residential effective at combatting urine malodour, problem. When applied to pads/pants, care home market, where a pleasant, that meet the needs of consumers the solution provides high odour control, recognisable scent is appreciated to according to their preferences. but the majority of people will be unsure reassure the consumer of the efficiency NeutraZap™ non-perfumistic if the pads/pants are fragranced. The of the product. Active cosmetic ingredient to counter hair aging Hair ageing is a concern world-wide: helping develop new melanocytes – our studies show that 59% of specialised pigment cells – in the hair consumers on average are worried matrix. Its antioxidant properties about hair ageing and over 60% of enable the reduction of free radical them are currently bothered by hair damage in hair follicles and helps to colour loss. protect existing melanocytes (+189%). While genes can play a large role in Once the hair matrix has been hair whitening, free radicals directly repopulated with new pigment cells induce the premature greying of hair for and both new and existing ones are both men and women. Most existing protected, DarkenylTM delivers its hair pigmentation solutions are based melanin synthesis precursor to on hair colorants, which artificially reactivate the production of the repigment the hair shaft but do not melanin that gives hair its colour. address the underlying problem. Our A clinical study demonstrated the skin experts have designed DarkenylTM, significant consumers’ benefits of which counteracts the hair whitening DarkenylTM: in 4 months, volunteers had biological process. more than 3 times less white hair It does this through the per cm², with up to -56% reduction of combination of two synergistic white hair. The unique action of molecules, a plant polyphenol and a DarkenylTM is patent-pending, gender soluble precursor of melanin synthesis. independent and can be used on any This allows it to boost hair stem cell hair type or colour – it also shows proliferation by 30% and migration, progressive and long-lasting results. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 28 Acting for Our Environment Acting for Our Environment We are determined to play Demonstrating our industry leadership in climate action and the transition to a low-carbon economy, we once again our part by leading the participated in the annual Climate Change CDP questionnaire for investors as well as in the Climate Change supply chain industry in acting to questionnaire at the request of a number of customers. This safeguard the environment. allows us to showcase our efforts to reduce GHG emissions and also provides a basis of comparison against other companies. Our CDP score was this year an A(on a scale of A – D, with A Our ambitious agenda to help protect the environment goes being the highest) for GHG emissions, at the leadership level across our operations, throughout our value chain – and once again. beyond. We are working with partners to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, improve water stewardship and waste management and we have correspondingly ambitious targets. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1 + 2) We also aim to move to 100% renewable energy by 2025. Here, GHG emissions (tonnes)¹ we give an update on the progress we have made towards 162,602 reaching these goals. 2018 108,706 53,896 Our Sustainability Approach 175,473 2017² 108,103 67,370 Targets Progress 2018 188,769 30% absolute scope 1 + 2 GHG 13.9% ¹ 2015² 99,892 emissions between 2015 and 2030 88,877 20% absolute scope 3 GHG emissions + 21.6% ¹ Total Scope 1: from direct energy sources between 2015 and 2030 Scope 2: from indirect energy sources 100% renewable electricity by 2025 69.4% 1. Greenhouse gas data are limited to CO ₂ emiss0ions. 15% water per tonne of product by 24.4% ¹ 2. Restated. 2020 (use of municipal and Disclosure 305 – 1, 305 – 2 groundwater, baseline 2009) 4% waste per tonne of product, year 1.7% p.a. on on year average (baseline 2015)² average (5.2% GHG emissions intensity (scope 1 + 2) since baseline 2015) GHG emissions (kg) per tonne of product1 1. Compared to baseline year. 2. Incinerated and landfilled waste. 2018 240 119 359 Disclosure 305 – 5 2017² 241 150 391 2015² 261 232 493 GHG Emissions and Energy Scope 1: from direct energy sources Scope 2: from indirect energy sources We are committed to reducing absolute direct (scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions by 30% between 2015 and 2030 and aim to 1. Greenhouse gas data are limited to CO ₂ emissions. 2. Restated. reduce indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions – those produced by our entire value chain – by 20% over the same period. A move Disclosure 305 – 4 to convert our entire electricity supply to fully renewable sources by 2025 is a fundamental element of this plan. Though we do not have a formal target in terms of energy Progress scope 1 and 2 intensity – the quantity of energy required per unit output – ­ We made good progress towards these targets this year, with we have recorded a decrease of 7.34% since the 2015 baseline. absolute total direct and indirect GHG emissions decreasing by This has a direct impact on our target for scope 1 emissions, 26,167 tonnes (i.e. 14%) against the baseline figure for 2015. which have decreased by 8.9% since 2015. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Acting for Our Environment 29 Energy consumption within the organisation 2018, with 20 of our 41 production sites powered by 100% 2017 (restated) 2018 Change in % electricity from renewable sources. Highlights in our progress this year include four manufacturing sites moving to full 100% Direct energy: from primary sources (GJ) renewable electricity and an additional four moving to greener Natural Gas 1,777,474 1,812,996 +2.0% electricity. We also reduced the GHG emisssion load per purchased KWh of electricity by 21% compared to 2017. This Town Gas 172 180 +4.7% represents a decrease of 42% against the 2015 baseline. LP Gas 6,100 6,612 +8.4% Light fuel oil 67,457 41,970 -37.8% Demonstrating our ambition to help mitigate climate change and our desire to work in partnership with others, we took part Heavy fuel oil 2,106 0 -100% in the RE100 Forum during Climate Week 2018 in New York. Waste used as energy 45,338 49,049 +8.2% The forum gathered members of RE100, a collaborative global Total direct energy 1,898,647 1,910,807 +0.6% initiative grouping more than 100 businesses committed to Indirect energy: purchased 100% renewable electricity. Discussions focused on how to electricity and steam (GJ) show leadership in the corporate sourcing of renewables Electricity purchased 936,791 953,959 +1.8% through peer collaboration, in influencing policy and in expanding the RE100 movement. Steam purchased 54,887 57,728 +5.2% Total indirect energy 991,678 1,011,687 +2.0% Total energy 2,890,325 2,922,494 +1.1% Electrical consumption and renewable energy used Disclosure 302 – 1, 302 – 4 % TJ 80 1000 Energy intensity 70 950 60 900 2015 2017 2018 Energy intensity (GJ per 50 850 6.94 6.43 6.43 tonne of product) 40 20 800 30 16 750 Disclosure 302 – 3 11 700 20 9 We also made considerable progress in terms of renewable 10 3 4 4 4 650 electricity (scope 2) and are on track to meet our target of 2 2 0 600 converting our entire electricity supply to fully renewable 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 sources by 2025. We attained 69.4% renewable electricity in Renewable % Electrical consumption (TJ) 2 Number of sites Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 emissions are those Scope 2 emissions come from the We define scope 3 emissions as those generated by Givaudan’s production. production of electricity, steam, or that come from all sources of Such emissions come from the other sources of energy (e.g. chilled emission in our value chain excluding combustion of fossil fuels (gasoline, water) generated upstream by those already covered under scope 1 diesel, fuel oil, natural gas, propane) another organisation using fuels such and 2. Scope 3 refers then to items consumed to produce heat and steam as coal, fuel oil, natural gas, waste, including but not limited to the on our facilities or to operate our and others, to do so. production of purchased goods, vehicles. goods transport, packaging, capital goods, waste disposal and employee commuting and business travel. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 30 Acting for Our Environment Progress scope 3 Purchased goods and services During 2018, scope 3 GHG emissions increased by 21.6% against For raw materials and indirect materials and services (excluding the 2015 baseline figure. A detailed explanation on progress per packaging material) the figures increased due to the estimated category is given below. emission calculation methodology. A new calculation will be carried out next year. Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) For packaging of finished products, the estimated 2018 2015 GHG emissions (tonnes) (baseline) 2017 2018 footprint is 59,698 tonnes, an increase of 1.9% compared with Purchased goods and services 1,259,057 1,447,437 1,556,380 the 2017 footprint. Given the growth in production volume, this Packaging of finished products ¹ 55,605 58,575 59,698 level of increase shows an improvement in our packaging practices. We are assessing ways to reduce our footprint, for Indirect materials & services ¹ 143,569 156,186 167,387 (excluding packaging) example by reducing the weight of our containers and using alternative packaging with more sustainable materials. Raw materials ¹ 1,059,883 1,232,676 1,329,295 Capital goods ¹ 48,696 69,611 82,464 In 2018, we participated for the second year in the CDP Supply Fuel and energy related activities 79,110 62,921 58,262 Chain Programme, asking our key suppliers to provide data on Upstream transportation and 23,196 26,347 29,523 climate change through the supply chain module of the CDP’s distribution ¹ Climate Change Questionnaire. The survey asks suppliers to Waste generated in operations 15,369 16,094 17,099 identify risks and opportunities associated with climate Business travel 10,056 12,303 12,889 change, say what their emissions are and give details on Employee commuting 15,296 16,530 14,172 emissions management strategies including targets and action Downstream transportation 42,692 45,561 45,783 they are taking to reduce emissions. We chose suppliers and distribution according to a given set of criteria. For example, in raw Outbound product to 30,879 32,844 31,656 materials, we chose top suppliers by volume. The data collected customers ¹ will help us create partnerships with our suppliers to put in Outbound intercompany 11,813 12,717 14,127 place collaborative measures to reduce our emissions. This is deliveries ¹ aligned with and contributes to our science-based target for Total 1,493,472 1,696,804 1,816,572 scope 3 emissions. In 2018, our supplier response rate was 54%, 1. These numbers do not include data from our production site in Volketswil. up from 45% last year. Though it is a good result, there is space for improvement. Disclosure 305 – 3 Emission calculation methodologies Purchased goods and services footprint figure for the type of packaging electricity and steam as well as the For raw materials and indirect materials and (as received from suppliers). The totals for technology standard in the countries of the services (excluding packaging material), each type of packaging were consolidated respective sites into consideration. We use figures are calculated through the ESCHER to give a total Givaudan figure. the ecoinvent database 2.2 (method: IPCC model – an extended multi-regional 2007) as the data basis for the life-cycle input-output-model based on Global Trade Capital goods inventory. Scope 3 emissions have been and Analysis Project (GTAP) data – on the The figures are calculated through the estimated directly through the analysis of basis of financial values of materials ESCHER model on the basis of financial the respective ecoinvent datasets and by purchased during 2015 and the country of values of hardware purchased during 2015. subtracting scope 1 and 2 emissions from origin. The 2018 GHG emission figure was The 2018 GHG emission figure was overall emissions. Scope 3 emissions for the then calculated by using the 2015 ratio calculated by using the 2015 ratio between delivery of electricity (infrastructure, grid between spend and GHG emissions and spend and GHG emissions and losses and direct emissions) have also extrapolating to the 2018 spend figure. For extrapolating to the 2018 spend figure. been accounted for in the calculation. packaging materials, the figure was calculated by extracting the number of units Fuel-and-energy-related activities Upstream transportation used for each type of packaging (for finished (not included in scope 1 or 2) and distribution goods) from the Company’s ERP database. The calculation takes the primary energy We monitor the environmental impact This number was multiplied by the carbon carriers for the production of heat, of transportation (air, ship and road) by Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Acting for Our Environment 31 Some 22% of our suppliers have proposed collaborative Waste generated in operations opportunities and we are currently reviewing and prioritising This figure has remained stable since last year, even with proposed projects. An example in terms of GHG emissions growth in production volume. Progress towards our waste reduction includes combining several orders into full container target (reduction in incinerated and landfill waste) is loads to reduce transport emissions. contributing to this. We also earned a position on CDP’s Supplier Engagement leader Business travel board in recognition of our actions and strategies to reduce This figure has remained stable since last year. emissions and lower climate-related risk across our supply chain. Only 3% of the 5,000 companies that participated in CDP’s Employee commuting Supply Chain Programme in 2018 were included on the list. In 2018, a new employee survey about commuting practices was organised through our Green Teams. Based on collected Capital goods responses, the footprint was estimated at 14,172 tonnes of Capital goods figures increased due to the estimated emission GHG emissions. Compared to the 2015 survey, the 2018 figure calculation methodology. A new calculation will be carried out is 7.3% lower. The ratio of GHG emissions per employee fell to next year. 1.23 tCO ₂ e in 2018 from 1.5 tCO ₂ e in 2015. Givaudan actively encourages its employees to reduce the GHG emissions of their Fueland energy-related activities daily commute, supporting a range of schemes including a (not included in scope 1 or 2) bike-to-work initiative at our Swiss sites, the facilitation of In fueland energy-related activities, we have made good carpooling through our intranet platform and the provision progress due to the increase in the supply of renewable of recharge stations to support the transition to electric cars electricity. at some sites. Upstream and Downstream transportation and distribution We are assessing ways to reduce our footprint, for example through consolidation and choice of engine type. calculating the associated GHG emissions. Business travel to calculate the related CO ₂e emission We do this through a model that tracks all Data on distance travelled are collected per employee. The reported figure was transport movements through our SAP through our global and local travel then obtained by extrapolating to 100%. system (by mode of transport), from agencies. To calculate the GHG footprint, delivery to receipt locations of raw emission factors per haul and class are Downstream transportation materials. To calculate the GHG footprint, used according to the 2018 Department and distribution we use emission factors per mode of for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs We monitor the environmental impact transport according to the Cefic (European (DEFRA, UK) definition. of transportation (by air, ship and road) Chemical Industry Council) guideline. by calculating the associated GHG Employee commuting emissions. We do this through a model Waste generated in operations In 2018, we conducted for the third time that tracks all transport movements Emission factors on a per tonne waste a global commuting survey/questionnaire through our SAP system (by mode of basis (as extracted from scope 3 guidance asking employees about their modes transport), from delivery to receipt documents from WBCSD + WRI) have been of travel and distances covered. Of the locations of intercompany deliveries multiplied with the total weight of waste employees surveyed, 43% responded: this and deliveries to customers. To generated at our manufacturing locations. data and transport emission factors (kg/ calculate the GHG footprint, we use The scope of the calculation covers waste km) from Guidelines to Defra’s GHG emission factors per mode of transport to landfill and to incineration. Conversion factors for transport were used according to the Cefic guideline. Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 32 Acting for Our Environment Our overall approach is being boosted by the creativity HYCOOL and dedication of our employees around the world: The solar heat behind cool their enthusiasm and dedication has led to projects that innovation help us reduce GHG emissions even more. We are also What if we could harness the sun’s investing in cutting-edge technology such as HyCool heat to provide cooling and refrigeration for industrial processes? This is the to find alternative sources of energy. question we are exploring with the innovative technology being tested as part of an EU-level project at our Sant Celoni site in Spain. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) HyCool is the name of a project being 2017 (restated) 2018 funded by the European Union to promote the use of Solar Heat in CFC inventory (kg) 11,748 10,106 Industrial Processes (SHIP). The unique CFC 11 equivalent inventory (kg) 655 562 technology couples patented solar CFC loss-replacement (kg) 773 1,055 thermal collectors with special hybrid CFC 11 equivalent loss/replacement (kg) 42 58 heat pumps with the aim of providing flexible and cost-efficient cooling systems Disclosure 305 – 6 for industrial applications. By maximising the use of renewable energy through made-in-Europe innovation, HyCool’s NOₓ, SOₓ, and other significant air emissions goal is to minimise emissions of greenhouses gases. 2017 (restated) 2018 “Every industrial site needs heating Nitrogen oxides – NO ₓ (tonnes)¹ 84 83 and refrigeration, and this combination of Sulphur dioxide – SO ₂ (tonnes) 1 1 technology is highly relevant for our sites Volatile organic compounds (tonnes) 469 292 in sunny locations like Egypt, South Africa, Mexico and the USA,” said Jean, Global 1. The quantity is calculated by multiplying the annual fuel consumption by the corresponding emission factor for fuel type. Expert for Utilities and Industrial Services. “At full scale, we anticipate that HyCool Disclosure 305 – 7 will enable us to reduce our electricity consumption by 25% and natural gas by 6%. This adds up to a 7% reduction in our carbon footprint.” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Acting for Our Environment 33 CHINA Sites’ shuttle buses go green to tackle emissions Givaudan’s four sites in and around this revolution,” said Georges, Company Shanghai are spread throughout the Manager of Givaudan China. “We are giant city of more than 24 million people. proud that Givaudan China is contributing One of the perks our employees enjoy is to improving air quality in Shanghai.” shuttle buses that take them to and The swap is helping to mitigate the from stops spread around the city to the effects of rapid economic development sites where they work. Until recently, on the environment and also improving these buses have run on diesel fuel. awareness of environmental protection, Now, a new initiative from a Green Team – especially in terms of haze and local teams of employees that volunteer atmospheric particulate matter. Many to engage in sustainability projects – to people had never used such a bus and replace them with electric vehicles is so Givaudan arranged trial runs, protecting the environment. helping Givaudan reduce GHG emissions speaking afterwards with employee “As citizens, we want to make our by 128 tonnes a year. representatives to collect the comments environment better and better, and this Of the total fleet of 26 shuttle buses and concerns of the passengers. was just common sense,” said Ellaine, over the four sites, 13 have already been After a few modifications, including IM&S Procurement Manager. “It is good exchanged. The Chinese government is finding a way to do away with “new for the air, it is good for the environment, supporting the initiative by subsidising bus smell,” employees have been very and we all support this project.” vehicles and the rest are scheduled for supportive of the changes. They “This is a great example of achieving replacement in 2019 and 2020. particularly appreciate the lack of diesel two seemingly opposing objectives of “Electric vehicle transportation is smell and loud noise, advantages that saving the environment and saving costs” becoming a reality and China is leading come on top of the contributions to said Ali, Regional CFO, North Asia. SWITZERLAND Team at Vernier headquarters reduce scope 3 GHG emissions with innovative packaging The Vernier Team’s brilliant idea of and can be recycled whereas metal transportation. This leaves significant replacing round metal drums used to is mined – the innovation is more gaps and a lot of empty space, meaning store and transport some products sustainable too. the capacity of the truck is underused: with square fibre packaging may seem The benefits don’t stop there: this leads to wasted resources and like a simple, elegant solution, but it because of their shape, there is less extra costs. took a team of experts from fields from space between them in transport and After discussing the problem with packaging engineering to IM&S to this makes the shipment more stable. our transporter, they proposed pallets come up with the polished result. Because they are lighter, it requires that are half the size of the EURO norm, They started out with a problem – less effort to move them, improving that is 80x60 cm instead of 80x120 cm. metal detectors were incompatible the health and safety of workers. A After investigating their possible use with the drums being used. After related improvement by the supplier – with a range of experts and looking at possible solutions, they hit an ecoclip that replaces sealing tape stakeholders and getting the thumbs upon an idea that has since benefitted – makes the solution faster to use, up from our customers, we decided to the environment in many ways. reliable and practical because the introduce this new option. Ordering The square cardboard drums are clip also serves as a handle. The new smaller pallets saves about 50 tonnes lighter and take up less space. This drums are so convincing that we of wood a year and lets us avoid means that fewer trucks are needed to are expanding their use to more and 70 trips of 725 km each, every year deliver the same quantity of product, more products. – this reduces the GHG emissions of reducing scope 3 GHG emissions, but This is not the only local innovation transportation by about 4 tonnes also traffic-related nuisances such as in packaging though. The team noticed annually. It is a simple and efficient noise, air pollution and accidents. The that small drums were secured solution that improves transport safety fibre is made from renewable materials individually on much larger pallets for and helps protect the environment. Management Approach 103 – 3: Topic 302, 305, pages 28 – 33 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 34 Acting for Our Environment Water stewardship and effluents Waste water Water is critical to our manufacturing activities and we want to We are working to ensure that the waste water from lead the industry in conservation and stewardship. Our Water our operations is disposed of responsibly and monitor its Stewardship Programme outlines our overall strategy for quality through Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) analysis. monitoring and reducing water consumption and guides our The total quantity of COD discharged was measured to be growth strategy. It helps us focus on specific locations, 918 tonnes in 2018. technologies and procedures to ensure that water risks are managed and monitored. Overall, we are working towards a continued reduction of water use through projects including reduced water withdrawal, We continue to show good progress after reaching our target water recycling and investigation into alternative sources such to reduce global water consumption per tonne of production as rainwater. Once again, our employees are also making by 15% by 2020 three years early. We are now assessing a new significant contributions through their innovative ideas. target and will publish it soon. Total water discharge by quality and destination Progress 2018 This year, we decreased water intensity by 24.4% since the 2017 Water discharge (m³) (restated) 2018 baseline year 2009. This corresponds to a 6% decrease in water intensity since 2017 and to 208,925 m³ in absolute less water To the environment without biological treatment 4,260,564 4,666,399 withdrawal in 2018 compared to 2017. We earned a CDP leadership grade of Afor our efforts in water security and also To the environment after biological treatment 2,029,078 2,089,294 participated in the CDP Supply Chain assessment for water. Our To external treatment facility without supplier response rate this year was 48%, up from 37% in 2017. pre-treatment 553,116 532,823 To external treatment facility after We put a special focus on places where we expect water pre-treatment 1,633,523 1,575,193 challenge and carry out risk assessments to develop water Total discharged water 8,476,281 8,863,708 mitigation action plans that include efficiency improvements and water reuse opportunities. All such prioritised facilities Disclosure 306 – 1 have to fulfil a Local Water Risk Assessment, which is meant to gather contextual information and help us develop mitigation plans. Sixteen of the sites linked to high water risk have been Water risk assessment assessed as of 2018. To get a more detailed picture, we carry out a periodic corporate water risk assessment. This allows us to identify relevant exposures and perform analysis specifically related to the watershed-level context. This process applies to both operations Total water withdrawal by source and to the supply chain because they are the most material stages of our value chain in terms of water consumption. 59.0% 27.2% Assessment for operations Surface water Municipal water This water risk assessment includes all Givaudan manufacturing facilities and takes into account six indicators 2018 Total water1 from two water risk mapping tools – the Water Risk Filter and WRI Aquaduct – covering physical, regulation and 13.8% reputation risk aspects. We use internal knowledge as well Groundwater as criteria linked to production volume and risks in terms of water withdrawal to prioritise the facilities. 2009 2017 Water intake (m³) (restated) (restated) 2018 Assessment for supply chain Municipal water 2,286,999 2,609,597 2,478,213 In 2018, we used a metric-based methodology to characterise Groundwater 1,074,035 1,335,663 1,258,123 our corporate water footprint based on ISO 14046. This Total municipal and 3,361,034 3,945,260 3,736,336 allowed us to identify hot spots in our main product supply groundwater chain and gave us a clear understanding of the risks and Surface water 7,432,649 4,925,910 5,371,098 impacts encountered. It allowed us to: Total water¹ 10,793,683 8,871,170 9,107,434 ––quantify the total water consumption of our activities, taking 1. Includes sanitary, cooling and process water. into consideration the whole value chain from raw materials Disclosure 303 – 1 extraction to product use and end-of-life; Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Acting for Our Environment 35 ––quantify the water scarcity footprint to highlight water The graph represents our footprint in 2018 and provides a consumption located in water stressed areas along the basis for understanding how we can have an impact on water value chain; stewardship. It shows why our water strategy takes our supply chains into account. ––provide a detailed breakdown of the water footprint to identify main contributors (infographic); Givaudan’s water footprint Raw materials – NAT 70 ––identify water hotspots and physical water risks along Raw materials – SYN 14 the value chain. Site – direct water use 1 This assessment allows us to set priorities for reducing water Site – energy 1 use and develop a mitigation plan. Logistics and packaging 1 Water consumption (million m³/yr) HUNGARY Localised cleaning station cuts water and detergent use The hunt for ways to reduce water use at Hungary’s Mako site led a local Green Team to identify an opportunity for improving the system used to clean the trolley cars that transport the powders that go into the thousands of products made there. A study of the site’s Clean in Place (CIP) system revealed that washing the site’s big manual pouring (BMP) trolleys was a critical area for improvement: because there was a distance of about 60 meters from the centralised CIP station to the actual cleaning area, the pipeline had to be filled up with a significant amount of water before each cycle. These concerns led the group to come up with a proposal to replace the centralised system with a localised foaming station. Though there was huge potential in terms of water savings, they were aware that meeting the They could not halt production, so efficient cleaning, a shorter CIP cycle, same hygienic requirements with a new figuring out how to install and test the hot water supply from the network and, cleaning process would be the biggest new system involved a huge effort critically, no need to fill up the 60-meter challenge. After several tests, the team involving collaboration among a number pipeline with water. The benefits have proposed installing two foaming of people and teams including local been huge: the water consumption of stations local to the BMP cleaning engineering, maintenance technicians, the cleaning station has been reduced by stations. Management then played a the BMP area leader, and the operators 60% to 450 litres. CIP and the team has critical role in making sure the project as well, the Quality team, external cut the use of detergent by 50% a year got off the ground. experts, even lab assistants. from reduced consumption of water, “We are really happy that we got While the first weeks involved a detergent and natural gas. the strong support to make this happen,” learning curve, the site has since “The challenge in this project was said Balazs, project coordinator. “It gained a lot of flexibility with the new to achieve our goal to reduce water was a great collaboration between a equipment and the excellent returns consumption with maintaining the same number of different teams at the site are becoming more and more apparent. CIP and hygiene,” said Melinda, Quality and management.” The modifications allow for more Systems Manager. “We did it!” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 36 Acting for Our Environment MEXICO Heavy rains inspire water collection project Alert to Givaudan’s water use reduction “Taking advantage of the rainy season, and storage systems. goals, the Cuernavaca Green Team – we will capture as much rainwater “We want to make sure that already the winners of a 2017 award for as possible to reduce our consumption by summer we have the capacity to their efforts in manufacturing – was on of the sub-soil supply.” collect all the water,” said Dario, of the lookout for ways to further reduce The installation – and the predictably EHS at the site. “If the fire protection the plant’s use of municipal water by rainy weather – allowed them to store tank is full, we need to make sure finding a renewable source. and use rain water, thereby reducing that we have the ability to send Inspired by the months of heavy average monthly consumption of this water to the boilers – this is the rain from July to October – “it rains municipal supply water. next phase.” almost every night during three months,” The collected water was The team says their good idea one team member said – they hit on transferred to the tank of the plant’s might spread even further from the the idea of using their prize money to fire protection system and can be put plant. While the investment can be install a rainwater collection system to good use there. The ultimate goal significant, they have been talking on 1,000 m² of roof to get an idea of how though is to use the water in bathroom about the project internally and some a larger scale system could contribute facilities and in the boiler, which employees may be motivated to install towards water savings. The idea won generates steam for processing needs. similar systems at home. them yet a 2018 Green Team award, this The team has already learned that “It is an important project in time in the category “Eco-Efficiency”. the quality of the water is high enough terms of sustainability, but also in terms “We are committed to reducing that they will be able to use it with of savings for the business,” Dario said. water consumption at the Cuernavaca a basic solid-filter system. The next “It is also a good example for what plant,” said Miguel, Site Director. step will be to expand the collection could be done at home.” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Acting for Our Environment 37 INDIA Pune facility discharges zero liquid into surrounding environment, reduces water consumption Our green field facility in Pune, India and sinks. Water destined for use boasts the ultimate cutting edge in the plant’s ingredients must be treatment system for a strong treated further, this time by reverse reduction of the city water usage osmosis, another technology that and the total elimination of waste removes any particles and some ions water effluent into neighbouring from the water thanks to highly waterways. Designed on the principle selective membranes. Any effluent of ‘Zero Liquid Discharge,’ 100% of the that is left over from this process discharge must be recycled or reused: then joins that left over from the our innovative processes are allowing industrial processes in the waste us to reduce intake from the municipal water treatment plant, where it is water system by as much as 50%. reprocessed and ultimately used The plant takes in about 67 cubic again. Water used in the domestic meters of water from the municipal installations is treated by a sewage water supply every day – while the treatment plant that converts plant is running in a closed loop, the pollution into biogas; the water is then food safety regulations bans water used to irrigate the site’s gardens. recycling, therefore the resulting Ultimately, through the various steps waste water is evaporated through and processes, the site ends up with a combination of technologies and just two by-products that cannot be specific plants. processed any further: water, which This water is first treated by is evaporated through irrigation and ultra-filtration, a process that the dry solids that are left from it. separates clean water from solids “In a nutshell, all the wastewater through membranes. That water is is purified and recycled, leaving then immediately ready for use in zero discharge at the end of the some industrial process applications treatment cycle,” said Dipankar, Site and for use in the showers, kitchens Engineering Manager. Management Approach 103 – 3: Topic 303, 306, pages 34 – 37 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 38 Acting for Our Environment Materials and waste In total, we recycled 73% of all our waste in 2018, or 79% We work hard to limit the amount of waste we produce when the energy recovered from incineration is taken into through a four-pronged process based on the concepts account. Recycled waste has increased by 17% since 2015. “reduce,” “reuse,” “recycle” and “recover.” We are reducing the The reduction of landfill is also a priority and 16 of our sites amount we create as a by-product of our processes; then we (39%) are without landfill waste. reuse where possible and recycle in an effort to move away from disposal in landfill or by incineration. Where waste is While we are showing progress against baseline, there is incinerated, we recapture the energy. still a gap that must be closed to reach our 2020 target. We have developed a plan and have identified and implemented Our target is to reduce incinerated and landfilled waste mitigation measures. production per tonne of product by an average of 4% yearon-year against the 2015 baseline figure by 2020. Progress 2018 During the course of 2018, the amount of waste sent for incineration and landfill per tonne of product decreased by 5.23% compared to the 2015 figure. Waste efficiency Materials used by weight (tonnes of waste/ tonne of product) 2015 (restated) 2017 (restated) 2018 52% 48% Incinerated and Non-renewable Renewable landfilled waste 0.0457 0.0417 0.0433 raw materials raw materials Total weight Total weight of waste by type and disposal method of purchased raw materials¹ 2015 2017 Hazardous waste (tonnes) (restated) (restated) 2018 Incinerated 8,557 8,962 9,645 1. The figures refer only to the volume of ingredients from the Cardex and the Palette Incinerated with energy used for fragrance and flavour products. recovery ¹ 4,132 4,184 3,630 Weight of purchased raw materials (tonnes) 2018 Landfilled 318 105 128 Total 448,012 Recycled 17,357 17,310 21,136 Total hazardous waste 26,232 26,377 30,910 Weight of purchased packaging (tonnes) 2018 Plastic HDPE 6,956 2015 2017 Non-hazardous waste (tonnes) (restated) (restated) 2018 Steel/Metal 14,029 Incinerated 2,230 2,738 2,845 Fibre 304 Incinerated with energy Paper/Board 2,667 recovery ¹ 1,076 455 546 Wood 13,082 Landfilled 6,412 6,892 6,984 Total 37,037 Recycled 27,826 32,485 31,959 Total non-hazardous waste 36,468 42,115 41,788 Disclosure 301 – 1 1. Quantity out of total incinerated waste which is incinerated with an energy recovery of at least 75%. Disclosure 306 – 2 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Acting for Our Environment 39 INDIA Jigani celebrates World Environment Day with a focus on single-use plastic Employees at our Jigani site have They engaged not only employees, awareness, helped people share ideas celebrated World Environment Day but also their families in making and motivated them to act for a (WED) for many years, but 2018 was contributions through drawings pollution-free environment – at special – India hosted the event. and essays on ways to beat plastic Givaudan certainly, but also around To celebrate, the local Green Team pollution. Then they moved on to the world, thanks to the spotlight came together to propose multiple the next part of the plan: stopping brought on by the WED. activities based on this year’s theme: single-use plastic. “Jigani has pledged to reduce the ‘Beat Plastic Pollution – if you can’t In line with the Indian government’s use of plastic disposables,” said reuse it, refuse it’. commitment to abolish such items by Karthikeyan, Operations Director. “Our They started out by making a 2022, the team took on plastic straws, Green Team has initiated the correct huge effort to raise awareness about bags, stirrers and cups, highlighting approach with stopping one-time use, how plastic is polluting the earth and how the use of plastic disposables adds and we will continue our journey to how it finds its way into our bodies. to pollution. Their activities raised reduce the use of plastic.” Management Approach 103 – 3: Topic 301, 306 , pages 38 – 39 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 40 Environmental performance indicators Environmental performance indicators 2009 2015 2016 2017 (restated (restated in (restated in (restated in Key performance indicators in 2018) 2018) 2018) 2018) 2018 Energy Energy (GJ) Direct energy (from primary sources ¹) 1,708,571 1,738,392 1,894,276 1,898,824 Indirect energy: purchased electricity & steam 950,117 1,029,408 991,678 1,010,347 Total energy 2,658,688 2,767,800 2,885,954 2,909,171 Energy efficiency Direct energy efficiency 4.46 4.37 4.22 4.19 (GJ/tonne of production) Indirect energy efficiency 2.48 2.59 2.21 2.23 Total energy 6.94 6.95 6.43 6.43 Emissions GHG emissions (tonnes) Scope 1 From direct energy sources 99,892 100,662 108,102 108,706 Scope 2 From indirect energy sources 88,877 87,217 67,370 53,896 Total scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions 188,769 187,879 175,472 162,602 Scope 3 Business travel – 10,056 11,102 12,303 12,889 Employee commuting – 15,296 15,756 16,530 14,172 Packaging of finished products² – 55,605 58,249 58,575 59,698 Upstream transportation and distribution² – 23,196 25,356 26,347 29,523 Outbound product to customers² – 30,879 31,431 32,844 31,656 Outbound intercompany deliveries² – 11,813 15,802 12,717 14,127 Waste generated in operations – 15,369 16,748 16,094 17,099 Fuel and energy related activities – 79,110 79,505 62,921 58,262 Raw materials² – 1,059,883 1,138,972 1,232,676 1,329,295 Indirect materials & services (excluding packaging)² – 143,569 137,860 156,186 167,387 Capital goods² – 48,696 42,927 69,611 82,464 Total scope 3 GHG emissions 1,493,472 1,573,708 1,696,804 1,816,572 Total GHG emissions 1,682,241 1,761,587 1,872,276 1,979,174 GHG emissions efficiency³ Scope 1: from direct energy sources – 0.26 0.25 0.24 0.24 (tonnes of GHG/tonne of Scope 2: from indirect energy sources – 0.23 0.22 0.15 0.12 production) Total GHG emissions – 0.49 0.47 0.39 0.36 Waste Hazardous waste Incinerated 8,557 9,543 8,962 9,645 (tonnes) Incinerated with energy recovery ⁴ 4,132 3,989 4,184 3,630 Landfilled 318 108 105 128 Recycled 17,357 16,744 17,310 21,136 Total hazardous waste 26,232 26,395 26,377 30,909 Non-hazardous waste Incinerated 2,230 2,544 2,738 2,845 (tonnes) Incinerated with energy recovery ⁴ 1,076 719 455 546 Landfilled 6,412 6,704 6,892 6,984 Recycled 27,826 28,574 32,485 31,959 Total non-hazardous waste 36,468 37,822 42,115 41,788 Total incinerated and landfilled waste (HZ and NHZ) 17,517 18,899 18,697 19,602 Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 62,700 64,217 68,492 72,697 One-off waste (tonnes) 2,219 1,367 4,183 7,215 Waste efficiency ⁵ (kg of waste/tonne of production) 45.7 47.5 41.7 43.3 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Environmental performance indicators 41 2009 2015 2016 2017 (restated (restated in (restated in (restated in Key performance indicators in 2018) 2018) 2018) 2018) 2018 Water Water intake (m³) Municipal water 2,286,999 2,359,818 2,539,275 2,609,597 2,478,213 Ground water 1,074,035 1,390,267 1,307,576 1,335,663 1,258,123 Total municipal and ground water 3,361,034 3,750,085 3,846,851 3,945,260 3,736,336 Surface water 7,432,649 5,006,361 5,225,273 4,925,910 5,371,098 Total water ⁶ 10,793,683 8,756,446 9,072,124 8,871,170 9,107,434 Water efficiency ⁷ (m³/tonne of production) 10.91 9.78 9.66 8.79 8.25 Water discharge (m³) To the environment w/o biological treatment – – 4,634,189 4,260,564 4,666,399 To the environment after biological treatment – – 2,005,856 2,029,078 2,089,294 To external treatment facility w/o pre-treatment – – 416,126 553,116 532,823 To external treatment facility with pre-treatment – – 1,703,562 1,633,523 1,575,193 Total discharged water – – 8,759,733 8,476,281 8,863,709 COD (tonnes) COD load of water discharged to the environment – – 487 608 918 Other data Nitrogen oxides – NO ₓ (tonnes)⁸ – – 76.90 84.07 83.03 Sulphur dioxide – SO ₂ (tonnes)⁸ – – 0.92 0.94 1.19 VOC (tonnes) – – 521 469 292 CFC inventory (kg) – – 11,774 11,748 10,106 CFC 11 equivalent inventory (kg) – – 653 655 562 CFC loss-replacement (kg) – – 1,335 773 1,055 CFC 11 equivalent loss/replacement (kg) – – 73.44 42.38 58.09 Production Production quantities (tonnes) 308,060 383,353 398,043 448,726 452,696 1. Includes natural gas (0.0345 GJ/m³), light fuel (36.12 GJ/m³), heavy fuel (39.77 GJ/m³), liquid petroleum gas (22.65 GJ/m³), town gas (0.0186 GJ/m³). 2. These numbers do not include data from our production site in Volketswil. 3. Includes only scope 1 and scope 2. 4. Among the quantity of HW and non-HW incinerated, this is the quantity incinerated with energy recovery (in tonnes) on condition that at least 75% of energy is recovered. 5. Includes incinerated and land-filled waste (HZ and NHZ). 6. Includes sanitary, cooling and process water. 7. Includes municipal and groundwater. 8. Quantity is calculated by multiplying the annual fuel consumption by the corresponding emission factor for fuel type. How to read our performance indicators Baseline years Baseline recalculation In this report we use two baseline years to show our In order to enable a meaningful comparison of environmental performance indicators, 2009 and 2015. The CO₂, energy, waste performance over time, Givaudan has established a standard and targets were set against a 2009 baseline, which we met in process, based on the GHG Protocol, to recalculate its baseline 2015. This led to the publication of strengthened targets, against indicators in case of structural changes such as acquisitions, and a 2015 baseline. For water the 2009 baseline year is still valid. For changes in calculation methodology and inventory boundaries. production volumes, both 2009 and 2015 are reported since the ratios are calculated using the data of the accurate baseline year. In this way to compare performance on a like-for-like basis over time. The process includes definitions of recalculation In this report the baseline recalculation applies only to triggers and the process of reporting the information. Thanks GHG emission numbers as these are the only absolute targets to this guidance, Givaudan is able to track its environmental published by the Company. To consider the impact of 2015 performance in a transparent manner and with confidence that and 2016 acquisitions we recalculated the figures up to the the data are accurate despite the changes related to the 2015 baseline. No environmental data of our 2017 and 2018 business growth. acquisitions are included in this report. Disclosure 102 – 49 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 42 Our People and Partners Our People and Partners People who are passionate about providing decent work and economic growth. Managing talent allows us to attract and keep the best and the our work and committed to brightest, securing in this way the long-term succession pipeline up to senior management. It allows us to develop and creating a sustainable society strengthen Givaudan’s culture and offer an attractive career make significant contributions to path. These activities also help provide an engaging and inspiring environment, giving employees a chance to realise our success. their career goals, and also enable us to retain and motivate qualified people. A better and more sustainable future should incorporate decent This drive is reflected in projects such as our regional ONE work and economic growth, gender equality and good health and Givaudan onboarding initiative – a programme that allows well-being for all. Sustainable development work also requires new employees to acquire fundamental knowledge about inclusive partnerships between governments, businesses and our Company and its rich heritage, our business and our society. A leading employer in the industry, with a global staff of DNA – as well as a set of customised management training more than 13,000, including more than 90 nationalities, we are programmes called Leadership Senses. We have yearly doing our part to work towards these goals. performance cycles including talent reviews and career discussions and, finally, we promote a culture of continuous People learning, curiosity and feedback. Talent Management Focusing on talent development to improve skills and ONE onboarding and training in “Quality Conversations” are engagement is a critical part of our approach towards just two ways we look to develop our people and their skills. Training in quality conversations aims to improve the working environment with a feedback culture Another aspect of managing talent and retaining talented employees is teaching people to deliver and receive effective feedback. It is an essential part of any successful business and we want to be sure to create an environment where feedback is a consistent and regular part of our daily exchanges. Not just from managers to their teams, but also amongst teams and from teams to their managers – we want people to actively seek feedback and make it a part of their daily routines. We also know that clear communication is the basis of all good relationships: our Quality Conversations training helps managers not only create the right feedback environment, but also to build trusting and productive interactions with their team members more generally. This results in stronger Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Our People and Partners 43 ONE onboarding events build Company culture, give new recruits best start Givaudan’s people pride themselves on see what we do and how we do it. creating a positive environment of They went into the labs and worked openness and curiosity, shaping and through case studies – how, for sharing innovative ideas that drive instance, do we go about designing a sustainable growth and create fragrance for a customer? They also memorable flavours and fragrances. got to know each other through both We welcome debate and challenge the formal and informal sessions, way business is done while looking to expanding their networks throughout drive positive change and establish Givaudan. In all, about 218 people true partnerships. We take profited from these workshops. Management Approach 103 – 3: responsibility for our actions and act “When they walk away from the Topic 404, pages 42 – 43 with empathy and humility. programme, they know what we do, Our enthusiasm for this approach how we do it and what our history is,” and our culture is one of the reasons said Jane, Head of Learning and we have introduced the ONE Development. “They have also been onboarding – or ‘Onboarding New given a chance to make contacts with Employees’ – programme. The people throughout the region.” employee engagement, transforming dedicated two-day training events aim Since our Givaudan Business individual and business performance. to give new joiners a sense of our Solutions (GBS) population is growing The Quality Conversations community and culture, ONE and proper onboarding is key to future programme, which we started rolling out Givaudan, by focusing on our DNA and success, we have performed thirteen this year, is based on The Oxford Group who we are; our business model, and ONE events in the GBS hubs. We have book ‘5 Conversations’ and focuses on creating opportunities for people to also introduced some interactive helping managers build trusting and build their networks. We are happy to e-learning modules that complement productive relationships at work through take this unique opportunity to spread the events: some 114 people have a structured approach. The programme is our knowledge and appreciation of the completed these courses, with more built around five conversations: flavour and fragrance industry, our in progress. Establishing a trusting relationship; Company and its culture as well as its “Following the onboarding, I have Agreeing mutual expectations; Showing long, rich heritage. an increased sense of pride working for genuine appreciation; Challenging In 2018, we were able to pass along the Company,” said one participant. unhelpful behaviours and, finally Building this knowledge during eight ONE “We realise how much of an impact the for the future. onboarding events across the regions. Company has on consumers each day Encouraging these quality At each, about 25 new employees from and it is so exciting to be a part of that. conversations and a culture of feedback many different functions came This programme also shows how is at the heart of our success: they help together to spend two days at a invested the Company is in their to build trusting relationships, create Givaudan site. They learned about the employees which is a really nice feeling engagement and motivate everyone to Flavour and Fragrance Divisions and as a new member of the team. Thank perform at their best. were invited to get into operations, to you for offering such a special event!” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 44 Our People and Partners Promoting Diversity We are committed to offering a work environment based on Equal opportunity and the elimination of gender-based mutual respect – we do not tolerate harassment. The path to discrimination is necessary to cultivate leaders with legitimacy leadership is open to all motivated, talented and qualified and to make better business decisions. Diversity and gender people and we are committed to equal opportunity. While it is equality is another critical element in our sustainability fundamentally right to do so, we also believe that it makes approach. We embrace diversity throughout our organisation sound business sense. and are fully committed to increasing inclusiveness. Management Approach 103 – 3: Topic 405, 406, page 44 One way we promote this is through our approach to a better balance: a good mix of gender and nationalities reinforces our inclusive culture and is essential to achieving our business Environmental, health and well-being goals. An evolving balance of nationalities and genders in our Ensuring the safety, health and wellness of our staff is an essential management teams over time will lead to steady, sustainable part of being a responsible employer and we actively promote change rather than quick or superficial fixes. safe and secure working environments. We work hard to manage Women at Givaudan “given the opportunity to grow” When Lucia, now Head of Fine Fragrances, Latin America first started at Givaudan, women employees were not eligible to get health insurance coverage for their partners – this was a benefit reserved for men. Lucia pointed out that it was unfair and the policy was changed. Some 18 years later, she sought and won full support to hire a woman who was already pregnant because she was the right person for the job on her team. “At Givaudan, there has been a real evolution,” Lucia said. Her expertise with such issues and her personal success in navigating them won her an invitation to address a December town hall meeting of about 500 people organised by Boticário, one of our biggest customers in Brazil. She and three other panellists were invited to discuss four between men and women. the importance of having better balance – main themes, including their personal Overall, she finds that the situation not just diversity, she says. For her, stories, experiences with prejudice, the is beginning to change for the better and diversity is simply inclusion, while obstacles that they had faced during looking to the future, she says that better balance is about inclusion with their careers and, finally, whether they women should not be afraid to create real participation. had any tips or advice to give. opportunities for development as she “Diversity is when you just invite During the meeting, they covered a has been able to do at Givaudan. someone to a party, but better broad range of topics, touching on areas “We have a culture that is open and balance is about asking them to dance such as maternity leave and the critical Givaudan has always given me the too,” she said. “This is exactly what is role of partners in supporting careers, opportunity to grow when I was ready happening with Givaudan. I feel like the difficulties women may face when for it,” she said. I am actively contributing and bringing travelling alone, the challenges of being The simple fact that she and some different perspectives to the group. accepted as a discussion partner in of her female peers are in positions of We know that companies with this certain parts of the world as well as leadership in various regions of the world approach are much more efficient and differing communications approaches shows clearly that Givaudan understands have better results.” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Our People and Partners 45 the risks inherent to industrial environments and hazardous Partners chemicals and our mission is to empower everyone to safeguard Our approach to sustainability relies on the support of our the environment and protect people’s health and safety. We look people, of course, but also on the support of our partners. to eliminate accidents and get ‘Everyone Home Safe, Everyday’. Managing sustainability issues is a huge undertaking with diverse challenges and effective, long-term solutions can only We help our employees actively contribute to this target through be found by developing strong partnerships across sectors. awareness campaigns and training programmes, aiming to We work with a range of partners to tackle these challenges ingrain these reflexes into our very culture. One way we do this in an efficient, mutually beneficial manner. The approach is is to organise exciting, innovative workshops around the world. also leading to exciting new products for our customers, as demonstrated throughout this report. Management Approach 103 – 3: Topic 401, pages 42 – 45, Topic 403, pages 44 – 45 Fun week-long programmes aim to turn EHS best responses into instinctive behaviour The 2018 EHS (environmental, health and safety) weeks were designed to ‘kick-start’ or provide a boost to existing programmes, emphasising the positive aspects of safety, health and environment through engaging activities. We focused on creative events aimed at making EHS responses natural behaviour, an integral part of everyone’s DNA. Reaching this level requires commitment, curiosity and energy from all and we found innovative ways to do it at sites around the world. The theme motivating our work was moving from “I don’t do it at home, so why do it at work?” to “I do it at work, so why not do it at home?”. We want people to look at the environment Safety activities included hotels included entire families. in a new way, noticing what they really firefighting, forklift obstacle courses, The activity weeks generated see and hear, feeling empowered and safety quizzes, chemical workshops, energetic momentum, combining high confident in the knowledge that caring personal protective equipment training spirits with fun, creative events and led for someone or the environment is the shows as well as road safety, walking to a turn-around in the perception of right thing to do. We want our with caution, and, finally, workshops on EHS. No longer merely the police, employees to feel proud to work at a “see something – say something.” people understand that we care and company where we look after each Some of the activities related to responded with enthusiastic other. We also want everyone to take health included ergonomics, yoga, participation. the culture of safe and healthy massage, blood donation, healthy food “The biggest impact from the week behaviour home to their families: the and stretching before working shifts. for me is in my everyday approach to more the behaviour becomes natural, Environmentally-focused activities EHS – it is part of my everyday life, all the more the families benefit as well. included biking to work, encouraging day every day, and not just in my Safety was our main focus, the use of car pools, correct recycling, Givaudan work,” said one participant. followed by health and environment. reduction of plastic use, paperless “I try to absorb all the information The activities, which took place at initiatives and energy efficiency. about EHS that we are offered and different sites all over the world, Activities such as painting contests, then apply it at work, in my personal covered a variety of topics. seed planting and building insect life and in the community.” Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Title Subtitle 47 Appendix Table of contents 48 GRI Content Index 54 Performance indicators – restatement table 58 Independent Assurance Statement 60 Our reporting suite Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 48 Appendix GRI Content Index GRI Content Index For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102 – 40 to 102 – 49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. AR = 2018 Integrated Annual Report SPR = 2018 Sustainability Progress Review SA = Our Sustainability Approach www.givaudan.com – media – publications External UNGC GRI Standard and Disclosure Publication year¹ Page assurance Principles SDG GRI 101: Foundation  2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures  2016 Organisational profile  GRI 102 – 1: Name of the organisation AR 100, 101 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 2: Activities, brands, products, and services AR 100, 101 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 3: Location of headquarters AR 100, 101 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 4: Location of operations AR 212 – 217 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 5: Ownership and legal form AR 100, 101 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 6: Markets served AR Cover flap yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 7: Scale of the organisation AR Cover flap, 122 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 8: Information on employees and other workers AR 205 yes, SPR 58, 59 Principle 6 Goal 8 GRI 102 – 9: Supply chain AR 62 – 64 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 10: Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain AR 4 – 9 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 11: Precautionary Principle or approach AR 72 – 75 yes, SPR 58, 59 Goal 12, 13 GRI 102 – 12: External initiatives SA 35 – 37 yes, SPR 58, 59 Principle 1 GRI 102 – 13: Membership of associations SA 37 – 38 yes, SPR 58, 59 Strategy GRI 102 – 14: Statement from senior decision-maker AR 6 – 9 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 15: Key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 15, 36, 37; SPR 2 yes, SPR 58, 59 Ethics and integrity GRI 102 – 16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour AR 76 – 78, 81, 82 yes, SPR 58, 59 Principle 10 Goal 5 Governance GRI 102 – 18: Governance structure AR 103 – 115; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 7 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102 – 40: List of stakeholder groups AR 13; SA 42, 43 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 41: Collective bargaining agreements AR 57 yes, SPR 58, 59 Principle 3 Goal 8, 17 GRI 102 – 42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders SA 42, 43 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 43: Approach to stakeholder engagement SA 43 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 44: Key topics and concerns raised SA 42, 43 yes, SPR 58, 59 Reporting practice GRI 102 – 45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 100, 101, yes, SPR 58, 59 178, 179 GRI 102 – 46: Defining report content and topic Boundaries SA 44 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 47: List of material topics SA 46, 47 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 48: Restatements of information SPR 54 – 57 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 49: Changes in reporting SPR 41; SA 44 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 50: Reporting period SPR 3 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 51: Date of most recent report SPR 3 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 52: Reporting cycle SPR 3 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 53: Contact point for questions regarding the report SPR 3 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 102 – 54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SPR 3 yes, SPR 58, 59 Goal 12 GRI 102 – 55: GRI Content Index SPR 48 – 53 yes, SPR 58, 59 Goal 12 GRI 102 – 56: External assurance SPR 58, 59 yes, SPR 58, 59 Goal 12 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Appendix GRI Content Index 49 External UNGC GRI Standard and Disclosure Publication year¹ Page/Omission assurance Principles SDG GRI 200: Economic  Goal 8, 9, GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 12, 13 GRI 103: Management Approach  2016 GRI 103 – 1: E xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 49 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T he management approach and its components AR 40 – 43; yes, assured as SA 4 – 6 part of audit of Financial report 2018, AR 181 GRI 103 – 3: E valuation of the management approach AR 40 – 43 yes, assured as part of audit of Financial report 2018, AR 181 GRI 201 – 1: Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 41 yes, assured as part of audit of Financial report 2018, AR 181 GRI 201 – 2: F inancial implications and other risks and opportunities AR 74 yes, assured as due to climate change part of audit of Financial report 2018, AR 181 GRI 201 – 3: Defined benefit plan obligations and other AR 152 – 157 yes, assured as retirement plans part of audit of Financial report 2018, AR 181 GRI 202: Market presence 2016 Goal 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 53 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 55 – 56; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 26 – 27 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 55 – 56 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 202 – 1: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Omitted² yes, SPR 58, 59 compared to local minimum wage Goal 2, 8, GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 9, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 51 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 82; SA 11 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 82 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 203 – 1: Infrastructure investments and services supported AR 82 yes, SPR 58, 59 Goal 2, 8, 12, GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 13, 15, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 49, 52 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 62 – 64; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 8 – 14 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach SPR 6 – 13 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 204 – 1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers SPR 7 yes, SPR 58, 59 Goal 2, 8, GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Principle 10 15, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 52 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 77 – 78; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 32 – 33 GRI 103 – 3: Evaluation of the management approach AR 77 – 78 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 205 – 2: C ommunication and training about anti-corruption AR 78 yes, SPR 58, 59 policies and procedures Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 50 Appendix GRI Content Index External UNGC GRI Standard and Disclosure Publication year¹ Page/Omission assurance Principles SDG GRI 300: Environmental Goal 2, 9, 12, GRI 301: Materials 2016 13, 15, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 49, 51, 52 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 62, 63, 69; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 24, 25  GRI 103 – 3: E valuation of the management approach AR 62, 63; yes, SPR 58, 59 SPR 38, 39 GRI 301 – 1: Materials used by weight or volume AR 63; SPR 38 yes, SPR 58, 59 Principle Goal 9, GRI 302: Energy 2016 7, 8, 9 12, 13 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 48, 51 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 67, 68; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 22, 23  GRI 103 – 3: E valuation of the management approach SPR 28 – 33 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 302 – 1: Energy consumption within the organisation SPR 29 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 302 – 3: Energy intensity SPR 29 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 302 – 4: Reduction of energy consumption SPR 29 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 303: Water 2016 Goal 6, 12, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016  GRI 103 – 1: E xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 53 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 67 – 69; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 23, 24 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach SPR 34 – 37 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 303 – 1: Water withdrawal by source SPR 34 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Goal 2, 15, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 48 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components SA 14 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach SPR 13 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 304 – 2: S ignificant impacts of activities, products, and services SPR 13 yes, SPR 58, 59 on biodiversity GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Principle 7, 8 Goal 9, 12, 13 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 48, 51 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 67, 68; SA 22, 23 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach SPR 28 – 33 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 305 – 1: Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions SPR 28 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 305 – 2: E nergy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions SPR 28 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 305 – 3: Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions SPR 30 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 305 – 4: GHG emissions intensity SPR 28 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 305 – 5: Reduction of GHG emissions SPR 2, 28 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 305 – 6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) SPR 32 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 305 – 7: N itrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other SPR 32 yes, SPR 58, 59 significant air emissions Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Appendix GRI Content Index 51 External UNGC GRI Standard and Disclosure Publication year¹ Page/Omission assurance Principles SDG GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 Principle 8 Goal 6, 12, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 53 yes, SPR 58, 59  GRI 103 – 2: T he management approach and its components AR 67 – 69; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 23 – 25 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach SPR 34 – 39 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 306 – 1: Water discharge by quality and destination SPR 34 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 306 – 2: Waste by type and disposal method SPR 38 yes, SPR 58, 59 Goal 2, 6, 8, GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 Principle 8 12, 13, 15, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016  GRI 103 – 1: E xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 49, 52, 53 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components SA 8 – 10 yes, SPR 58, 59  GRI 103 – 3: E valuation of the management approach SPR 6 – 8 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 308 – 1: New suppliers screened using environmental criteria SPR 6 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 400: Social GRI 401: Employment 2016 Principle 6 Goal 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016  GRI 103 – 1: E xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 52 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 54 – 55; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 26 – 29 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 54 – 55; yes, SPR 58, 59 SPR 42 – 45 GRI 401 – 1: New employee hires and employee turnover AR 205 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 402: Labour/management relations 2016 Principle 3 Goal 8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 50 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 57; SA 28 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 57 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 402 – 1: Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes AR 57 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016 Goal 3, 8 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 50 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 58 – 59; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 28, 29 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 58 – 59; yes, SPR 58, 59 SPR 44 – 45 GRI 403 – 2: T ypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational AR 204 yes, SPR 58, 59 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and education 2016 Principle 6 Goal 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 52 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 55 – 56; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 26, 27 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 55 – 56; yes, SPR 58, 59 SPR 42 – 43 GRI 404 – 3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance AR 56 yes, SPR 58, 59 and career development reviews Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 52 Appendix GRI Content Index External UNGC GRI Standard and Disclosure Publication year¹ Page/Omission assurance Principles SDG GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 Principle 6 Goal 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 49, 52, 53 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 56; SA 26, 27 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 56; SPR 44 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 405 – 1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees AR 57 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 405 – 2: R atio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men AR 56 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Goal 2, 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 49, 50, 53 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 56; SA 26, 27 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 56; SPR 44 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 406 – 1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Omitted² yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016 Goal 2, 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 50 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 57; SA 8 – 10, 28 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 57; SPR 6 – 8 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 407 – 1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom AR 57; yes, SPR 58, 59 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk SPR 6 GRI 408: Child labour 2016 Principle 5 Goal 2, 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 50 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 76, 77, 81; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 8 – 10, 27 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 76, 77, 81; yes, SPR 58, 59 SPR 6 – 8 GRI 408 – 1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents AR 81; SPR 6 yes, SPR 58, 59 of child labour GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour 2016 Goal 2, 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 50 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 76, 77, 81; yes, SPR 58, 59 SA 8 – 10, 27 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 76, 77, 81; yes, SPR 58, 59 SPR 6 – 8 GRI 409 – 1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents AR 81; yes, SPR 58, 59 of forced or compulsory labour SPR 6 GRI 412: Human rights assessment 2016 Goal 2, 5, 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 50 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 76, 77, 81; SA 27 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 76, 77, 81; yes, SPR 58, 59 SPR 6 – 8 GRI 412 – 1: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews AR 81; SPR 6 yes, SPR 58, 59 or impact assessments Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Appendix GRI Content Index 53 External UNGC GRI Standard and Disclosure Publication year¹ Page/Omission assurance Principles SDG GRI 413: Local communities 2016 Principle 1 Goal 2, 8, 9, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 51 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 82; SA 11 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 82; SPR 11, 12 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 413 – 1: Operations with local community engagement, impact AR 30, 82 yes, SPR 58, 59 assessments, and development programmes Principle Goal 2, 5, GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 2016 1, 2, 4 8, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 50, 52 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components SA 8 – 10 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach SPR 6 – 8 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 414 – 1: New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SPR 6 yes, SPR 58, 59 Goal 2, 3, 9, GRI 416: Customer health and safety 2016 12, 17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 48, 51 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 80; SA 33, 34 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 80 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 416 – 1: A ssessment of the health and safety impacts of product AR 80 yes, SPR 58, 59 and service categories GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 2016 Goal 9, 12 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 – 1: E  xplanation of the material topics and its Boundary SA 51 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 2: T  he management approach and its components AR 80; SA 34 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 103 – 3: E  valuation of the management approach AR 80 yes, SPR 58, 59 GRI 417 – 1: Requirements for product and service information AR 80 yes, SPR 58, 59 and labelling 1. All GRI Standards used for the preparation of this report were published in 2016. 2. This disclosure is omitted because the information is unavailable. We are evaluating how to gain the relevant data on a consolidated basis in the future. Disclosure 102 – 55, pages 48 – 53 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 54 Appendix Performance indicators – restatement table Performance indicators – restatement table 2009 2009 (as published (restated % change Key performance indicators in 2017 SR) in 2018) 2009 Energy Energy (GJ) Direct energy (from primary sources) Indirect energy: purchased electricity & steam Total energy Energy efficiency Direct energy efficiency (GJ/tonne of production) Indirect energy efficiency Total energy Emissions GHG emissions (tonnes)¹ Scope 1 From direct energy sources Scope 2 From indirect energy sources Total scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions Scope 3² Business travel Employee commuting Packaging of finished products Upstream transportation and distribution Outbound product to customers Outbound intercompany deliveries Waste generated in operations Fuel and energy related activities Raw materials Indirect materials & services (excluding packaging) Capital goods Total scope 3 GHG emissions Total GHG emissions GHG emissions efficiency Scope 1: from direct energy sources (tonnes of GHG/tonne of Scope 2: from indirect energy sources production) Total GHG emissions Table continued on page 56. Disclosure 102 – 48, pages 54 – 57 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Appendix Performance indicators – restatement table 55 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 (as published (restated % change (as published (restated % change (as published (restated % change in 2017 SR) in 2018) 2015 in 2017 SR) in 2018) 2016 in 2017 SR) in 2018) 2017 1,708,571 1,708,571 0% 1,738,392 1,738,392 0% 1,892,931 1,894,276 0.07% 950,117 950,117 0% 1,029,408 1,029,408 0% 991,600 991,678 0.01% 2,658,689 2,658,688 0% 2,767,799 2,767,800 0% 2,884,531 2,885,954 0.05% 4.46 4.46 0% 4.37 4.37 0% 4.22 4.22 0.07% 2.48 2.48 0% 2.59 2.59 0% 2.21 2.21 0.01% 6.94 6.94 0% 6.95 6.95 0% 6.43 6.43 0.05% 101,149 99,892 -1.24% 102,060 100,662 -1.37% 107,220 108,103 0.82% 88,877 88,877 0.00% 87,217 87,217 0.00% 67,370 67,370 0.00% 190,026 188,769 -0.66% 189,276 187,879 -0.74% 174,591 175,473 0.51% 10,056 10,056 0% 11,102 11,102 0% 12,303 12,303 0% 15,296 15,296 0% 15,756 15,756 0% 16.530 16.530 0% 55,605 55,605 0% 58,249 58,249 0% 58,575 58,575 0% 23,196 23,196 0% 25,356 25,356 0% 26,347 26,347 0% 30,879 30,879 0% 31,431 31,431 0% 32,844 32,844 0% 11,813 11,813 0% 15,802 15,802 0% 12,717 12,717 0% 15,369 15,369 0% 16,748 16,748 0% 16,094 16,094 0% 79,110 79,110 0% 79,505 79,505 0% 62,921 62,921 0% 1,059,883 1,059,883 0% 1,138,972 1,138,972 0% 1,232,676 1,232,676 0% 143,569 143,569 0% 137,860 137,860 0% 156,186 156,186 0% 48,696 48,696 0% 42,927 42,927 0% 69,611 69,611 0% 1,493,472 1,493,472 0% 1,573,708 1,573,708 0% 1,696,804 1,696,804 0% 1,683,497 1,682,241 -0.07% 1,762,984 1,761,587 -0.08% 1,871,395 1,872,276 0.05% 0.26 0.26 -1.24% 0.26 0.25 -1.37% 0.24 0.24 0.82% 0.23 0.23 0.00% 0.22 0.22 0.00% 0.15 0.15 0.00% 0.50 0.49 -0.66% 0.48 0.47 -0.74% 0.39 0.39 0.51% Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 56 Appendix Performance indicators – restatement table 2009 2009 (as published (restated % change Key performance indicators in 2017 SR) in 2018) 2009 Waste Hazardous waste Incinerated (tonnes) Incinerated with energy recovery Landfilled Recycled³ Total hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste Incinerated (tonnes) Incinerated with energy recovery Recycled Total non-hazardous waste Total incinerated and landfilled waste (HZ and NHZ) Waste efficiency (kg of waste/ tonne of production) 0.0 0.0 Water Water intake (m³) Municipal water 2,286,999 2,286,999 0% Ground water⁴ 1,074,035 1,074,035 0% Total municipal and ground water 3,361,034 3,361,034 0% Total water 10,793,683 10,793,683 0% Water efficiency (m³/ tonne of production) 10.91 10.91 0% Water discharge (m³) To external treatment facility w/o pre-treatment⁵ Total discharged water Other data Nitrogen oxides – NOX (tonnes) Sulphur dioxide – SO ₂ (tonnes)⁶ CFC inventory (kg) CFC 11 equivalent inventory (kg) CFC 11 equivalent loss/replacement (kg) Production Production quantities (tonnes) 308,060 308,060 0.00% 1. GHG emissions for scope 1, 2 & 3 increased in 2015 and 2016 after recalculating the baseline to include the impact from acquired manufacturing facilities in global Givaudan figures. 2. Scope 3 GHG emissions for upstream and outbound transports have decreased by 26% and 7% respectively in 2015 and 2016 due to a refined calculation methodology. Paths have been better simulated conducting to reduce the total covered distances. 3. About 2,300 tonnes of byproduct were reclassified as hazardous waste recycled in 2015 and 2016 after internal site audit conducted. 4. Following Givaudan new integration in sustainability reporting principles the baseline for water efficiency has been recalculated excluding 130 Ml which reduce the overall amount of water consumption by 0.6% in the same year. 5. The water discharged to external treatment facility without pre-treatment reported in 2016 in one of our manufacturing site did not include domestic water usage. A total of 14,000 m³ of water has been added to 2016 amounts after identifying this issue. 6. During the data review an error has been identified in the SO ₂ emissions calculation which increased the total emission by 30.5 kg. Disclosure 102 – 48, pages 54 – 57 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Appendix Performance indicators – restatement table 57 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 (as published (restated % change (as published (restated % change (as published (restated % change in 2017 SR) in 2018) 2015 in 2017 SR) in 2018) 2016 in 2017 SR) in 2018) 2017 8,557 8,557 0% 9,543 9,543 0% 8,956 8,962 0.07% 4,132 4,132 0% 3,988 3,988 0% 4,178 4,184 0.14% 318 318 0% 108 108 0% 104 104 0.00% 17,357 17,357 0% 16,744 16,744 0% 17,258 17,310 0.30% 26,232 26,232 0% 26,395 26,395 0% 26,318 26,377 0.22% 2,230 2,230 0% 2,544 2,544 0% 2,707 2,738 1.15% 1,076 1,076 0% 719 719 0% 424 455 7.32% 27,826 27,826 0% 28,574 28,574 0% 32,459 32,485 0.08% 36,468 36,468 0% 37,823 37,822 0% 42,058 42,115 0.14% 17,517 17,517 0% 18,900 18,900 0% 18,659 18,696 0.20% 45.7 45.7 0.00% 47.5 47.5 0.00% 41.6 41.7 0.20% 2,359,818 2,359,818 0% 2,539,275 2,539,275 0% 2,612,556 2,609,597 -0.11% 1,390,267 1,390,267 0% 1,307,576 1,307,576 0% 1,335,663 1,335,663 0% 3,750,085 3,750,085 0% 3,846,852 3,846,851 0% 3,948,219 3,945,260 -0.07% 8,756,446 8,756,446 0% 9,072,125 9,072,124 0% 8,874,129 8,871,170 -0.03% 9.78 9.78 0.00% 9.66 9.66 0.00% 8.80 8.79 -0.07% 416,126 416,126 0% 558,236 553,116 -0.92% 8,759,733 8,759,733 0% 8,481,401 8,476,281 -0.06% 80.81 76.90 -4.85% 87.86 84.07 -4.31% 0.99 0.92 -6.64% 1.00 0.94 -6.43% 11,688 11,774 0.74% 11,662 11,748 0.74% 648 653 0.73% 650 655 0.73% 73.44 73.44 0.00% 42.38 42.38 0.00% 383,353 383,353 0.00% 398,043 398,043 0.00% 448,726 448,726 0.00% Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 58 Appendix Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement Ernst & Young Associates LLP Tel: +91 22 6192 0000 14th Floor, The Ruby Fax: +91 22 6192 1000 29 Senapati Bapat Marg ey.com Dadar (West) Mumbai – 400028, India The Management and Board of Directors Givaudan S. A. 5 Chemin de la Parfumerie CH-1214, Vernier Switzerland Independent Assurance Statement Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY) has been engaged by Givaudan S. A. (the 'Company') to provide independent assurance to its GRI Report 2018 (the ʻReportʼ) covering the Company’s sustainability performance during the period 1st January 2018 to 31st December 2018. The development of the Report, based on GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) of the Global Reporting Initiative, its content and presentation is sole responsibility of the management of the Company. EYʼs responsibility, as agreed with the management of the Company, is to provide independent assurance on the report content as described in the scope of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of the Company only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any dependence that any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. The assurance report should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the Company’s overall performance, except for the aspects mentioned in the scope below. Assurance standard Our assurance is in accordance with International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000), and our conclusions are for ‘limited’ assurance as set out in ISAE 3000. Scope of assurance and methodology The scope of our work for this engagement was limited to review of information pertaining to environmental and social performance for the period 1st January 2018 to 31st December 2018. We conducted review and verification of data collection/ estimation methodology and general review of the logic of inclusion/ omission of necessary relevant information / data and this was limited to: • Review of the standard disclosures regarding the company’s material sustainability aspects contained in the report; • Review of consistency of data / information within the report; • Verification of the sample data and information reported at the following manufacturing units and corporate headquarter at Vernier, Switzerland: 1. Pedro Escobedo, Mexico 2. Cuernavaca, Mexico 3. Jaguare, Brazil 4. Mako, Hungary 5. 6 of October, Egypt th 6. Johannesburg, South Africa 7. Devon, USA 8. Mount Olive, USA 9. Carol Stream, USA 10. Cranbury, USA 11. Cimmangis, Indonesia 12. Smithfield, Australia 13. Volketswil, Switzerland 14. Dortmund, Germany 15. Sant Celoni, Spain • Review of systems and processes for following sourcing initiatives against requirements of the Company’s Responsible Sourcing Policy: 1. Clove Leaf Oil, Madagascar 2. Patchouli Oil, Indonesia Page 1 of 2 Ernst & Young Associates LLP, a limited liability partnership with LLP Identity No. AAB-4321 Regd. Office: 6th Floor, Worldmark – 1, Asset Area 11, Hospitality District, Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi – 110037, India Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Appendix Independent Assurance Statement 59 • Review and execution of audit trail of selected claims and data streams to determine the level of accuracy in collection, transcription and aggregation processes followed; • Review of Company’s plans, policies and practices, so as to be able to make comments on the completeness of the reporting and degree to which EY believes the report provides a fair and honest representation of the Company’s activities. Limitations of our engagement The assurance scope excludes: • Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1st January 2018 to 31st December 2018); • The ‘economic performance indicators’ included in the Report; • The Company's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, inference, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention. Our assurance team and independence Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary professionals, has been drawn from our Climate Change and Sustainability network, and undertakes similar engagements with various multi-national companies. As an assurance provider, EY is required to comply with the independence requirements set out in International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. EY’s independence policies and procedures ensure compliance with the Code. Observations and opportunities for improvement During the review process, we observed that: ► The Company continues to uphold its commitment on transparently communicating its sustainability performance by publishing its Sustainability Report as per the “in-accordance” core criteria of the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. The Company is committed to work towards its sustainability strategy and implement sourcing policy in supply chain. The Report fairly provides progress on its sustainability roadmap targets and performance indicators identified as material. ► The Company has been working on enhancing robustness of data management for sustainability performance reporting. At the selected sites visited, improvement has been observed regarding monitoring and compilation of environmental and social performance data. The Company may further strengthen its system for improving the accuracy of the data pertaining to 306-1 (Waste water discharged) and 306-2 (Waste by type and disposal method). Conclusion On the basis of our procedures for this limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company has not reported on material sustainability disclosures significant to its business and its stakeholders. Disclosure Page 2 of 2 102 – 56, pages 58 – 59 Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review 60 Appendix Our reporting suite Our reporting suite Readers are advised to consult our entire reporting suite to get a complete overview: 2018 Integrated Annual Report Content Available in English Offers a holistic explanation of our value – PDF and Online HTML from 25 January 2019 creation, financial and non-financial capitals – Print from 28 March 2019 and performance, including our Governance, – www.givaudan.com – media – publications Compensation and Financial reports. The – w ww.givaudan.com – investors – online report offers an succinct overview, easy online annual report access to the various chapters of the report and a full download centre. 2018 Highlights Content Available in English, French and German Business and financial highlights in addition – PDF and print from 28 March 2019 to the Chairman and CEO reviews and – www.givaudan.com – media – publications the highlights of the Governance and Compensation reports. Our Sustainability Approach Content Available in English Offers a strategic overview of A Sense of – PDF from 25 January 2019 Tomorrow, the approach for each of the – w ww.givaudan.com – sustainability – three sustainability focus areas, and related publications issues such as stakeholder engagement and material topics. 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Content Available in English Offers case studies and progress data for the – PDF from 28 March 2019 three focus areas of our sustainability approach – w ww.givaudan.com – sustainability – as well as eco-efficiency targets versus publications progress. The GRI Content Index and external assurance of sustainability data is included in this document. To order publications: www.givaudan.com – media – publications Givaudan The Givaudan Foundation is a non-profit engaged and where its expertise and organisation created in 2013 as a result of experience can be leveraged to make a Foundation Givaudan’s desire to reinforce its commitment difference: communities at source, blindness towards the communities in which it operates. and nutrition. The Givaudan Foundation works 2018 Annual Report The foundation’s purpose is to initiate and closely with and relies on resources provided Available in English support projects as well as to grant donations by Givaudan to conduct and monitor its PDF from 28 March 2019 in the areas defined by its vision and mission. projects. The Foundation also operates with www.givaudan-foundation.org local partners to ensure the efficient One of the causes supported by the deployment of projects and their relevance to foundation is to safeguard the future of those who are intended to benefit from them. communities and their fragile environment. There is a specific focus on three areas in which Givaudan as a company is already Givaudan – 2018 Sustainability Progress Review Givaudan SA Chemin de la Parfumerie 5 1214 Vernier, Switzerland General information T + 41 22 780 91 11 Media and investor relations T + 41 22 780 90 53 Concept, design, consulting and realisation: PETRANIX Corporate and Financial Communications AG www.PETRANIX.com The Givaudan 2018 Sustainability Progress Review is published in English. All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection. This Sustainability Progress Review may contain forward-looking information. Such information is subject to a variety of significant uncertainties, including scientific, business, economic and financial factors. Therefore actual results may differ significantly from those presented in such forward-looking statements. Investors must not rely on this information for investment decisions. © Givaudan SA, 2019 www.givaudan.com
