COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 renault-trucks.com TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Message from the President 3 The ten universal principles of the Global Compact 4 Renault Trucks 5 PROGRESS MADE IN 2018 Renault Trucks Human rights 6 Labour standards 8 Environment15 Anti-corruption 19 02 Communication on progress MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT When it joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2004, Renault Trucks demonstrated its commitment to placing values that respect human rights and labour standards, protect the environment and help fight corruption at the core of its corporate responsibility and to promote them within its sphere of influence. Benefiting from a century of truck expertise in France, Renault Trucks provides the transport industry worldwide with the tools it needs to perform tasks successfully and efficiently. We offer operators and users an extensive range of vehicles and services Renault Trucks designed for a wide range of activities. Bruno BLIN As a manufacturer, we have considerable President of Renault Trucks responsibilities towards our customers, partners, employees and fellow citizens. We are striving for progress in sustainable mobility, by endeavouring to offer vehicles with ever-increased performance that are safer and more respectful of the environment. We 03 ensure we design, produce, distribute and maintain them with utmost integrity, preserving the health of both our employees and our living environment. I therefore re-confirm the commitment of Renault Trucks to comply with, implement and promote the 10 principles of the Global Compact in 2019. Communication on progress THE TEN UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2 . Make sure the organisation is not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Renault Trucks collective bargaining. 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Effectively abolish child labour. 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 04 technologies. 10. Work against corruption in all its forms. Communication on progress RENAULT TRUCKS Renault Trucks performs its role as a manufacturer of industrial vehicles with integrity, in compliance with international regulations and according to the model of responsibility and sustainable development of the Volvo Group, of which it is a subsidiary. Based on the principles of the UN Global Compact, of which the Volvo Group has also been a signatory since 2001, this model also includes the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The contribution of Renault Trucks is consolidated at Renault Trucks group level and forms part of the Volvo Group Annual and Sustainability Report, as well as a supplementary report, the GRI G4, both available on www.volvogroup. com. The corporate responsibility of Renault Trucks is assessed by the independent rating agency Ecovadis. 05 Communication on progress HUMAN RIGHTS Communication on progress 06 Renault Trucks HUMAN RIGHTS Renault Trucks conducts its business in a responsible manner, in accordance with the principles set out in the Volvo Group's Code of Conduct. This mandatory policy is a reference that applies to all group directors and employees. Renault Trucks conducts its business in a working environment, respecting freedom of responsible manner, in accordance with assembly and collective negotiations. It does the principles set out in the Volvo Group's not tolerate either compulsory/forced labour Code of Conduct. This mandatory policy is a or child labour. Renault Trucks reference that applies to all group directors and employees. Respect for human rights is included in framework agreements signed with Renault The Code of Conduct, which was updated Trucks suppliers. To avoid and minimise the in 2017, sets out what is expected from all risks of human rights violations, suppliers employees in clear and practical terms. It are evaluated according to their business covers the question of human rights and sector and geographical origin. As part of the specifically deals with harassment, nonprogramme introduced to defend human rights 07 discrimination, health and safety in the in the supply chain, supplier performance workplace, freedom of assembly and union in terms of corporate responsibility is also membership, working hours, forced labour evaluated. These assessments are conducted and child labour. The Code of Conduct confirms by the centralised structures of the Volvo the group's full support for the United Nations Group and detailed in the Volvo Group Annual Declaration of Human Rights. In addition, the and Sustainability Report. Volvo Group is committed to implementation Communication on progress of the UN guiding principles on business and In 2018, new measures were taken to human rights. implement a conflict minerals programme, focusing on tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold In 2018, 90.7% of Renault Trucks employees and cobalt to reduce risks involving human underwent training in the Volvo Group Code of rights at the root of the supply chain. Working Conduct, which is available in 13 languages. alongside suppliers, online training explaining the notion of sustainable procurement was Renault Trucks defends human rights both in provided for all company employees. its business and in the workplace by respecting individuals and providing good working conditions. The company encourages diversity and does not tolerate any form of discrimination with regard to gender, race, religion, handicap, 90.7% OF RENAULT TRUCKS sexual orientation, nationality, political opinions, union membership or social and EMPLOYEES UNDERWENT ethnic origin. It offers its employees a safe TRAINING IN THE CODE OF CONDUCT. LABOUR STANDARDS Communication on progress 08 Renault Trucks LABOUR STANDARDS Renault Trucks scrupulously complies with labour law wherever it does business and acts in accordance with the Volvo Group Code of Conduct. ■■ Non-discrimination : Renault Trucks recruits and treats its employees without discrimination as regards gender, race, religion, age, handicap, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinions, union membership or social and ethnic origin. Diversity in the workplace is encouraged at all levels. Renault Trucks T ■■ Labour law: No form of forced labour, compulsory work or work by children is tolerated at Renault Trucks. The minimum age of hiring is the age of the end of compulsory schooling. Freedom of assembly, together with collective bargaining rights and the signing of agreements, is respected in all sites. ■■ Working environment: All Renault Trucks employees are guaranteed an environment that meets all required 09 health and safety conditions. Communication Longue on progress distance RENAULT TRUCKS ACTIVELY PROMOTES HEALTH AND SAFETY, WHETHER PHYSICAL, PSYCHOLOGICAL OR SOCIAL, IN THE WORKPLACE FOR ITS EMPLOYEES. LABOUR STANDARDS SOCIAL DIALOGUE Renault Trucks respects freedom of assembly During the year, 15 central works councils and recognises collective bargaining rights. (CWC) meetings were organised, together with The company is committed to encouraging 2 training commissions, 2 commissions on social dialogue at all levels and promotes gender equality in the workplace, 1 economic relations of trust with its social partners, commission and 2 meetings with the board of based on consultation and dialogue for the management (including the President) and a benefit of developing economic performance France group committee meeting. Renault Trucks and the well-being of employees. A new social dialogue agreement signed in 2018 offers social partners the resources to effectively perform their role with respect to various organisations and negotiations, thereby developing quality dialogue between human resources teams, the management and social partners. In 2018, Renault Trucks and staff representation bodies also negotiated and signed bargaining agreements, including 10 on Workforce and Skills Planning (GPEC), payroll measures and the provident scheme. IN 2018, A NEW SOCIAL Communication on progress DIALOGUE AGREEMENT WAS SIGNED. LABOUR STANDARDS HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE Renault Trucks ensures the ongoing In 2018, Renault Trucks provided safety deployment of a health and safety policy for all training for 3,615 people – almost 50% of its its employees, including temporary workers total workforce – in health and safety in the and service providers, which is tracked using workplace, fire risks, ergonomics and psychoresource and performance indicators. social risks. The company carries out prevention actions Renault Trucks in the fields of both physical health (physical, chemical and biological exposure) and mental health (psycho-social risks). A Health & Safety expertise centre coordinates Safety networks (40 health and working condition coordinators), Ergonomics (6 people), Chemical Risks (40 people) and Occupational Physicians (8 doctors). 11 Communication on progress IN 2018, RENAULT TRUCKS PROVIDED SAFETY TRAINING TO 50 % OF ITS TOTAL WORKFORCE LABOUR STANDARDS COMBATING DISCRIMINATION AND PROMOTING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Renault Trucks is committed principally through the negotiation of various agreements to implementing a Diversity and Inclusion policy based on 4 focal areas: ■■ Equal treatment (equal opportunities based on competence, without distinction Renault Trucks of gender, age, ethnicity or origin, religion, handicap, or sexual orientation) ■■ Combating discrimination ■■ Combating harassment ■■ A recruitment policy that promotes diversity Employment and handicap 12 Renault Trucks and its social partners have The agreement, which is managed by the embraced the 9th Handi’Accord agreement for company's Human Resources Centre of Communication on progress 2016-2018. This provides the framework for Expertise and coordinated by a network of the company's undertakings as regards the correspondents, is applied throughout the five recruitment, integration, training, insertion, Renault Trucks sites in France. continued employment and support of the handicapped. It also includes initiatives to In 2018, Renault Trucks provided financial promote specially adapted and protected support for associations that also benefited work environments (such as the shelteredfrom the voluntary work offered by its employment organisation ESAT and specially employees. In addition, the company organised adapted companies) and measures to help an internal awareness campaign and took employees with handicapped spouses or part in actions to promote employment of children. handicapped people. LABOUR STANDARDS Gender equality A company agreement on gender equality, Specific gender equality action plans were drawn up in 2011, was renewed in 2015 for a carried out in 2018, particularly in the further 3 years and signed by 5 trade unions. Manufacturing division. Renault Trucks is This agreement included undertakings on working alongside its temp agencies to career promotions, the balance between ensure increased diversity of recruitment. The working lives and the exercise of family proportion of women hired as operators now responsibilities and the development of stands at 24%. Renault Trucks is also acting to Renault Trucks inclusion within staff teams. The agreement promote careers for young women, especially also encourages the expansion of internal in technical areas. An example of this can be networks, such as WIN (Women Inclusive seen in the high schools in and around Lyon, Network), which was created to support the through the activity of the OPE (Objectifs pour personal and professional development of l’emploi des cadres en Région Rhône-Alpes) women and promote diversity. Association. On a like-for-like basis, women represented 38% (+ 1%) of total recruitments in 2018 (including permanent contracts, temporary contracts, sandwich course employees, but 13 excluding agency temps). The proportion of women in the workforce increased 0.5% to 21.7%. They represented 21% of the management team (+ 1%). IN 2018, WOMEN REPRESENTED Communication on progress 38% OF TOTAL RECRUITMENTS. LABOUR STANDARDS Diversity and inclusion Renault Trucks, which has been a signatory to courses has been increased. The company the LGBT Charter (created by the Association has continued its work on improving working L'autre Cercle) since 2013, has undertaken conditions and reducing physical strain. to create an inclusive environment in France In 2018, young people represented 35% for employees concerned, as well as ensuring of new recruits on permanent contracts. equal rights and treatment and supporting Senior employees accounted for 9% of all victims of discriminatory comments or acts. recruitments (+ 2.5%) and 23% of the total Renault Trucks This undertaking is fully in line with the Volvo workforce (permanent contracts). Group policy, which also supports a worldwide internal LGBT network called V-Eagle. In 2018, Renault Truck supported a range of initiatives in France to promote equal Renault Trucks signed a new 2017-2020 opportunities in partnership with a number of agreement on the Intergenerational Contract associations in the Lyon region. These included introduced by French law in 2013. The Article 1 to assist students from underprivileged agreement provides for new measures to backgrounds and Entreprendre pour promote the long-term insertion of young apprendre to sponsor middle school children people aged under 30 (recruitment targets, induction and integration, mentoring and in creating mini-businesses. In addition, the company has continued to develop relations 14 tutoring) and employment of the over 55s with the education sector to encourage closer (continued employment, facilitating the latter ties between schools and the company. years of careers, transfer of skills/knowledge and ergonomics). Partnerships with schools Communication on progress have been strengthened and the support and follow-up provided for students on sandwich IN 2018, YOUNG PEOPLE REPRESENTED 35% OF NEW RECRUITS ON PERMANENT CONTRACTS. ENVIRONMENT Communication on progress 15 Renault Trucks ENVIRONMENT Renault Trucks is continuously working to reduce the impact of its activities on the environment and contributing to the development of a sustainable system for transporting goods by road. Renault Trucks applies an environmental Renault Trucks also requires its suppliers and policy based on a management system that partners to be certified ISO 14001 or to have involves its distribution network, suppliers and implemented a programme of continuous partners. The industrial facilities in France progress. are organised to limit consumption of energy, Renault Trucks water and raw materials, as well as reducing In light of the challenges created by climate waste and ensuring continued improvement change, Renault Trucks develops and markets in environmental performance. Vehicles are practical solutions to effectively reduce CO2 designed to maximise re-use of materials and emissions, including optimised diesel engines, all Renault Trucks vehicles are assembled in all-electric vehicles, vehicles powered ISO 14001 certified plants (first certification in by natural gas, eco-driving training, fleet 2001). management tracking tools and embedded data. Renault Trucks has introduced an operational standard throughout its distribution and repair network of 1,440 service and sales outlets 16 worldwide. It sets minimum environmental requirements with respect to local regulations, covering the sorting and disposal of waste, consumption of energy and natural resources Communication on progress and the prevention of environmental risks. RENAULT TRUCKS DEVELOPS AND MARKETS PRACTICAL SOLUTIONS TO EFFECTIVELY REDUCE CO2 EMISSIONS ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT ON SITES AND IN THE DISTRIBUTION NETWORK Renault Trucks continued the rollout of Production and logistics sites systematically its plan to reduce emissions and promote take the environment into account in all their energy savings following its carbon footprint renovation or reorganisation programmes audit updated in 2015 and the energy audits (changing processes or equipment, installing performed the same year. These initiatives more efficient lighting, new boilers, improving insulation, double glazing, etc.). Renault Trucks will directly contribute to environmental cooperation on reducing the carbon footprint established in 2010 between the Volvo Group Operations to provide information and raise and the WWF. Under its WWF Climate Savers awareness of environmental issues are programme, the Volvo Group is committed to organised throughout the year for all company lowering its CO2 emissions by 8% in production, employees, as well as sector by sector, by 40 million tons for the use of its products targeting specific activities and departments. and by 20% for its logistics, all by 2020. In 2018, Renault Trucks led an initiative on the issue of chemical risks, as well as organising Between 2012 and 2018, energy consumption per Renault Trucks manufactured vehicle fell 44%, in spite of an increase in the number of training in road risks and eco-driving for vehicle users. Renault Trucks organised a series of events to mark the European 17 vehicles manufactured. In 2018, the BlainvilleSustainable Development Week from 28 May sur-Orne assembly plant in Normandy was to 1 June 2018 and encouraged employees to powered by 100% renewable electricity. 44% participate in the WWF Earth Hour initiative on of the total energy supply for Renault Trucks 24 March. Communication on progress also came from renewable electricity. In 2018, plants recycled and reprocessed 99.5% of non-hazardous waste, as a result of ongoing actions to reduce the volume of waste, improved sorting and the sourcing of new recycling channels. Sites are committed to a programme aimed at zero landfill waste and obtaining the Group's own Landfill Free IN 2018, PLANTS RECYCLED certification. AND REPROCESSED 99.5% OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE. ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT OF GOODS Renault Trucks has introduced its range of In 2018, Renault Trucks continued its research second-generation all-electric trucks. The into improving the energy efficiency of its Renault Trucks Z.E. range, comprising the vehicles, in particular in preparing the Optifuel Renault Master Z.E., Renault Trucks D Z.E. Lab3 laboratory vehicle. This experimental and the Renault Trucks D Wide Z.E., extends complete tractor-trailer combination is from 3.1 to 26 t and is designed for urban use set to demonstrate a 13% reduction in fuel ranging from the delivery and distribution of consumption and CO2 emissions compared to Renault Trucks goods to waste collection. The all-electric a standard tractor and trailer. Technological Renault Master Z.E. utility vehicle, which can developments focus on optimised tractor access all urban areas, was launched onto the semi-trailer combination aerodynamics, market at the end of the year. connected low-rolling-resistance tyres, predictive energy-saving driving assistance, As a producer and distributor of electric energy management functions and an trucks, Renault Trucks takes the end of life improved powertrain thanks to a new of the lithium-ion batteries of its vehicles into generation Rankine heat recovery system and account, specifically seeking ways to re-use optimised lubricant formulations. them prior to final recycling. 18 Renault Trucks has launched the 2019 editions of its Renault Trucks T and Renault Trucks D and D Wide models on to the market, fitted with new Euro 6 Step D engines with lower fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. The first, Communication on progress designed for long-distance transport, uses 3% less fuel, whilst the second, intended for distribution, cuts fuel consumption by between 5 and 7%. ANTI-CORRUPTION Communication on progress 19 Renault Trucks ANTI-CORRUPTION Renault Trucks conducts its business ethically and in compliance with the laws and regulations that govern its activities. To protect its reputation, Renault Trucks Renault Trucks is prohibited from offering any belongs to the Volvo Group anti-corruption awards or benefits to its clients/prospective programme, which consists of a range of rules clients, governments, government agencies set out in a series of internal documents, or the representatives of these entities, which including the Code of Conduct and the Antibreach applicable laws or generally accepted corruption Policy, as well as a wide range of commercial practice. This prohibition Renault Trucks tools for training, dialogue, advice, assistance specifically targets the use of third parties and auditing. to make unjustified payments, directly or indirectly, to international public sector The Anti-corruption programme is based employees, government officials or to related on identifying and reducing risks through individuals and institutions. appropriate training and processes. These corruption risks are established in accordance with sales distribution models, the type of client and the country involved. They are continuously evaluated to ensure the programme remains relevant. Inspections are regularly performed 20 on commercial partners and are a key element in reducing risks. In addition, the programme sets out specific procedures governing the signing of contracts. Communication on progress THE ANTI-CORRUPTION PROGRAMME IS BASED ON IDENTIFYING AND REDUCING RISKS. ANTI-CORRUPTION The Anti-corruption programme applies to In 2018, the majority of sales contracts between all Renault Trucks employees, together with Renault Trucks and its distributors worldwide, its commercial partners and agents, in all whether renewed or newly established, were geographic areas in which Renault Trucks subjected to an anti-corruption audit and has a presence. Training in the content the drafting of the contract included antiand requirements of the Anti-corruption corruption clauses. programme is available. They can view Anti-corruption programme documents on Pursuant to the French law on transparency, the Renault Trucks intranet accessible on anticorruption measures and modernising computers provided, including those located business practice, Renault Trucks has in specific offices and on production lines appointed a compliance director and mapped Renault Trucks for employees that do not use computers in its corruption risks. The company has also their daily work. Training for staff in the sales, drawn up a new anti-corruption charter. financial and legal departments is priority and mandatory. Any suspected breaches of the Anti-corruption programme must be reported to the Volvo Group anti-corruption programme manager, who then reports the acts to the authorities concerned, if appropriate. The manager is also available to answer any questions regarding 21 implementation of the Anti-corruption programme. Employees who are unable to notify their management may submit a report on a suspected breach using the page specially Communication on progress created for this purpose on the Volvo Group website. As stipulated in the Code of Conduct, in the event of a conflict between applicable local laws and the provisions of the Code, local law prevails. renault-trucks.com
