2018 Responsible Business Report July 2019 American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. ABOUT THIS REPORT At American Express Global Business Travel (GBT), we are proud of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts. This report is intended to highlight GBT’s impact on the world related to environmental, social and governance factors, as well as inform our stakeholders about our CSR progress. This report covers, unless otherwise specified, the period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. It includes our Communication on Progress with the United Nations Global Compact on page 12. GBT follows the Global Reporting Institute’s (GRI) Standards for Sustainability Reporting, which helps companies evaluate and communicate the impact of their businesses in three focus areas of sustainability: environmental; social; and governance (ESG). Complete GRI G4 content indices are included in this report, starting on page 42. For more information, visit: United Nations Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.org Global Reporting Institute: www.globalreporting.org Additional information about GBT can be found on our company website: www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com. Note: This report does not include GBT’s wholly-owned companies: Hogg Robinson Group (HRG); Banks Sadler; and KDS. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Welcome CSR and Our Business Operating Responsibly Investing in Our People 04 Message from Our CEO 10 Responsible Business at GBT 14 Introduction 21 Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Employment Opportunity About American Express Materiality 15 Our Governance Structure 05 Global Business Travel 10 23 Employee Rewards and Stakeholder Engagement 16 Our Global Risk and Recognition Our Products and Services 11 Compliance Program UN Global Compact – 24 Employee Satisfaction and 06 Our Cultural Values 12 Communication on Progress 16 Our Governance Program Engagement Awards and Recognition 19 Responsible Procurement 24 Wages and Benefits 07 Memberships and 25 Employee Health, Safety, 08 Sponsorships and Well-being 26 Flexible Workplace 09 27 Employee Training and Development 29 Supporting the Military and Veterans 29 Respecting Human Rights Serving Our Clients and Travelers Supporting Our Communities Protecting Our Environment Appendix 31 Responsible Products and 35 Introduction 39 Our Approach to Environmental 42 GRI Content Index Services Sustainability 35 Corporate Giving 33 Client and 40 Our Carbon Footprint Traveler Service 35 Giving Around the World American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 3 WELCOME MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO At American Express Global Business Travel, we believe in building a better, more prosperous world. It’s why we continue to play our part in addressing social and environmental issues and why we strive to make a positive, long term impact in the communities where we live and work. As one of the world’s leading global travel management and meetings and events companies, we are uniquely placed to not only build our own but, also support our clients’, CSR objectives. Many more of our clients and their employees are focusing on sustainability, and the values and the practices of companies whose services they use. As their expectations have grown, so too have ours. We share the need to do and to be, more engaged in this important business area. Throughout this year’s report you will find references to where our activities and efforts support the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals and how we are fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace to successfully meet the needs of colleagues and clients and drive innovation and business growth. We are proud of our Corporate Social Responsibility program. It’s more than just words on a page. It’s a global commitment to bring responsible business to life. Douglas Anderson CEO, American Express Global Business Travel American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 4 WELCOME ABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS GLOBAL BUSINESS TRAVEL Our purpose American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is one of the world’s leading business partners for managed travel. We help companies and their employees prosper, by making sure travelers are present where and when it matters. We are in the engine room of the world economy, keeping businesses moving with the powerful backing of 17,000 travel professionals in more than 140 countries. We believe progress is achieved through businesses’ ability to connect – with colleagues, with clients, with partners. This drives our work with companies of all sizes to develop successful travel programs, deliver influential meetings and events, and deliver a stronger return on travel investments. Our promise At GBT, we keep travelers present for the moments that matter with global consistency and security, best-in-class traveler care, breakthrough technologies, and proven savings and actionable insights. Global Consistency and Best-in-Class Traveler Breakthrough Technology Proven Savings and Security Care Actionable Insights 100+ years of service Presence in more than 140 6,500 travel counselors $31 billion sales volume 1 ~ 17,000 employees countries worldwide 1The 2018 Travel Weekly Power List. 2 Pioneered online corporate travel in 1995 with Microsoft. 3 American Express Global Business Travel internal reporting (FY 2018). 22 years online 2 40 years in meetings and 200 global business 1.5M travelers served 25M+ annual customer events consultants annually interactions 3 1 The 2018 Travel Weekly Power List. 2 Pioneered online corporate travel in 1995 with Microsoft. 3 American Express Global Business Travel internal reporting (FY 2018). American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 5 WELCOME OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Successful Business Travel Programs Through close collaboration with our clients, we help define business travel goals and strategies and make sure they’re carried out on a local, regional, and global level. We invest in breakthrough technology, negotiate savings to support decision-making, and hold ourselves to the highest of standards to keep data and travelers safe. No other company has more credibility or experience in managing the networks, channels, processes, and technologies needed to make sure travelers are present where they’re needed most. Influential Meetings and Events Meetings are a part of life. Great meetings can make all the difference in the world. At GBT, we make meetings work for companies, their attendees, and their brands. Whether it’s to inspire engagement, long-term loyalty, or create advocates, we design moments that matter and we have the right team, technology, and supplier connections to deliver them. Every meeting is an investment, and we help make the most of them based on our clients’ goals. Travel Consulting Services When companies need guidance on business travel, we provide recommendations and hands-on execution. Our consultants help with everything from negotiating supplier terms to simplifying complex data so that our clients achieve full program potential. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 6 WELCOME OUR VALUES Helping to enrich peoples’ lives so they can prosper is what we’re all about. The meaningful connections that come about from face-to-face meetings and interactions inspire us. And though travel can be challenging, we embrace those challenges, rallying our team to go the extra mile for our clients, colleagues, and partners, so we can keep them present for those special moments that matter. People We care for and respect each other. We show appreciation, and we have fun. We’re here for our travelers every step of the way. We work hard and deliver on our commitments so that our clients trust us. Passion We’re energized and proud to work for GBT. We know that working together as one team is the only way to win. Trust, integrity, and authenticity are at the heart of everything we do. Progress We invest for the long -term in our people, technology, and our communities. We’re innovators and lead our industry forward to solve current and future needs. We’re confident, quick to make decisions, and see our actions through to deliver results. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 7 WELCOME AWARDS AND RECOGNITION GBT has been honored with awards and recognition in a diverse set of categories in 2018. Top Ranked: Travel Management Company on Travel Weekly’s 2018 Power List Bronze American Business Award (aka the Stevie Award) in the “Company of the Year” category for large business and professional services companies Best Places to Work for LGBTQA Equality GBT earned a 100% score in 2018 on Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Corporate Equality Index 2018 CMI Top 25 Awards Recognized as one of the 25 largest meeting and incentive companies working with corporations in the US, an accolade received consistently since the inception of Meeting’s Net CMI Top 25 list dating back to 2008 Spanish Eventoplus Awards Best Incentive Event in 2018 Top 10 Meeting Planners in Mexico 2018: Recognized as one of the top ten meeting planners in Mexico by the MDC Mercado de Convenciones Reader’s Choice Awards. This award has been received annually since 2010 Awarded Silver Rating by EcoVadis American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 8 WELCOME MEMBERSHIPS AND SPONSORSHIPS As members and sponsors of the following groups, we help create new opportunities across the industry and enhance the ways in which our clients travel for business. The Association of Corporate Travel Executives (ACTE) is a not-for-profit professional association of business travel stakeholders throughout the world. The ACTE purpose is to advance the interests of the corporate business travel industry, to promote industry networking opportunities, and to educate members on emerging issues. The Global Business Travel Association (GBTA) is the world's premier business travel and meetings organization. GBTA connects the business travel world and promotes the value of business travel management. GBT was a gold sponsor and exhibitor at GBTA's 2018 annual convention. In addition, GBT provides leadership and sponsorship at annual and local events and partners with the foundation on travel-related research. The GTTP is an educational program with the mission is to help educate employees of the future. Its focus is on the Travel & Tourism industry, the world’s fastest growing industry, and on students in secondary and vocational schools. Parity.org’s mission is to advocate for women’s representation and bring gender parity to the highest levels of business – in the C-Suite and Board of Directors positions. They do this by promoting companies that demonstrate their commitment to gender parity, raising awareness about underlying issues, and providing facts and research that show the value in equal representation. GBT is a founding member. Women in Travel (WINiT) is a network of women and men serving as a catalyst to drive change, provide support, and educate the public about the benefits of career development, visibility, and promotion of women in the travel, meetings, and event management industries. GBT is a founding sponsor of WINiT and has held seats on various boards: Doug Anderson, CEO, was on the Advisory Board in 2018. In addition, many GBT employees hold positions on WINiT’s Advisory Committees. The World Travel & Tourism Council is a forum for the travel and tourism industry. It is made up of members from the global business community and works with governments to raise awareness about the travel and tourism industry. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 9 CSR AND OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AT GBT At GBT, we act with integrity in all that we do, including acknowledging and managing our environmental and social impacts to facilitate a thriving and sustainable future. We are committed to achieving the highest standards of responsible business practices in our operations and the travel and meetings and events services we provide to our clients. GBT is addressing its own environmental footprint through waste and recycling, energy and water, and greenhouse gas emissions management. Following the welcoming of HRG, KDS, Banks Sadler, and SMT to GBT, we are examining our expanded footprint. In 2019, as part of our global Responsible Business initiative, we will continue to set new and ambitious environmental and social sustainability goals. We will measure progress annually against these goals to see that there is continuous improvement. GBT is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and is committed to its ten principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. MATERIALITY This report focuses on the issues that matter most, as defined by our impacts as a business and by the feedback we received from key stakeholders during both the preparation of our report and throughout the year. “Modern business travelers care about the values and practices of the companies whose services they use. With GBT’s responsible business initiative’s focus on the authentic workplace, environmental leadership, and focused giving – all of which complement our existing culture of rigorous compliance – our clients and travelers know they’re serviced by an organization that invests in the long-term well-being of its people and communities.” – Michelle Dyer, Vice President and Regional Compliance Officer – EMEA, M&A Compliance, and Responsible Business American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 10 CSR AND OUR BUSINESS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We have identified six stakeholder groups. Engaging regularly with our core stakeholders helps us to identify environmental, social, and governance issues that are most important to them and to our business. The chart below summarizes the multiple ways in which we interacted with, and engaged, our key stakeholders in 2018. Stakeholder Group How We Interact Relevant Issues and Topics in 2018 Employees Biannual and quarterly culture surveys, senior leadership business briefings, › Compensation and benefits › Volunteerism training (mandatory and optional), employee intranet, performance › Health, wellness, and safety › Communications coaching program, GBT Ethics Helpline, community involvement projects, › Training and education › Diversity and inclusion Pacesetters recognition event, employee discount programs, peer-to-peer › Code of conduct › Employee satisfaction reward and recognition tool, internal peer-to-peer survey tool, and Works › Rewards and recognition › Career development Councils. › Workplace flexibility › Culture and values Clients and Travelers Dedicated account teams, client satisfaction surveys, social media, onsite › Traveler duty of care › Governance and ethics visits, marketing, website, account reviews, RFP process, industry trade › Green travel and meetings › Client service shows, and conferences, online/offline booking, mobile app, travel › Privacy and cyber security › Environmental concerns management products/services (duty of care, consulting, etc.), travel › Crisis management › Traveler well-being program reporting › Risk management › Accessibility Suppliers and Partners Meetings/discussions, RFP process, Supplier Sustainability Shared Values, › Responsible procurement › Anticorruption service level agreements, risk assessment processes › Supplier diversity › Antibribery › Governance and ethics › Privacy and cyber security › Risk management › Code of conduct Investors / Board of Directors Quarterly meetings › Governance and ethics › Privacy and cyber security › Risk management › Code of conduct › Anticorruption › Antibribery Government and Regulators Meeting regulatory obligations › Employment › Anti-bribery › Governance and ethics › Privacy and cyber security › Risk management › Environmental concerns › Anticorruption › Code of conduct Community, NGOs and Memberships in business and industry associations, charitable › Volunteerism Industry Associations contributions, participation in volunteer activities › Philanthropy American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 11 CSR AND OUR BUSINESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a principle-based, globally acknowledged framework to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies and to report on their implementation. The 10 principles include, but are not limited to, human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Though voluntary, companies pledge to adhere to the universal corporate responsibility principles. Our support and commitment to the Global Compact enables us to clarify our corporate responsibility commitments and enhance our activities focused on the 10 principles in four areas (human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption) outlined within the Global Compact. UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE DISCLOSURE HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 16-18, Our Governance Program, page 16, Diversity, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 21, Respecting Human Rights, page 29. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 39. environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 16-18, Our Governance Program, page 16. including extortion and bribery. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 12 Operating Responsibly American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 13 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY INTRODUCTION At GBT, trust; integrity; and authenticity are at the heart of everything we do. We are committed to sound governance and responsible business practices, and earn our clients’ and travelers’ trust with our outstanding service and our commitment to always do the right thing. Our Code of Conduct reflects the standards we uphold in all our dealings with our colleagues, clients, travelers, shareholders, vendors, and other business partners. It is part of our comprehensive policy framework that addresses key risk areas, as well as the employee training, communication, guidance, and processes necessary to embed our culture of compliance into the business. We believe it is the responsibility of everyone at GBT to maintain our high standards of ethical behavior. We require all employees, officers, and directors to acknowledge compliance with our Code of Conduct annually. CREATING A CULTURE OF COMPLIANCE ACROSS OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT Our brand and reputation are a leading reason why GBT is a great place to work, and to do business with. Our employees and business partners know that we will do things the right way – with integrity and in a highly ethical manner. That tradition and reputation have been earned through all our efforts, and we are proud of our industryleading standards. Beginning in 2018 we launched a series of GBT leadership videos discussing the importance of ethics and compliance in all our interactions and business dealings, and how this culture of compliance translates into superior value for our clients and key business partners. ”Being a responsible business is paramount to GBT. Sound governance practices and corporate behavior are critical to our success. Our commitment to only ever doing the right thing is another factor in how we earn the trust of our clients, their travelers, and our employees. Our standards are outlined in our Code of Conduct and are applied to how we work with our colleagues, customers and travelers, shareholders, vendors, and other business partners. It sits alongside a comprehensive policy framework that addresses key risk areas, as well as the employee training, processes, and guidance necessary to embed it into our business. Everyone in the business is responsible for maintaining our high standards of ethical behavior and we all acknowledge the code of conduct on an annual basis.” Si-Yeon Kim, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 14 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE GBT Leadership GBT’s executive leadership team includes: Greg O’Hara, Chairman Doug Anderson, Chief Executive Officer Philippe Chérèque, President Eric Bock, Chief Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Bill Brindle, Chief Operating Officer Martine Gerow, Chief Financial Officer Patricia Huska, Chief People Officer Si-Yeon Kim, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer Joanna Macleod, Chief Transformation Officer Michael Qualantone, Executive Vice President, Global Supplier Relations David Thompson, Chief Information Technology Officer Board of Directors GBT has an 11-member Board of Directors chaired by travel industry veteran Greg O’Hara. The Board of Directors consists of representatives from American Express Company and Juweel Investors Limited. It includes three Independent Directors. Board Committees Audit & Finance Committee Compensation Committee Compliance Committee M&A Committee Risk Management Committee American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 15 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR GLOBAL RISK AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM Our Global Risk and Compliance team is responsible for delivering a robust risk and compliance management program, built on the 360° principles of prevention, detection, and response. We promote awareness and understanding of the laws and regulations that apply to GBT and work every day to foster our culture of compliance. A True 360° Program OUR GOVERNANCE PROGRAM GBT’s risk and compliance program is founded on a comprehensive suite of policies establishing general risk management practices and addressing key Policies risk areas such as privacy and data protection, cyber security, anticorruption, sanctions, third-party oversight, and incident management. Our Procedures Risk and Compliance Office includes Regional Compliance Officers and global Communication subject matter experts in our key risk areas. Training Our policy framework is communicated through our award-winning annual Investigations mandatory training program – with an average completion rate of 99.9%, reflected in our business practices, reinforced through quarterly and ad-hoc Disciplinary Actions communications, and reviewed and tested annually. GBT conducts both topRisk Assessment down and bottom-up risk assessments with senior management across the Remediation company to identify areas of risk, and assess and refine business processes to Testing Issue mitigate risk. GBT applies a formal program of proactive business self-tests Management Monitoring and compliance tests to assess the effectiveness of our test environment. We analyze testing results, along with other quarterly metrics, to identify gaps Reporting/ and monitor compliance trends on an ongoing basis. Whistleblower Code of Conduct These practices are reflected in our Risk and Compliance Annual Plan, which is reviewed and adjusted throughout the year to address new business GBT’s Code of Conduct is at the heart of our compliance program. It outlines the initiatives and changes to the regulatory landscape. All results are reported standards that we must uphold in all our dealings with each other and with to the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and shared with the Board. shareholders, clients, travelers and meeting attendees, vendors, business partners. The Code of Conduct covers key conduct topics such as Our Shared Responsibilities, Our Commitment to Respect, and GBT and the Greater Good. The Code of Conduct is available to employees on our intranet, in our key operating languages, and to external parties in English at amexglobalbusinesstravel.com. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 16 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Antitrust follows the Organization for Economic Co-operation ventures, travel partners, and vendors. We operate and Development (OECD) Anti-Bribery Convention a robust formal third-party oversight program GBT strongly supports vigorous and fair competition. and the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. designed to identify and mitigate the risks that arise We must all abide by laws designed to preserve free in these relationships, and have developed this and open competition. These laws vary across the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering oversight pursuant to Federal Reserve guidance. The world, but their common goal is to promote a program includes risk assessments, sanctions and GBT is committed to the fight against money competitive marketplace that provides consumers reputational screening, explicit contractual laundering and terrorist financing, which continues with high-quality goods and services at fair prices. requirements, and independent audit results and/or to be the focus of considerable attention by Our Antitrust Compliance Policy outlines certifications required for any third party that will governments, international organizations, and law requirements under the competition laws and access, store, or process GBT data and that of our enforcement agencies around the world. We expect regulations for dealings with competitors, clients, clients. our employees to conduct themselves in accordance and suppliers. To strengthen our antitrust with the highest ethical standards, and to conduct compliance efforts, employees receive quarterly Incident Management and Business Continuity business in accordance with applicable money reminders in the form of hypothetical scenarios. laundering laws and regulations. Employees operate Caring for our employees and travelers, and the They must provide notice of intent to attend an under the Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy, continuity of our business in an emergency is critical industry event where competitors may be present which mandates compliance with pertinent to our ability to serve our global client base. GBT and must comply with the processes in our policy provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act and other takes measures to prevent the impact of unexpected relating to association memberships. relevant laws, the Wolfsberg Guidance, and the interruptions to business operations, with plans and Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Financial Action Task Force (FATF) Forty procedures designed to help aid in consistent, Recommendations. predictable delivery of services to clients. GBT has GBT fundamentally believes bribery is harmful to established local, regional, and global Incident our business, our clients, and the communities Fraud Prevention Management Response teams with responsibility for where we operate. For this reason, and because we crisis management, and every GBT function is To combat the threat of fraudulent activity and respect the stringent anti-bribery laws established in required to create and exercise a Business protect clients, GBT utilizes enhanced tools many countries, GBT has adopted a zero-tolerance Continuity Plan aligned with an assessment of embedded in its technologies and business policy for bribery. To enforce this, GBT’s Risk and critical business functions and recovery objectives. processes, as well as data analytics and reporting, to Compliance Office actively works to prevent prevent and detect possible fraud. In addition, all employees, partners, and vendors from engaging in employees are trained to spot and immediately any form of bribery, including offering, soliciting, or report possible fraud through GBT’s Ethics Helpline. accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, that is Third-Party Oversight given with the intent to obtain or retain business or GBT’s services require cooperation among an secure services. The GBT Anti-Corruption Policy extensive network of third parties, including joint American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 17 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Marketing oversees a global privacy risk management program, race, color, national origin, ethnicity, disability, age, including regular strategic risk assessments to assure sex, or classification, including pregnancy, marital or Unfair, deceptive, or abusive commercial acts or the relevance of GBT’s privacy framework in an era domestic partner status, sexual orientation, gender practices can present significant legal, reputational, of rapid business, industry, and technological identity, genetic information, citizenship, religion or and regulatory risks. GBT complies with laws and change. GBT has received Payment Card Industry beliefs, work status, or any other classification regulations that require transparency, truthfulness, accreditation, is compliant with the EU’s General protected by law. and fairness in marketing practices, laid out in the Data Protection Regulation, and is proud to be the Unfair, Deceptive or Abusive Acts or Practices only travel management company to have achieved (UDAAP) Policy, and global requirements for Certifications held by one or more GBT employees: EU-approved Binding Corporate Rules, which help to marketing permission, laid out in the Digital make sure that our global operations meet the most Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) Marketing Standard, and enforced in review stringent data protection standards, no matter procedures for all public-facing materials. Certified Information System Security where the data is processed. We achieve operational Professional (CISSP) Privacy and Cyber Security compliance through an EU-model accountability framework of testing, monitoring, and internal Certified in Risk and Information Control (CRISC) Privacy, data protection, and cyber security matter auditing. Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) to GBT. The trust our clients and employees place in us to protect their information is essential to our Product Development business. We hold ourselves to the most stringent The Commercial Compliance team contributes to our standards in the industry, guided by the GBT Data end-to-end product development lifecycle, which Protection and Privacy Principles. We strive to embeds identification and mitigation of risk into manage all data responsibly – not only is it the right GBT’s products, from concept to launch. The product thing to do, but it protects our clients, travelers, and development lifecycle incorporates best practices our company, and helps to enforce legal and such as security architecture reviews and privacy regulatory compliance globally. GBT’s Chief impact assessments to help embed privacy and Information Security Officer oversees a cyber security by design. security program, using sophisticated technology, including firewalls, intrusion detection, monitoring Equal Employment and Anti-harassment and alerting systems, virus protection, and GBT is committed to treating every individual with authentication. Our security policies adhere to US dignity and respect. We provide a work environment Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council free from discrimination, harassment, favoritism, or guidelines and are built around the NIST bullying of any kind. It is our policy that there be no Cybersecurity Framework. Our Chief Privacy Officer discrimination against any person on the grounds of American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 18 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT GBT Supplier Sustainability Shared Values & Diversity At GBT we expect our key stakeholders to meet the same high standards to which we hold ourselves. In support of this belief, we have adopted our Supplier Sustainability Shared Values focus to advance Responsible Business best practices throughout our supply chain. As a global travel management company servicing clients and travelers in many countries and industries, we understand the importance of developing and fostering diversity across all aspects of our business. We support the engagement of diverse suppliers on an equal basis with other suppliers. Our Procurement team works to identify opportunities to contract with diverse suppliers to satisfy business objectives. We define diverse suppliers as minority-owned, women-owned, historically underutilized businesses (HUB) zones, service-disabled, veteran-owned, lesbian, gay, bisexual and/or transgender-owned, and small or other disadvantaged enterprises. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 19 Investing In Our People American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 20 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY At GBT, we make a concerted effort to foster a diverse workforce. Employing people with various backgrounds, cultures, opinions, and talents enriches our company, and helps us to create and innovate so we can deliver on our commitments to our stakeholders. In addition, as a global company, having a diverse workforce better enables us to take care of our clients traveling around the world – we speak their languages, we know the places they are going, and we bring varied experiences to the table. Our policy is to provide equal employment opportunities to all individuals based on job-related qualifications. That means we don’t discriminate on grounds of race, ethnicity, gender, gender expression, disability, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, citizenship, age, or any other legally protected characteristic or status in each of the countries in which we operate. In addition, “It’s no accident that one of our subject to law, GBT will reasonably accommodate known disabilities of employees. We also seek to maintain a nondiscriminatory three values is ‘People’. For environment free from intimidation, harassment, or bias based upon these grounds. We strive to offer an inclusive workplace where everyone in our business, it is a employee differences are valued and utilized for individual, business, and organizational success. value that is more than just a Employee Inclusion word – it really matters to us all. We care for and respect each We believe that providing a work environment based on respect, trust, and collaboration helps to create an exceptional employee other, we show appreciation, and experience, and enables employees to bring their whole selves to work and thrive in their careers. we have fun. We are here for our Gender Equity travelers every step of the way. We work hard and deliver on our We strive to hire more women into leadership positions. We are pleased to share that, in 2018, 44% of our C-Suite were women, and over 31% of our vice presidents were women. We are committed to providing a diverse slate of candidates for all positions and seek commitments so our clients’ trust to include at least two qualified women in the recruitment process for every open seat. in us is well placed. Our people are among the best in the Women’s Leadership Breakfast Club business. We recognize that and Women vice presidents in our Jersey City headquarters came together to help support and network with one another. Even though we are working hard to make they all work in the same building, they never took the time out of their busy days to sit together and brainstorm. There’s strength in sure every employee’s experience numbers. It was formed when many of GBT’s colleagues attending the WINiT Conference wanted to continue the dialogue about is the very best it can be. We attracting top talent throughout GBT in a spirit of inclusion. attract and retain a highly Our goal was to engage employees of all genders in dialogue, learning, and action to make sure GBT attracts and retains top talent. In engaged and motivated addition, we recognize that gender diversity is a business issue, not a women’s issue. workforce. We invest in their growth and development. Together we are making GBT the place to work in travel”. Patricia Huska, Chief People Officer American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 21 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Women in Conversation: Connect. Share. Insight Workforce Diversity In celebration of International Women’s Day, GBT Bangalore launched a series of sessions to bring together women employees on one platform. This allowed them to Ethnicity1 2018 2017 2016 connect with each other, share best practices, and share their views on topics such as managing work-life balance, prioritization of responsibilities, and planning their United States careers. Approximately 25 employees attended the first session featuring guest › Asian 7% 7% 7% speakers Ruchi Pandiya, Senior Manager Sales, South, and Sunita Sudhir, Head, Client › Black or African American 8% 8% 8% Management South, who spoke about their own personal career journeys in the › Hispanic or Latino 10% 9% 9% travel industry. › White (Not Hispanic or Latino) 72% 73% 75% Thirty-five employees from various departments in Bangalore participated in the › Two or more races 2% 1% 1% second Women in Conversation session. The interactive and engaging session › Other 1% <1% featured guest speaker Anu Kalra, Director, Client Implementation, APAC who shared › Did not identify <1% <1% best practices on balancing personal and professional responsibilities. Participants discussed the importance of multitasking, keeping a positive attitude, and navigating individual careers to achieve success. Participants expressed the importance of continuing these conversations while also having the opportunity to connect with Gender (Global) 2018 2017 2016 senior women leaders in the organization. Women Looking Ahead › Executive Leadership Team 44% 44% 44% › Vice Presidents 31% 33% 35% In 2019, we will launch the Women of the World (WOW) employee resource group. The global WOW group establishes the strategy and exerts centralized efforts in › Directors and Managers 57% 57% 57% support of the mission and success measures. Sharing ideas, discussing important › Supervisors and Team Leaders 68% 75% 72% opportunity areas, and building skills are often most effective in groups organized by › Individual Contributors 77% 76% 76% region, office, or function. The WOW mission will be most successfully achieved › All GBT Employees 74% 73% 73% when, over time, local groups have been implemented. 1 Notes: › All diversity data is as of December 31, 2018. › Ethnic diversity data is available only for the United States. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 22 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE REWARD AND RECOGNITION Everyone at GBT works hard to deliver on the commitments we make to our clients. Our business does not take that for granted. Recognizing hard work is essential to an exceptional employee experience. Colleagues want to know they’re valued for their contributions, achievements, and efforts. When employees feel appreciated, their satisfaction and productivity can rise. At GBT, we offer two programs to acknowledge our high performers and to express our gratitude to each other. “Pacesetters” is an annual incentive trip for our top achievers; those colleagues who consistently deliver outstanding results while making GBT a great place to work. Each year, our Pacesetters are selected based on prior-year performance ratings and contributions. “Achievers” is a peer-to-peer platform where colleagues can express appreciation with “Shout-Outs” and points. Each month, all employees receive points to award their colleagues who have achieved results in line with our company values. Employees can then use the points they receive from their colleagues to select a reward. We also use Achievers to recognize anniversaries. Employees can sign digital anniversary cards for their colleagues each year, and employees who achieve a milestone – for example, five or ten years of service with the company – receive a special gift of points to spend in the Achievers catalog. Pacesetters: Punta Cana In 2018, we honored over 400 Pacesetters for their achievements in 2017. Each of the winners significantly contributed to our results and embodied our values. Pacesetters from more than 15 countries celebrated with senior leaders and our partners in June at the Paradisus Palma Real, a Melia Hotels International property in the Dominican Republic. During the event, we announced a number of special award winners: Pacesetters Legends, who delivered extraordinary results for GBT over many years and were selected as Pacesetter at least once before. Coach of the Year, our most inspirational people leaders, who developed successful teams. People’s Choice winner, selected by their peers via an online poll for delivering results and embodying our values. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 23 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AND ENGAGEMENT We offer numerous employee benefits that support our recruitment and retention success, including competitive compensation and benefits packages, reward and Our acquisition of HRG was finalized in 2018. In addition to the seamless recognition programs, diversity initiatives, and flexible work schedules. Our integration of our two companies, we took the opportunity to examine our employee benefits include: employee experience and place we want to be. health and wellness As part of our integration process, we replaced our Employee Engagement Survey for 2018 with “Our Future. Together: Employee Survey” based on the common retirement benefits cultural themes initially identified from both organizations. travel discounts Nearly 11,000 of our 17,000 employees participated in the 10-question survey. The rewards and recognition results were used, along with feedback from customer interviews and focus groups with our top 120 leaders to define our new culture, values, and behaviors which leave and paid time off were shared with the full employee population in early 2019. fitness memberships Our culture transformation has significant focus, and a formalized action plan has employee discounts been created to embed a refreshed purpose, customer and employee value proposition. In addition, we have initially embedded our new values and behaviors transportation perks into our performance management processes and training and development material. education assistance In celebration of our new values and behaviors, Global Culture Week took place in Our global presence and solutions mean a variety of possibilities that help our May 2019 with an emphasis on engaging our employees through in-office and current and future employees reach their career destinations. virtual activities. We will monitor the progress of our culture transformation and identify future areas of focus through ongoing surveys. Our bi-annual Employee Engagement Survey will provide a new Employee Engagement Level Score for us to gauge employee engagement and satisfaction, replacing our previous eNPS model. This new multi-index score utilizes three questions and measures our employee pride, energy, and optimism. WAGES AND BENEFITS American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 24 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELL-BEING Our employees’ health and well-being is as important to us as it is to them. GBT provides wellness resources that empower all employees to take care of themselves. Throughout the year, our Benefits team highlighted wellness tools and information at both a global and a local/regional level. In 2018, we published wellness topics on an internal blog, with local activities and monthly themes. We covered a range of topics to make sure that our offering was holistic (over 100 different types of offerings across the globe) including stress management, skin cancer screening, mindfulness, work/life balance, nutrition, and smoking cessation. Providing Disaster Support for Our Employees In September 2018, Hurricane Florence moved through North and South Carolina, with storm remnants also hitting communities farther north as it moved up the US East Coast. The storm caused damage to many communities. Our local leaders confirmed the safety of all our employees in those states. Helping impacted employees get back to normal was our top priority, and our local leaders continued to support these employees as they assessed their individual circumstances and needs. GBTcares GBTcares was created to help GBT colleagues who are facing financial hardship immediately after a natural disaster or an unforeseen personal circumstance. In 2018, five grants were approved. GBTcares relies primarily on individual donations from employees and support from the business to fund this program. Every contribution matters and can provide the help a fellow employee needs when facing the unexpected. Financial Wellness In 2018, GBT provided a four-part Financial Wellness series to the US population on-site and via WebEx. The series focused on building the foundation for retirement, creating and managing wealth, establishing retirement income; and making the most of what you have. GBT held summer and fall sessions, they were well attended and received great feedback. In Bangalore, employees attended a financial planning workshop focused on a variety of topics that included an orientation to financial fitness; tips, tricks and hacks for building advantageous money mindsets and efficient money behaviors; personalized assessments and more. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 25 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Catering to a Virtual Workforce We cater to our virtual workforce via initiatives that they can access via web sessions. We host an internal wellness portal with monthly blogs on a variety of topics to build awareness and share ideas on our internal social platform. Topics included cancer prevention, healthy travel tips, UV protection, stress management, managing work-life balance, financial wellness information, and many more to help our employees take action on their wellness. Employee Assistance Program GBT provides employees and their household members access to free, confidential assistance with any work, life, personal, or family issue. Any time, any day, colleagues can contact the Employee Assistance service for live support. The range of assistance is varied and includes short-term professional counseling, in-the-moment telephone support, and information about local resources. The GBT Employee Assistance Program is a free and confidential service, staffed by professionals across the globe. It provides consultation and access to services, referrals, and resources to assist in balancing work and life, professional guidance and support, and is available by phone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. FLEXIBLE WORKPLACE In 2018, we launched our FlexWorx program to all employees. We are committed to creating exceptional employee experiences that inspire our people to achieve greatness for themselves and for our company and translates into generating prosperity for the communities we serve. We see a shift in how today's talented workforce wants to get the job done. They want to be able to work in a way that allows for flexibility in work schedule and location, and they want to know their company supports them both personally and professionally. GBT is keeping pace with these changes through FlexWorx, a comprehensive set of policies that outline the flexible options available within GBT. About FlexWorx Many GBT employees participate in flexible work options today, including working from home. But there are other ways to work flexibly. The FlexWorx program has four components: FLEXTIME: Employees may start and finish work at varied times, as long as they meet their goals and are available during corebusiness hours. FLEXWEEK: Employees may make arrangements with their manager to work a weekly scheduled number of hours during a compressed working week. FLEXJOB (Job Share): Two employees share the duties and responsibilities of one full -time position on a daily or weekly basis. FLEXWORX@HOME (Home Based): Certain jobs may be performed full-time from a home office. In 2018, 50% of our total workforce works virtually and in the US, 80% of our employees are virtual workers. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 26 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT We support our employees’ growth and success through ongoing development opportunities. Helping them take the journey that’s right for them is important to us. We want our employees to reach their highest potential and land in a position where they truly love what they do. GBT embraces a learning culture enabling our employees to learn about what matters, when it matters most. In 2018, we launched our first corporate university, GBT University, across the globe. GBT University offers impactful and engaging learning programs and experiences aligned with our strategic priorities. Our learning solutions – available on-demand and in multiple languages – help build the capabilities our employees need to meet the demands of our business, and foster an innovative, high-performance, and customer-centric culture. GBT University enables our employees to: strengthen job-specific capabilities that will help them achieve performance excellence gain knowledge and skills that prepare them for the next stages of their career join online communities that focus on knowledge -sharing and collective learning develop key management practices and behaviors access on-demand learning content anytime and anywhere through multiple devices After the launch of GBT University, we had a 49% increase in course completions compared to 2017 and an 86% level of engagement in our GBT University intranet site. We deployed six new training series on topics such as Women in Leadership and Leadership Essentials. We also enhanced our new hire orientation, converting it to a self-paced online curriculum. Due to our large remote workforce, GBT provides the majority of traditional learning in a virtual, instructor-led format, with more than 1,600 sessions offered in 2018. GBT’s Learning Teams GBT offers extensive training programs to support the development of employees across all levels and business functions. Specialized teams of dedicated learning professionals provide focused training, resources, and support in the following areas: Traveler Care Sales Enablement/Commercial Learning Meetings & Events Compliance American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 27 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Performance Coaching and Traveler Care Creating a coaching culture requires a broad approach to embed the practice and behaviors into the way we work. As an organization, we strive to create the right environment for impact to encourage a sustained change and ultimately an uplift in performance. In 2018, the Traveler Care Learning and Development (L&D) team delivered a Coaching Foundation Program to over 200 Global Coaches. Coaches provide coaching and feedback support to travel counselors to help them achieve their performance and development goals. The program focused on the following aspects: skill development, job performance, development, and business agendas. It provided each coach the knowledge to optimize individual, team and organization performance, provide feedback as a foundation to coaching and use effective coaching techniques to achieve business results. Leadership Development To create a high-performing culture, we place a high level of importance on identifying, developing, and retaining strong leaders. As an organization, it’s critical that we have a consistent strategy for not only identifying our top talent and future leaders, but also for determining which investments will be the most effective in helping our employees continue to learn, grow, and contribute over the course of their careers. To determine what development is needed across our business, we utilize a simple process called TalenTrack. This process gives us a deeper understanding of our talent and future leadership –enabling us to proactively address skill gaps and retain talent through regular development opportunities, such as training, project and job experiences, and constructive coaching. Management Development Program GBT’s Management Development Program (MDP) accelerates the growth of people leaders around our values and competencies. All current people leaders can register their interest in this voluntary program; special consideration is given to leaders at the director level and above. MDP participants are enrolled in three self-paced learning paths (Managing the Business, Managing Others, Managing Essentials), each focused on a key area of management, and delivered virtually by live webinars, videos, e-learning, and supplemental materials. Each learning path culminates in a virtual Leader Learning Lab, where participants come together to discuss key takeaways, best practices, and next steps. During 2018, 150 leaders graduated from this 10-month program. Global Tuition Reimbursement GBT believes that educational opportunities have the potential to positively impact both employees and the company. The Global Tuition Reimbursement Policy, which launched in 2016, continued in 2018, offering tuition reimbursement to both full-time and part-time employees worldwide for degree-level qualifications at the undergraduate or postgraduate level. LOOKING AHEAD Continuing to develop our leaders and offering more personalized learning opportunities will be the focus in 2019. GBT believes you should never stop growing, and by enhancing the learning opportunities offered, we work towards the continued development of our people. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 28 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE SUPPORTING THE MILITARY AND VETERANS In 2018, GBT partnered with Hirepurpose to launch a travel school to help train veterans and/or their spouses to become travel counselors. We hired 19 veterans or their spouses to fill open travel counselor positions. Hirepurpose was developed by veterans for veterans, and the organization is committed to addressing some of the gaps that exist in an individual's transition from military service to a career as a civilian. We will continue to hire veterans and military spouses for open travel counselor positions or other roles as appropriate. Hirepurpose “Built by veterans, for veterans, we work tirelessly every day to help our clients build meaningful connections with our community.” RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS GBT has a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery. We are committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems and frameworks to make sure it is not taking place anywhere in our own business or in any of our supply chains. In 2017, we rolled out a global Anti-Slavery Policy, which applies to all people working for GBT or on our behalf in any capacity. Our people are encouraged to raise concerns about any issue or suspicion of modern slavery in any part of our business or supply chains. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 29 Serving Our Clients and Travelers American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 30 SERVING OUR CLIENTS AND TRAVELERS RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES At GBT, we believe we are all connected in one way or another. Travelers are connected to their employers, friends, and families. Businesses are connected to clients, partnering companies and the communities they serve. Travel helps strengthen those connections and makes them deeper, more meaningful. As a travel management company, we recognize that we have an enormous responsibility to take the lead and enable these connections so that the places where we live, work, and thrive for generations to come. The only way to do this is to operate in an ecologically-friendly manner. Our sustainable practices don’t end inside our office walls. We encourage and help our clients to operate in the same way. GBT recognizes and supports our clients’ increasing interest in environmental sustainability, as well as their decisions to incorporate it into their travel programs. We offer a portfolio of products and services to help our clients reduce their environmental footprint. “We help companies and Green InsightsTM Carbon Emissions Tracking their employees prosper by Green InsightsTM is our way of helping businesses measure, monitor, and reduce their travel-related carbon emissions. We can provide making sure travelers are standard or tailored emissions data for air, rail, car, and hotel. By partnering with third-party experts, we can also provide an initial carbon present where and when it footprint report and ongoing reporting to log progress. matters. Wherever and Carbon Emissions Reduction whenever clients and their people need us, we have To help businesses “travel smarter,” GBT uses proprietary products and processes such as carbon emissions reporting, point-of-sale their backs. We invest in calculators, diagnostic analysis tools, and supplier scorecards. breakthrough technology to Environmental Policy/Program Management enrich the experience of clients, their employees and Our Global Business Consulting group helps clients craft policies that fit their corporate culture while helping to raise environmental awareness and achieve their emissions reduction goals. the GBT people who back them. We are committed to Responsible Meetings and Events helping our clients with their Our strategic meetings management team consults with clients to identify ways to incorporate eco-conscious decisions into their meetings own CSR programs. We take and events. During the sourcing process, we recommend locations and transportation strategies to minimize greenhouse gas emissions pride in our role as a from travel, and reduce indirect emissions through choosing accommodations in energy-efficient hotels. We also encourage the use of responsible partner for our suppliers such as hotels and convention centers that have plans in place to reduce waste and water usage. During the meeting planning clients and their travelers’ process we consult on additional ways to reduce waste such as eliminating water bottles, utilizing reusable and electronic signage, and well-being.” Philippe enlisting event mobile applications to provide access for participants to meeting materials. We also partner with venue food and beverage Chérèque, President services to design menus using locally-sourced and organic products. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 31 SERVING OUR CLIENTS AND TRAVELERS CLIENTS AND TRAVELER SERVICE Support for Clients and Travelers During Natural Disasters Providing exceptional service and care to our clients is central to what we do at GBT – and never is it more important than when a crisis impacts our travelers. In September 2018, Hurricane Florence moved through North and South Carolina. With a number of major cities in the hurricane’s path, many of our travelers were also impacted by the storm. Our Traveler Care teams increased staffing to handle the increase in volume and support travelers, and our Commercial teams reached out to clients to check in and lend our support. Our people go above and beyond to help our clients and travelers get back home as quickly and safely as possible. Measuring Customer Relationships and the Traveler Experience We have robust mechanisms in place to evaluate services provided to travel buyers and managers, as well as arrangers and travelers. Our global Customer Experience team leads the execution of these survey programs; results are shared throughout the organization and used to shape service and technology strategies and evolve learning and development activities. The spirit of genuine customer empathy is captured through our Traveler Care ethos, and supported in the way we view “customer experience” through three different lenses. The simple framework shown below continues to prove valuable for operational teams to recognize high performance and best practice, as well as identifying local service improvement opportunities. Through a combination of daily survey ratings and analysis of customer comments, we stay connected with our clients and make sure we are consistently meeting their needs. Three Elements of Customer Experience Rational Ease Emotional Can clients achieve what they want to do? Do we make it easy for clients to achieve How does the interaction make a client what they want to do? feel? Results from the customer survey program show we have strong service levels. Approximately 95% of travelers and travel arrangers indicated we consistently resolve their issues. Around Program Upgrades In line with changing customer behavior, we made several upgrades to our survey program, designed to make it easier for clients to provide feedback on our service. These changes include updates to survey designs, as well as a new third-party platform for survey distribution, analysis, and reporting. This investment is indicative of our commitment to service excellence and continuous improvement. Collectively, these changes are delivering a more engaging feedback process and providing our teams with additional tools to deliver greater insight around our servicing experience and the GBT value proposition. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 32 Supporting Our Communities American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 33 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES INTRODUCTION GBT has a long-standing legacy of giving back, whether through donations or volunteerism, and we are committed to maintaining this tradition of philanthropy. We encourage our employees to make a difference in the communities where we or our clients live, work, or do business. We continually explore ways to make a positive and measurable impact on the people around us. Impact for Good: Punta Cana, Dominican Republic As part of the 2018 Pacesetters event, we organized several optional activities for winners to give back to the local host community in the Dominican Republic. These volunteer activities are always the first to fill up – and this year was no exception. It’s a testament that caring for others is central to what we all do at GBT! Here’s how our 2018 Pacesetters got involved to benefit the Punta Cana community: 68 Pacesetters played baseball with local children. We also donated baseball equipment so that these children can continue to play their favorite sport, long after we’re gone. 97 Pacesetters volunteered to build beds for the Niños de Cristo Orphanage. In addition, many Pacesetters donated the $10 for the tourist card required to enter the Dominican Republic, rather than being reimbursed by GBT. We collected more than $3,500 USD, which we used to purchase blankets, sheets, and pillowcases for the beds we built for the orphanage. Many Pacesetters saved some extra space in their luggage to pack new shoes for children at the orphanage. We collected more than 300 pairs of shoes. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 34 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES CORPORATE GIVING Through our philanthropic efforts, GBT provided support to a wide range of organizations and causes. For example: Hogg Robinson Foundation: Provides funds for a dedicated Research Fellow, working in the UK (Guy's Hospital London), US (Harvard Medical School), and India (TATA Memorial Centres) on the early detection of prostate, bladder, testicular and kidney cancer with the single aim of saving lives worldwide. NeighborWorks of Western Vermont and Grassroots Solar: GBT’s donation helped fund the building of a solar village in a village in Puerto Rico that was one of the worst hit by Hurricane Maria. Rally Foundation for Childhood Cancer Research: Empowers volunteers to raise awareness and funds for childhood cancer research. The Children’s Center of Wayne County: Leads the way in support of children who struggle with behavioral, emotional, educational, intellectual and developmental challenges or who may have experienced trauma. GIVING AROUND THE WORLD We are proud of our colleagues’ commitment to being good citizens in their communities. Here are just a few examples of our employees’ generosity around the world. Australia Sydney Coastrek, Fred Hollows Foundation, Sydney Employee teams in Sydney competed in a grueling 30km walk along the Sydney coastline to raise money for the Fred Hollows Foundation, an international development organization working towards eliminating avoidable blindness and improving indigenous Australian health. (hollows.org) Red25, Red Cross Australia Employees in Australia participated in the Red25 blood drive. Twenty four employee blood donors saved 84 lives with their blood donations 1. Red25 is a life-saving social responsibility program where workplaces, community groups, and universities around Australia unite to save lives through blood donation. Together, Red25 members work towards making sure that 25% of Australia's blood donations are secured. (redcross.org.au) 1 Australian Red Cross Blood Service 2018 group tally. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 35 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES India Smile Foundation, Bangalore GBT employees in India partnered with Smile Foundation, an India based NGO, to bring health camps to Gurgaon, Bangalore, and Mumbai. As part of this initiative, employee volunteers from GBT helped doctors, technicians, and other Smile Foundation volunteers with patient registrations, blood pressure checks, and weight checks. They also helped with crowd management, counseled residents on the importance of health awareness, and helped provide basic sanitation. Also in 2018, GBT in India again joined hands with the Smile Foundation to support the National Association for the Blind (NAB) in Delhi. In addition to donating much-needed desktop computers, 20 employees from GBT India visited NAB to engage with a special group of visually impaired children. Activities included preparing various colorful and innovative clay materials like toys, animals, houses, and more. GBT employees were also treated to a song performance by the children. NAB is a leading provider of education and training services to blind, low vision, deaf-blind, and the multi-disabled of all age groups. (nabdelhi.in) The Smile Foundation is an NGO in India directly benefiting over 750,000 children and their families every year, through more than 350 projects focusing on education, healthcare, livelihood, and women empowerment. (smilefoundationindia.org) United States St. Mary’s Food Bank, Phoenix Over 20 GBT employees in Kierland, Arizona, prepared emergency food boxes containing food and urgent supplies for local families. Employees prepared over 1,000 boxes in two hours. St. Mary's Food Bank exists to help feed hungry families throughout Phoenix and nine Arizona counties. (firstfoodbank.org) LOOKING AHEAD In 2019, GBT will focus on flagship causes that are aligned with GBT’s purpose, culture, and values. In addition, we will expand our efforts to engage employees in volunteering, as well as explore more opportunities to offer our expertise through pro bono services to nonprofit organizations. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 36 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Partnership Exchange At multiple points in the year, GBT hosts Partnership Exchange events, where GBT Commercial team members come together to network with travel suppliers and each other. In partnership with suppliers, we incorporate a philanthropic activity into each event, giving all attendees an opportunity to give back to the host city. Orlando, Florida Center for Women & Families, Coalition for the Homeless Central Florida In March 2018, GBT, in partnership with United Airlines, worked with Coalition for the Homeless Central Florida to create 50 new blankets for the shelter’s beds, assemble 125 school kits for 6th grade children staying at the shelter, and package 125 hygiene kits to be distributed upon each woman’s arrival at the shelter. The Coalition for the Homeless is a low barrier residential shelter focused on housing, emergency services, and diversion. (centralfloridahomeless.org) Denver, Colorado The Adoption Exchange, Violet Hive Art, and Maxfund Animal Adoption In July 2018, in one hour GBT colleagues made a significant and valuable impact in the Denver community. In support of the Adoption Exchange, twenty personalized, high-quality back-to-school backpacks were packed for children currently in foster care. Fifty adoptive-family games night boxes were made, featuring handcrafted felt games/checkerboards. (adoptex.org) In support of Maxfund Animal Adoption, 50 kennel pads and close to 100 training choker collars were made for the Maxfund Animal Adoption Center. All under the watchful eye of four dogs entertaining the room. (maxfund.org) One hundred and fifty art canvases were made, serving Violet Hive Art Collective’s expanding art therapy studios with Denver Public Schools. In addition, over 100 watercolor cards of support were created for individuals. These personal expressions of care and support mean so much to people. (violethiveart.org) American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 37 Protecting the Environment American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 38 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY GBT is committed to measuring, managing, and reducing the environmental impact of our global operations, as well as to an ongoing process of continuous improvement of sustainable practices. Our employees are expected to act as environmental stewards when conducting business on GBT’s behalf. We also encourage our clients, suppliers, contractors, and business partners to join us in this effort. We have procedures in place that focus on the company’s environmental impact areas: energy consumption waste and recycling “As one of the world’s leading greenhouse gas emissions business partner for managed procurement travel, GBT is committed to its responsibility to protect the In meeting our commitments, GBT strives to: environment. True to our adopt environmental standards across all areas of operation that meet all applicable environmental laws and regulations in th e purpose of creating prosperity countries in which we operate, continually assess the environmental impact of our operations, and identify areas where we can through presence, it matters to minimize our impact on the environment our business that we have done as much as we can to ensure deploy efforts to improve our energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions the health and well-being of minimize waste through reduction strategies, recycling programs, and safe disposal policies future generations. We believe purchase sustainable products wherever feasible we have a unique position from which we can put our pledge reduce risks from environmental, health, or safety hazards for employees, contractors, and visitors to our facilities into action and do so on behalf incorporate environmental awareness into our day -to-day business by engaging our employees through regular communications of our colleagues, partners, and and volunteer events clients. We will do all that we can to positively impact include environmental considerations in investment decisions where appropriate sustainability issues regularly review and assess our processes and share progress on our commitments worldwide.” – Bill Brindle, Chief Operating Officer American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 39 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Engaging Our People to Make a Difference: Brighton Beach Clean-up GBT’s employee-led sustainability and social impact initiative kicked off its first volunteer activity to support Brighton Beach: Beach Clean. Over 60 colleagues teamed up with the Hilton Brighton to collect rubbish and debris along the coastline between Brighton Marina and the Hilton Brighton Metropole. Our partner, Hilton, was on hand to provide sponsorship and support. The initiative was part of both global organizations’ commitment to supporting communities and the environment – positively impacting the areas in which we live and work. OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Scope 1 + 2 2018 2017 2016 GHG GHG GHG Usage Usage Usage Region/Type Emissions Emissions Emissions (MWh) (MWh) (MWh) (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) Total Electricity 16,643 10,782 15,118 10,459 12,852 7,433 Methodology Our Scope 2 emissions account for 100% of our total (Direct, i.e., Scope 1, and Indirect, i.e., Scope 2) emissions. Scope 2 emissions are associated with purchased electricity. 100% of GBT’s sites are leased. For locations where we do not have access to our consumption data, emissions of greenhouse gases are estimated. We calculate some of our Scope 1 + 2 emissions based on square footage and local emissions factors. Where the square footage did not change from 2017 to 2018, the emissions figure remains the same. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 40 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions Scope 3 Carbon Offsetting Commitment 2018 2017 2016 In 2017, GBT began offsetting a portion of its GHG emissions from business travel by purchasing carbon credits to support the Envira 1 Amazonia Project. This project in the Brazilian State of Acre 12668.7 11,341.9 1 10,721 1 Air reduces emissions by directly protecting tropical rainforests in the tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 Amazonian Basin from planned deforestation. 755.5 646.4 643 In keeping with this practice, GBT increased the amount of GHG Hotel tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 emissions offset to 80% of 2018’s business travel. Our goal is to offset 100% of our GHG emissions from business travel by 2020. 43.8 48.7 52.6 Rail tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 164.8 206.8 292.1 Car tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 13632.8 12243.8 11708.7 Total tons CO2 tons CO2 tons CO2 Endnotes 1 Emission calculations according to Atmosfair methodology. › At this time, GBT does not track emissions from employee commuting. LOOKING AHEAD We will adopt formal goals and policies, and will continue to create actions plans to reduce GBT’s ecological footprint. In addition, we will also continue to develop and implement targeted action plans focused on achieving EcoVadis’ Gold status. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 41 APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX STATUS DESCRIPTION  Compliant with this indicator  Partially compliant  Not compliant: not applicable or data not available GENERAL STANDARD STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1  Message from Our CEO, page 4. G4-2  Materiality, page 10, Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3  GBT III B.V. d/b/a American Express Global Business Travel G4-4  Our Products and Services, page 5. Hoogoorddreef 15, Atlas-Arena G4-5  1101BA Amsterdam Zuidoost About American Express Global Business Travel, page 5. G4-6  www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com/global-network-map/ GBT is a joint venture corporation formed July 2014 formed by American Express Travel Related Services Company and an investor group led by Certares. G4-7  Each has a 50% ownership stake in the joint venture. G4-8  About American Express Global Business Travel, page 5. About American Express Global Business Travel, page 5. G4-9  GBT is a private company and does not publically disclose revenue or capitalization. G4-10  Workforce Diversity, page 22. Note: Ethnic diversity data only available for the US. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 42 APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE We do not have direct union affiliations; however, some employees in APAC and EMEA do participate in local organizations. Details of those G4-11  relationships are considered confidential employee information. G4-12  Responsible Procurement, page 19. G4-13  Please visit: amexglobalbusinesstravel.com/press-room/ G4-14  GBT does not have a formal policy regarding the precautionary principle. G4-15  United National Global Compact, page 12. GBT also reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project. G4-16  Memberships and Sponsorships, page 9. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17  Data in this report covers our entire GBT’s global operations only. G4-19  Materiality, page 10, Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. G4-20  All Material Aspects selected in this report apply to our entire global operations, unless otherwise stated. G4-22  N/A G4-23  N/A STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. G4-25  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 43 APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES DISCLOSURES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-26  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. G4-27  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11. REPORT PROFILE G4-28  About This Report, page 2. G4-29  January 1 – December 31, 2017. G4-30  About This Report, page 2. G4-31  Contact Us, page 47. G4-32  About This Report, page 2, Appendix: GRI Content Index G4-33  This report was not externally assured. GOVERNANCE G4-34  Our Governance Structure, page 15. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56  Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, page 16. G4-57  Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, page 16. ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4-DMA  Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 39. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 44 APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES DISCLOSURES ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4-DMA  Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 39. G4-EN3  Our Carbon Footprint, page 40. G4-EN6  Our Carbon Footprint, page 40. Emissions G4-DMA  Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability, page 39. G4-EN16  GHG Emissions – Scope 1 + 2, page 40. G4-EN17  GHG Emissions – Scope 3, page 41. G4-EN18  The information is currently unavailable. G4-EN19  GBT has no formal initiatives to reduce GHG emissions at this time. Effluents and Waste G4-EN23  GBT does not track waste diversion data at this time. SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-DMA  N/A Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA  Employee Health, Safety and Well-being, page 25. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 45 APPENDIX: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD STATUS REPORT REFERENCE / NOTES DISCLOSURES Training and Education G4-DMA  Employee Training and Development, page 27. G4-LA9  Employee Training and Development, page 27. G4-LA10  Employee Training and Development, page 27. Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA  Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 21. G4-LA12  Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 21. HUMAN RIGHTS Non Discrimination G4-DMA  Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 16-18, Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, page 21, Respecting Human Rights, page 29. G4-HR3  The information is currently unavailable. SOCIETY Anti-Corruption G4-DMA  Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 16-18. G4-SO4  Our Global Risk and Compliance Program, pages 16-18. Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA  Serving Our Clients and Travelers: Introduction, page 31, Measuring Client and Traveler Satisfaction, page 33. G4-PR5  Measuring Client and Traveler Satisfaction, page 33. American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license. 46 Contact Us We value feedback from all our stakeholders. We invite you to share your feedback on our CSR report at: GBT-CSR@amexgbt.com American Express Global Business Travel 101 Hudson Street Jersey City, New Jersey 07302 For a copy of this report or more information about GBT, please visit our corporate website at: www.amexglobalbusinesstravel.com Martin Ferguson Vice President, Global, Communications, Public Affairs & Integrated Marketing American Express Global Business Travel Tel: +44 7789 816 523 Email: martin.ferguson@amexgbt.com Follow us on Twitter @amexgbt American Express Global Business Travel (GBT) is a joint venture that is not wholly owned by American Express Company or any of its subsidiaries (American Express). “American Express Global Business Travel,” “American Express” and the American Express logo are trademarks of American Express and are used under limited license.
