18 ANNUAL REPORT Akademiska Hus – TOMORROW’S KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS Contents INTRODUCTION This is Akademiska Hus 1 Year in brief 2 Comments from the President 4 The road to tomorrow’s knowledge environments 6 THE WORLD AROUND US Rapidly changing world 8 Market summary 10 Materiality analysis and stakeholders  12 OUR FOCUS Strategy  14 Sustainable operator  16 Goals and governance 18 OUR OPERATIONS Campus and business development 20 Projects that meet the need for premises 22 Leading-edge property management 26 Our climate change initiatives 30 Employees31 OUR VALUE CREATION Tomorrow’s knowledge environment 33 Stable and long-term participant 36 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing38 Property valuation 41 Customers and leases 42 Risk and risk management 43 Corporate Governance Report 48 Board of Directors 54 Executive Management 55 Other information 56 Proposed allocation of unappropriated earnings 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Income statements 58 Statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income 59 Statement of financial position 62 Changes in equity 66 Statements of Cash Flows 68 Notes71 Certification96 Audit Report 97 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Sustainability notes 102 GRI index 109 Assurance Report 111 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 112 KEY FIGURES 114 DEFINITIONS, INFORMATION AND ADDRESSES 115 Revised Annual Report Biomedicum, Solna ABOUT THE ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The audited Annual Report comprises pages 37-95. Our sustainability initiatives are incorporated in the Annual Report and presented in line with GRI Standards. The Sustainability Report comprises the pages listed on page 102 and has undergone a cursory audit. The Sustainability Report also includes Akademiska Hus’ Statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with chapter 6 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The photo on the cover shows the ceiling in Biomedicum, Solna. INTRODUCTION 1 This is Akademiska Hus This is Akademiska Hus Akademiska Hus owns, develops and manages sustainable and modern knowledge environments for colleges and universities. With long leases and high leasing levels, we are a stable participant on the property market. In this way we strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge and create value for both our owner and our customers. Akademiska Hus is wholly owned by the Swedish state. The operation is run on commercial terms and we are the leading property owner for universities and colleges. Our market share varies across the country, and in the university and college property segment we have a 60 per cent stake in terms of area. The property portfolio amounts to SEK 86 billion and turnover is SEK 6.1 billion. To meet 60% 14 the large demand for knowledge environments, we have a project portfolio of SEK 14 billion. Our mission from the Parliament also includes contributing to construction of more student housing. Akademiska Hus essentially has the same principal as our tenants, since higher education in Sweden is almost exclusively conducted by colleges and universities that are government entities. Thus our tenants have the highest credit rating, which creates MARKET SHARE WITHIN COLLEGE AND SEK BILLION UNIVERSITY PROPERTY SECTOR IN PROJECT PORTFOLIO stable conditions for a long-term relationship regarding both project development and customer relationships. Our operations are characterised by stable cash flows, long leases, low vacancy levels and primarily pre-signed contracts (signed before construction beA STABLE PARTICIPANT gins). This creates good opportunities for long-term relationships Akademiska Hus has a strong financial position and is one of the with our lenders. largest property companies in Sweden. With our size, unique skills and local presence we can be a proactive, long-term partner to our customers in the development of their operations. Stable finances The majority of cash flow is make it possible for investments in our own building projects to be reinvested in our projects and our carried out with continuity. The fact is that the majority of cash flow in the business is reinvested in our projects. This is a source robust financial position creates of security for our customers, an important contribution to the development of Sweden as a nation of knowledge and one of our advantages for our customers. principal strengths. KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON INVESTMENTS OVER THE PAST TEN YEARS President 86 3.3 SEK m 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 BILLION TOTAL PROPERTY MILLION SQUARE METRES PORTFOLIO RENTABLE SPACE 1,500 P-1 AA 1,000 500 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year MOODY’S SHORT-TERM RATING, STANDARD & POOR’S LONG-TERM Since the inception of Akademiska Hus 25 years ago, we have inJANUARY 2019 RATING, STABLE OUTLOOK. SEPTEMBER 2018 vested almost SEK 50 billion in building projects with the purpose of strengthening Sweden as a nation of knowledge. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 2 INTRODUCTION Year in brief Year in brief During the year we have continued to work strategically with a long-term approach, together with our customers. With a focus on sustainability and innovation we will continue to create attractive knowledge environments. 50% INCREASED SOLAR PANEL CAPACITY IN THE LEAD FOR INCREASED SOLAR CAPACITY Akademiska Hus engaged in a record-breaking renewable energy initiative to boost solar panel capacity by 50 per cent. Rooftop solar panels were installed on the majority of buildings at the Ultuna Campus in Uppsala. As a result, total capacity of solar energy production for our entire holdings around the country rose to 2.5 million kWh/year. 30,000 OLYMPIC-CLASS CLIMBING FACILITY Digital The new climbing facility at the IKSU sport athletic centre on the Umeå Campus held its grand opening during the year. The 1,800 square-metre climbing facility is an SQUARE METRES SPACE important addition for Umeå University’s profile as a university with a focus on OUR LARGEST INITIATIVE IN UPPSALA sports. The facility is expected to receive In October there was a breakthrough for the approximately 3,500 visitors per week expansion of the Ångström Laboratory at ÖREBRO CAMPUS LAB and includes free climbing to a staggering Uppsala University. The goal is to create Örebro University and Akademiska Hus height of 17 metres. an innovative interdisciplinary research and have signed a memorandum of intent with 17 education environment through two addithe goal of making the university the most tional units in order to meet the demands digitalised centre of education in Sweden. of the future for a leading international university. The building will be 30,000 square Biomedicum metres and we are investing SEK 1.2 billion STAGGERING METRES FREE in the project, which is the largest initiative CLIMBING HEIGHT that Uppsala University and Akademiska Hus have ever undertaken together. – A SUCCESSFUL PROJECT In the autumn of 2013, construction began on Karolinska Institutet’s new CLIMATE CHANGE: A SERIOUS CONCERN research lab Biomedicum in Solna, one of The climate is changing around the the largest laboratories in Europe, and was Climate world. At Akademiska Hus we are working completed ahead of schedule and under proactively with sustainability and have budget. Akademiska Hus has invested now set new high goals. Through research about SEK two billion in the project, which neutrality and innovative development, we have set spans over eleven floors with room for an ambitious vision for climate neutrality 1,600 researchers and other staff. By throughout our operations. We are working gathering several scientific disciplines untowards being completely climate neutral der a single roof, Biomedicum will promote in both our property operations and interinteraction, increased new collaborations nally by 2025. Our projects will be climate and the exchange of experiences, ideas neutral by 2045. and techniques across borders. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 INTRODUCTION 3 Year in brief 25 YEARS OF DEVELOPMENT FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Akademiska Hus was founded 25 years ago. Our mission has 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 essentially stayed the same – to provide Swedish higher educaINCOME STATEMENT, tion institutions with appropriate facilities. But today’s premises SEK M include so much more. Developments in digitalisation is changing Property management everything, from how we manage and operate our properties, to income 6,117 5,806 5,666 5,646 5,681 how education and research are conducted. The role of campuses Net operating income 3,938 3,829 3,667 3,740 3,717 has also gained greater importance, therefore we work increasingly Change in value, properties 2,585 4,979 3,682 2,655 3,529 towards integrating campuses with the city and the surrounding Change in value, community. The past 25 years have provided us with an estabfinancial instruments -360 -242 -241 165 -548 lished platform to stand on and we are now taking the next step Profit before tax 5,314 8,311 6,714 6,141 6,261 together towards our vision “To strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge”. RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL % 8 6 4 2 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year YIELD* % 8 6 4 2 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year * Excluding properties under construction and expansion reserves. EQUITY RATIO % 50 40 30 20 10 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year BREAKDOWN BY PREMISE TENANT CATEGORIES CATEGORY STUDENT HOUSING BUILT UNDER OUR OWN MANAGEMENT The first undergraduate and graduate student housing project that Akademiska Hus built on its own is now ready on the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) Campus in Stockholm. The three buildings house 138 units, including studio, oneand two-bedroom flats, with capacity for a total of 227 students. The flats are fully Classrooms and lecture halls, 47 % Universities and colleges, 87 % Laboratories, 33 % Chalmersfastigheter, 3 % equipped and furnished. The apartments are being rented as a Offices, 14 % Publicly financed operations, 3 % block by KTH, which will primarily offer this on-campus housing Other facilities, 6 % Other, 7 % option to international students. Two more buildings are under construction with occupancy planned for 2019. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 4 INTRODUCTION Comments from the President Together we enhance Sweden as a nation of knowledge The world around us is changing at an ever-increasing pace. The challenges are many and technological developments are advancing rapidly. This means new opportunities for progress and cooperation for sustainable community development and exciting future-focused knowledge environments. It is not just Akademiska Hus; the entire to emphasise that we cannot succeed in our NEW SERVICES AND BUSINESS MODELS property industry faces greater challenges efforts on our own. The transition is based We also see how new participants offer than ever. Climate change is one of the most on many parties cooperating and accepting alternative business models, such as “Space important issues of our time, where the built common responsibility. We are all part of the as a Service” or co-working, at the same time environment industry accounts for a large complex transition that is now taking place that current participants are also developing share of emissions. As one of the largest towards a climate-neutral society. new solutions and services to broaden their property companies in Sweden, we have great Investments in solar panels contribute to offering. In 2019, we are increasing our capacopportunities to make a true difference by bethe target. We have carried out major initiaity within concept and service development ing part of the transition and helping Sweden tives all around our campuses during the year and introducing our first offerings in “Space achieve the UN’s climate targets. and in 2019 we will take further measures to as a Service” under our new brand “A Working We continue to support the UN Global Cominstall more solar power facilities. When they Lab” at the Solna Campus and Johanneberg pact and its principles on human rights, labour are ready they will help to double our total Science Park (Chalmers). rights, the environment and anti-corruption. solar energy production to over 5 million kWh per year. STRATEGIC PLAN – GOAL 2021 OUR VISION FOR ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT To deal with this rapidly changing reality we During the year we adopted ambitious new THE CLIMATE ISSUE formulated a new strategy during the year: climate targets – a vision for a zero carbon The potential of digitalisation can also drive “collaboration in the development of future footprint. Our property operations and our parts of the necessary transition to address knowledge environments”. We will work at a internal operations will have reached the climate change. We are participating in and faster pace with our customers, as well as with target by 2025. The complex construction running an array of research and innovation other players, to develop innovative solutions project operation follows the Fossil Fuel-Free projects. One example is the EU-financed for more efficient operations, improved basic Sweden roadmap and the goal is to reach FED project (Fossil-free Energy District), delivery and innovative knowledge environa climate-neutral value chain by 2045. Of which will develop a digital marketplace ments. course we are still working towards our prefor energy with the Chalmers Johanneberg vious energy target of cutting the quantity of Campus serving as a test arena. The buildings CAMPUS AS LABORATORY purchased energy in half by 2025. in the FED system will be able to buy and One of many examples of collaboration is the Our new climate targets are on the leading sell surplus energy among themselves, at the expanded initiative between Akademiska Hus edge of development and will put great pressame time that the system is connected to the and the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), sure on our operations to break new ground public grid in the city. where a memorandum of intent has been in several areas. At the same time, we want signed to strengthen our long-term strategic collaboration in education, research and innovation. Another exciting example is the cooperaOur focus is on leveraging the opportunities tive agreement with Örebro University where the goal is to work together to make the unithat digitalisation offers regarding both versity the most successful digitalised centre addressing the climate issue and creating a of education in Sweden. The initiative, which is called Örebro Campus Lab, will help to debroader value offering to our customers. velop an education and research environment at the digital and sustainable forefront . GEARING UP SKILLS INTERNALLY Successful implementation of our strategy requires a development-oriented organisaAkademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 INTRODUCTION 5 Comments from the President tion with a more agile approach to work. We tions, had a negative impact on the financial creating broader value to our customers. It is therefore focus on our employees and we have performance measures, which meant that we challenging, exciting and at the same time, a a strong ambition to serve as a role model in did not achieve two of the owner’s three figrowth opportunity since we do this together the industry regarding skills development. nancial objectives. However, it is important to with other participants who also have a strong During the year we launched our own internal emphasise that the underlying net operating drive to get involved and strengthen Sweden education platform that contains comprehenincome and cash flows for the operation are as a nation of knowledge. sive development programmes for both manstable in 2018, as in previous years. agers and employees. Through assignment Kerstin Lindberg Göransson appraisals between manager and employee we IMPROVING TOGETHER President will increase the commitment to our mission We have a solid platform to stand on for the and our strategic vision. coming years. Our focus is on leveraging the opportunities that digitalisation offers STRONG DEMAND FOR KNOWLEDGE regarding addressing the climate issue and ­ENVIRONMENTS A number of projects were completed during the year. For example, the police training programme’s new facilities at Södertörn University opened during the autumn at the dynamic and rapidly growing Flemingsberg Campus. New tenants moved in to Biomedicum, one of the largest research labs in Europe with room for up to 1,600 researchers and coworkers at the Karolinska Institute. This construction project was not only the largest ever undertaken by Akademiska Hus – it was also completed ahead of schedule and under budget. We also began construction on the expansion of the Ångström Laboratory at Uppsala University, an initiative that is expected to cost around SEK 1 billion. MORE STUDENT HOUSING During the year 227 students moved in to our newly built student housing at KTH in Stockholm as a result of our efforts to create more student housing. We also decided to invest about SEK 200 million in the construction of 130 housing units on the Ultuna Campus in Uppsala. In addition, we submitted a plan application for 600 new student housing units in Lund. Construction of approximately 200 on-campus student housing units in Luleå is also currently underway. The target is to help create 11,000 undergraduate and graduate student housing units by 2021. Currently we manage about 500 residences on our own ground and we have transferred land to participants who are contributing more than 4,000 housing units. PROPERTY VALUES AND OWNER ­OBJECTIVES The positive changes in value for the year, along with investments during the year, resulted in a property value of SEK 86 billion. The changes in fair value in the property holdings impacted profit for the year, by SEK 2,585 million (4,979), profit totalled to SEK 5,314 million (6,453). The large changes in the fair value of the property holdings in recent years, which are reported in compliance with IFRS regulaAnnual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 6 INTRODUCTION The road to tomorrow’s knowledge environments The road to tomorrow’s knowledge environments Our university and college sites are more than places to work and study. Our expertise and extensive experience serve as the foundation when we create sustainable environments and vibrant campuses for everyone on campus. 30+ Objective 11,000 housing units innovation projects HOUSING FOR INNOVATIVE STUDENTS CAMPUS DEVELOPMENT The world around us Our focus How we plan, set goals and develop our Our strategy sets the course for how we run our business are affected by global trends. business to fulfil our mission and achieve our goals in a sustainable and value-creating manner. Global trends Read more on pages 8–9 Strategy Read more on pages 14–15 Market summary Read more on pages 10–11 Sustainable operator Read more on pages 16–17 Materiality analysis and stakeholders Read more on pages 12–13 Goals and governance Read more on pages 18–19 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 INTRODUCTION 7 The road to tomorrow’s knowledge environments Competitive campuses with attractive knowledge environments HIGH-TECH 3.3 million square AND MULTI­FUNCTIONAL metres ENVIRONMENTS 36 campuses SUSTAINABLE PREMISES VIBRANT AND STIMULATING MEETING PLACES Our operations Value-adding and conditions community participant In order to achieve our goals, we must manage and build Through innovation and development we create properties in a sustainable manner and create long-term modern and competitive knowledge environments in relationships with our customers and suppliers. We also need cooperation with our customers. employees who are healthy and who have the right skills. Tomorrow’s knowledge environment Our operations Read more on pages 20–29 Read more on pages 33–35 Our climate change initiatives Read more on page 30 Employees Read more on pages 31–32 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 8 THE WORLD AROUND US Rapidly changing world Rapidly changing world Global trends – such as globalisation and digitalisation – create new challenges and opportunities for Akademiska Hus. Through awareness and analysis of current trends and changes in initiatives, we gain relevant insights so that we can meet challenges and take advantage of the opportunities in a sustainable way. We need to understand the global trends that could affect our ability Below we highlight a few areas and a number of insights that we believe to make a long-term contribution to the competitiveness of Swedish will be of great significance for our operations and for our customers centres of education. The past year we have conducted a broad external moving forward. We have formulated our strategy for the next three analysis using a number of megatrends and social movements for years based on these areas and insights, as well as an assessment of the change in society as our starting point. These trends include globalisaimpact they will have on us in terms of both challenges and opportunition, demographic and social changes, changes in values, sustainability ties. This strategy will ensure that we use the potential of digitalisation and the climate, and most importantly, the rapidly accelerating digital to streamline our operations, while also preparing to take on new developments in society. projects on the leading edge of innovation – always with a focus on the customer. Knowledge environments Globalisation and with endless possibilities the campus as ecosystem All over the world, universities are focusing on development An increased degree of internationalisation in higher educaof platforms to streamline and improve digital learning and tion and research increases the competition for top talent. The research environments, partly to be able to offer new crossproportion of international students is expected to increase, discipline education programmes and research opportunities in part because of increased global mobility and migration, but to more people, without geographic limitations. In Sweden, also through new target groups from strongly growing econohow­ever, digitalisation in higher education is a relatively slow mies. We also see the importance of lifelong learning as people process and demand for digital programmes and distance continue to work until they are considerably older, resulting learning is not yet particularly strong. in a growing need for further education. In total, these trends result in new student groups moving forward. FLEXIBLE KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENTS New technology creates new opportunities for learning enINCREASED SERVICE – ROUND THE CLOCK vironments, which may be about to change forever. Learning As national and international competition for education intenenvironments need to be flexible and equipped with the latest sifies, the need for complete support systems, an ecosystem on in digital technology. New research areas that focus on, for campus that makes life work well, also increases. Availability of example, meeting future societal challenges create the need undergraduate and graduate student housing and an increased for learning environments where education and technology and expanded level of service around the clock are also increasinteract in new ways. ingly in demand. New pedagogical models place new demands on adapting Social sustainability is an important social issue where Swelearning environments to pave the way for increased dialogue den faces a general challenge associated with integration. Sevand flexibility. Lecture halls become less important, while there eral centres of education currently express a desire to broaden is a growing need for project-based workplaces for collabotheir recruitment efforts beyond the current recruitment base. ration, as well as realistic environments for working hands-on Accessible and welcoming campuses that are designed to apwith, for example, practical exercises. Places for meetings across peal to a broader group of students can contribute to increased disciplinary boundaries and for collaboration with the business diversity and create added value for all stakeholders. community are becoming increasingly important. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 THE WORLD AROUND US 9 Rapidly changing world Increased focus on climate change The climate is changing all over the world and POTENTIAL TO MAKE A POSITIVE a positive direction. In addition to climate the message from the UN Intergovernmental CONTRIBUTION gains linked to raw materials selection, Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is clear. In In the property industry, the issue is system selection and general efficiency order to secure good living conditions within important since the urbanisation trend in improvements, the introduction of circular the limits of the natural world and eco­ society drives the resource-intensive conbusiness models and the potential of systems, the amount of carbon dioxide emisstruction and property industry towards increased digitalisation can also drive rapid sions to the atmosphere must be cut in half an increased production rate. development in the area. by 2030 in order to approach zero by 2050. The industry currently accounts for a sigThe IPCC report has given increased weight nificant share of society’s climate impact, to the climate issue throughout society. but there is great potential to contribute in Comeback of the Student housing – crucial physical meeting for recruitment Although the future of education and research will be more One clear trend that results in high pressure on urban housing digital, the physical site and the encounter between people markets is the increased mobility of the global population, remains important. Aspects such as the need to meet, create along with increased urbanisation. The shortage of housing community and trade ideas are fundamental and are becoming for young people is a major problem. Increasing the supply of increasingly important in a digitalised environment where student housing has an impact on the entire housing market, the boundaries of social relations are moved from the physical but is also important for the centres of education to be able to world into the digital. New ideas and innovations often arise recruit students from within Sweden and abroad. The Swedish through physical encounters. The physical encounter also universities and Akademiska Hus have a shared vision: no one plays an important role for creating understanding of differshould have to turn down the opportunity to study at a univerences and bridging differences of opinion. sity because they don’t have any accomodation. ENVIRONMENTS THAT PROMOTE ENCOUNTERS SUSTAINABLE HOUSING IN DEMAND A growing number of companies and organisations are One trend that needs to be taken into consideration in general, highlighting meeting places and co-workspaces as a success. including in this area, is the increased awareness that is At universities all over the world, places are currently being emerging among young consumers. There is a desire today to created with inclusive environments that promote the encounmake conscious and sustainable choices and a willingness to ter between people. Offering all students, regardless of base, pay extra for more sustainable products and services. We need the opportunity to use the areas and support structures of the to consider this trend when planning and building for future centres of education is a way to create added value for a new undergraduate and graduate students. target group. Digitalisation changes the industry at the foundation We see a rapid digital development in available through various services, we can services. Co-working is a growing concept, society and industries are being challenged increase the potential for streamlining and where several companies share office space to find benefit in the opportunities that are optimising property management based on and companies gain access to a workplace provided. In the property industry, digitaliuser patterns and behaviours. through membership (read more on page sation leads to the opportunity to stream35). We now see several market participants line operations, but also to develop new FROM PRODUCT TO SERVICE who have grown very large in just a few services and business models to meet new We also see examples of how the industry years through a market idea and a business needs that arise. For example, by collecting is shifting to a “service-oriented” approach, concept based on a clear service offering. large amounts of data and making them transitioning from selling products to selling Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 10 THE WORLD AROUND US Market summary Swedish higher education model provides stability In Sweden, higher education is largely financed by the state, this model promotes lifelong learning and ensures generation after generation of students. The individual colleges and universities are personally responsible for supplying premises, this is where Akademiska Hus is the market leader. In most cases, Swedish colleges and univerSTRONGER MAJOR CITIES AND the previous year. With the exception of 2016, sities are public authorities and have the REGIONAL CENTRES which in general was an exceptionally strong same principal as Akademiska Hus. Funding With its market share of 60 per cent, Akademyear for properties, transaction volumes have is provided through government grants and iska Hus is the leader in the segment of prembeen at about the same level for four consecexternal finance. The level of the grant is ises for higher education and research. The utive years. based on the number of students and their property holdings are concentrated in Sweaccomplishments. Funding for postgraduate den’s major cities and regional centres, which MORE FOREIGN INVESTORS research and education is awarded separately are markets that have generally strengthened Domestic participants accounted for 73 per through grants. The colleges and universities during the year. A campus is an attractive cent (77) of the transaction volume, which are personally responsible, within the framemicro location not only for education and means that foreign investors assumed a more work of their budgets, for facilities planning. research, but also for related activities and significant position than in prior years. The In addition, according to the government business. Demand for on-campus premises weakening of the SEK exchange rate was mandate they are also tasked with planning also depends on how well the campus is intelikely a contributing factor. Transactions for the future supply of facilities. Here Akadgrated with the city in general. An improved primarily involve housing and offices, which emiska Hus can contribute with experience infrastructure, an expanded service offering accounted for 34 per cent (26) and 23 per cent and expertise. and strong housing development strengthens (18) of the volume, respectively. In addition, The Government places demands on the the appeal of both the centres of education a somewhat larger proportion of transactions supply of education. There must be a relevant and the business community. are being carried out in major cities and link to working life and a good balance beregional centres, since the amount for the tween longer programmes and courses aimed CONTINUED STRONG MARKET FOR rest of the country was only 17 per cent (20) more at continuing education. The same apLOCAL AUTHORITY PROPERTIES of the total volume. Despite a stronger rental plies to the distribution between full-time and The transaction market for community market, transactions are generally occurring part-time studies, as well as distance studies. properties was somewhat weak during the with unchanged yield requirements, probably All of these trends combined promote lifelong year, at the same time that it increased for because the cost of financing is expected to learning and broaden the target group that new construction. Current owners are often rise once the monetary policy normalises. wishes to study. restrictive about selling. In those cases where sales do occur, they are usually motivated by HIGHER GRANT FOR EXPANSION a strategy to streamline holdings and free up It is in the interest of the Swedish state to capital that can be reinvested. Fewer transcreate good conditions for high-quality higher actions are carried out during election years T  he number of applicants to colleges education and research. It strengthens Swesince sellers and buyers both prefer to wait in and universities is on a historically high den as a nation of knowledge and guarantees a case changes in policy are imposed. level, despite a positive trend in the well-educated workforce. While several years The commercial property market has labour market. of increases in research grants have levelled performed well in 2018, buoyed by the robust T  he average age of a first year student off somewhat, Swedish universities are economy. Demand for office space is high in Sweden is 24 years, which can be research-heavy from an international perin the major cities and regional centres, compared with 22 in the other OECD spective. Compared with other OECD counresulting in lower vacancy rates and rising countries. tries research is funded to a greater extent by rental prices. In the transaction market  he number of foreign students is T government funding. Allocations that finance there is strong interest in Swedish property on the rise again, after a decline in the expansion of programmes at the centres and volumes are about the same level as in conjunction with the implementation of education aimed at occupations currently 2017. On 31 December the year’s transaction of tuition fees. experiencing a shortage of workforce have volume amounted to SEK 153 billion (151), an been raised during the year. increase of about one per cent compared with Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 THE WORLD AROUND US 11 Market summary Our college and university cities Luleå Akademiska Hus is one of the country’s largest property companies with approximately 3.3 million square metres of rentable area and a property Umeå portfolio of SEK 86 billion. Together with colleges and universities, we strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge by developing and managing environments for education and research. Gävle 16 AKADEMISKA HUS CAN BE FOUND AT Uppsala Karlstad Stockholm Örebro Norrköping COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY CITIES Skövde Linköping Göteborg Borås Lund Kristianstad Alnarp Population growth >1% Population growth <1% Malmö Population decline Source: Statistics Sweden Our six largest cities Market value Largest centres Market share, Market value Largest centres Market share, per city/town and area of education per city/town and area of education Stockholm 39 SEK billion Stockholm University Lund 7 SEK billion Lund University 957,000 m² Karolinska Institutet 358,000 m² Royal Institute of Technology Uppsala 15 SEK billion Uppsala University Umeå 4 SEK billion Umeå University Swedish 604,000 m² SLU Ultuna 236,000 m² University of Agricultural Sciences, Umeå Gothenburg 8 SEK billion University of Gothenburg Linköping 3 SEK billion Linköping University 348,000 m² Chalmers University of 221,000 m² Technology ● Akademiska Hus ● Other Source: Andel 2018, Swedish National Financial Management Authority Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 12 THE WORLD AROUND US Materiality analysis and stakeholders Focus on substance in the field of sustainability In our role as one of Sweden’s largest property developers and managers, we have major opportunities to contribute to a more sustainable society. We engage in dialogue with our stakeholders to create a good basis to identify the issues that should be prioritised if we are to succeed with our sustainability efforts. OUR ESSENTIAL AREAS To identify the sustainability issues that are most important both for clearly impact our industry and operations, which also affected the Akademiska Hus and for the prioritised stakeholders, a comprehensive selection of our most essential sustainability aspects. In 2018 we conmateriality analysis was conducted in 2014. The analysis has been ducted an overview of our essential areas, with broad internal repupdated annually with a special focus on a few selected stakeholder resentation. The six areas that were presented in the 2017 Annual groups. In 2018 a comprehensive external analysis was also conducted Report became four this year, but they include the same issues as previin conjunction with the formulation of the company’s new strategy. The ous years. Detailed information about sustainability governance analysis provided important insights into changes in society that regarding these issues can be found on page 102. 1 2 Value-adding knowledge environments entail leveraging Resource efficiency for reduced climate impact means climate-smart and innovative investments, high-quality that we use the assets at our disposal more efficiently to efficient processes and a viable commercial approach to reduce the burden on the environment. We focus on the create long-term benefit for both stakeholders and the entire operation, from planning and implementation of environment. We focus heavily on the social perspectives construction projects to the day-to-day property manageof well-being, gender equality and accessibility. Read more ment. Collaboration on innovations is crucial and builds a on pages 20-21. high development capacity. Read more on pages 22-30. 3 4 Caring for people is based on the role of people in our Responsible relationships refers to building relationships, operations. By working proactively for a healthy and safe in our capacity as a major client and participant in the work environment for both employees and customers, as industry, based on a high standard of ethics with a clear well as those who work on our behalf, we improve the inmoral compass. We strive to achieve high transparency in dustry and strengthen our relationship with our stakeholdour customer relationships to create understanding of our ers. We take advantage of and strengthen the skills of our role and our mission, and we set clear requirements for employees and encourage responsible employees who live our suppliers. Our ambition is to always contribute, and by our values: Responsive, Committed and Value-adding. demand, knowledge that develops the sustainable society. Read more on pages 31-32. Read more on page 23. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 THE WORLD AROUND US 13 Materiality analysis and stakeholders STAKEHOLDER INFLUENCE Sustainability initiatives at Akademiska Hus are based on sustainability ers, employees, suppliers, local and business communities, our owner, issues that are crucial for the company to achieve its strategy. Considerlenders, banks and credit rating agencies, as well as undergraduate and ation is taken of both the expectations of stakeholders and the ability of graduate students. The illustration below describes the various groups the company to contribute to a sustainable community development. with which we regularly engage in dialogue and the areas within which Our stakeholders are participants who are influenced by, or who influthey expect us to focus. ence, our operations. We have defined the most important as customRead more about our dialogue with stakeholders on page 102. The illustrations shows those areas which our subjects flagged as most important. CUSTOMERS • Provide attractive knowledge environments and campuses that enable the customer to compete in national and international arenas • Contribute to the customer’s long-term sustainability efforts through a proactive approach and high resource efficiency • Contribute to increased construction of student ­accommodation • Develop and provide new services and benefits within property management • Be clear about the organisation, governance, business model and rent setting at Akademiska Hus • Collaboration in personal safety and IT UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE EMPLOYEES STUDENTS • Attractive employer offering market-based • Resource conservation on campus working conditions • Development of smart digital solutions • Safe and healthy working environment • Appropriate environments, both indoors • Good opportunities for skills development and outdoors • Understanding of the personal role of • Social well-being through open and employees in relation to the goals and ­accessible campuses strategies of the company • Opportunity for collaboration and dialogue Akademiska • More student housing Hus LENDERS, BANKS AND CREDIT SUPPLIERS RATING AGENCIES • Clear, relevant procurement terms and • Long-term capital structure conditions • Professional risk exposure management • Clear and ambitious requirements for the • Stable, long-term and sustainable environment, health and safety, quality and operations with profitability and yield in social responsibility accordance with objectives • Relationships that benefit both parties • Clear financial communication • Expectation of follow-up and feedback • Presence on market for green bonds OWNER LOCAL AND BUSINESS COMMUNITIES • Contribute to the Government’s objective • Be active in the dialogue on community/ of reinforcing Sweden as a nation of regional development knowledge • Create opportunities to include businesses • Increased customer benefit through on campus ­collaboration with centres of education • Contribute to increased construction of • Serve as a role model in sustainable student accommodation ­business practices • Be an active participant in innovation-­ • High resource efficiency driven development • Contribute to increased construction of • Be socially sustainable – a good student accommodation ­community participant Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 14 OUR FOCUS Strategy Strategy – collaboration for future knowledge environments In a changing world and in a time with a high pace of change, Akademiska Hus faces brand new demands. To meet these demands we have developed our long-term strategy further. With a focus on our three most important stakeholder perspectives – owner, customer and society – we create opportunities for collaboration. Akademiska Hus’ long-term strategy extends to 2025 and has guided us in our business for the past five years. As a result of the rapid changes in the world around us and the increased pressure for change in the property industry and our business, we have now updated and clarified our strategy. This ensures long-term sustainable management and development of our properties and campuses. DIGITALISATION CHANGES THE GAME PLAN Digitalisation changes society at its foundation and alters the basic conditions for our entire operation. Meeting these challenges requires a profound digital transformation of our operations, as well as readiness to embrace the potential opportunities on the leading edge of the development. We are here for our customers and with our products and services we serve as a support for their activities. Our working methods will therefore become even more customer-focused. Our strategy over the next three years, “Collaboration in the development of future knowledge environments”, is based on our most important stakeholder perspectives and consists of three points: upgraded base delivery, enhanced customer relationships and innovative business development. Focusing our development on these areas equips us to meet the challenges and ensures our longterm relevance as a property company aimed at premises and campuses for Swedish centres of education. The goal is for our customers to view us as a good strategic partner in terms of both day-to-day management and the development of knowledge environments. The collaborative projects create clear added value for the customers, as well as for our owner and the surrounding community. Collaboration is essential to our strategic work with attractive knowledge environments. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR FOCUS 15 Strategy Upgraded base Enhanced Innovative delivery customer business relationships development We will upgrade and add new We will develop our relationship with We will engage in focused value to our base delivery: the customers to create a dialogue processes for innovative business based on good business practices development in order to embrace Undertake an extensive and acceptance of our various roles: opportunities on the leading edge digital transformation of developments: Be sensitive to the needs Accept long-term and wishes of each customer Continually monitor and responsibility for sustainable regarding collaboration, always address rapid changes in our operations in balance with a viable industry commercial approach Benefit from unique insight Expand our offering to create and expertise Expand our professional added value for the customer approach to customers, both Achieve high operational in the physical encounter and Develop new business models excellence through other channels and innovation environments Clarify the role of Akademiska Work agilely and run test Hus and its mission to build operations where successful acceptance and understanding pilots are geared up among customers Four factors for success Akademiska Hus faces a significant journey of development in which our employees have a key role. Committed employeeship and responsible leadership are crucial to our success. 1 2 3 4 Involvement of Strengthen a developmentGearing up digital skills Dynamic working employees regarding oriented culture and view is viewed as a natural ­methods based on a the mission and vision digitalisation as an enabler part of the job. learning ­organisation that to create strong in the development of works efficiently towards commitment. our deliverables to the ­common challenges. customer. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 16 OUR FOCUS Sustainable operator Sustainability – our responsibility for future generations Our sustainability work is based in part on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and in part on the UN global sustainable development goals. Akademiska Hus plays an active role in the transition to a sustainable society and through our work we increase the value of our business, at the same time that we contribute to several of the global goals. AKADEMISKA HUS FOLLOWS THE GLOBAL COMPACT By doing so, we ensure comprehensive accountability. In 2015, Akademiska Hus joined the UN Global ComAkademiska Hus reports on our work with the ten prinpact and the ten principles of the initiative, which are ciples through an annual Communication on Progress based on internationally recognised regulations such (CoP). Below is a description of how we work with and as the ILO conventions and human rights conventions. contribute to the global goals. GOAL 4 – QUALITY EDUCATION GOAL 5 – GENDER EQUALITY GOAL 7 – AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Our contribution: To build and develop Our contribution: Equal participation and Our contribution: Achieve change through knowledge environments of the future. equal opportunities in our procedures. our energy strategy. Our work has strong focus on creating Akademiska Hus actively promote a more The strategy entails that we primarily need safe and inclusive environments that equal property industry aiming to reach to reduce energy needs in the proper­ties. contribute to social wellbeing and lifelong equal rights and opportunities for all emIn addition, we have purchase strategies learning. We create hubs to pro­mote ployees. Our diversity and gender equality aimed at influen­cing our suppliers to offer value creating meetings on campus and initiative “Equally-Unique” is fundamental fossil free and renewable products. We knowledge envi­ronments ready for pedaand encompasses the entire organisa­tion. also aim to create new renewable energy gogical solutions in the very front end. Our Akademiska Hus Executive Management solutions to cover our electricity demand. campuses are developed to function as has an equal gender balance. ecosystems to com­plement and contribute to the surrounding community. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR FOCUS 17 Sustainable operator GOAL 8 – DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GOAL 11 – SUSTAINABLE CITIES GOAL 12 – RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION GROWTH AND COMMUNITIES AND PRODUCTION Our contribution: Proactively improve Our contribution: Promote inclusive and Our contribution: Sustainable procureresource efficiency in our operations sustainable urbanisation. ment and resource efficient learning and promote a safe and secure working Akademiska Hus shall contribute to the environments. environment. creation of more student accomodation by Akademiska Hus complies with the Public Technical upgrades and innovative solubuilding sustainable and affordable housProcurement Act for a fair and transparent tions contribute to resource efficiency ing. Planning of our campuses includes procurement pro­cess. We certify all of our and quality improvement in our delivery. creating public spaces, meeting places new construction projects and larger renoThrough the initiative Keep Zero, which and green areas that are experienced vation projects according to the Miljöbyggwas initiated by Akademiska Hus, we as accessible and attractive. Through nad certification system to, at a minimum, collaborate with the industry to promote research projects we gradually develop meet the Silver standard. We also fo­cus common, high set standards for safer our knowledge, for example related to the on innovative solutions in order to use the construction sites. significance of green areas for lear­ning, spaces on cam­pus more efficiently. performance and wellbeing. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors of Akademiska Hus decides on the overarching objectives of the company, which are also based on high demands from our owner. The CEO has overarching responsibility for sustainability efforts at the company and Executive Management GOAL 17 – PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS sets strategic goals and plans in close collaboration with the company’s sustainability Our contribution: Create partner­ships officer. The operational work is run and coordinated by a development group focusing on that contribute to sustainable developsustainability. Operational responsibility is allocated to different parts of the organisament. tion, where all employees have a responsibility and are encouraged to actively contribute through their daily work. Akademiska Hus drives development in the industry by initiating and participating in multilateral collaborations. Moreover, we take an active part in referral pro­ cesses relating to new legislation and regulations. Our custo­mers are often at the front of development, which creates good opportunities to exchange knowledge and promote innovations. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 18 OUR FOCUS Goals and governance Goals and governance We use a balanced scorecard to guide our operation and to confirm that our work leads us forward. The goals of our focus areas permeate everything we do and guide us towards the overarching goals of our operations. Over the course of the year the scorecard was updated and adapted to Sweden as a nation of knowledge. Goals and objectives for 2021 are the strategy formulated in 2018. The goal for each one of our focus areas presented since the business plan period runs from 2019 to 2021. The – customer, employee, finance and development – is supplemented by a sustainability perspective is fully integrated into our overarching goals number of principles that describe how we need to act and be perceived and linked to the UN’s global sustainable development goals, which to achieve the goals on the way towards our vision. We strengthen Akademiska Hus considers to be a top priority. Customer Employees GOALS AND OBJECTIVES FOR 2021 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES FOR 2021 We provide better deliverables than others and We have dedicated employees who achieve high we are our customers’ first choice. standards. Our goal for 2021 is for the Customer Satisfaction Our goals for 2021 are for the performance index to Index (CSI) to reach 70%. reach 77 and the index for an accident-free workplace should not exceed 2. PRINCIPLES FOR SUCCESS PRINCIPLES FOR SUCCESS We are professional and are our customers’ first choice. We have a development-oriented culture and our We are sensitive to the needs and wishes of each leaders create conditions that promote performance. customer regarding collaboration, but in balance with Our working methods and processes are efficient and our a viable commercial approach. skills enable us to deliver the right quality at every level. We build acceptance and understanding in our We have an inclusive and safe workplace with healthy customers for our role and our mission. employees. FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES 2018 FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES 2018 CSI should be 63 or more and was 62 in the 2018 survey. P  erformance index (API): Benchmarks will be set in 2019 in connection with assignment appraisals, Our CSI has improved by two points since the last survey, see page 31. which is a step in the right direction. Over the course A  ccident-free workplace (ELTAR) was 2.4. of the year we initiated several strategic collaborations API is a key figure that indicates how good conditions with various centres of education with a focus on are for our employees to be able to perform their jobs. innovation and sustainability, while strengthening An API of 75 indicates that conditions are present relationships and collaboration associated with our for good performance. The accident rate for our everyday deliverables. contractors (ELTAR) was measured for the first time in 2018. To see how ELTAR is calculated, see page 107. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR FOCUS 19 Goals and governance Business concept Working in collaboration with our customers, we develop, build and manage Vision knowledge environments that make the centres of education more attractive and contribute to sustainable development in We strenghten the community. We offer products and Sweden as a nation services based on the needs of the of knowledge centres of education and where the campus experience is strengthened through relevant services. Finances Development GOALS AND OBJECTIVES FOR 2021 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES FOR 2021 We deliver the owner’s financial targets over a We are increasing the share of collaborative business cycle. By 2025 we will reduce the quantity of innovation projects with our customers, which will energy purchased by 50% compared with the level in contribute to increased construction of 2000. Project expenses should not deviate more than student housing. ±2% from the project limits. Our goals for 2021 are to have 70% of our innovation A review of the owner’s financial objectives is projects run collaboratively and we will have 2,130 currently underway; decisions will be made at the student housing units. Annual General Meeting in April. PRINCIPLES FOR SUCCESS PRINCIPLES FOR SUCCESS We are responsible and cost-conscious when we work We create knowledge environments on the leading with our contractual partners. edge and contribute to sustainable development in the Our investments in campuses and properties are community through innovative initiatives. sustainable and future-hedged. We leverage the potential of digitalisation to add value We add value through efficient, functional and and to address a rapidly changing society. attractive campuses. We develop cutting edge offerings in collaboration with our customers to enhance attractiveness. FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES 2018 FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES 2018  eturn on operating capital should be at least 6.5% R I nnovation in collaboration was 47%. and the outcome for 2018 was 5.5%. The equity raT he number of student housing units should be 510 tio should be 30%–40% and was 45.8%. A dividend and at year-end the outcome was 510. of 40%–60% of profit for the year is to be paid to the owner and it was 60%. Our ability to carry out innovation projects in collaboration with others is measured by the E  nergy reduction (kWh/sq m) should be at least proportion of our innovation projects that we run in 3.4% but increased during the year by 0.3%. collaboration with our customers; this was measured P  roject expenses* should not deviate more than for the first time in 2018. ± 2% from the project framework. They deviated by 2.4% over the course of the year. The energy reduction did not meet the target for the year, this is becuase of a combination of the extremely hot summer, and fewer energy-saving measures carried out than planned. The deviation in project expenses is largely related to delays in the construction permit process for the Albano project. *Relates to projects over SEK 50 million Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 20 OUR OPERATIONS Campus and business development Campus and business development Campuses are learning environments undergoing constant development. Needs, wishes and visions for creating conditions for future research, education and collaboration are discussed at all centres of education. Factors such as digitalisation and the increased pace of innovation open new opportunities, while placing new demands on both current and future campus environments. Campus development is a key issue for us at ment can be developed to create buildings and tiveness, while improving study outcomes Akademiska Hus. How do we develop campuses outdoor environments that are attractive and and degree of utilisation. In 2018 we began that are still attractive and functional in 50, 75 flexible in the long term, and translate these construction of a learning lab at Chalmers’ or 100 years? In collaboration with Sweden’s ideas into development projects. We follow a Johanneberg Campus. In this environment centres of education we take full responsibility structured approach with a focus on the longwe will together with our customers be able to and contribute with our expertise and knowterm and sustainability. Leveraging the joint learn more about how digital tools, furnishhow in the development of long-term sustainaknowledge we share with our customers and ings, lighting, sound and other environmental ble knowledge environments. Meeting the need converting it into clearly defined development factors can influence learning, creativity and for student housing on campus is also included. plans and campus plans is the key to success. outcomes. The campus as part of urban development has also had a major impact on how Sweden’s highINNOVATIVE LEARNING ENVIRONMENTS STUDENT HOUSING UNITS DEVELOP er education institutions want to develop their As a community builder, we must be innoCAMPUSES physical environments moving forward. vative with a focus on the future to ensure In many cities there is an urgent shortage of that our deliverables provide customers with student accommodation and more underCAMPUS WITH MANY FUNCTIONS added value. We will develop products, servicgraduate and graduate student housing ranks The campus is a venue for research and learning, es and practices through structured innovahigh on the priority list for many students and as well as for encounters with the business tion partnerships, thereby contributing to centres of education. Campus-based student community and the interface for encounters sustainable development in the community. housing is also one of the most important with the community at large. Creating places for Learning environments of the future, along factors for creating a vibrant environment this, building student housing and ensuring an with campus and urban development, are two that is open, safe and inviting round the clock, attractive selection of services in collaboration areas in which we have prioritised innovation. every day of the week. We actively work to with other stakeholders is becoming increasingIn particular, the development of digital techmake housing construction on or adjacent to ly important for the centres of education. Resnology and new teaching methods open up campus possible. Our campus plans always taurants, opportunities for cultural and sports for opportunities for completely new forms of include undergraduate and graduate student activities and access to child care and preschools learning environments. housing, whether the proposal entails buildin close proximity to campus are examples of A gradual, increasing integration is undering housing on our land, or on land belonging services that make life easier and are increasway at Swedish centres of education between to some other property owner. Since the end ingly integrated into and around the campus. physical study and work environments and of 2014, construction of student accommodavirtual classrooms and social platforms. Along tion has been incorporated into our mission STRONGER TOGETHER with our customers, we develop and test both and in 2018 students moved into the first Working with a centre of education to indigital technology and physical environment, student housing built under our own manageterpret and convert these visions so that the which together can help to increase attracment on the KTH Campus in Stockholm. physical environment can best support the strategies is at the heart of campus development. Together with the administration, employees and students of the centre of education, we explore how the physical environStrategic focus We will work closely with our customers so that together we can understand our challenges and opportunities. Through campus plans we achieve even better conditions to help to develop activities on campus. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS 21 Campus and business development Balconies that resemble outdoor spaces help to blur the boundaries between indoors and outdoors at the Bilberg House at Örebro University. CASE Örebro Campus Lab Örebro University and Akademiska Hus have signed an extensive cooperation agreement with the goal of working together to make the university the most digitalised centre of education in Sweden. The initiative, which is called Örebro Campus Lab, will help to develop an education and research environment at the digital and sustainable forefront. Ö rebro University already attractive to students, graduhas extremely high ate students and teachers at expertise in artificial inÖrebro University, as well as for telligence (AI) and robotics. We external partners. are building on this expertise in “Örebro University’s vision an in-depth cooperative agreeclearly states that we will ment. Under the agreement, an contribute to knowledge-based array of specific measures will social development. This probe carried out over a three-year ject is completely in line with period, including dialogue and that point. The collaboration Örebro University research projects, as well as entails unique opportunities test beds, in order to create to find smart, innovative and an innovative education and sustainable solutions for the research environment for the future,” says Johan Schnürer, future – Örebro Campus Lab, an Vice-Chancellor at Örebro environment that will be highly University. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 22 OUR OPERATIONS Projects that meet the need for premises Projects that meet the need for premises Akademiska Hus has a large project portfolio that is developed in close cooperation with our customers and other players. One of our strengths is the ability to coordinate and run the extensive and complex collaborative processes that are the key to achieving a successful result. University of Gothenburg School of Business, Economics and Law Construction projects account for a large part also means that we can invest and contribute 42 of Akademiska Hus’ operations and given our to our customer’s expansion even during a MILJÖBYGGNAD extensive experience of building for education recession. and research, we are a proactive and longterm partner for our customers. The construcPROJECT REVIEWS tion projects vary substantially, ranging from In 2018 project reviews were carried out in minor renovations to student accommodation twelve ongoing projects. The purpose of the and advanced new research facilities. reviews was to identify and manage risks CERTIFIED BUILDINGS Akademiska Hus is both builder and manassociated with the projects, contribute to ager. Developing projects for long-term manconstant improvement in Akademiska Hus’ agement provides us with excellent opportuproject and management systems and to help carefully considered material choices. nities to invest in sustainable and innovative the individual employees to do their jobs. All new construction and major renovation solutions. Investing activities are pursued The reviews showed that our project manprojects must qualify, at a minimum, for a silver from project concept to approved investment agement teams are ambitious, knowledgeable rating in the Miljöbyggnad environmental in a systematic process. Our financial capacity and professional. We also received suggescertification system. Building to Miljöbyggnad tions for areas for development that will help standards provides confirmation of important to further develop the construction process. qualities in a building in terms of energy, indoor environment and material choices. In order to Strategic focus WE BUILD SUSTAINABLY Both Akademiska Hus and many of our customsucceed in this endeavour, we stay up to date on the latest methods and technologies. We We create buildings for teachers, underers have high aspirations in sustainability. Our currently have 42 certified buildings, including graduate and graduate students. We must role as a long-term property owner provides seven at the gold level and 35 at the silver level. constantly cooperate to better understand an excellent opportunity for building wisely The certified new construction and renovawhat our customers need. By having clear and sustainably. Our goal is always to deliver tion projects must subsequently undergo a valrequirements throughout the construction the highest possible customer value through idation process, and to date 17 buildings have process, from early phases to transfer resource efficiency and good cost management. been verified with retained certificates. During phases, we can deliver a product of the At the same time, Akademiska Hus constantly the year, four of our buildings were already right quality according to a common vision. strives to minimise environmental impact certified during the construction phase. The through sustainable construction processes and new Humanisten in Gothenburg and the Valla Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS 23 Projects that meet the need for premises CASE Biomedicum – One of the largest research ­laboratories in Europe W ith its 65,000 square metres, Karolinska Institutet’s new research lab is one of the largest laboratories in Europe. The highly specialised lab environment spans over eleven floors with room for 1,600 researchers and other staff. The building is equipped with Biomedicum, Solna Campus cutting-edge technology for world-leading experimental research aimed at improving human health. Akademiska Hus has invested about SEK 2 billion in the project, for which construction began in 2013 and which is now completed – both ahead of schedule and under budget. Student Building in Linköping achieved the and if they fail to do so, they are eliminated therefore important that our employees alhighest environmental certification level. An from consideration. When new framework ways behave professionally and practice good array of measures and solutions serve as the agreements and project agreements are business ethics in all contacts with supplier. foundation for the gold standard certification, signed, the Code of Conduct is attached as To reduce the risk of corruption, Akademiska including controlled lighting and ventilation an appendix. In all procurements, suppliers Hus informed all suppliers in 2018 about our based on needs, low-energy windows and must also certify that they have both environinternal Code of Conduct and gift policy, and environmentally friendly district heating and mental management and work environment also declined all gifts. cooling. management systems. If a supplier violates Read more about the risk associated with the Code of Conduct or the environmental and suppliers on pages 44–46, as well as about our SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER CHAINS occupational health and safety requirements, internal efforts to achieve good business ethics Akademiska Hus is a large purchasing organthe agreement can be terminated. in the Corporate Governance Report on pages isation and buys products and services for About 600 new framework and project agree51–52. about SEK 4.5 billion per year. Our 2,300 acments were signed in 2018, which represents the tive suppliers are largely Swedish companies. great majority of all signed agreements, and all SUPPLIERS In 2016 it was ruled that Akademiska Hus is of them were also assessed based on social and Share of total purchasing volume subject to the Public Procurement Act (LoU), environment-related criteria. Direct procurefor which reason a thorough restructuring was ment is not covered by this process. carried out in 2017 and 2018. LoU increases At the end of 2018 Akademiska Hus the opportunity for more and smaller supplideployed a follow-up system with random ers to compete on equal terms. reviews of suppliers, carried out on-site by an We place demands on our suppliers regardexternal party. Three reviews were carried out ing the environment, occupational health and in 2018, and a total of 15 will be completed in a safety, labour conditions and human rights, as 12-month period from the first review. A whiswell as business ethics and anti-corruption. tleblower function has been in place for the Construction and contracting services 65% The requirements are specified in our Code of past few years that can also be used to report Technical consulting services 10% Conduct for suppliers, which is based on the deviations. No cases of violation of our Code Installation services ten principles of the UN Global Compact. of Conduct for suppliers were revealed in 2018. (HVAC, electricity etc.) 10% Energy and water 7% Already in the procurement phase, interestAkademiska Hus operates in an industry Facility maintenance 4% ed suppliers must meet eligibility requirements that has historically seen corruption. It is Other services 4% Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 24 OUR OPERATIONS Projects that meet the need for premises Our largest projects COMMISSIONED PROJECTS, 31 DEC. 2018 > SEK 100 MILLION Type of Investment Miljöbyggnad Additional Project name Location premises limits, SEK m certification floor space, m² Completion Customer Biomedicum Stockholm Laboratory 2,822 Silver 48,000 2018-Q2 Karolinska Institutet Lab of the Future Stockholm Laboratory 322 2018-Q4 Karolinska Institutet Police programme, Södertörn Stockholm Education 260 5,400 2018-Q1 Södertörn University Police training programme, Umeå University Umeå Education 165 Silver 5,000 2018-Q1 Umeå University TOTAL 3,569 APPROVED PROJECTS, 31 DEC. 2018 > SEK 100 MILLION Type of Investment Per­centage Miljöbyggnad Additional Expected Project name Location premises limits, SEK m accrued, % certification floor space, m² completion Customer Albano Stockholm Education 3,302 30 Silver 100,000 2021-Q4 Stockholm University Ångström Phase 4 Uppsala Laboratory 1,185 13 Silver 30,000 2022-Q4 Uppsala University Gold (new construction)/ Silver Humanisten Gothenburg Offices 668 71 (renovation) 12,100 2019-Q4University of Gothenburg LTH Maskinteknik Lund Education 459 2 19,000 2022-Q2 Lund University KI Residence Stockholm Residential 434 4 15,500 2020-Q1 Karolinska Institutet Valla Student Building Linköping Education 411 82 Gold 13,500 2019-Q3 Linköping University Student accommodation Teknikringen Stockholm Residential 400 83 8,900 2019-Q1 Akademiska Hus A Working Lab Gothenburg Other 381 62 Gold 9,600 2019-Q3 Akademiska Hus A house Stockholm Other 317 39 Silver 3,500 2020-Q3 Akademiska Hus Medical Biology Centre Umeå Laboratory 306 100 Silver 1,800 2020-Q1 Umeå University Hydra student housing Uppsala Residential 193 4,600 2020-Q2 Akademiska Hus Polstjärnan student housing Luleå Residential 183 44 6,000 2020-Q1 Akademiska Hus GIH swimming centre Stockholm Other 118 30 2019-Q3 City of Stockholm Child and youth studies Frescati Backe Stockholm Education 111 48 Silver 2019-Q2 Stockholm University Projects under SEK 100 million 1,432 TOTAL 9,900 PLANNED PROJECTS, 31 DEC. 2018 > SEK 100 MILLION Investment Additional floor Expected Project name Location Type of premises limits, SEK m space, m² completion Customer Naturvetenskap Life Gothenburg Laboratory 1,624 26,500 2023-Q2 University of Gothenburg Forum Medicum Lund Offices 702 11,600 2023-Q2 Lund University Handels Hörne Gothenburg Education 500 6,200 2023-Q1 University of Gothenburg Tomteboda Stockholm Education 348 4,100 2021-Q2 Akademiska Hus IKSU Campus Hotel Umeå Other 170 6,700 2021-Q4 Akademiska Hus IT upper secondary school Uppsala Education 113 5,500 2020-Q3 IT Gymnasiet Sverige AB Botanicum Stockholm Laboratory 108 5,200 2021-Q3 Akademiska Hus Projects under SEK 100 million 535 TOTAL 4,100 All new construction, as well as major renovation projects, will meet the requirements and be certified at least to the level of Silver in the Miljöbyggnad environmental classification system. Student housing is not yet covered by this strategic decision. This ambition is not applicable in certain cases because of the nature of the operations, for which reason departure from this objective can be approved. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS 25 Projects that meet the need for premises PROJECT PORTFOLIO, SEK M OUR PROJECT PORTFOLIO 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Akademiska Hus’ project portfolio is divided into three categories 2018 2017 – decided, planned and concept projects – and totals SEK 25,700 Decided projects 9,900 13,000 million, of which SEK 4,400 million is already invested. The two prePlanned projects 4,100 3,700 dominant approved projects in the portfolio are Albano, where the first DECIDED AND PLANNED PROJECTS 14,000 16,700 phase will be commissioned in 2021, and Ångström 4, with commisof which already invested in projects in progress -4,400 -5,700 sioning planned for 2022. Both projects have long lease terms of 10 and REMAINDER OF DECIDED AND PLANNED PROJECTS 9,600 11,000 20 years, respectively. New construction projects with long lease terms, Concept projects 11,700 9,800 usually between 10 and 25 years, account for the majority of our project TOTAL REMAINING PROJECTS 21,300 20,800 portfolio. The investment portfolio contains new construction, extenTotal project portfolio 25,700 26,500 sion, redevelopment and renovation of existing properties. The emphasis in the project portfolio can be found in Stockholm and Gothenburg, THE DIFFERENT INVESTMENTS ARE CATEGORISED AS: but projects can be found among all of our larger towns and cities. Akademiska Hus has had an expanded mission since 2014 that ● Decided projects. includes building student housing. Student housing projects in the ● Planned projects – have an inquiry or planning framework, where some form of agreement exists between the Company and the tenant. categories decided, planned and concept projects for a total of SEK ● Concept projects – projects likely to be carried out within five years. 4,500 million. More campus-based housing contributes to increased security and a more vibrant campus round the clock. Photo: LINK arkitekter CASE Customer value with more student housing Akademiska Hus is building student housing that will link the Ultuna Campus with the central portions of Ultuna and Fyrisån in Uppsala. They are both integral to the urban development and also a way to make more students choose the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU). A kademiska Hus is investing approxial Sciences to meet its student housing avoid the negative environmental impact mately SEK 193 million to build 108 needs at Ultuna for the coming years. of long commutes and prolonged travel flats with room for 132 undergradu“Good, easily accessible housing for times,” says Birgitta Wikmark Carlsson, ate and graduate students on the Ultuna students and guest researchers is an imacting university director at the Swedish Campus. The initiative will make Uppsala portant competitive factor for attracting University of Agricultural Sciences. more attractive as a student town and the very best. On-campus housing close help the Swedish University of Agriculturto the workplace also allows residents to Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 26 OUR OPERATIONS Leading edge property management Leading edge property management Akademiska Hus works with a strategic and long-term approach to property management with a focus on sustainability and customer value. Our objective is to be our customers’ first choice. We currently manage about 3.3 million square metres with the ambition that our properties must maintain a high standard for a long time, and at the same time be able to be customized to meet the changing needs of our customers. For Akademiska Hus, high quality in maintenance services, responsible energy consumption and open communication with both customers and suppliers are crucial for increasing business benefits and value for our customers and tenants. We consider property management to be an umbrella term used to cover all the technical and financial measures carried out during the life of a building. Our holdings primarily consist of hightech research facilities, and various types of classrooms and office space. These facilities must maintain a high standard for a long time. In order to work effectively with our strategic property management our approach must be both versatile and adaptable. Akademiska Hus’ management organisation takes care of our buildings and the installations and equipment inside them, with a focus on service and professionalism. By maintaining a close and continual dialogue with our tenants and other parties who influence the use of the premises we can provide long-term property management while adapting our work to meet the changing needs of our customers. Along with our many Each campus has a team with highly technically knowledgeable years of experience and extensive expertise in facilities engineers who are responsible for the various buildings in the area and ensure a long-term approach to property management. property management and maintenance, this provides excellent opportunities for creating sustainable property management. In this way we also increase long-term customer value, charging stations for electric cars on campus which is a priority. and joint campus walks with our customers and tenants to find energy thieves, to largeCUSTOMER IN FOCUS scale solar parks and green leases. Strategic focus Collaboration with our customers is crucial In 2019 we will continue our work if we are to succeed with our sustainability ENERGY EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS strengthening our base delivery and efforts. By focusing on sustainability issues Akademiska Hus constantly works to find customer value. Through stronger internal together, we not only reduce the amount of enenergy-efficient solutions for properties we collaboration and a close relationship with ergy used, but also promote commitment and own and manage. The energy initiative involve our customers, we strive to be their first visibility for these issues, while broadening both using less energy and using it approprichoice. In addition to the customer experiour knowledge on the subject. To further raise ately. Our properties shall have well-designed, ence, we continue to pursue our ambitious our level of ambition and show that we truly energy-efficient systems and maintenance initiative to lower energy consumption in take energy issues seriously, we have for the solutions. By focusing on operations optimisaour buildings. With an aggressive energy past few years, launched a variety of initiatives tion in our current property holdings, we are process, operating optimisation and smart focused on sustainability in collaboration with steadily reducing energy consumption, but we digital solutions, the ambition is to come our customers. The initiatives are based on a also emphasise incorporating energy-efficient one step closer to the savings target. shared desire to act and invest in sustainable buildings in our new developments. For examchoices. They may range from installations of ple, we explore the possibility of using excess Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS 27 Leading edge property management energy from nearby buildings during the early with a unit for Energy and Technology, which measuring systems. By analysing a building’s stages of development of new buildings. This drives the work forward both generally and energy performance, our facilities engineers strategy enables us to reduce the need for locally. Our Energy Portal was developed to can calculate and implement measures that energy delivered. enable our facilities engineers to actively map provide benefit, both financially and environRenewable energy is another major focus out energy consumption and monitor energy mentally. and in 2018 we continued to install solar pansavings for the entire property portfolio. The els. On the Ultuna Campus in Uppsala eight faEnergy Portal is based on a measurement cilities with a total of 6,700 square metres have database that is updated regularly with conbeen installed. Along with existing facilities, we sumption and energy values from an array of will then reach solar power production with an annual capacity of 2.5 million kWh. As a result, a substantial portion of the energy needs of ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy intensity increased by 0.3 per cent during the year, which can be explained in part by the increased demand more university buildings will be able to be for cooling during the heat wave. With the plans for energy efficiency improvements, however, we believe that our longmet by the solar panels. In Umeå we commisterm objectives will be achieved. sioned a new building for the police training programme during the year, which met the kWh/Gross Internal Area Total Outcome Miljöbyggnad Gold standard for energy with Objective a generous margin. We also strive to achieve 300 delivery of completely fossil-fuel free energy. AGGRESSIVE ENERGY PROCESS 250 Ambitious energy savings goals, along with management responsibility for a variety of complex buildings, place high demands on 200 facilities engineers as well as on effective tools and processes. To ensure fulfilment of objectives, in 2018 we developed our energy strate150 gy and deployed an aggressive energy process to streamline work with energy through increased collaboration and more procedures 100 that simplify prioritisation and implementation. We also strengthened our organisation 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 Akademiska Hus’ energy strategy Our energy strategy is based on three components: AKADEMISKA HUS’ ENERGY TARGETS REDUCE... INFLUENCE... CREATE... in existing portfolio suppliers renewable energy during construction through collaboration with We want to influence and We also want to create new customers interact with our energy suppliers renewable electricity that is to achieve a fossil-free and equivalent to our needs, which We will reduce the quantity of renewable product. means that we try to find parties delivered energy to one half of for collaboration. what it was in 2000 by 2025. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 28 OUR OPERATIONS Leading edge property management Diversified art places high demands on property management. CASE Art on campus, part A rt on campus is largely management – a job that has site-specific and linked continued over the course of of management to the building. Ownership and management are handled by Akademiska Hus as the year. Art on campus enriches the environment and with a new job description for an art part of its usual management coordinator appointed as part Akademiska Hus has one of the largest collections duties. The collection ranges of the property management of public art in Sweden. An extensive inventory was from bronze statues to video services on each campus, art carried out during the year and over 700 works of art installations and wall murals will now be able to contribute were mapped in our buildings and on campus. – all with completely different to creative and attractive maintenance requirements. environments at our centres of The inventory resulted in education. a clear maintenance plan for CASE Smart buildings that speak with one another Today’s modern buildings generate huge quantities of various types of data. To maximise the benefit of the information obtained from this data, the language needs to be uniform. This in turn creates opportunities for buildings to speak and understand each other. W ith RealEstateCore, contribute to. It was formusuch a language was lated completely from the created and Akadeperspective of the property miska Hus is one of the project owners and links the domains founders and partners. This of Building Information Model language for buildings, which (BIM), automation and control was specially formulated by engineering, and the Internet property owners, will make of Things (IoT). it possible to gain control Many puzzle pieces must fall over the data that buildings into place to be able to take generate in order to develop advantage of all the new technew services that will benefit nology and developments that tenants and property industry are underway. RealEstateCore suppliers. is an important component R ealEstateCore is published that allows us to move from as open source, which means tests and pilot projects to real Data transfer enables new that the language is free and benefit for the entire holdings services for the property industry. open to everyone to use and and the surrounding city. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS 29 Leading edge property management Transparent rental model and rent-setting policy at market-based rates Akademiska Hus has a leading position on the property market. This entails a large responsibility, both for deliverables to customers and for development of the local rental market. Our rents are therefore always set at market-based rates, and we always strive for transparency and open negotiations with our tenants. MARKET RENT LEVEL MARKET RENT INTERNAL RENT Akademiska Hus’ rents The rent that Akademiska Hus charges comprise a basic rent the centres of education is usually dithat is intended to cover vided among the various departments operating, maintenance and of the colleges and universities within capital costs, and sometimes each centre of education, along with MARKET COSTS a supplement for tenant other expenses for facilities, which are Operation and maintenance adaptations. not charged by Akademiska Hus. Land value The departments are then charged Construction cost an internal rent that often also includes costs for central premises, such as communal spaces. Sometimes the internal rent also includes supplements for equipment, security MARKET RISKS and cleaning. The internal rent that Financing departments pay per square metre Property can therefore be higher than the price Location per square metre that Akademiska Counterparty Hus has agreed with the centre of education. Akademiska Hus operates in an open market property owners in a comparable portfolio, We strive for openness in negotiations and our rents are competitive. We set our rents analyses are carried out regularly with assiswith customers, and through our experience the same way that other property companies tance from an external valuation company. and long-term relationships we can often do, which means that our calculations reflect Transparency in how we set rents is important find solutions to use premises wisely and the risk and costs associated with, for example, in our dialogues with the customers. Following efficiently. construction and management. Other factors a review of the rental model, the standard costs Detailed information about rent levels per include the general market rent level of the for administration and operation, the standard building can be found in our property specifilocal community, along with the location, type risk assessment for vacancy at the end of the cation at akademiskahus.se/en. of building and lease term of the property. rental period and the cost of capital during To compare rental prices charged by Akadeconstruction have fallen in recent years. miska Hus in relation to those charged by other STABLE PROPORTION OF COST OF PREMISES FOR SWEDEN’S CENTRES OFEDUCATION % 15 12 9 6 3 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 12 13 14 15 16 17 Year 18 Årtal By working strategically we help centres of education to achieve stable costs for premises. Despite extensive investments, costs for premises as a percentage of total costs have declined somewhat over time. The chart above shows the proportion of cost of premises for Sweden’s centres of education over time. Source: Swedish Higher Education Authority statistics database Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 30 OUR OPERATIONS Our climate change initiatives New climate-neutral targets – an issue for the future The climate is changing around the world and global warming is now a fact. Akademiska Hus’ operations contribute to climate change, at the same time that we are also impacted by the new consequences resulting from a changed climate. Building and managing properties and accept common responsibility in the complex risk analyses carried out regularly for each developing campuses affect the climate and transition that must now take place toward a property area, as well as in the long-term the environment. We use large quantities of climate-neutral society. development plans that are formulated for resources such as materials and energy during campuses. In addition, we continually update construction and building operations, and we RAISE THE BAR FOR CLIMATE CHANGE the Technology Platform, our internal specialso generate waste. Climate change affects Climate change affects us as property owners. fications, to create reasonable redundancy for our operations and may have consequences For example, we see a growing risk of mould the changes in the climate that are predicted. for both our properties and our tenants. and moisture in a warmer and more humid We have initiated discussions with our energy climate, heating and cooling needs change suppliers to ensure robust delivery of cooling. THE PATH TOWARDS CLIMATE NEUTRALITY with changing temperature conditions over To reduce the impact of our operations we the seasons, and our building designs have to work with plans to improve energy efficienbe adapted for new wind, snow and climate 2045 cy, energy supply strategies, environmental impacts. certification of buildings and neighbourWe also see more direct and immediate hoods, campus plans designed with a focus effects, such as in the summer of 2018 when on sustainability and much more. Our daily we experienced an abnormal and unusually operations are based on an array of decisions long heat wave. In some locations our energy and working methods that, taken together, suppliers were unable to deliver adequate Climate-neutral project reduce the risk of a negative impact. cooling to all customers during this period. operations, by following the Fossil In 2018 Akademiska Hus formulated specifProcess cooling was prioritised over comfort Fuel-Free Sweden roadmap towards ic ambitious targets for how we can contribute cooling, which resulted in an uncomfortable a fossil fuel-free competitiveness to a climate-neutral society. Our new climate climate indoors for brief periods in some of in the construction and contracting targets are on the leading edge of developour facilities. industry by 2045. Great emphasis ment and will put great pressure on our operTo minimise the consequences, Akademiska will be placed on clear follow-up ations to break new ground in several areas. Hus has therefore mapped its assets based and control of the impact of the At the same time, we cannot achieve success on the perspective of climate adaptation. We projects, active decisions regarding on our own. Many parties must cooperate and have included this perspective in the annual design solutions, systems and material choices and a clarification of the company’s requirements for 2025 2025 contractors regarding execution. The carbon footprint from our construction projects accounts for an extensive portion of Akademiska Climate neutral property Climate neutrality in internal Hus’ total environmental impact operations, through dedicated operations, where the major and we will need to work longer initiatives focused on proactive challenge is to change current to achieve our target. With joint energy measures in existing travel patterns. This can be efforts in the industry and future and new buildings, investments achieved through new digital technological advances, we believe in energy-saving technology, alternatives to physical meetings it is possible. A crucial issue purchasing strategies for energy and by reviewing choice of involves increasing the efficiency and through innovative solutions meeting format. We also aim to and appeal of existing buildings so and projects for renewable energy, reduce our impact from other that new construction is not always supported by digitalisation. sources such as consumables. viewed as the preferable option. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR OPERATIONS 31 Employees Focus on employee health and their mission During the year Akademiska Hus introduced a new working method to clarify the mission of our employees and to link it to the strategy and operational plans. We also launched “Akademin”, an internal training platform for active skills enhancement. To fully understand their mission, employees feedback and dialogue about both the mission “Akademin” was established during the financial must understand the overall mission – how and what is needed to achieve it. year to meet current skills enhancement needs. colleagues together can fulfil the objectives In the spring of 2018, all managers complet“Akademin” is our own training platform, within their own unit as well as in the entire ed an obligatory training programme with a and contains both teacher-led and eLearningorganisation. focus on communication as a first preparation based training programmes. The programmes prior to implementation of the assignment are offered to all employees based on the needs ASSIGNMENT APPRAISAL appraisal. Afterwards, the employees at each that emerge, including from the assignment apA job mission is a description of the perforunit completed preparatory training. By 2019, praisal. The portal contains training programs mance expected of the employee, what is to all employees will have a clear mission with for our working methods, leadership, employbe achieved and when it should be ready. The supportive activities so that together we will eeship and personal development. During the job mission also clarifies what the employee achieve Akademiska Hus’ goals. year we also established an Education Grant, needs to be able to complete the mission. where all employees are offered the opportuThe assignment appraisal now replaces the “AKADEMIN” nity to apply for funds for education that is previous performance reviews. The missions A critical factor for success at Akademiska Hus outside what is an obvious requirement for the must be continually updated, which requires is an active supply of skills. Consequently, specific mission. The assignment appraisal clarifies what goals the employees should achieve. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 32 OUR OPERATIONS 32 Employees ACTIVE HEALTH INITIATIVE Lectures, opportunities to try new activities, in a discussion on what to do if they feel they During the year we continued to focus on group activities and access to more health acare being harassed and how we all can contribinitiatives that will enable employees to have tivities via a health portal have contributed to ute to a better work environment. a sustainable working life. A number of activan increase in the number of employees who For more facts about Akademiska Hus’ ities have helped Akademiska Hus to further want to take responsibility for their health. All employees, see page 107. reduce absenteeism due to illness. Eight difemployees have been offered a health screen ferent contracts for occupational health have based on a blood sample and questionnaire. become one, which makes it easier to monitor and develop the health initiative. We impleEQUALLY UNIQUE mented an improved service for calling in sick, The financial year began with an analysis of a new incident and accident management equal treatment in the company. A range of system and access to eHealth. Prevention is measures have been carried out to actively important, for which reason major initiatives curb bullying and harassment. In 2018 a work have been implemented related to health-progroup developed an equal treatment plan and moting measures. Active wellness coaches carried out a variety of activities. The focus contributed to the increase in measures based has been on how we behave towards one anon “Mental Strength”, the theme of the year. other. For example, all employees participated “I am surrounded by an incredible number of dedicated and talented CASE colleagues who make High ambitions it fun to go to work every day. ” and major focus on energy John Johnsson is the team leader at Energy and Technology. He coordinates and plans energy work together with the energy engineers. His role includes working together with the property management organisation to plan energy initiatives and to create long-term profitable and sustainable technical solutions that reduce energy consumption. John Johnsson, team leader at Energy and Technology at Akademiska Hus. BEST PART OF THE JOB: AN ORDINARY WORKDAY: such as where we can install WHY I WORK AT AKADEMISKA “The best part of my job is “The variation from day to solar panels. We also try to HUS: that we have Sweden’s best day is rather large and we are engage in expanded collabo“I saw the ad and though it tenants and I have the best extremely team-oriented in our rations with our tenants, since sounded like an interesting colleagues in the country. I work together with the properwe can only fully achieve our position. But the biggest am surrounded by an incredity management organisation. 2025 energy target by working reason was actually an old ble number of dedicated and We primarily work on improving together with them. But the colleague who had previously talented colleagues who make our properties through better absolutely most important job been engaged as a consultant it fun to go to work every day. and more energy-efficient is to make it fun to work with at Akademiska Hus here in And of course it is extremely systems, as well as working the energy issue by applyUppsala. He said that Akadempositive to have such a strong with the people at operations ing each other’s ideas and iska Hus was the best client he focus on energy with high to run our existing installation knowledge and supporting one had ever worked for and that ambitions and goals, which systems as efficiently as posanother in our daily work.” he would have loved to have I think permeate the entire sible, based on the needs of continued working here, which organisation.” our tenants. But we also look made the decision relatively at how our energy is produced, simple. Since I started working here, I couldn’t agree more.” Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR VALUE CREATION 33 Tomorrow’s knowledge environment Tomorrow’s knowledge environment We live in a knowledge-intensive, complex and global world in which higher education and high-quality research are increasing in importance. We work together with our customers, the centres of education, to develop knowledge environments that meet future challenges and opportunities. We continually work with digitalisation and innovation, and with our new strategy to support us we can create even greater opportunities for collaboration with both customers and other players in the world around us. We do this to be able to strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge, as well as to drive developments and to create a long-term approach to our properties, based on good business practices. DIGITAL SCENOGRAPHY FOR NEW IDEAS On the Chalmers campus in Gothenburg we are currently building A Working Lab, part office building and part innovation arena. A variety of innovation projects are integrated into both the construction project and the building, with the aim of contributing new knowledge to our customers, as well as society at large. The building will house a Learning Lab, a physical space designed for research on learning for the future. The project is based on the learning situation seen from a broad perspective, which means that the lab is aimed at both academia and the business community. Directly adjacent to the Learning Lab is a co-working area, makerspace, café and restaurant – environments which together with the outdoor environment can enrich one another. The goal of the Learning Lab is an environAn adaptable environment staged by a digital scenographer ment that can be adapted or staged in various creates new opportunities in the Learning Lab. ways to create the right conditions for each situation. With the assistance of a digital scenographer, furnishing, audio, lighting and with our customers has been underway for a twin with “augmented reality” (AR), in the technology will be able to meet a variety of long time and along with the education sector, future the managers will bring up information needs. The lab will be able to accommodate we are involved in a shift where we see the about the building by phone or special glasses both lectures and active learning such as changing needs in everything from the digital directly on site. The ability to “see through the workshops or board meetings – a test arena structure of the buildings to how education walls” and immediately know where pipes and for learning with many possibilities. The idea can be provided. Building ‘A Working Lab’ will cables are located will make operations more is to create attractive premises, with high make it possible to test ambitious ideas and efficient and reliable in the future. Visitors occupancy ranging from active learning for solutions on a small scale, after which we can would also be able to obtain useful informastudents to creative meetings for external scale up the results to apply to our property tion directly on their phones, such as what stakeholders. holdings at large. We also create the opporconference room is available, or where the tunity to be more digital in our management toilets are located. Measuring and monitoring THE DIGITAL TWIN by scanning the building during the construccan streamline use of the premises and in The property industry is sometimes criticised tion phase and creating a digital twin. Aided the long term also reduce costs both for us as for being slow to adopt digitalisation. Akadeby technical solutions, this approach may managers and for tenants. miska Hus is doing well, but the challenge is to create many more innovative projects in the increase the pace. The dialogue on digitisation long term. By combining the scanned digital Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 34 OUR VALUE CREATION Tomorrow’s knowledge environment By organising regular events and seminars, we create opportunities for new dialogue about campus development and learning environments. CASE Aha – relationship builder and source of inspiration Aha is a platform for dialogue and knowledge dissemination about campus trends and knowledge environments, available online and accesible around the clock. To increase knowledge about knowledge environments and to collaborate, we organise a number of Aha seminars in different places and on a variety of themes. A ha is a source of inspispiration and shared knowledge ration for everyone who about everything from how to works with knowledge build student housing for Genenvironments in various ways, eration Z to how we link the latas well as a meeting place for est brain research to the design increased dialogue. During of the rooms. Room for learning the year several successful has been a recurring theme, seminars were arranged around where we invited experts on the country, closely affiliated active knowledge environments Jesper Engbo Larnæs from the Technical or in direct collaboration with and created space for dialogue University of Denmark (DTU) was one of our centres of education. With with those who work in and the many speakers this year on the theme of learning environments. speakers from several parts of develop these environments. the world, we have provided inAkademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 OUR VALUE CREATION 35 Tomorrow’s knowledge environment Common workspaces for several different companies and organisations create new encounters and interesting opportunities. CASE We develop services in co-working and flexible meeting places The property industry is rapidly changing. New participants become established on the market and create offerings in the space between property owner and customer. In order to remain relevant it is important to broaden the offering of services. Our campus environments are exciting and accessible meeting places for business, academia, the community and the individual. W e are organising a OUR CURRENT INITIATIVES national project to About ten initiatives are identify efficient syscurrently underway throughtems and processes to be able out the company, at different to offer flexible and attractive stages and under development workspaces that can be rented in various ways. A building, A Working Lab is Akademiska Hus’ national concept for short periods. Co-working previously the School of for co-working, makerspace, learning lab and other is one example that challenges Architecture in Stockholm, flexible meeting places. It is our tool for developing how we think about leases and and Green Innovation Park in campus-based environments that makes it easy for sturequires new and more flexible Uppsala are already completdents, researchers, the business community and other rental models. We view this ed. In 2019 the doors will open members of the community to meet under new flexible not only as a gathering point for our first “A Working Lab” at conditions. Here companies, businesses and people for young startup companies, Chalmers. The pilot projects in can rent space for the time they need and gain access but also as an opportunity for Umeå and KI Solna will teach to services and physical environments based on their large established companies us more and help us to develop specific needs. The concept is now being developed that can make contacts, for our expertise in the spring of together with our customers around the country. example, with other types of 2019. There are also several inindustries and companies that itiatives in the planning stage. they might not otherwise meet. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 36 OUR VALUE CREATION Stable and long-term participant Stable and long-term participant Since the inception of Akademiska Hus 25 years ago, we have invested almost SEK 50 billion in projects with the purpose of strengthening growth at higher education institutions, and we want to continue to do so. A large portion of the investments we make Outcome Budget Forecast Forecast are in new construction projects for the learn2018 2019 2020 2021 ing environments of tomorrow, ranging from PROPERTY HOLDINGS sport facilities to high-tech research facilities. Average rentable area, 1,000 m² 3,311 3,322 3,334 3,371 To ensure that we run our operations cost efProperty values, SEK m 85,865 87,000 89,000 90,500 fectively, each year we formulate a budget for Net investment in properties, SEK m 2,842 3,000 2,000 1,500 the following year, as well as a forecast for the next two years after that. The budget for the coming year has a strong focus on developKEY FIGURES ment with initiatives such as innovative pilot Net operating income, SEK/m² 1,190 1,223 1,307 1,391 projects in an array of key areas for us. Yield, properties, % (excluding properties under construction) 5.1 5.1 5.3 5.6 OUR FUTURE INVESTMENTS Yield, properties, % The majority of our cash flow is reinvested (including properties under construction) 4.7 4.8 5.0 5.2 in our project portfolio and for the next few years we see a continued need for investments. FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES New premises are in high demand, especially Rental revenue, SEK m 5,928 6,100 6,350 6,600 in the major centres of education that focus on research. These investments entail a major Net operating income, SEK m 3,938 4,050 4,400 4,700 addition to Akademiska Hus’ property holdings. Profit before tax, SEK m 1 5,818 3,600 3,900 4,200 As the investments are gradually completed, Equity ratio, % 45.8 45.2 46.0 47.0 it is expected that the average remaining lease Return on operating capital, % 5.5 5.5 5.7 6.0 term will increase, since the properties that Return on equity, % 1 11.2 6.8 7.0 7.3 are being added to our property holdings have long leases. The high pace of investment that 1) 2018 includes changes in value of properties. Budget and forecasts for 2019-2021 do not include changes in value of properties. we have maintained in recent years will level off somewhat during the latter part of the budget period as the large Albano project is gradually completed. PERFORMANCE FOR THE FORECAST PERIOD The majority of cash flow is reinvested in The financial performance for the budget and our projects and our robust financial position creates advantages for our customers. forecast period will continue to be stable despite higher than normal costs for vacancies. Net operating income will increase as our KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON investment projects are commissioned. Our President equity ratio is strong and return on operating capital is expected to gradually increase as new investments begin to produce returns. Changes in property values, acquisition and sales are not included in the budget or forecast. P-1 MOODY’S SHORT-TERM RATING, AA STANDARD & POOR’S LONG-TERM RATING, JANUARY 2019 STABLE OUTLOOK. SEPTEMBER 2018 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 37 Undertext Administration Report The Board of Directors and the President of Akademiska Hus AB (publ), company registration number 556459-9156, hereby submit the 2018 Annual Report for the Group and the Parent Company. Contents ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing38 Property valuation 41 Customers and contracts 42 Risk and risk management 43 Corporate Governance Report 48 Board of Directors  54 Executive Management 55 Other information 56 Proposed allocation of unappropriated earnings 57 Bilbergska Building, Örebro University FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Income Statements 58 Statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income  59 Statement of financial position 62 Changes in equity  66 Statements of Cash Flows 68 Notes  71 Certification96 Audit Report 97 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 38 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing Financing Uncertainty regarding the global economy has increased during the year. Interest rates remain at low levels. The interest in Akademiska Hus’ long-term bonds has been strong and 14 bonds were issued for a total of SEK 4,700 million. FINANCIAL MARKETS IN 2018 interest rates four times during the year. At the ECB bond-buying programme during the The beginning of 2018 was characterised by the same time the Fed is continuing to reduce year and expectations that it would end by optimism about the economy. Fiscal stimulus its balance sheet, which is also contributing to year-end, as well as question marks about the measures in the US combined with expectaa tightening of monetary policy. Short interest economic trend during the autumn, credit tions of continued interest rate hikes from rates in the US have risen during the year, but spreads have risen slightly. However, access to the US Federal Reserve (Fed) resulted in bond yields have not risen at the same pace, corporate bonds continues to be limited, for increased inflation expectations and caused for which reason the yield curve continues to which reason even in 2018 there is demand interest rates to rise. However, sentiment be extremely flat. The European Central Bank among investors for corporate bonds with in the global economy dampened during the (ECB) and the Swedish Central Bank have long maturities and extremely high credit­ year. Economic indicators have generally taken steps towards a tightening of monetary worthiness. The interest in Akademiska Hus’ pointed to a slowdown, albeit from high levels. policy during the year. The ECB has reduced long-term bonds has been strong. The longQuestions have arisen regarding China’s the pace of and finally ended its bond purterm perspective in property management economy, where credit growth gradually chasing programme. However, it has signalled justifies long maturities in the debt portfolio. dropped during the year. Trade negotiations that interest rates will not increase until Akademiska Hus’ long-term foreign issues between the US and the rest of the world, in2020 at the earliest, which means a continued are swapped for a floating rate denominated cluding China, have contributed to increased negative policy rate in Europe. In Sweden, in SEK with a fixed cost for the credit risk uncertainty regarding prospects for global inflation expectations relating to the target of premium for the entire term. As in 2017, trade and its effect on growth. The economic two per cent and signs of somewhat increased market conditions have allowed extremely performance in Europe did not meet expectapressure on costs in the economy caused the long-term funding at a limited additional cost, tions and growth forecasts have been adjusted Swedish Central Bank to raise the policy rate for which reason such maturities have been downwards. During the year formation of the by 0.25 percentage points in December. Bond prioritised. During the year, bond issues took Swedish government and budget negotiations yields in Europe and Sweden have fallen durplace totalling SEK 4,700 million. All issues with Italy, as well as Brexit negotiations, ing the year, largely driven by the increased involved foreign investors resident in Central have resulted in additional tensions in the uncertainty regarding growth prospects. Europe, Switzerland or Asia. eurozone. Regarding Sweden, sentiment has The ECP programme continues to be Akaddampened among both households and indusLONG-TERM FINANCING emiska Hus’ primary source of short-term trial companies. With a slowdown in the rest The lengthy period with a loose monetary funding. Conditions for short-term funding, of the world, activity in the Swedish economy policy and the ECB’s bond purchase proa highly cost-effective source of funding, have can be expected to enter a calmer phase. gram, which also includes corporate bonds, been good during the year. As a result of the In response to the continued strong labour have driven the declining credit spreads of high activity in the bond market in recent market and rising wages, the Fed raised recent years. In pace with the phase-out of years, however, use of the ECP programme has been slightly reduced. The Swedish commercial paper programme has not been used since 2017. Committed credit facilities have LONG DEBT MATURITY STRUCTURE been expanded in volume and maturity to SEK bn harmonise with growth in the debt portfolio 35 in recent years. Committed credit facilities in 30 banks at year-end totalled SEK 5,500 million, including SEK 3,500 million with a two-year 25 term and the option for an extension one year 20 at a time on two occasions. The remaining 15 credit facilities of SEK 2,000 million have a term of 12 months. Combined with the exten10 sive bond issuances, as well as the quarterly 5 rental income, access to liquidity has been 0 very good. 2019 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2048 Year Årtal ECP EMTN CHF EMTN other MTN/EMTN SEK Other Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 39 Financing OUTLOOK FOR FINANCING expected during the year, which are funded FINANCIAL STRATEGIES AND OBJECTIVES ACTIVITIES IN 2019 by cash flow from operations. The extensive Akademiska Hus pursues active debt manageUnlike last year, 2019 is beginning in an bond issuances over the past two years means ment, where the strategy is to weigh up the environment where the strength of the global that the debt maturing in 2019 of SEK 2,400 financial risks, given the existing mandate, economy is increasingly being questioned. million is largely already re-financed. The against the desired low and stable financing The Fed is ahead of the Swedish Central Bank long-term bond issuances have contributed to cost over time. The stability and continuiand the ECB in monetary tightening and in a desirable diversification of both the investor ty typical of the property business are also the US the key rate has reached the 2.25–2.50 base and the maturity profile of the debt reflected in debt management. Akademiska per cent interval. At the beginning of the year portfolio, see the charts below and on previHus has had a long-term rating of AA with expectations of further interest rate hikes ous page. Further diversification in the debt stable outlook from Standard & Poor’s since from the Fed were adjusted downwards. The portfolio could justify additional issuances 1996, which was complemented in January ECB and the Swedish Central Bank continue during the year. 2017 by the highest short-term rating of P-1 to have negative key rates, though the rate in Even with some monetary policy tightenfrom Moody’s. Financing takes place mainly Sweden is less negative after the interest rate ing in Sweden, there is reason to believe that through well-established public financing hike in December. As a result of the somewhat interest rates could remain at relatively low programmes, primarily through the EMTN weaker economic outlook in Europe, the ECB levels. The risk scenario in the fixed ­income and ECP programmes. Building on a strong is taking a cautious approach to interest rate market is considered to be asymmetric for financial position, creditworthy tenants and hikes in 2019 and is currently communicating Akademiska Hus in its role as a borrower. The extremely good ratings, the debt management that an increase will not come until 2020 at potential for continued low or lower interest objective is to continuously achieve well-­ the earliest. This position will likely entail rates, given the low interest rates that still diversified access to cost-effective financing in some caution regarding monetary tightening prevail, is considered to be limited, while relevant markets. from the Swedish Central Bank, which has market movements in response to a rise in Debt management is supported by two key been clear that it does not want to jeopardise interest rates are likely to be both rapid and policy documents, both of which are adopted the recovery in inflation that has occurred. extensive. Interest rate risk is largely being annually by the Board of Directors: According to the Swedish Central Bank’s curmanaged through interest rate derivatives, rent interest rate path, a rate hike is indicated mainly in order to lengthen duration. Debt • Finance Policy: Describes the long-term in 2019. management will continue to focus on allocatstrategic orientation, the Group’s approach Akademiska Hus’ investment rate in its ing interest rate duration to the periods of the to financial risks and the mandate to handle own project portfolio remains high. Inyield curve deemed to be effective. these risks, as well as the allocation of debt. vestments of about SEK 3,000 million are • Plan for handling financial risks (Risk Plan): Justifies and quantifies annual mandates for financial risk management in light of the FINANCING PROGRAMMES AND RATING risk scenario and opportunities in financial Rating markets. Standard & Framework Utilised nom. Poor’s Rating Moody’s 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 The mandate is reviewed annually or as needCommitted credit facilities in bank SEK 5,500 m ed. External changes may cause the mandate Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m to be adjusted to reflect the assessment of ECP (Euro Commercial Paper) A1+ P-1 EUR 1,200 m EUR 277 m risks and opportunities in the financial marMTN (Medium Term Note)1 AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 770 m kets. The approach ensures that the mandate EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) AA/A1+ EUR 4,000 m EUR 2,901 m is always relevant and carefully considered. 1) Not updated since 2009. DIFFERENT FINANCING SOURCES Mdr Billions 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2018 Year Årtal NDO Bank loans CP ECP EMTN CHF EMTN other MTN/EMTN SEK Other Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 40 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The bonds in the long-term portfolio contribThe mandate for refinancing risk is defined The exposure to financial risks derives from ute to an extremely long fixed interest period as the share of loans maturing within 12 the capital structure with the distribution and account for a significant portion of the months and should amount to a maximum of between loans and equity in that higher debt interest rate risk exposure in the total portfo40 per cent of the total portfolio. To manage means greater exposure to financial risks. One lio. One of the mandates for interest rate risk refinancing risk, the aim is to establish a of the owner objectives for Akademiska Hus therefore relates to the proportion of the total well-diversified debt portfolio to ensure that reflects this by requiring the equity ratio to portfolio that the long-term portfolio may it is possible at any time to finance through fall within a range of 30 to 40 per cent. constitute. The index-linked bond portfolio various creditor categories, geographic The main financial risks that the debt manentails diversification of the debt portfolio markets, currencies and maturities. The agement policy addresses involve exposure to and is justified because rental income from extensive bond issuances with long maturities interest rate and refinancing risk. Normally, property operations is largely tied to inflation. have contributed to a considerable reduction financial markets price in long-term fixed For this reason, the index-linked bond portof refinancing risk in the near future and as interest periods and maturities at higher risk folio’s proportion of the total portfolio relates of year-end, 16 per cent will mature within premiums. The objective of debt management to a separate mandate. For 2019 this mandate 12 months; please see trend over time in the is therefore to balance, over the long-term, has been adjusted downwards from 10 per graph below on the right. the additional costs of long-term fixed interest cent to 5 per cent of the total portfolio For more information about the mandate for periods and maturities, and thus limit unInterest rate risk is primarily managed the total portfolio and the three sub-­portfolios, certainty, against savings of more short-term in the basic portfolio, where the mandate is please see the Risk section on ­page 47. fixed interest periods and maturities, where defined as a range for average duration; this greater uncertainty is accepted. range is currently between 3 and 6 years. The liability portfolio is allocated as The choice of fixed interest period in the follows: basic portfolio and the size of the long-term portfolio are of great importance for interest • B asic portfolio – ECP, commercial papers, rate risk exposure in the liability portfolio. In loans, bonds and interest rate derivatives. recent years the average fixed interest period • Long-term portfolio – bonds denominated in the total portfolio has been relatively long, in SEK with fixed interest and maturity see graph below on the left. This helps to terms in excess of 15 years. preserve the stability of overall financing costs • Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked over time. to the real interest rate. FIXED INTEREST PERIOD IN TOTAL PORTFOLIO PERCENTAGE MATURING Duration in years % År 10 100 8 80 6 60 4 40 2 20 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year Limit for percentage maturing within rolling 12 months Percentage loans, gross, maturing within rolling 12 months Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 41 Property valuation Property valuation Akademiska Hus has a well-designed internal process for property valuation that is quality assured and follows good market practices in the property industry. External valuations and assessments of valuation parameters enhance the reliability of the process. VALUATION METHODS tion, the calculation period and yield requirement have been permitted The fair value of Akademiska Hus’ property portfolio is assessed quarto vary on an individual basis to reflect specific conditions. Expansion terly using the cash flow method and/or the sales comparison approach. reserves (building rights and undeveloped land) comprise about SEK Under the cash flow method, a property is valued based on the sum 1 billion or 1 per cent of the portfolio and are valued according to the of forecasted net operating income during a set period, as well as the sales comparison approach based on external valuations from qualified residual value of the property after the end of the calculation period. valuation professionals. Forecasted net operating income and residual value are restated to To verify the internal valuation, about 25–30 per cent of the property reflect the value at the beginning of the calculation period, that is, the holdings are also valued each year by external valuation professionals. present point in time. The factor used to restate cash flows is called the During the year, properties with a combined value of about SEK 23 cost of capital and is determined based on estimated yield requirement billion, corresponding to about 27 per cent of Akademiska Hus’ total and expected inflation. The yield requirement is a key measure of risk fair value as at 31 Dec. 2018, were valued by external professionals. The in the property industry and reflects the return an investor could devaluations were carried out by Svefa AB, which is authorised by the mand for a property on an open and transparent transaction market at Swedish Society of Real Estate Economics. The external valuations a specific point in time. Valuation with the sales comparison approach confirm the reliability of our internal valuation model. All property uses key figures from known transactions where comparable properties valuation includes elements of assessment that have a certain degree have been sold. of uncertainty. A normal uncertainty range in property valuation is Akademiska Hus’ valuation process complies with good market prac+/5 to 10 per cent, which for Akademiska Hus would be equivalent tice in the property industry and the cash flows and yield targets that to approximately +/SEK 4,300 million to SEK 8,600 million. Read are used are justified based on both property-specific and industry-speNote 12 on page 80 for a more detailed description of Akademiska Hus’ cific conditions. Rental revenue is calculated based on current leases valuation process. and an assessment of market rent level is made after the term of the lease has expired. Operating costs are estimated based on the normalRESIDUAL VALUE RISK ised historical outcome of each property, while maintenance costs and Akademiska Hus is active in the market for premises for higher educaproperty administration costs are assessed based on actual costs and tion and research. The majority of our premises consist of offices and key figures for the industry. Akademiska Hus allows the yield requireclassrooms, which have a low degree of customisation. However, certain ment, cost of capital and other valuation conditions to be verified by premises require a higher degree of customisation, such as laboratories external independent valuation agencies on a quarterly basis. and other technologically advanced premises. These spaces are often At the end of the year the fair value of Akademiska Hus’ property designed for a specific tenant, and may require significant investments portfolio was SEK 86 billion. About SEK 73 billion or 85 per cent of to modernise or possibly to redesign the premises in case a tenant the value was assessed through a ten-year cash flow model where yield chooses to leave after the end of the contract period. The residual value requirements and cost of capital are determined based on 156 different risk for customised properties is quantified through charges in estimatrisk classes based on location, remaining lease term and type of premed cash flow and direct yield requirements. ises. For approximately SEK 12 billion or 14 per cent of the property holdings, primarily new construction and properties under construcDISTRIBUTION VALUATION METHODS CASH FLOW METHOD The residual value is calculated at the current value using the cost of capital for the calculation period The cash flow for years 1–10 is calculated at the current value using the cost of capital for the calculation period Cash flow method, 85% Residual value Other valuation method, 14% Sales comparison approach Fair value (expansion reserve), 1% Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Year 10 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 42 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Customers and contracts Long-term contracts with creditworthy tenants The majority of Akademiska Hus’ revenue, approximately 90 per cent, comes from colleges and universities. Since colleges and universities are essentially government agencies, this customer group has the highest credit rating. Substantial investments are required to meet customer needs for facilities. Long leases ensure that investments are repaid during the term of the at large, since leases are usually signed before new projects can begin. lease. During the year the average lease term for new leases was 10.5 We work proactively to facilitate new rentals and thereby minimise the years (10). At year-end, the average remaining lease term for all properfinancial vacancy rate, which may entail adaptations and investments ties was 6.5 years (6). Currently, government approval is required for a in existing premises. public university or college to sign a lease of ten years or longer. HIGH LEASING LEVEL TENANT CATEGORIES The rentable area of the property portfolio at year-end was 3.3 million square metres with a vacancy rate of 5.2 per cent (4.2), which corresponds with 173,000 square metres (127,000). The financial vacancy rate accounted for 1.7 per cent (0.9) of our total rental revenue. Our vacancy rate increased during the year, attributable to occupancy Universities and colleges 87% Chalmersfastigheter 3% changes at Karolinska Institutet in conjunction with the completion of Publicly financed operations 3% Biomedicum. This vacant space corresponds to approximately 40,000 Other 7% square metres. The occupancy rate is high compared with the sector SLIGHTLY HIGHER VACANCY RATE, UP FROM LOW LEVEL MATURITY STRUCTURE ON LEASES % % SEK m 6 900 800 5 700 4 600 500 3 400 2 300 200 1 100 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 Year % of rent % of area 10 LARGEST CUSTOMERS, ANNUAL RENT, 2018 SEK m % Karolinska Institutet 719 11.7 AVERAGE REMAINING LEASE TERM Lund University 586 9.6 År Year Uppsala University 551 9.0 10 Royal Institute of Technology 541 8.8 Stockholm University 525 8.6 8 Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences 365 6.0 6 University of Gothenburg 356 5.8 4 Linköping University 354 5.8 2 Umeå University 276 4.5 Chalmersfastigheter AB 202 3.3 0 00 05 10 15 20 Year Total 4,476 73 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 43 Risks and risk management Risks and risk management We take a structured approach to identifying risks that can affect our ability to achieve our goals. By being aware of our risks, we can prevent and manage them, while actively working to take advantage of the business opportunities that may be associated with the area of risk. RISK MANAGEMENT ON MULTIPLE LEVELS Risk management occurs on several levels in the Company and involves employees from all units. Through continual monitoring, we follow international practice, especially current developments in both the property industry and the university and college sector in order to identify influencing factors and risks. Read more about our risk management procedures on pages 8–9. Using the Company’s goals and strategy as a starting point, Executive Management identifies the most material risks on a company-wide level as part of the annual strategic planning process. These risks are taken into account in the annual business plan that culminates from this process. The business plan is adopted by the Board of Directors. Executive Management is responsible for management of the company-wide risks. Risk assessments are conducted within the operation on a continual basis and documented as part of the annual formulation of operational plans. The risk assessments include identifying and analysing risks that would prevent the objectives of the operation from being achieved. The head of each unit is responsible for ensuring that there is adequate management of the risks identified as potentially having a material impact on fulfilment of operational objectives. Risk management at Akademiska Hus is coordinated and monitored by a risk management group that includes employees from several staff functions who report to the Vice President. RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES With a well-balanced approach to risk management, we manage risks that can have a negative impact on the ability to reach our goals and increase the prospects for taking advantage of available business opportunities. Examples of areas that present opportunities, but are also associated with risks, are the rapid digitalisation and technological developments currently underway in society. These trends present great opportunities to streamline our property management and develop new services based on new digital technology, but they also entail risks for us. The biggest risk is that we do not succeed in adopting the new technology and adapting our operations quickly enough, but other risks arise such as inadequate IT security and the consequences of downtime in critical IT systems in an environment that is increasingly dependent on House Vänern, Karlstads University functioning IT. The overarching risks identified by Executive Management as the most material risks, as well as a number of industry-specific risks and financial risks that we as property owners and borrowers in the financial market relate to, are described in the following sections. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 44 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risks and risk management Strategic risks Strategic risks stem from factors in our environment that are wholly or partly outside our direct control and influence. DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT Material Company-wide risks POLITICAL Operations at Akademiska Hus are affected by • Constant business intelligence and trend monitoring DECISIONS Government policies in general and education policy in • Continuous dialogue with owner and stakeholders Risk that the particular. • Relationship building with relevant target groups conditions for our through participation in various forums and operations change A change in the education policy or in the mandate from collaboration groups as a result of our owner could affect the conditions for and focus of the political decisions operation. CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change could have negative consequences for our • Continual updating of our internal specifications for Risk of negative properties in both the short and long term, which could construction to create reasonable redundancy for impact on our require adaptation of both existing properties and new expected changes caused by the climate properties and construction. • Annual risk analysis from an environmental perspective campuses due to by property area changes in the climate PACE OF Rapid technological developments and the digital • Updated short-term strategy (2019–2021) DEVELOPMENT transformation in society offer opportunities to • Transition to a more flexible organisation for increased Risk that we streamline our operations, as well as to develop new preparedness are unable to services. • Accelerated digital transformation of our existing meet customer operations expectations If we fail to take advantage of the potential of • Development of new services because we fail to digitalisation, there is a risk that we will not meet adapt to new digital customer needs and thus become less attractive. conditions quickly enough Industry-specific risks FAIR VALUE OF The fair value of properties is based on both external and • Business intelligence THE PROPERTIES internal factors such as market trends, yield targets, cost • Regular analysis of the risk profile of the property Risk that our of capital, vacant space and rent trends. portfolio financial position • Concentration of the property holdings to strategic is affected as a For Akademiska Hus, changes in the fair value of the cities provides good development potential result of change in properties are rarely realised, for which reason the • A large share of the property portfolio is located in the fair value of the Company’s liquidity usually is not affected. However, cohesive campuses properties this can have an impact on reported profit, which can • Long-term contracts therefore show large variations between the years and also affect our financial position. VACANT SPACE Akademiska Hus’ main customers are colleges • Design flexible premises that can be adapted based on AND LOSS OF and universities, a customer group with high changing needs REVENUE creditworthiness. • Specially adapted buildings generally have long-term Risk of negative leases impact on financial The long-term development needs of the centres of • Leases are usually signed before new construction performance due to education and access to research grants, which can begins vacant space and/ be affected by factors such as political decisions and • Regular dialogue with customers or reduced rental economic cycles, can have an impact on both rental revenue revenue and vacancy rate. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 45 Risks and risk management Operating risks Operating risks are risks that arise in our day-to-day operations and that we can largely influence through our internal processes, working methods and corporate culture. DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT Material Company-wide risks PROJECT Our investment projects are often complex, take a long • A uniform and common building process for all major MANAGEMENT time and involve many parties. A shared vision along with investment projects Risk of negative clarity of agreements and structured processes are crucial • Project management training economic, temporal for successful implementation. • Business advisory committee to follow development of and technical the project consequences as a The complexity of project operations places high demands • Mapping and development of customer dialog result of challenging on ongoing development and adaptation of our project • “Standard building” as vision for construction costs and complex project management to ensure that we deliver in line with • Use lessons from reference projects and project revisions operations expectations. • Risks linked to the physical design and implementation are limited through structured project briefings SKILLS SUPPLY We work in a highly competitive labour market, where it • Skills supply strategy Risk of not having is also difficult to recruit students to relevant education • Strategy for “Employer branding” the right skills programmes. This limits the selection of qualified • Collaboration with vocational schools, colleges and to conduct our candidates. universities business as a result • Identify the skills development needs of the individual of difficulty in The ever-increasing pace of development in society via assignment appraisal identifying needs, places great demands on new skills. We consider • Develop the internal training platform to match current as well as attracting successfully retaining, recruiting and developing and future skills needs and retaining staff employees to be a crucial success factor. • Certification of facilities engineers DELIVERABLES In order to improve deliverables to the customer, we • A common and customer-focused management TO CUSTOMER need to increase our responsiveness and strengthen our organisation Risk that our deli­ collaboration and dialogue with customers. We also need • Continued focus on information and customer dialogue very to the customer to develop our deliverables, for example by using the in base delivery is not, or is perceived potential of new technology and digitalisation. • Improved process for reporting problems not to be, good • Internal coordination of our collective deliverables to enough due to lack One success factor entails spreading good examples customer of responsiveness internally and learning from one another. We will therefore • Process and development groups for packaging and to the customer’s continue to implement uniform and common working spreading good working methods in daily operations needs methods with a strong focus on the customer experience. • Digital transformation IT SECURITY The importance of IT security is increasing as a • We are working on adapting our operations to Risk of negative consequence of increased digitalisation and mobile information security management systems (ISO 27002) consequences solutions. Hacking could occur to commit crimes, damage • Strategic alliances in the industry for the business the business or gain access to critical data. Critical • Business intelligence if we do not have information that is lost or ends up in the wrong hands • Training for employees adequate protection can have serious consequences and damage trust in the • Continuous review and upgrade of security systems against hacking company. • Development common system management process/ organisation ACCESS TO As our operation becomes increasingly dependent on • Mapping and classification of critical systems DIGITAL SERVICES digital services, we see an increased risk of serious • We are working on adapting our operations to Risk of serious consequences of downtime in a critical IT system. information security management systems (ISO 27002) consequences • Strategic alliances in the industry in our own and In some cases our customers have facilities with highly • Business intelligence the customer’s advanced and sensitive activities, for which reason • Training for employees operations as a disruptions in operations, both temporary and long-term, • Development common system management process/ result of downtime can have serious consequences. organisation in critical IT systems Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 46 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risks and risk management DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT UNETHICAL Improper or unethical behaviour such as substandard • Systematic supplier reviews BEHAVIOUR – working conditions, corruption or negative environmental • Ongoing work to strengthen control and transparency EXTERNAL PARTY impact involving a supplier, subcontractor or other in the ordering process Risk of financial external party linked to Akademiska Hus could have a • Coordination of purchases consequences and negative impact on us. • Follow-up of contractual compliance damaged trust as a • Code of Conduct for suppliers result of unethical This risk also includes the possibility that an external behaviour among party could commit a crime against Akademiska Hus. external parties with a link to Akademiska Hus Industry-specific risks ENVIRONMENTAL Our operations affect the environment both locally and • Identified how we as a company can contribute to IMPACT globally. Both construction and property management are the global sustainability goals in Agenda 2030 Risk of a negative associated with heavy consumption of resources such • The sustainability perspective is fully integrated into impact on the as materials and energy. In addition, new construction our overarching goals environment usually occupies land and sometimes also affects green • We are environmentally certified to ISO 14001:15 as a result of areas. • Strong focus on sustainability when developing our business campuses of building • All new construction and major renovation projects and managing meet environmental certification standards under the properties and Miljöbyggnad certification system at a minimum level developing of Silver campuses • Materials used in our projects are assessed with regard to their impact on the environment through the Byggvarubedömningen (BVB) scheme Compliance risks Compliance risks address how we, as a company and as individual employees, comply with laws as well as external and internal regulations. DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT Material Company-wide risks UNETHICAL Unethical behaviour can have major negative • Ethics Council BEHAVIOUR – consequences for Akademiska Hus, both financially and • Code of Conduct INTERNAL PARTY in the form of damaged trust in relation to our owner, • Guidelines for business ethics Risk of financial customers and other stakeholders. • Online training linked to the internal training platform consequences and • Clear information on current regulations as part of the damaged trust as a Theft, accepting bribes, or using a supplier’s dependence new employee introduction process result of employees on Akademiska Hus for private advantage are examples • Continual work on values and corporate culture who do not comply of unethical behaviours that are not permitted. • Whistle-blower system with applicable laws, as well as internal and external regulations Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 47 Risks and risk management Financial risks Financial risks are primarily the specific risks that can be derived from our financing activities. The Board of Directors determines our approach to financial risks and mandate for their management through the financing policy and the financial risk management plan. DESCRIPTION ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT INTEREST RISK In our capacity as a borrower, fluctuations in market • Interest risk is managed through the mandate for the Risk that profit will vary interest rates can have a substantial impact on fixed interest period and comprises three parts: because of changes in financial performance. The long-term portfolio may not exceed 20 per cent market rates of the total portfolio The additional cost associated with long-term fixed The index-linked bond portfolio may not exceed interest period needs to be balanced against the 10 per cent of the total portfolio increased uncertainty associated with a short-term The average fixed interest period of the basic fixed interest period. portfolio shall be in the range of 3–6 years REFINANCING RISK In our capacity as a borrower, it is crucial to ensure • Refinancing risk is managed through a mandate for Risk that it will be access to the financing market. In a situation maturity, expressed as the proportion of loans maturing more difficult or more where financial markets are not in balance and within each twelve-month period may not exceed expensive to obtain functionality is inadequate, financing can be more 40 per cent of the total portfolio financing, for example difficult and considerably more costly. • Aim for cost-effective and well-balanced diversification as a result of changed of the debt portfolio conditions in the When deciding on financing, the additional cost of financial market long-term maturity needs to be balanced against the increased uncertainty associated with shortterm fixed maturity. COUNTERPARTY RISK Akademiska Hus’ exposure to counterparty risk • Exposure to counterparty risk is managed by imposing a The risk of financial arises from investment of excess liquidity and from limit based on ownership circumstances, ratings and the consequences derivative transactions when surplus/deficit values term of the commitment associated with failure arise. • In derivative transactions, supplementary agreements to of a counterparty to ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) meet its undertakings agreements, known as CSA (Credit Support Annex) agreements, are required, thereby substantially reducing exposure FOREIGN CURRENCY Akademiska Hus’ financing is denominated in part • When financing in a foreign currency, foreign currency RISK in foreign currency, for which reason exposure to risk must be eliminated. Exchange rate hedging is Risk that financial foreign currency risk arises. carried out using forward rate or currency interest rate performance will vary as swap agreements a result of exchange rate changes Sensitivity analysis, see page 64, Note 3 on page 76 and Note 12 on page 81. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 48 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report This corporate governance report describes the structure and principles for governance of operations at Akademiska Hus to achieve the vision of strengthening Sweden as a nation of knowledge. With a clear allocation of responsibility between different Company bodies and processes that ensure transparency, the operation is efficiently governed to guide us towards our goals. FOUNDATIONS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT AKADEMISKA HUS and guidelines for companies with state ownership 2017, the Swedish Akademiska Hus AB (publ) is a property company that is wholly owned Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) and the Articles of Assoby the Swedish state. Its administration is handled by the Ministry of ciation. Because the Company is wholly owned by the Swedish state, Enterprise and Innovation on behalf of the Ministry of Education and certain provisions of the Code do not apply, as it is primarily written for Research, which is the principal. The Company bases its corporate govbusinesses with diversified ownership. Deviations from the Code are ernance on the application of Swedish law, the State’s ownership policy described on page 53. Organisational structure 1 GENERAL MEETING AUDIT AND FINANCE 2 EXTERNAL AUDITOR 3a COMMITTEE 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3b REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 3a INVESTMENT COMMITTEE 4 PRESIDENT/MANAGEMENT COMMON STAFF AND SUPPORT FUNCTIONS MANAGEMENT PROJECT STUDENT CAMPUS AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT UNITS UNIT UNIT ACCOMMODATION • NORTH • MID-SWEDEN • SOUTH Akademiska Hus’ mission according to the Articles of Association The object of the Company’s operations is to own, develop and manage propby setting rents that take into account the operating risk. Akademiska Hus erties for colleges and universities, where the primary focus is on education Aktiebolag will work to bring about long-term sustainable development of and research, as well as activities compatible therewith. Operations will be university and college campuses. run on a commercial basis and generate a yield that is in line with the market Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 49 Corporate Governance Report 1 GENERAL MEETING express their opinions of this corporate governance report and whether The General Meeting is the highest decision-making body at Akademiska Hus complies with the Government Guidelines for terms Akademiska Hus. The shareholder formally exercises influence at the of employment for senior executives, and submit their statements to General Meeting. In addition, the General Meeting appoints the Board the meeting. Every year the auditors review their audit plan and risk of Directors and auditor. According to the State’s ownership policy, the assessment with the Audit and Finance Committee. The auditors Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held before 30 April each year. participate in at least two committee meetings per year. Each year the Notice of General Meetings shall be published no earlier than six weeks auditors attend at least one meeting with the Board of Directors that is and no later than four weeks prior to the Meeting in Postoch Inrikes not attended by the President. Tidningar, as well as on the Company’s website. Members of the Riksdag Akademiska Hus’ internal audit function ended at year-end and the public have the right to participate and must register their 2017/2018. In 2018 the management allocated dedicated resources participation as described in the notice. tasked with developing and strengthening the area of internal management and control within Akademiska Hus. The Board of Directors Annual General Meeting 2018 believes that the best way to improve internal management and control The Annual General Meeting was held on 27 April 2018. The meeting is a long-term focused initiative in this area. Separate assessments are was opened by Chairperson of the Board Anitra Steen, who was also conducted based on a risk analysis; for example, in 2018 such an analappointed to chair the proceedings. The owner was represented by ysis addressed selected processes associated with financial reporting. Ulrika Löfqvist, Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. Consequently, the Board’s continued assessment is that no internal audit function is needed. Decisions at the 2018 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting adopted the income statement and 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS balance sheet for the 2017 financial year and discharged the Board The Board of Directors is responsible for the organisation and for manof Directors and the President from liability for the year. The AGM agement of the affairs of the company. The Board of Directors convenes approved the Board’s proposal for profit distribution, which entails a the Annual General Meeting. The work is based on the Rules of Prodividend of SEK 1,630 million to the owner. Other matters addressed cedure adopted annually by the Board of Directors, which determines included adoption of the principles for remuneration and other terms the allocation of work among the directors, the number of regular of employment for senior executives, resolutions on fees to the Board Board meetings, matters to be addressed at regular Board meetings of Directors and committees, as well as election of Board members and the responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board. The division of and auditor. The minutes and other documents related to the AGM are responsibilities between the Board and the CEO is regulated by special posted on the Akademiska Hus website akademiskahus.se. instructions to the President. In addition, the Rules of Procedure are adopted annually for each of the Board’s committees. The Board has Annual General Meeting 2019 also adopted the “Instructions for financial reporting” to regulate The next Annual General Meeting will be held on 29 April 2019 in financial reporting procedures to the Board. Stockholm. Nomination process 2 AUDITORS Directors of state-owned enterprises are appointed through a strucThe 2018 AGM resolved to elect Öhrlings Pricewaterhouse Coopers AB tured nomination process with common uniform principles as outlined (PwC) to serve as auditors for a one-year period until the 2019 AGM. in the State ownership policy and guidelines for companies with state PwC appointed Helena Ehrenborg, authorised public accountant, to ownership 2017. These principles replace the rules in the Code for serve as lead auditor. The auditors perform a limited review of the preparation of decisions for nomination of Directors and auditors. interim report as at 30 September and audit the annual and consolThe Board nomination process is co-ordinated by the state ownership idated accounts. They also conduct a management audit, as well as a unit at the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. A consistent and limited review of the sustainability report. In addition, the auditors structured approach ensures a high standard of quality throughout Governance structure Code of Conduct EXAMPLES OF EXTERNAL GOVERNING EXAMPLES OF INTERNAL REGULATIONS: GOVERNING REGULATIONS: • Companies Act • Articles of Association BOARD • Accounting Act Policies • Rules of Procedure for the Board OF • Annual Accounts Act “What” Obligatory of Directors and committees DIRECTORS • The State’s ownership policy and • Instructions to the President guidelines for companies with state • Code of Conduct ownership 2017 • Allocation of responsibility and Guidelines EXECUTIVE • Swedish Code of Corporate authority “How” Obligatory MANAGEMENT Governance • Strategy documents • IFRS • Financing Policy • Code about gifts, rewards and other • Sustainability policy benefits in business • Procurement policy • UN Global Compact principles • Investment policy Instructions • Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) • Policy for personal data “How” UNIT AND DEPARTMENT MANAGER Guidance guidelines Standards processing • Stock market rules • Business ethics guidelines • Equality and Diversity Plan Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 50 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report the nomination process. The need for skills is analysed based on the Presence/Total Board of Directors number of meetings company’s operations, situation and future challenges, the composition Anitra Steen, chairperson 9/10 of the Board and assessments of the Board. The owner’s expectation for diversity on the Boards of Directors under the ownership policy is also Anders Larsson 10/10 observed. Upon completion of the process nominations are announced Anna Magnusson* 7/7 in accordance with the Code. Britta Burreau 6/10 Composition of the Board of Directors Caroline Arehult** 2/3 According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors for Christer Nerlich 10/10 Akademiska Hus shall consist of a minimum of three and a maximum of Gunnar Svedberg** 3/3 ten Directors elected by the Annual General Meeting, with no deputies. Ingemar Ziegler 10/10 The Board consisted of nine Directors elected by the AGM until the Kristina Ekengren** 3/3 2018 AGM. The Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2018 resolved that Peter Gudmundson 10/10 the Board should have eight members elected by the AGM. In addition, Thomas Jennlinger 10/10 the Board includes two employee representatives designated by their Örjan Wikforss 10/10 respective trade unions. Six members were re-elected and one new * Elected 27 April at the Annual General Meeting. member was elected to the Board at the Annual General Meeting, after ** Left the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting 27 April. which a vacancy remained. The AGM concluded that the Board has the relevant skills to manage the Company and that the Board as a whole Board committees has experience of areas that are important for the Company such as The Board has established three committees to specifically monitor and corporate governance, management, the real estate industry, universiprepare Board issues within their respective focus areas. Committee ties and higher education, change and development initiatives, as well members are elected at the statutory Board meeting held immediately as financial expertise. after the AGM. Representatives of the business such as the President, CFO, Human Resources Director, Market Area Director and Project Work of the Board of Directors in 2018 Manager may participate at committee meetings in the capacity of In its Rules of Procedure the Board set a schedule for information and presenters. decisions during its work year that essentially follows the Board’s annual cycle (see below). At all Board meetings during the year the President 3a The Audit and Finance Committee has the following primary duties: presents a report on significant events involving the Company and the – Support and follow up financing activities. respective committee chairs present reports from the committee meet– Prepare matters to be decided by the Board, including Financing ings that were held between Board meetings. During the year the Board Policy and a risk plan. of Directors adopted an updated strategic focus. Other important issues – Monitor the Company’s financial reporting and ensure that it that the Board addressed included innovation, digitisation from a maintains a high standard of quality. customer perspective, student housing on campus and development of – Regarding the financial statements, monitor the efficiency of the the investment and construction process. In addition, a number of inCompany’s internal control systems and risk management. vestment matters were addressed. In 2018, ten regular Board meetings – Meet regularly with the Company’s auditors to learn about the were held, including the statutory meeting. To inform and update memscope, focus and results of the audit. bers about its activities, some Board meetings are held at the centres of – Remain informed about the audit of the annual accounts and education that are Akademiska Hus customers and combined wherever the consolidated accounts. possible with meetings with the leadership of these institutions. The – Establish guidelines for non-audit services that may be procured attendance at the meetings by the members of the Board of Directors is from the Company’s auditors. presented in the table on the right. – Prepare proposals for the election of auditors at the Annual General Meeting. Board of Directors’ annual cycle QUARTER 4 1ST QUARTER • Interim report Q3 • Year-end report • Investment matters • Investment matters • Business concept 4 • Annual Report and Sustainability Report • Risk plan 1 • Principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for senior executives • Notice of Annual General Meeting QUARTER 3 QUARTER 2 • Interim report Q2 3 • Interim report Q1 • Investment matters 2 • Investment matters • Statutory meeting • Board of Directors’ Rules of Procedure, instructions to the President and other policy documents • EMTN prospectus • External analysis and strategy meeting Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 51 Corporate Governance Report In 2018 the focus continued to be on internal control. Moreover, the Evaluation of the work of the Board and the President committee prepared the Board of Directors prior to the AGM decision The Board of Directors uses a systematic and structured process to regarding choice of auditor, and discussed relevant accounting regulaconduct an annual evaluation of the work of the Board and the Prestions. The attendance at the meetings by the members of the Board of ident. The evaluation takes place either internally or externally with Directors is presented in the table below. the aim of developing the working forms and efficiency of the Board of Directors. In 2018, the evaluation was carried out with the assistance Presence/Total of an external consultant, where all Board members had to respond to Audit and Finance Committee number of meetings a questionnaire. The results of the evaluation are presented to both the Christer Nerlich, chairperson 7/7 Chairperson and the Board of Directors as a whole. The owner, through the Government Offices, is also informed about the results of the Britta Burreau 6/7 evaluation. The work of the Government Offices related to the Board Kristina Ekengren* 3/3 nomination process also includes an ongoing evaluation of the boards Peter Gudmundson 6/7 of all state-owned companies, which includes their work, the composition of the Board and their skills. * Left the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting 27 April. 4 THE COMPANY’S ORGANISATION 3b The Remuneration Committee has the following primary duties: President and Executive Management –P  repare decisions regarding terms and conditions for salaries and The President, or the Vice President acting on behalf of the President, employment for the President and senior executives. is responsible for ongoing management in compliance with applicable –F  ormulate proposals for guidelines for remuneration and other laws and regulations and in accordance with the instructions for the terms of employment for the President and other senior executives. President approved by the Board. Executive Management consists –M  onitor and evaluate the application of the guidelines for remuof ten members including the President. Executive Management is a neration to senior executives prior to adoption by the AGM. forum for information and decisions regarding joint strategic Company – Serve as advisory body to the President regarding succession planmatters and often serves as the steering committee for strategically ning and appointment of senior executives. important projects. In addition to the President, the Executive Man– Propose appropriate employment contract templates for senior agement team comprises the Chief Financial Officer, Project Manager, executives to the Board of Directors. three Market Area Directors, Administrative Manager, Corporate Communications Officer, Head of Innovation and Sustainable DevelopIn 2018, the Remuneration Committee also discussed the health ment and the Human Resources Director, all of whom report directly insurance benefit in relation to new tax rules. Furthermore, a review to the President. The Company’s General Counsel serves as secretary of succession planning and follow-up of HR activities were also carried for the Executive Management team. Currently, half of the members of out. The attendance at the meetings by the members of the Board of Executive Management are men and half are women. Directors is presented in the table below. Operational units Presence/Total The Company’s main processes are conducted within four operational Remuneration Committee number of meetings units. The Management unit is responsible for management deliveraAnitra Steen, chairperson 3/3 bles with a focus on customer benefit, ensures sustainable and efficient operation, energy efficiency improvements and digitisation of the Kristina Ekengren* 1/1 property management organisation. The Project unit is responsible for Gunnar Svedberg* 1/1 project deliverables, ensuring high standards for sourcing and project Anna Magnusson** 2/2 leadership skills, while creating conditions for efficient and sustainable Ingemar Ziegler** 2/2 management. Student housing, which in 2018 was spun off from the management unit to become an independent unit, is responsible for * Left the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting 27 April. ** Elected to the Remuneration Committee 27 April at the Annual General Meeting. developing campus-based undergraduate and graduate student housing. The Campus and Business Development unit is divided into three 3a The Investment Committee has the following primary duties: geographic areas: North, Mid-Sweden and South. The unit’s primary –P  repare and analyse proposals for major investments. areas of responsibility include strategic customer relationships, devel–M  onitor and analyse the Company’s reporting of major projects in opment of knowledge and learning environments, strategic campus and progress. property development, and overarching responsibility for investments. –A  ssist Executive Management with formulation of an investment The organisation focuses on the management business and enables the strategy. Company to adapt faster and more efficiently to external changes. In 2018, the Committee also reviewed the investment process as a Common staff and support functions whole with the aim of developing and improving procedures. The A number of staff and support functions with a variety of areas of experattendance at the meetings by the members of the Board of Directors is tise provide support to management and the business in its day-to-day presented below. work. Organisationally, HR are subordinate to the President, including Presence/Total common service, innovation and sustainable development, legal affairs Investment Committee number of meetings and communication. Business, finance, purchasing, IT, valuation and Anitra Steen, chairperson 7/7 analysis, risk control, controlling and risk management are subordinate to the Chief Financial Officer. Ingemar Ziegler 7/7 Caroline Arehult* 3/3 SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE OF AKADEMISKA HUS Örjan Wikforss 7/7 The Board of Directors is responsible, based on instructions provided by the owner, for adopting a strategy and objectives for the company. * Left the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting 27 April. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 52 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report A detailed structure provides support for how Akademiska Hus should employees should behave and provides guidance in potentially difficult be managed, with sustainability as a key component. Akademiska Hus’ situations. An Ethics Council provides support to employees to which values are the point of departure for this work: Responsive, Engaged suspected deviations from ethical guidelines or other irregularities can and Value-adding (REV) which provide support for both work and be reported. Akademiska Hus has also set up an independent system decision-making. for whistle-blowing, to which both Akademiska Hus employees and The strategy and operational planning process is carried out annuexternal parties can anonymously report suspected irregularities. In ally, beginning with strategy days held for the Board and management 2018 the Company received no reports about corruption that led to a before the summer. During the year, a major revision was carried out police complaint through the Ethics Council, whistle-blower system or regarding strategy, in which the sustainability perspective was fully directly to employees. integrated into a sustainable objective. In conjunction with the revised management by objective process, the global objectives for sustainable REMUNERATION development were integrated, which is in line with owner expectations. • The AGM resolved on principles for remuneration and other terms The business plan and associated scorecard are formulated based and conditions of employment for executives. The principles are in on the adopted strategy. The Company-wide business plan is based on line with the State’s “Guidelines for terms and conditions of employoperational plans and budgets for operational units, as well as common ment for senior executives in state-owned companies”. staff and support functions. The plan and scorecard specify activities • A fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors according to to be implemented to achieve the strategic goals and key figures for a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. The members of measurement and follow-up purposes. the Board of Directors who are employed within Akademiska Hus The adopted business plan is followed up on a regular basis through and the Government Offices do not receive any fee for this work. See the President’s quarterly reporting to the Board of Directors. In addithe table on page 79 for information about remuneration. tion, quarterly feedback sessions are held between management repre• Payment to the President and other senior executives comprises sentatives and the coordinators of the respective operational units and a basic salary and a pension. Payment to the President is decided common staff and support functions. The potential of each employee to by the Board of Directors following a recommendation from the both contribute and influence the work of achieving the common goals Remuneration Committee. Remuneration to other senior executives is clarified through the assignment appraisal, which is an expanded is decided by the President following consultation with the Remuform of the performance review that was introduced during the year. neration Committee. Remuneration comprises a basic salary and a The Board of Directors is also ultimately responsible for ensuring defined contribution pension based on the ITP premiums according that the Company is run in compliance with laws and regulations, as to a collective agreement. No variable or bonus-based remuneration well as the guidelines provided by the owner. As part of this work, the is paid. Salary surveys are conducted to make a comparison with Board adopts relevant policies and governing documents annually. other property companies. No changes will be made regarding the The strategy and operational planning process, along with the adopted principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors and senior governing documents, serve as the foundation for the overarching executives for 2019. governance of the Company. For a detailed description of remuneration, pensions, periods of noCODE OF CONDUCT, ETHICS COUNCIL AND tice, severance pay and fees to auditors, see the administration report WHISTLE-BLOWER SYSTEM on page 56 and Notes 10 and 11. Akademiska Hus has a Code of Conduct that outlines the ethical business behaviour expected of its employees. A basic requirement is to act INTERNAL CONTROL OF FINANCIAL REPORTING in compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, Agenda The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for internal control of 2030, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the financial reporting, as regulated by the Swedish Companies Act and the ILO Core Conventions and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Code. The following section has been prepared in accordance with the Enterprises. For the Company’s employees there are also business Annual Accounts Act and the Code and is thus limited to internal conethics guidelines based on the rules in the Code regarding gifts, retrol of financial reporting. The purpose of internal control of financial wards and other benefits in business. This provides guidance on how reporting is to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of Strategy and operational planning 1 2 3 4 5 AKADEMISKA HUS STRATEGY AND BUSINESS PLAN OPERATIONAL PLAN AND ASSIGNMENT ASSIGNMENT OVERARCHING GOAL AND SCORECARD SCORECARD APPRAISAL Owner level Company level Company level Unit, staff and Employee level (determined by (determined by support level the Board) the Board) Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 53 Corporate Governance Report external financial reporting in the form of interim reports and annual Information and communication reports, and that they are prepared in compliance with relevant laws, Governing documents such as policies and guidelines are available for regulations, accounting standards and the specific guidelines for exterall employees on the Company’s intranet. Internal information channal reporting that apply to state-owned companies. The presentation nels in general include information from regular meetings of Executive below is based on the five components that the Committee of SponsorManagement, leadership forums held four times a year, local informaing Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) defined in its tion meetings for all staff and meetings in various forums for concerned framework for internal management and control. specialist functions. The Audit and Finance Committee and the Board receive financial Control environment information from Executive Management at each balance sheet date. The basis for internal control comprises the control environment with In addition, the Audit and Finance Committee receives regular the organisation, decision procedures and responsibility. Each year feedback from the external auditors and is thereby kept up to date on the Board of Directors adopts a number of policy documents such as current observations related to internal management and control. the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors and its committees, External reporting complies with the State’s ownership policy instructions to the President, allocation of responsibility and authority, guide­lines. Financial information in the form of the annual report instructions for financial reporting, plan for handling financial risks and year-end report is available on the Akademiska Hus website www. and policies. The control environment also encompasses the culture akademiskahus.se/en. and the values based on which the Board of Directors and corporate management communicate and act, which is communicated in part via Follow-up and evaluation the Code of Conduct that is adopted annually by the Board of Directors. Internal management and control of financial reporting are monitored The responsibility of the Board of Directors and the internal alloand evaluated continuously by the Board of Directors, President, cation of work within its committees are clarified in the Rules of ProExecutive Management and the accounting and finance department cedure. The Board of Directors has established an Audit and Finance to ensure that procedures are appropriate and efficient. OpportuniCommittee which has tasks that include preparing the Board’s work ties for improvement are identified through controls and analyses. with quality assurance of the Company’s financial reporting. In addiAny shortcomings are reported to the relevant person to ensure that tion, Akademiska Hus’ accounting and financial reporting is handled by improvements can be made. On each balance sheet date, the President a central unit. The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for ensuring and Chief Financial Officer review the financials with the individual that internal accounting policies and guidelines for financial reporting responsible for each operational unit to monitor and discuss the finanare in place and formulated in compliance with current legal requirecial performance and important business-related matters. The overall ments, listing requirements and accounting standards. financial results of the staff and support functions are also monitored. Each quarter the Board receives financial information and an analRisk assessments ysis, as well as a report from the most recent meetings of the different Akademiska Hus has an established process for all parts of the operacommittees. The Audit and Finance Committee has a specific responsition to identify, assess and manage risks where each risk has a defined bility to follow up audit matters and more extensive matters of princiowner. For a more extensive description, see the risk section in the ple with regard to financial reporting where issues concerning property annual report on pages 43–47. Risk assessments regarding financial valuation and the liability portfolio are particularly important. reporting, which aim to identify and evaluate the business areas and The Company’s external auditors assess the internal controls as part processes where the greatest risk of errors that could have a material of the annual audit. For example, in 2018 the auditors reviewed the impact on financial reporting can be found, are carried out on several rental notification, purchasing and payroll processes. Akademiska Hus levels in the Company. Risk analysis and risks relating to financial continuously reviews and updates internal management and control reporting are regularly discussed with the external auditors, who also procedures within the Company, for example, to take into account and present their annual risk assessment to the Audit and Finance Commitimplement measures regarding recommendations from the company’s tee, as well as the Board of Directors in the audit plan. external auditors. In addition, separate assessments of the special focus areas described above are carried out as needed. Control activities The Company’s internal processes and procedures provide support for ongoing risk management. Control activities that are designed to DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE NOMINATION COMMITTEE prevent, detect and correct errors and deviations are incorporated (CODE RULES 1.3–1.4, 2.1–2.7, 4.6, 8.1 AND 10.2) in the financial reporting process used by Akademiska Hus. These The Code has mainly been prepared for companies with controls have been designed to deal with the risk of significant errors a spread of ownership. At such companies, the election that may arise in financial reporting, and comprise both general and committee is in the first instance a body for shareholders to detailed checks. Control activities take place at several different levels prepare decisions regarding appointments. For state-owned in the Company and include approval of transactions, authorisation of companies, the rules regarding an election committee are supplier invoices and payments, account reconciliations and analytical replaced by principles governing a structured nomination follow-up. In addition, Akademiska Hus works continually to improve process according to the Government’s ownership policy. processes linked to financial reporting. For example, in 2018 an assessment was carried out of the purchasing and project reporting process REPORTING OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF BOARD MEMBERS with a focus on risks and associated control activities. (CODE RULE 4.5) IT systems that are used for financial reporting include built-in The purpose of this code rule is to protect minority shareautomatic controls to ensure reliable financial reporting. There are also holders in limited liability companies, which is not applicable processes and control measures in the general IT environment regardto wholly state-owned enterprises. ing matters such as system permissions, system updates and backup procedures. As the digital transformation is implemented, the issue of information security becomes increasingly important. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 54 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors ANITRA STEEN BRITTA BURREAU PETER GUDMUNDSON Chairperson since 2016. Chair of the Remuneration Member since 2014. Board member elected in 2017. Committee and Investment Committee. Year of birth: 1964 Year of birth: 1955 Year of birth: 1949 Position: CEO of KPA AB and KPA Pensionsförsäkring Position: Professor, Royal Institute of Technology. Other positions: Chairperson of the Board for AFA AB. Other positions: Member of the board of Royal Försäkring, Attendo AB and Oral Care AB. Other positions: Chairperson for the Scouts. Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. Previous positions: Under-secretary at the Ministry Director, Group management at Folksam. Chairman Previous positions: Vice-Chancellor KTH, Vice of Finance, State Secretary at the Ministry of Educaof the Board for KPA Pensionsservice AB. Dean KTH, Head of Department KTH, CEO SICOMP, tion and Ministry of Finance, Director General of the Previous positions: CEO and Board member Nordea consultant Tre Konsulter AB, researcher Brown National Agency for Higher Education Services and Liv & Pension AB, Board member in the Nordea Boveri Research Centre in Switzerland. the National Tax Board, as well as CEO of System­ Liv Group, Board member Svensk Försäkring and Education: PhD. and M.Sc. Eng. bolaget AB. Chairperson of Stockholm University Accenture Financial Services. and Board member of SAS, Södersjukhuset hospital, Education: M.Sc. Eng and Executive MBA in Finance. Lantmännen, PostNord and others. Education: BA. THOMAS JENNLINGER ANDERS LARSSON ANNA MAGNUSSON Employee representative (Ledarna union) Employee representative (SEKO union) since 2009. Board member elected in 2018. since 2008. Year of birth: 1963 Year of birth: 1977 Year of birth: 1956 Position: Operating engineer at Akademiska Hus. Position: Assistant undersecretary Ministry of Position: Operating manager at Akademiska Hus. Education: Production engineering studies. Enterprise and Innovation, Head of the unit for Education: Operating manager. state-owned enterprises. Previous positions: Assistant undersecretary Ministry of Finance, Expert Ministry of Finance, Legal Counsel Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB. Education: LLM. BA. CHRISTER NERLICH ÖRJAN WIKFORSS INGEMAR ZIEGLER Board member elected in 2017. Board member elected in 2017. Member since 2007. Chairperson of the Audit and Finance Committee Year of birth: 1950 Year of birth: 1947 Year of birth: 1961 Position: CEO of Arkitekturanalys AB. Position: CEO IZAB. Position: Chief Financial Officer of Vasakronan. Other positions: Vice Chairman of the Board of Other positions: Board member of Stockholm Previous positions: Chief Financial Officer of AP Directors of the Royal Swedish Opera, Board member Concert Hall. Fastigheter and Corporate finance NewSec. of Tengbomgruppen AB and member of the Royal Previous positions: CEO of AB Storstockholms Education: MBA. Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. Lokaltrafik, Locum AB, Diösförvaltning, Stockholms Previous positions: Professor in project commuMarkoch Lokaliseringsbolag. Finance Secretary of nication, KTH. CEO of FFNS Arkitekter and Wikforss the City of Stockholm. Arkitektkontor. Education: BA. Education: Architect, PhD. and professor. AUDITORS Helena Ehrenborg, Öhrlings Pricewaterhouse Coopers AB (PwC) Lead auditor since 2018. Authorised public accountant. Year of birth: 1965 Education: MBA. Other audit assignments, selection: Vasakronan AB, Jernhusen AB, HSB Riksförbund, Pandox AB. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 55 Corporate Governance Report Executive Management KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON CATARINA FRITZ JONAS BJUGGREN PETER BOHMAN President. Employed 2011. CFO and Vice President. Administrative Manager. Market Area Director. Year of birth: 1956 Employed 2016. Employed 2017. Employed 2013. Other positions: Board member AP3, Year of birth: 1963 Year of birth: 1974 Year of birth: 1972 Hemnet Group AB. Previous positions: CFO at Keolis Other positions: Board member of Other positions: Board member Luleå Previous positions: Airport Director Sverige, Frösunda LSS, Addici, Aditro Kungsleden AB. Science Park AB. of Stockholm-Arlanda Airport, Group and the Stockholm Stock Previous positions: Regional Manager Previous positions: Terminal ManAccounting and Finance Director and Exchange. CFO Investor. Vasakronan, market area manager ager and on-call Airport Director at Vice President of the Scandic Group. Education: MBA. and business unit manager at AP Stockholm-Arlanda Airport. Various Education: MBA. Fastigheter and project manager at management positions at Swedavia. Skanska and Sweco. Education: B.Sc. in Business AdminisEducation: M.Sc. Eng. tration with focus on real estate. BIRIGTTA VAN DALEN ULF DÄVERSJÖ HAYAR GOHARY MAGNUS HUSS Market Area Director. Employed 2005. Head of Innovation and Sustainable Project Manager. Employed 2007. Market Area Director. Year of birth: 1958 Development. Employed 2014. Year of birth: 1975 Employed 1993. Previous positions: Regional Director Year of birth: 1,979 Other positions: Chairperson Håll Year of birth: 1967 for Akademiska Hus, Planning adviser Previous positions: Purchasing nollan. Previous positions: Project Manager, for Akademiska Hus, Head of property ­Director Akademiska Hus, Previous positions: Project manager Head of Property Management, and supply and operating manager at Management Consultant Capgemini for Vallentuna Municipality. Project Property Manager Akademiska Hus ­Karlstad University, Planning Manager Consulting, and Global Purchaser Arla manager for Akademiska Hus. Stockholm. Engineer and facilities at the Property Department, Karlstad Foods. Education: M.Sc. Eng. technician at the National Board of Municipal Authority. Education: MBA. Public Buildings. Education: B.A. Soc. Admin. Education: Engineering degree, technical college. CECILIA WIDE MARIE HALLANDER LARSSON 50/50 EQUAL NUMBER OF MEN AND WOMEN IN Corporate Communications Officer. Human Resources Director. EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT AT AKADEMISKA HUS Employed 2012. Employed 2017. Year of birth: 1969 Year of birth: 1961 Previous positions: Head of Other positions: Brunmåla Hästklinik Corporate Communications at SP AB. Sveriges Tekniska Forskningsinstitut Previous positions: Human R ­ esources AB. Director for Försäkrings­kassan, Education: BA. ­Swedbank AB, Posten AB, Scandic Hotels AB and Wedins AB. Education: BA. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 56 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Other information Other information REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES Other senior executives within the Group have an agreed mutual period Principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors of notice of six months. In the event of notice being given by the Comand senior executives pany, severance pay is payable for a further 12 months. Salary payable Akademiska Hus follows the owner’s guidelines governing terms or remuneration for work performed during the time severance pay is and conditions of employment for senior executives. Payment to the received shall be set off on a krona-by-krona basis. Other information President and other senior executives comprises a basic salary and a about salaries and remuneration can be seen in Note 10 on pages 78–79. pension. Pension expenses refer to the cost charged to the profit for the year. Payment to the President is decided by the Board of Directors PERMITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS following a recommendation from the Remuneration Committee. A number of facilities within the Group require a permit or need to be Remuneration to other senior executives is decided by the President reported to a supervisory authority in order to be used. These facilities of the Parent Company following consultation with the Remuneration have been reported and applications for permits (as required) were Committee. Remuneration comprises a basic salary and a defined consubmitted to the supervisory authorities concerned and have been tribution pension based on the ITP premiums according to a collective granted. The facilities in question are: one facility for combustion agreement. No changes are proposed regarding the principles for remutechnology research that requires a permit, and a number of facilities neration to the Board of Directors and senior executives for 2019. classified as subject to declaration with respect to energy production A fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors according to and sewer system. a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. Board members who are employed in the Akademiska Hus Group, or who work at the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Government Offices, do not receive any fee for this work. In accordance with Chapter 6, section 11 of the Swedish Annual Remuneration for committee work was set at the 2018 Annual GenAccounts Act, Akademiska Hus has chosen to prepare the statutory eral Meeting. Sustainability Report as a separate report. The scope of the Sustainability Report, which also includes Akademiska Hus’ sustainability report PENSIONS figures, is stated on page 102. Akademiska Hus has taken out an individual occupational pension solution for the President, Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, where the EVENTS AFTER THE YEAR-END agreed retirement age is 65 years. Akademiska Hus allocates 30 per A sales agreement was signed with the Swedish University of Agriculcent of Kerstin Lindberg Göransson’s fixed monthly salary, which tural Sciences (SLU) for part of the property Ultuna 2:23. The buyer is paid into an occupational pension insurance plan according to a will take possession on 1 March 2019. The purchase price is SEK 355 special agreement drawn up with a pension company. The pension million. package includes a sickness and early retirement pension, a retirement pension and optional survivor’s pension and/or repayment cover. Other FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS senior executives have similar defined contribution agreements with Akademiska Hus has a project portfolio with approved and planned a maximum allocation of 30 per cent of their salary, or what is termed investments of SEK 14.0 billion. The property portfolio is expected to a high-income earner solution with an opt-out premium that is cost­ increase in value by approximately SEK 6.5 billion over the next three neutral compared with traditional, collectively agreed ITP. years. Net operating income is expected to increase as new properties are completed, our streamlining initiatives make progress and econoPeriods of notice and severance pay mies of scale are leveraged. The good cash flow limits the need for new An agreement has been reached with the President, Kerstin Lindberg financing to approximately SEK 2.5 billion for the upcoming threeGöransson, regarding a mutual period of notice of six months. In the year period. Given the low interest rates, the interest coverage ratio is event of notice being given by the Company, severance pay is payable expected to remain strong. for a further 18 months. The severance pay shall be considered to include payment for holidays and pension benefits. The severance pay is reduced by any amount Kerstin Lindberg Göransson may receive from other employment or through other activities. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 57 Proposed allocation of unappropriated earnings Proposed allocation of unappropriated earnings According to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, which STATEMENT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PURSUANT TO were adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2014, the ­SECTION 18, SUB-SECTION 4 OF THE COMPANIES ACT dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent of the net profit The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Company’s liquidity after tax, reversal of changes in value and related deferred tax. When can be maintained securely. On observance of the relationship between deciding on a dividend, consideration should be given to the Group’s the Company’s assets, liabilities and equity, and with due consideration capital structure. The equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 per given to profit forecasts and investment requirements as of this date, cent and return on operating capital should be at least 6.5 per cent. we believe that the proposed dividend is justifiable in the light of the deThe average yield on operating capital over five years was 6.4 per cent. mands that the nature, extent and risk of operations make on the level of Return on operating capital for 2018 was 5.5 per cent. At the end of 2018, equity. The proposed dividend is thus acceptable in the light of the Comthe equity ratio was 45.8 per cent for the Group and 19.4 per cent for the pany’s consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. Parent Company. After the proposed dividend, the equity ratio will be The dividend does not affect the Company’s capacity to discharge 44.8 per cent for the Group and 16.7 per cent for the Parent Company. its short-term and long-term obligations or to implement necessary investments. It is also the opinion of the Board of Directors that the Available for allocation at the Annual General Meeting: Company’s financial position, in the light of the proposed dividend, Retained earnings SEK 912,820,348 is secure for the creditors. Nor can the Board of Directors identify Profit for the year SEK 1,494,292,155 any other circumstances that indicate that the dividend ought not to Total SEK 2,407,112,503 be paid in accordance with the proposal presented by the Board of Directors. The proposed value transfer can thus be justified in the light The Board of Directors and the President propose that the profit be of what is stated in Section 17, sub-section 3, paragraphs 2–3 of the allocated in such a way that SEK 1,663,000,000 is paid to the shareholdCompanies Act. er and SEK 744,112,503 is carried forward. For details of the financial results and the financial position in general, reference can be made to the following financial statements. The Annual General Meeting will be held on 29 April 2019 in ­Stockholm. PROFIT USED AS A BASIS FOR CALCULATION OF DIVIDEND, SEK M Outcome Changes in value Profit used for consolidated results in the Group calculation of dividend Income from property management 6,117 6,117 Property management expenses -2,179 -2,179 NET OPERATING INCOME 3,938 3,938 Central administration costs -78 -78 Net interest income/expense -268 -268 PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAX 3,592 -3,592 Changes in value, properties 2,585 -2,585 Changes in value, financial instruments -360 320 -40 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAX 5,818 -2,265 3,552 Tax/current tax -1,247 467 -780 Effect of changed tax rate 743 -743 PROFIT AFTER TAX 5,314 -2,541 2,772 Dividend, 60% of the profit available for the payment of a dividend 1,663 The dividend as decided at the Annual General Meeting held on 27 April 2018 was SEK 1,630 million. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 58 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statements Income Statements Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 2018 2017 2018 2017 INCOME FROM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Rental revenue 4 5,927,669 5,581,924 5,927,669 5,581,924 Other property management income 5 189,034 224,216 190,458 392,843 Total property management income 6,116,703 5,806,140 6,118,127 5,974,767 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES Operating costs -893,634 -784,660 -890,451 -782,694 Maintenance costs -676,387 -615,476 -676,387 -615,476 Property administration -372,395 -308,900 -364,869 -289,456 Other property management expenses 6 -236,136 -268,073 -249,957 -271,077 Total property management expenses 7, 8 -2,178,553 -1,977,109 -2,181,664 -1,958,703 NET OPERATING INCOME 3,938,151 3,829,031 3,936,464 4,016,064 Central administration costs 7 -78,069 -66,809 -78,069 -66,809 Interest income 9 32,057 9,707 32,057 9,707 Interest expense 9 -299,929 -198,171 -391,861 -299,340 Depreciation and impairment as well as reversed impairment in property management 8 — — -1,315,493 -1,159,924 EARNINGS BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAX 10, 11, 30 3,592,206 3,573,758 2,183,097 2,499,699 Changes in value, properties 12 2,585,030 4,979,366 — — Changes in value, financial instruments 9 -359,632 -242,268 -359,632 -242,268 PROFIT BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAX 5,817,604 8,310,856 1,823,465 2,257,431 Appropriations 14 — — -137,557 -181,083 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 15 5,817,604 8,310,856 1,685,908 2,076,348 Tax 16 -503,659 -1,858,186 -191,615 -486,594 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 17 5,313,945 6,452,670 1,494,292 1,589,754 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 5,313,945 6,452,670 — — Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 Income Statements Statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 2018 2017 2018 2017 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 5,313,945 6,452,670 1,494,292 1,589,754 ITEMS THAT HAVE BEEN RECLASSIFIED OR CAN BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 28 — -4,332 — -4,332 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges 16, 28 — 828 — 828 Cash flow hedges, net after tax, dissolved against profit and loss 28 -6,814 726 -6,814 726 ITEMS THAT CANNOT BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Revaluation of defined benefit pensions 30 -39,772 -28,665 — — Tax attributable to defined benefit pensions 16 8,193 6,306 — — Total, other comprehensive income -38,393 -25,137 -6,814 -2,778 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 5,275,552 6,427,533 1,487,478 1,586,976 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 5,275,552 6,427,533 — — Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 60 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statements Comments on the Group’s performance FULL-YEAR 2018 can mainly be attributed to the cold weather at the beginning of the year Profit for the year was SEK 5,314 million, which is SEK 1,139 million which resulted in increased costs for both heating and snow removal, as lower than last year. It is mainly attributable to a lower increase of the well as an increased need for cooling during the unusually hot summer. property holding value, which totalled to SEK 2,585 million (4,979). Operating costs of SEK 894 million (785) include media provision of SEK The impact of the lower increase in value on profit is to some extent 595 million (521), equivalent to SEK 177/square meters (160) over the offset by the effect of changes in the corporate tax rate, which amountpast 12 months. ed to SEK 743 million. Maintenance costs increased by SEK 61 million to SEK 676 million The net operating income for the period improved by SEK 109 mil(615) mainly as a result of increased costs for remedial maintenance. lion compared to the previous year, to SEK 3,938 million (3,829), which can mainly be explained by the completion of new buildings during the ADMINISTRATION AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES year. Property administration costs increased by SEK 63 million to SEK 372 million (309). The increase is planned and is primarily attributable to RENTAL REVENUE the full-year effects of recruitments in 2017, mainly related to the new During the year rental revenue with a deduction for vacancies management organisation, expansion of the Campus and Business Deincreased by SEK 346 million compared with the previous year and velopment organisation and purchasing. In addition, development work totalled SEK 5,928 million (5,582). The majority of the increase relates in digitisation and innovation entailed increased costs for the year. to the completion of new buildings, including Biomedicum and BioCentral administration totalled SEK 78 million, which is somewhat medicum Comparative Medicine (KM-B) in Stockholm, the National higher than the previous year, but is in line with the plan. Police Academy in Huddinge and the Segerstedt Building in Uppsala. The financial vacancy rate increased during the year, for which reason NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE the addition of the effect from completion of new buildings did not have Net interest income and expense consists of interest on loans and net its full impact on reported rental revenue. interest income related to the interest rate swap portfolio. The cost of Other property management income amounted to SEK 189 million these items amounted to SEK 268 million (188) for the year, corre(224). The decrease is primarily attributable to an additional considerasponding to an interest rate of 0.97 per cent (0.94). The extensive bond tion of SEK 25 million that was included in the profit for the previous year. issuances during the year have enabled a decrease of short-term funding through the ECP program. As a result, interest expense on loans LEASING LEVEL increased to some extent. Capitalised interest expense for projects in The vacancy rate increased during the year and is fully attributable to progress, which is not included in net interest income and expense, occupancy changes at Karolinska Institutet in conjunction with the totalled SEK 92 million (101) during the period. See table of net interest completion of Biomedicum. The financial vacancy rate accounts for income and expense on page 61. 1.7 per cent (0.9) of our total rental revenue, which corresponds to SEK 109 million (54). CHANGES IN VALUE, PROPERTIES In terms of area, vacancies totalled 173,000 square meters (127,000), The fair value of the Group’s property holdings was determined by an which is 5.2 per cent (3.9) of our total rentable area of 3.3 million square internal property valuation method that is compared annually against meters (3.3 million). We work proactively to facilitate new rentals and externally valued statements where a selection of the holdings were thereby minimise the financial vacancy rate, which may entail adaptaexternally valued. As of 31 December 2018 the change in value of proptions and investments in existing premises. erties that impacted profit was SEK 2,585 million, a decrease of SEK 2,394 million compared with 2017. OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE COSTS The decline can largely be explained by a more moderate developExpenses for operation and maintenance amounted to SEK 1,570 ment of the cost of capital and yield targets. The decline can also be million (1,400). Operating costs involve supervision and service, as well attributed to changes made in the valuation model during 2018, such as as media provision. The increase in operating costs of SEK 109 million the change in treatment of the standard vacancy rate and the deduction STABLE RENTAL REVENUE RISING NET OPERATING INCOME AND INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO STABLE NET OPERATING INCOME RATIO CONTINUES AT HIGH LEVEL SEK m SEK m % % 6,000 4,000 80 1,000 800 4,500 3,000 60 600 3,000 2,000 40 400 1,500 1,000 20 200 0 0 0 0 14 15 16 17 18 Year 14 15 16 17 18 Year 14 15 16 17 18 Year Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 Income Statements for a stamp duty, which resulted in a negative impact of SEK 230 milrealised. A portion of interest rate derivatives is realised on an ongoing lion on all sub-markets. Other value changes is attributable to projects basis (monthly or quarterly), even if the maturity of the underlying in progress, renegotiated leases and other factors affecting value. The instrument is long-term. average yield requirement was 5.38 per cent (5.45). To clarify the underlying financing cost, a comparative calculation is The largest changes in fair value can be seen in the Stockholm region carried out in which the cash flows of realised interest rate derivatives and in Uppsala. These changes are generally due to the large proporare also allocated to the underlying maturity of each instrument. This tion of project properties in these market areas that are approaching allocation corresponds with an interest expense of 0.52 per cent for the completion. past twelve-month period. The charts below shows this comparative calculation of the underlying financing cost, in which interest rates are CHANGES IN VALUE, FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS expressed as rolling 12-month interest rate (annualised). The accrued Changes in value in the derivative portfolio amounted to SEK -360 finance charge amounted to 1.52 per cent as of 31 December. The million (-242), mainly as a result of falling market interest rates during comparative calculation confirms that the long fixed interest period has the last quarter of the year. The derivative portfolio mainly consists resulted in relatively stable financing costs. of interest rate swaps with future start dates that are mainly entered When calculating the interest coverage ratio, the capitalised interest to extend the fixed interest period in the liability portfolio, where expense and accrued earnings from closed interest rate derivatives are just over 60 per cent of financing currently relies on variable interest included. The interest coverage ratio continues to be high, although rates. About one third of the Group’s interest risk exposure derives it fell during the year as a result of the somewhat higher net interest from interest rate swaps, for which reason even minor changes in the income, and was 736 per cent (871) at year-end, see diagram on page 60. interest rate situation affects earnings through changes in fair value. Falling market interest rates combined with a flatter yield curve have a TAX negative impact on profit, while the opposite is true for rising interest The swedish parliament has decided that the corporate tax rate, which rates and steeper yield curves. Thus, in a fixed income market with large is currently 22.0%, will be lowered in two steps. The first reduction will fluctuations in interest rates, the changes in value will be significant. occur in 2019 to 21.4% and the second in 2021 to 20.6%. Deferred taxes will be revalued based on the tax rate applicable at the time when the COMPARATIVE CALCULATION, TOTAL FINANCING COST deferred tax is expected to be settled. For Akademiska Hus this entails a In recent years the average fixed interest period in the entire liability revaluation to 20.6% and as a result the deferred tax liability was revalportfolio has been relatively long. The use of interest derivatives is ued to SEK 11,630 million and a deferred tax income of SEK 743 million substantial and interest rate fluctuations generate changes in value is reported in 2018. (fair values). The recognised changes in value are both realised and unCOMMENTS ON THE PARENT COMPANY’S PERFORMANCE The Company’s revenue for the year totalled SEK 6,118 million (5,975). TOTAL FINANCING COST Of this amount, revenue from subsidiaries accounted for SEK 0 million INCLUDING CHANGES IN VALUE (0). Profit before change in value and tax was SEK 2,183 million (2,500) 1 Jan. 2018– 1 Jan. 2017– 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 and net financial income/expense was SEK -719 million (-532). Profit Interest cost for loans, including charges, % 0.88 0.74 after tax was SEK 1,494 million (1,590). The corporate tax rate is being gradually reduced from the current Interest swaps, net interest, % 0.09 0.20 22.0% to 20.6% by 2021. Consequently, the deferred tax liability has Net interest income and expense, % 0.97 0.94 been revalued to SEK 2,197 million and a deferred tax income of SEK Changes in value, financial derivatives, % 1.33 0.85 155 million is reported in 2018. Total financing cost, % 2.30 1.79 TOTAL FINANCING COST BROKEN DOWN IN SEK MILLION 1 Jan. 2018– 1 Jan. 2017– 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Net interest income/expense, net loans and financial assets -278 -221 COMPARISONS, DIFFERENT CALCULATIONS OF FINANCING COST Net interest derivatives -27 -60 Other interest costs -55 -8 % 6.00 Capitalised interest expense, projects 92 101 5.00 Total net interest income/expense -268 -188 Change in value, independent financial deriv4.00 atives 3.00 – unrealised -160 -8 2.30 2.00 – realised -39 -54 1.52 1.00 Changes in value, fair value hedges -160 -181 0 Total changes in value -360 -243 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year Total finance charge including Accrued total finance charge Reported net interest income and expense -628 -431 value changes Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 62 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of financial position Statement of financial position Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Properties 12, 13 85,865,127 80,444,370 44,373,630 42,951,358 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 18 23,219 8,117 23,219 8,117 Shares in Group companies 19 — — 650 650 Derivatives 20, 21 1,614,260 1,053,358 1,614,260 1,053,358 Other non-current receivables 23 430,333 208,931 430,333 208,931 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 22 87,932,939 81,714,777 46,442,092 44,222,415 CURRENT ASSETS Current receivables Rent receivables and accounts receivable 24 651,707 316,423 651,707 316,423 Current prepaid tax 16 35,340 — 35,340 — Other current receivables 25 1,391,436 1,320,431 1,391,436 1,320,430 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 26 94,499 128,373 94,499 128,373 Derivatives 21 66,847 597,755 66,847 597,755 Total current receivables 22 2,239,830 2,362,982 2,239,829 2,362,981 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Current investments 1,841,605 5,480,660 1,841,605 5,480,660 Cash and cash equivalents 1,462,187 998,824 1,462,043 998,678 Total cash and cash equivalents 27 3,303,792 6,479,484 3,303,648 6,479,338 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 5,543,623 8,842,466 5,543,477 8,842,319 TOTAL ASSETS 93,476,561 90,557,243 51,985,569 53,064,734 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 Statement of financial position Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY (attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder) Share capital 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 Other contributed equity 2,134,950 2,134,950 — — Statutory reserve — — 2,134,950 2,134,950 Hedge reserve 28 — 6,814 — — Actuarial profit and loss -32,525 -946 — — Fair value reserve 28 — — — 6,814 Retained earnings, including profit for the year 38,594,339 34,910,394 — — Retained earnings (in the Parent Company) — — 912,820 953,067 Profit for the year (in the Parent Company) — — 1,494,292 1,589,754 TOTAL EQUITY 42,831,764 39,186,212 6,677,063 6,819,585 Untaxed reserves 14 — — 4,343,763 4,206,207 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Loans 20, 21 28,261,967 25,198,340 28,261,967 25,198,340 Derivatives 20, 21 941,330 935,468 941,330 935,468 Deferred tax liability 16 11,629,682 11,443,540 2,197,442 2,315,151 Other non-current liabilities 29 46,328 74,555 46,328 74,555 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 30 555,339 496,522 304,772 290,069 Total non-current liabilities 41,434,646 38,148,425 31,751,839 28,813,583 Current liabilities Accounts payable 415,958 492,159 415,958 492,159 Liabilities to Group companies — — 2,153 2,153 Income tax liabilities 16 — 27,649 — 27,649 Other current liabilities 29 1,245,069 1,142,818 1,245,669 1,143,418 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 31 2,154,309 1,950,146 2,154,309 1,950,146 Loans 20, 21 5,258,691 9,541,313 5,258,691 9,541,313 Derivatives 20, 21 136,124 68,521 136,124 68,521 Total current liabilities 9,210,151 13,222,607 9,212,904 13,225,360 TOTAL LIABILITIES 32 50,644,798 51,371,031 40,964,743 42,038,943 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 93,476,561 90,557,243 51,985,569 53,064,734 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 64 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of financial position Comments on the Group’s statement of financial position PROPERTIES that was implemented in 2018 reduced the impact on profit compared As of 31 December 2018 the fair value of Akademiska Hus’ property to the previous year. The average yield requirement was 5.38%, a deholdings totalled to SEK 85,865 million, which is an increase of SEK cline of 0.07 percentage points since January 1. 5,421 million and 6.7 per cent compared with 31 December 2017. Fair Akademiska Hus engages an external rating agency to verify the yield value includes completed portions of projects in progress. At the end of requirement and fixed costs on a quarterly basis to ensure that market the year, projects in progress totalled to SEK 4,404 million. The change rates are applied in the internal valuation. A selection of the property in value with an impact on profit and capitalised interest expense was portfolio is also valued externally each year. External valuations are SEK 2,585 million (4,979), including changes in value realised for used as a benchmark for the internal valuation, thereby confirming its properties sold during the period of SEK 0 million (0). The remaining reliability that we are within the interval stated below. change relates to investments and sales. All property valuation includes assessments that are associated The fair value was calculated by an internal property valuation with a certain degree of uncertainty. A normal uncertainty range in covering all the Company’s properties. The value is affected by properconjunction with a property valuation is +/5% to 10%, which would ty-specific conditions such as net operating income, rent levels, vacancy be equivalent to approximately SEK +/4,290–8,580 million in the levels, lease term and type of premises. Changes in the valuation model Akademiska Hus portfolio. PROPERTIES SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS (incl. new construction in progress and capitalised interest expense) Change in cost of capital and yield targets in 2019 Change in property holdings, SEK m 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Outcome Increase by one Decrease by one Opening fair value 80,444 73,013 2018 percentage point percentage point + Investment in new construction, Fair value, SEK m 2,585 -11,725 15,547 extensions and redevelopment 2,842 2,656 Return on equity, + Acquisitions — — per cent 11.2 -12.6 35.4 Sales -6 -204 Return on operating capital, per cent 5.5 5.9 5.1 +/Change in fair value 2,585 4,979 Equity ratio, per cent 45.8 41.2 50.4 Of which change in value due to adjusted value index -230 — Loan-to-value ratio, per cent 34.7 40.2 29.4 Of which change in value due to a change in the cost of capital and yield requirement 1,385 3,395 Of which other change in value 1,430 1,585 Closing fair value 85,865 80,444 DEVELOPMENT OF YIELD REQUIREMENT AND COST OF CAPITAL PROPERTY PORTFOLIO’S ACCUMULATED VALUE GROWTH AND NUMBER OF SQUARE METRES FLOOR SPACE, M² % SEK m Thousand m² 10 100,000 3,400 90,000 8 80,000 3,300 70,000 60,000 6 50,000 3,200 40,000 30,000 4 3,100 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year 20,000 10,000 Average cost of capital Average yield requirement 0 3,000 -10,000 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Year The yield requirement and cost of capital for 2012 to 2018 have been adjusted by 0.2 percentage points for the stamp duty, which is attributable to the change in the Floor space, m² Other acquisitions model implemented in 2018. Other change in value Acquisitions from the Swedish state Construction Sales Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 Statement of financial position FINANCING about three years. Capital was tied up an average of almost 11 years as The net debt portfolio increased by SEK 2,155 million during the year of 31 December. During the year Akademiska Hus maintained good and totalled to SEK 30,416 million at year-end. The equity ratio was surplus liquidity and at year-end it was SEK 3,304 million. 45.8 per cent (43.3). Credit spreads widened slightly as the economic Long-term bonds denominated in SEK at fixed interest, which comoutlook became more subdued during the latter part of the year. Invesprise the long-term portfolio, amounted to about SEK 5,600 million at tor interest in Akademiska Hus’ bonds with extremely long maturities year-end. The long-term portfolio contributes to retaining a relatively has allowed continued diversification of the debt portfolio. During long-term fixed interest period in the total portfolio of 7.3 years. Bonds the year 14 issuances were carried out of a total of SEK 4,700 million denominated in foreign currency are swapped for SEK with floating distributed over maturities between 20 and 30 years. All issuances have interest rates, for which reason these issuances do not entail a correoccurred with foreign investors and the majority, SEK 3,900 million, sponding extension of maturity. are denominated in foreign currency, mainly in EUR and CHF. See the tables below for issue volume broken down by maturity and geographic The liability portfolio is allocated as follows: market based on investor domicile. • B asic portfolio – ECP, commercial papers, loans, bonds and interest rate derivatives. FIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY • Long-term portfolio – bonds denominated in SEK with both fixed With this year’s bond issues and some downward adjustment of shortinterest and maturity terms longer than 15 years. term funding, capital tied up in the portfolio has been extended by • Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real interest rate. NET LOAN LIABILITY FIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY 1 Jan. 2018– 1 Jan. 2017– Fixed Fixed SEK m 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 interest, interest, Maturity, Maturity, years, years, years, years Gross debt -33,521 -34,740 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Assets Basic portfolio 4.1 4.5 8.5 4.5 Collateral for derivatives, net -891 -573 Long-term portfolio 21.8 23.0 21.8 23.0 Cash and cash equivalents 3,304 6,479 Index-linked bond 3.8 4.8 3.8 4.8 portfolio Current receivables 692 857 Total portfolio 7.3 7.6 10.8 7.6 Total net debt -30,416 -27,976 BOND ISSUES IN 2018 BOND ISSUES IN 2018 Volume, broken down by maturity interval Volume, broken down by geographic market Volume, Maturity, year SEK million Geographic market Volume, SEK million Average maturity, years 20-25 1,900 Central Europe 2,600 27 26-30 2,800 Switzerland 1,300 26 Total 4,700 Asia 800 21 Total 4,700 26 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in equity Changes in equity, Group Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Other Actuarial Profit for the contributed Hedge profit and year brought Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note Share capital capital reserve loss forward Total equity OPENING BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2017 2,135,000 2,134,950 9,592 21,413 29,850,722 34,151,677 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit for the year — — — — 6,452,671 6,452,671 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 28 — — -2,778 — — -2,778 Revaluation of defined benefit pensions — — — -22,359 — -22,359 Total, other comprehensive income 0 0 -2,778 -22,359 6,452,671 6,427,534 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDER Dividend1 — — — — -1,393,000 -1,393,000 Total transactions with shareholder 0 0 0 0 -1,393,000 -1,393,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 2,135,000 2,134,950 6,814 -946 34,910,394 39,186,212 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit for the year — — — — 5,313,945 5,313,945 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 28 — — -6,814 — — -6,814 Revaluation of defined benefit pensions — — — -31,579 — -31,579 Total, other comprehensive income 0 0 -6,814 -31,579 5,313,945 5,275,552 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDER Dividend2 — — — — -1,630,000 -1,630 000 Total transactions with shareholder 0 0 0 0 -1,630,000 -1,630,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 2,135,000 2,134,950 0 -32,525 38,594,339 42,831,764 1) Dividend of SEK 1,393,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2017. 2) Dividend of SEK 1,630,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2018. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 Changes in equity Changes in equity, Parent Company Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Profit for the Statutory Fair value year brought Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note Share capital reserve reserve forward Total equity OPENING BALANCE AS AT 1 JANUARY 2017 2,135,000 2,134,950 9,592 2,346 067 6,625,609 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit for the year — — — 1,589 754 1,589,754 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 28 — — -2,778 — -2,778 Total, other comprehensive income 0 0 -2,778 1,589,754 1,586,976 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDER Dividend1 — — — -1,393,000 -1,393,000 Total transactions with shareholder 0 0 0 -1,393,000 -1,393,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 2,135,000 2,134,950 6,814 2,542,821 6,819,585 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit for the year — — — 1,494 292 1,494,292 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 28 — — -6,814 — -6,814 Total, other comprehensive income 0 0 -6,814 1,494,292 1,487,478 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDER Dividend2 — — — -1,630,000 -1,630,000 Total transactions with shareholder 0 0 0 -1,630,000 -1,630,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 2,135,000 2,134,950 0 2,407 113 6,677,063 1) Dividend of SEK 1,393,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2017. 2) Dividend of SEK 1,630,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2018. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of Cash Flows Statements of Cash Flows Group Parent Company Amounts in KSEK 1,000 Note 2018 2017 2018 2017 CURRENT OPERATIONS Profit after financial items 5,817,604 8,310,856 1,823,464 2,257,431 Adjustment for items not included in the cash flow 33 -2,312,605 -4,742,203 1,675,219 1,308,219 Tax paid -377,666 -346,456 -377,666 -346,456 CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL 3,127,333 3,222,197 3,121,017 3,219,194 CASH FLOW FROM CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in current receivables -543,075 -354,389 -543,076 -354,641 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in current liabilities 414,155 -747,136 420,474 -743,879 CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS 2,998,413 2,120,672 2,998,415 2,120,674 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investment in properties -2,752,773 -2,554,723 -2,752,773 -2,554,723 Sale of properties 6,000 203,750 6,000 203,750 Investment in other non-current assets -23,316 -944 -23,316 -944 Decrease in non-current receivables -221,402 11,221 -221,402 11,221 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES -2,991,491 -2,340,696 -2,991,491 -2,340,696 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Raising of interest-bearing loans, excluding refinancing 17,863,274 14,837,863 17,801,644 14,837,863 Repayment of loan -19,875,925 -12,451,021 -19,814,295 -12,451,021 Interest paid -335,327 336,049 -335,327 336,049 Realised derivatives and CSA 795,364 — 795,364 — Dividend paid -1,630,000 -1,393,000 -1,630,000 -1,393,000 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES -3,182,614 1,329,891 -3,182,614 1,329,891 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR -3,175,692 1,109,867 -3,175,690 1,109,869 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 6,479,484 5,369,617 6,479,338 5,369,468 Closing cash and cash equivalents 27 3,303,792 6,479,484 3,303,648 6,479,338 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 Statements of Cash Flows Comments on the consolidated statement of cash flows Cash flow from current operations before changes in working capital STABLE CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS totalled to SEK 3,127 million (3,222). The impact of investment in propSEK m erties on cash flow was SEK 2,753 million (2,555). 3,500 Cash flow relating to financing activities amounted to SEK -3,183 3,000 million (1,330). The lower cash flow is mainly due to loan repayments 2,500 and a dividend of SEK 1,630 million (1,393) that was financed in 2,000 advance through higher borrowing in 2017. 1,500 Total cash flow for the year was SEK -3,176 million (1,110). 1,000 500 CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENTS 0 14 15 16 17 18 Year Total cash flow from current operations before change in working capi ash flow from current operations C Investments tal during the period 2014 to 2018 was SEK 14,310 million. Investments before changes in working capital during the same period totalled SEK 13,584 million. The chart shows that cash flow from current operations is reinvested in new construction as well as in redevelopment and extensions of existing h­ oldings. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Contents NOTE 1 General information 71 NOTE 2 General accounting policies 71 NOTE 3 Estimates and judgments 76 NOTE 4 Rental revenue 76 NOTE 5 Other property management income 77 NOTE 6 Other property management expenses 77 NOTE 7 Categorised operating costs 77 NOTE 8 Depreciation, impairments and reversed impairments in property management 77 NOTE 9 Financial income and expense 78 NOTE 10 Employees and personnel costs 78 NOTE 11 Fees and disbursements to auditors out of pocket expenses 80 NOTE 12 Properties (Group) 80 NOTE 13 Properties (Parent Company) 82 NOTE 14 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 82 NOTE 15 Segment reporting 83 NOTE 16 Tax 84 NOTE 17 Dividend 85 NOTE 18 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 85 NOTE 19 Shares in Group companies 85 NOTE 20 Loans and financial instruments 86 NOTE 21 Financial risk management (Group) 89 NOTE 22 Maturity structure, receivables 92 NOTE 23 Other non-current receivables 92 NOTE 24 Rent receivables and accounts receivable 92 NOTE 25 Current receivables 92 NOTE 26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 92 NOTE 27 Cash and cash equivalents 92 NOTE 28 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve 93 NOTE 29 Other liabilities 93 NOTE 30 Provisions for pensions 93 NOTE 31 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 95 NOTE 32 Maturity structure, liabilities 95 NOTE 33 Adjustments for items Blåsenhus, Uppsala University not included in cash flow 95 NOTE 34 Pledged assets 95 NOTE 35 Contingent liabilities 95 NOTE 36 Transactions with related parties 95 NOTE 37 Events after the year-end 95 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 Notes Notes 1 General information Hedge accounting IFRS 9 simplifies certain aspects of hedge accounting. One simplifications is Akademiska Hus AB (publ), registration number 556459-9156, is a limited that the 80 % – 125 % effectiveness test is replaced by a general assessment liability company registered in Sweden. The Company’s registered office is of whether or not the hedge relationship is effective. The requirements that in Gothenburg. Akademiska Hus is wholly owned by the Swedish state. must be met to qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 are economic The Company is the Parent Company in the Akademiska Hus Group, the relationship, credit risk and hedge ratio. “Economic relationship” means principal task of which is to own and manage university and college properthat an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging ties. instrument must exist. The company can achieve this, for example, by The Parent Company’s functional currency is SEK. All amounts are in ensuring that the critical terms match for the hedged item and the hedging SEK 1,000 unless otherwise stated. instrument. The second requirement is that the effect of credit risk must not dominate the change in market value. The company must ensure that changes in market value are driven by other components, such as interest risk. To meet the third criterion, the company must determine the hedge 2 General accounting policies ratio of its hedging relationship (ratio between the hedged item and the hedging instrument). This means that the company must determine The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the whether it hedges all of its risk or only parts of it. It also means that compaEU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as at 31 nies can apply hedge accounting by allocating several derivatives to the December 2018. The Group also applies Swedish Financial Reporting Board same hedged item. Application of hedge accounting is still voluntary, and the recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Rules for Consolidated Financial hedge accounting methods have not changed. Ineffectiveness is recognised Statements, which specifies the supplements to IFRS disclosures required directly in profit and loss. Akademiska Hus ensures that the critical terms pursuant to the rules in the Annual Accounts Act. between the hedged item and hedging instrument are identical. ConseIn the Annual Report, items have been valued at cost except with regard quently, the hedge is considered to be effective. to revaluation of properties, financial assets that can be sold and financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives) valued at fair value in the StateIFRS 15 ment of Financial Position. The following sections are a description of the IFRS 15 addresses recognition of revenue from contracts with customers. more material accounting policies that have been applied. The standard requires a division between lease income and service income. Akademiska Hus has conducted a detailed review of the Group’s revenue NEW AND AMENDED IFRS STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 2018 and its leases to map the effects of IFRS 15. Based on this review, it was conAs of 1 January 2018, the Akademiska Hus Group applies IFRS 9 Financial cluded that only a small portion of the Group’s revenues are subject to the Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers. standard. Remuneration for the obligations that the Group undertakes in the leases, such as providing the premises with, for example, heating, coolIFRS 9 ing, snow-clearing and refuse collection, is an integral part of the rent. Our IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 and covers classification and measurement, impairtenants have no influence on the choice of provider, frequency or execution ment and hedge accounting. of these services. The amounts involved are not significant for Akademiska Hus and are recognised in the income statement as rental revenue. Classification and measurement The Classification of financial assets changes as a result of the implementaNEW AND AMENDED IFRS STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS tion of IFRS 9. The new categories are Measured at amortised cost, MeasTHAT COME INTO EFFECT 2019 AND LATER ured at fair value through profit and loss, and Measured at fair value through IFRS 16 Leasing – Effect of the introduction of the standard other comprehensive income. A financial instrument is classified based on Akademiska Hus applies IFRS 16 Leases according to the simplified transithe business model in which it is held, as well as whether its cash flows are tion approach from 1 January 2019, which means that the standard will not solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI test). Akademiska Hus has be applied retroactively. The new standard will affect recognition of the analysed its financial assets and where applicable, tested that cash flows are Group’s operating leases where the Group is the lessee. solely principal and interest. This analysis has not entailed any significant The review identified site leasehold agreements as the most important changes compared with how the instruments were previously recognised. lease agreements, which means that the implementation of the relevant standard essentially leads to that leases relating to site leasehold rights will Impairment be recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. However, the introduction With the implementation of IFRS 9, entities must consider expected credit of the standard will have a limited impact on the financial statements, since losses instead of incurred credit losses (IAS 39). IFRS 9 states that all assets the Group essentially operates as a lessor and leases where the Group is a measured at amortised cost or at fair value through comprehensive income lessee only arise to a limited extent in relation to the rest of the Group’s must be subject for impairment testing. Most of Akademiska Hus’ assets are operations. The transition to IFRS 16 will thus not have any impact on the not subject to this requirement since they are recognised at fair value Group’s equity. Since the simplified transition approach will be applied, through profit or loss. Accounts receivables are recognised at amortised comparative figures for 2018 will not be restated. The Group has chosen to cost, but since Akademiska Hus’ customers are mainly government entities, apply the exemption not to recognise short-term leases and leases of low these receivables are not tested for impairment, since the amount is not value assets as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the balance sheet. considered to have a material impact on profit and loss. Payments related to these leases will instead be recognised as an expense on Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes a straight line basis over the lease term. For lease obligations relating to site Defined benefit plans leasehold rights, the Group expects to recognise right-of-use assets amountFor defined benefit pension plans, the cost of the pension plan is based on ing to about SEK 2,736 million and lease liabilities of about SEK 2,736 milactuarial calculations according to what is termed the Projected Unit Credit lion on 1 January 2019. There will be no net effect from deferred tax as the Method. A calculation is made each year by an independent actuary. Revaluasset and liability are of equal value at the time of transition to IFRS 16. The ations, including actuarial gains and losses, effects of changes in the asset right-of-use asset will be recognised at fair value as these represent part of ceiling and the yield on plan assets (excluding the interest component, the Group’s investment properties. which is reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income) are reported directly in the Statement of Financial Position as income or a cost equivaCONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS lent to the change in the Statement of Total Comprehensive Income during The consolidated accounts cover the Parent Company and companies over the period in which they arise. Revaluations, which are reported under which the Parent Company has a controlling influence. A controlling influOther comprehensive income, affect the retained earnings and will not be ence means a right to formulate strategies for financial activities with the reversed to profit or loss. Service costs from previous periods are reported in aim of securing financial advantages. The existence and effect of potential the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period in which the plan voting rights that can currently be exercised or converted are taken into was changed. Net interest is calculated on application of the discount rate at account when assessing whether the Group can exercise a controlling influthe beginning of the period on the net defined benefit liability or asset. ence over another company. All subsidiaries are wholly owned. The subsidiThe discount rate is the interest rate at the year-end on high-quality aries are included in the consolidated accounts with effect from the point at mortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the Group’s pension obliwhich the controlling influence is achieved and they are not included at the gations. When there is not a functioning market for such mortgage bonds, point at which the controlling influence ceases. the market for government bonds with similar maturity is used instead. The consolidated year-end accounts have been prepared according to the The defined benefit costs are divided into the following categories: acquisition method, which means that the Parent Company’s carrying • service costs (including service costs for the current period, service costs amount of shares in subsidiaries is eliminated against equity, including the for previous periods and profits and losses in respect of reductions and/ capital share of untaxed reserves in the subsidiaries. or adjustments) • net interest cost or net interest expense SEGMENT REPORTING • actuarial profit and loss Operating segments are reported in a way that concurs with the internal The first two categories are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive report presented to the highest-ranking executive decision-maker. The Income as a personnel cost (service cost) or net interest income and expense highest-ranking executive decision-maker is the function that is responsible (net interest expense). Profits and losses in respect of reductions and adjustfor allocating resources and assessing the results of operating segments. At ments are reported as service costs from previous periods. Revaluations are Akademiska Hus, this function has been identified as the President of the reported under Other comprehensive income. Parent Company. The defined benefit pension obligations reported in the Statement The Group is organised and controlled based on a geographical division of Financial Position are equivalent to the current surplus or deficit related into markets/administration areas. The geographical areas (segments) are to the Group’s defined benefit obligations. A surplus is only reported to the exposed to similar risks and opportunities. extent that it is equivalent to the present value of future repayments from Segments are consolidated according to the same accounting policies as each pension plan or future reductions in premium payments into the plan. for the Group as a whole. TAX REVENUE RECOGNITION The tax expense (income) for the period comprises current and deferred In its capacity as property owner, the Group has signed operational lease tax. Taxes are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income with the agreements with customers and consequently the Group’s reported income exception of the underlying transaction, which is reported under Other mainly comprises rental revenue. Where applicable, reported rental revecomprehensive income or directly against equity, whereupon the associated nue has been reduced by the sum of the discounts granted to tenants. In tax effect is reported under Other comprehensive income or against equity. those cases where lease agreements result in reduced rent during a certain Current tax is the tax computed on the taxable profit for a period. The period, which is equivalent to a higher rent during another (later) period, taxable profit for the year differs from the reported profit for the year in the this higher or lower rent is allocated to a specific period over the term of the fact that an adjustment has been made for non-taxable and non-deductible lease. Rental revenue, lease revenue and parking revenue are reported in items. The Group’s current tax liability is computed according to the tax advance and the allocation of rents to specific periods therefore takes place rates stipulated or notified as of the year-end. so that only part of the rents that accrue to the period are reported as reveDeferred tax is reported in accordance with the Statement of Financial nue. Revenue recognition normally takes place linearly over the term of the Position method. According to this method, deferred tax liabilities are lease agreement apart from exceptional cases when another method better reported in the Statement of Financial Position for all taxable temporary reflects how financial advantages accrue to the Group. differences between the carrying amounts and taxable values of assets and Other property management income is reported, where applicable, in the liabilities. Deferred tax assets are reported in the Statement of Financial same way as rental revenue. This post largely comprises revenues as a direct Position with regard to deficit deductions and all deductible temporary difresult of the leases and mainly consists of revenues from parking, services ferences to the extent it is likely that the amounts can be offset against for tenants and other management tasks. future taxable surpluses. The reported value of deferred tax assets is examInterest income is reported as income divided across the term on applicained at each year-end and reduced to the extent it is no longer probable that tion of the annual equivalent rate method. a sufficient taxable surplus will be available for utilisation. Dividend income is reported when the right to receive payment has been The parliament has decided that the corporate tax rate, which is currently confirmed. 22.0%, will be lowered in two steps. The first reduction will occur in 2019 to 21.4% and the second in 2021 to 20.6%. Deferred taxes are revalued using REMUNERATION TO EMPLOYEES the tax rate that is expected to apply for the period in which the asset is Remuneration to employees in the form of salary, paid holiday, payment recovered or the liability settled. while off sick etc., as well as pensions, are reported as they are earned. Tax receivables and tax liabilities are offset and reported at a net amount Pensions and other remuneration following termination of employment, in the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right to offset are classified as defined contribution pension plans or defined benefit penand when there is an intention to either receive or pay a net amount or sion plans. receive payment of a receivable and pay the liability at the same time. Defined contribution plans TRANSLATION OF ITEMS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY In the case of defined contribution plans, the Company pays fixed contribuFinancial assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated using yeartions to a separate, independent legal entity and has no obligation to make end closing rate, whereupon realised and unrealised translation differences further contributions. The Group’s profit is charged with costs as the beneare expended. Translation differences in operating receivables and liabilifits are earned, which normally concurs with the point at which premiums ties are reported under Other property management income or Other propare paid. erty management expense whilst translation differences attributable to financial assets and liabilities are reported under Net interest income. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 Notes PROPERTIES IMPAIRMENT Properties, i.e. properties that are held to generate rental revenue or gains Impairment takes place in those cases where the reported value of the asset from an increase in value, are measured continuously at fair value (assessed exceeds the recovery value. Reported values for the Company’s assets are market value). The fair value is based on the assessed market value at the checked at each period-end to determine if there is any indication of an year-end, which means the value at which a property could be transferred impairment requirement. If there is such an indication, the recoverable between knowledgeable parties who are independent of each other and who value of the asset is calculated. The recoverable value is the higher of the have an interest in the transaction being completed. Changes in fair value value in use and the net realisable value. are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income under the heading When computing the value in use, future cash flows are discounted at a Changes in value of the properties. rate of interest before tax that will take into account the market’s assessment The term “properties” includes buildings and land, land systems, building of risk-free interest and risk linked to the specific asset. For an asset which and land equipment as well as properties under construction (new construcdoes not, independent of other assets, generate any cash flow, the recoveration in progress). ble value of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is calculated. Property sales and property purchases are reported in conjunction with Reversal of previous impairments takes place when the recoverable value the risks and benefits linked to title being transferred to the purchaser or for a previously impaired asset exceeds the carrying amount and the need seller, which normally takes place on the completion date, as long as this for impairment made previously is no longer considered necessary. The does not conflict with the terms and conditions in the contract of sale. For reversal is reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. An examiproperty sales through companies, the sale is reported at the date of taking nation of past impairments takes place on an individual basis. possession. A profit or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of properties comprises FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS the difference between the sales price and the most recent valuation The general principles for the valuation of financial instruments are that (reported value based on the most recent revaluation at fair value). The financial investment assets and all derivatives should be valued at fair value result in conjunction with sale or disposal is reported in the Consolidated whilst other financial assets and financial liabilities are valued at amortised Statement of Comprehensive Income under the heading Changes in the cost. Financial instruments are initially reported at the acquisition value, value of properties. In the Parent Company the result is reported as other corresponding to the fair value of the instrument with an addition for transproperty management income/expense. action costs for all financial instruments apart from those that belong to the In those cases where Akademiska Hus uses part of a building for its own category Financial Assets, which are valued at fair value through profit or administration, the property is only classified as a property for investment if loss. Reporting subsequently takes place depending on how they are classian insignificant part is used for administrative purposes. fied, as stated below. If a property is reclassified as a property held for resale or an inventory A financial asset or financial liability is recorded in the Statement of item, the property is reported at the assumed acquisition value, equivalent Financial Position when the Company becomes a party to the contractual to the fair value of the property at the time of reclassification. terms and conditions of the instrument or when applicable according to “regular way purchase” principles. Accounts receivable are recorded in the FAIR VALUE, PROPERTIES Statement of Financial Position when an invoice has been sent. A liability is Akademiska Hus has an internal property valuation process that is highly recorded when the counter-party has performed and there is a contractual developed and has been quality assured. Information regarding valuation obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. Accounts principles as well as levels of input data, assumptions and prerequisites are payable are recorded when an invoice has been received. A financial asset produced by the Company’s valuation specialists and ultimately adopted by is removed from the Statement of Financial Position when the rights in the President. the agreement are realised, mature or the Company loses control over them. Akademiska Hus valuation models comply with good market practice in The same applies to part of the financial asset. A financial liability is removed the property industry and the cash flows and yield targets that are used are from the Statement of Financial Position when the obligation in the agreejustified based on both property-specific conditions and industry-specific ment is discharged or is extinguished in some other way. The same applies to conditions. The properties have been valued individually without any a portion of a financial liability. account being taken of portfolio effects. For a more detailed description of Akademiska Hus’ valuation methods, see Note 12. The Group categorises its financial instruments as: CARRYING AMOUNT INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Assets: Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition value Derivatives for hedging – Measured at fair value through profit and loss reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear basis All derivatives are held for hedging purposes. All derivatives are recognised over the estimated useful life of the asset. at fair value through profit or loss. Some of these derivatives are included in Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the followthe hedging package, while others are “stand alone derivatives”. ing percentages of the acquisition value: Land systems 5% Measured at fair value through profit and loss Buildings 1.7% Assets in this category are initially recognised at cost, i.e. fair value at the Building equipment 10% time of acquisition, and are subsequently measured continuously at fair Land equipment 20% value. The change in value is reported continuously through profit or loss. All Akademiska Hus investment assets fall into this category. The assets are EQUIPMENT, FIXTURES AND FITTINGS classified as “hold to collect” and Akademiska Hus uses the fair value option Equipment, fixtures and fittings mainly comprise IT equipment and office for these investments. All change in value in these items are recognised equipment. These are reported at the acquisition value reduced by depreciathrough profit and loss under changes in value. tion according to plan and possible impairment Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition value Measured at amortised cost reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear basis Assets in this category are non-derivative financial assets with established over the estimated useful life of the asset. or establishable cashflows that are not listed on an active market. These Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the followassets are recognised and measured on a continuous basis at the accrued ing percentages of the acquisition value: acquisition value. Akademiska Hus’s accounts receivable also fall into this Computer equipment 33% category and are reported and valued continuously at the acquisition value. Equipment, fixtures and fittings 20% Fair value through other comprehensive income Depreciation according to plan of equipment, fixtures and fittings is In 2017 Akademiska Hus’ electricity derivatives were measured at Fair value reported as an operating cost or under property administration. through other comprehensive income. In 2018 these hedges were termiThe profit or loss that arises on scrapping or disposal of equipment, fixnated. New electricity hedges are now recognised at Fair value through tures and fittings is reported as Other property management income or profit and loss. Other property management expense. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes CLASSIFICATION CHANGES BETWEEN IAS39 AND IFRS 9 2017 (SEK thousand) Carrying amount Carrying amount Financial assets Classification under IAS 39 Classification under IFRS 9 under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 Other receivables Measured at fair value through profit 5,480,660 5,480,660 Current investments – fair value through profit and loss and loss Hedging instrument Measured at fair value through profit 607,832 607,832 Stand alone interest rate derivatives – fair value through profit and loss and loss Hedging instrument Measured at fair value through profit 16,856 16,856 Stand alone currency derivatives – fair value through profit and loss and loss Cross currency interest rate swaps Fair value hedging Derivatives for hedging measured 1,026,425 1,026,425 for fair value hedging – fair value through profit and loss at fair value through profit or loss Fair value through other comprehensive Measured at fair value through profit 5,014 5,014 Electricity derivatives income and loss TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 7,136,787 7,136,787 Financial liabilities ECP Other financial liability amortised cost Measured at amortised cost -4,768,714 -4,768,714 Hedging instrument Measured at fair value through profit -543,155 -543,155 Stand alone interest rate derivatives – fair value through profit and loss and loss Hedging instrument Measured at fair value through profit -52,506 -52,506 Stand alone currency derivatives – fair value through profit and loss and loss Cross currency interest rate swaps Fair value hedging Derivatives for hedging measured -413,342 -413,342 for fair value hedging – fair value through profit and loss at fair value through profit and loss Other financial liability Measured at amortised cost -16,669,891 -16,669,891 Swedish bonds – amortised cost Fair value hedging Measured at fair value through profit -12,708,729 -12,708,729 Foreign bonds – fair value through profit and loss and loss Other financial liability Measured at amortised cost -592,319 -592,319 Other loans – amortised cost TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES -35,748,656 -35,748,656 The transition to IFRS 9 has not had any impact on equity or earnings. Liabilities: lation takes place according to generally accepted methods. In those cases Derivatives for hedging – Measured at fair value through profit and loss where such listings are not available, a valuation is made through discountAll derivatives are held for hedging purposes. All derivatives are recognised ing of future cash flows at the listed market interest rate for each term. at fair value through profit or loss. Some of these derivatives are included in Translation into SEK takes place at the listed rate at the period-end. Calcuthe hedging package, while others are “stand alone derivatives”. lated and estimated fair values are indicative and will not necessarily be realised. The nominal value of accounts receivable and accounts payable, Measured at fair value through profit and loss reduced by possible estimated credits, is assumed to be equivalent to their These liabilities are initially recognised at cost and thereafter continuously fair value. Information according to IFRS 13 about the level in the fair value valued at fair value. The change in value is reported on a continuous basis hierarchy for different items can be found in Note 20. through profit or loss. Bonds that are included in the hedging package belong to this category. Rent receivables, accounts receivable and other receivables Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported initially at the fair Measured at amortised cost value and are then reported at the invoiced amount following a deduction Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are initially recognised in for any impairment (bad debts), which is equivalent to the accrued acquisithe balance sheet at fair value, including the transaction cost. After initial tion value. The estimated term of rent receivables and accounts receivable is recognition instruments in this category are measured at amortised cost. short and consequently the value is reported at the nominal amount without Bonds that are not included in the hedging package and current liabilities discounting. Doubtful receivables are assessed individually and any impairbelong to this category. ment is reported within operating costs. Fair value through other comprehensive income Cash and cash equivalents In 2017 Akademiska Hus’ electricity derivatives were measured at fair value Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and current through other comprehensive income. In 2018 these hedges were termiinvestments with maturity in less than three months. These are classified as nated. New electricity hedges are now recognised at fair value through profit cash and cash equivalents because they consist of extremely liquid commerand loss. cial paper that can be immediately traded at a value equal to the carrying amount. The current investments are measured at fair value through profit Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities or loss. Cash and cash equivalents are held at amortised cost. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported at a net amount in the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right to offset and Current investments when there is an intention to settle the items at a net amount or at the same Current investments with a term in excess of three months comprise intertime realise the asset and settle the debt. Information relating to offset est-bearing securities and are reported and valued at fair value. Changes in financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 7 can be seen in note 21. value (unrealised profits and losses) are reported on a continuous basis through net interest income and expense. In the Statement of Cash Flows, Calculation of fair value, financial instruments current investments with a term in excess of three months are not classified When establishing the fair value of current investments, derivatives and as cash and cash equivalents. loan liabilities, the official market listing at the period-end is used and calcuAkademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 Notes Loan financing the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Akademiska Hus ensures that All loan financing is reported initially at fair value, net after transaction there is an economic relationship by matching the critical terms for the costs. Borrowing is subsequently reported at amortised cost and any differhedged item and the hedging instrument. This is done in connection with debt ence between the amount received and the repayment amount is reported in issuance. The second requirement is that the effect of credit risk must not net interest income and expense divided over the loan period on application dominate the change in market value. Regarding credit risk, Akademiska Hus of the annual equivalent rate method. Borrowing that constitutes a hedged can conclude that change in credit risk does not have any significant effect on item in conjunction with fair value hedging is recognised and measured the market value of the hedging package. Akademiska Hus has an extremely after the acquisition point continuously at fair value with account taken of stable rating and any credit risk is managed through CSA agreements. Accordthe hedged risk. Changes in value are reported in net interest income and ing to the third criterion, the company must determine the hedge ratio of its expense. Loan financing in foreign currency is translated and the effects are hedging relationships. Akademiska Hus’ hedge ratio is 1:1 since the hedging reported through profit or loss. instruments are a direct reflection of the underlying hedge item. The Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs. IAS 23 means that the Group capitalises interest expense attributable to properties under construction PROVISIONS that take a significant period of time to complete. Capitalised interest expense Provisions are reported in the Statement of Financial Position when the has a positive effect on net interest income and expense and a negative effect Company has a formal or informal undertaking because of an event that has on the change in fair value of properties to the equivalent amount. Financing occurred and where it is probable that an outflow of resources is required to costs for properties under construction that do not take a significant period of settle the undertaking and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. time to complete are charged in full to the financial result for each year. PARENT COMPANY, ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounts payable and other liabilities The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts according to Accounts payable and other liabilities have a short expected term and are the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Accounting Standards Board recvalued at the nominal value without discounting. ommendation RFR 2 Reporting for Legal Entities and applicable statements from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Financial derivatives RFR 2 means that in the annual accounts for the legal entity, the Parent Derivatives are held primarily with the aim of securing long-term, cost-efCompany shall apply all EU-endorsed IFRSs and statements as far as this is fective debt financing and handling the Group’s financial risk exposure by possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and the Pension hedging interest and currency exposure against fluctuations in interest rates Obligations Vesting Act and with consideration given to the link between and exchange rates. Derivatives are valued at fair value and changes in value accounting and taxation. The recommendation states the exceptions and are reported on an ongoing basis against net financial income and expense addenda that are to be made to IFRS. The differences between the Group’s with the exception of the outstanding derivatives, which comprise hedging and the Parent Company’s accounting policies are stated below. instruments. In a hedging situation where the underlying Statement of Financial Position item is business-related, the changes in value of the Amended accounting policies derivative are reported against operating profit. No amendments to RFR 2 with a material impact on the Parent Company’s Interest derivatives (interest future contracts, interest swap agreements, financial statements were made during 2018. FRA contracts and interest options) are held mainly to secure the desired fixed interest period in existing debt financing. Interest derivatives are measProperties ured continuously at fair value and the effects attributable to the changes in Properties are reported in a legal entity at the acquisition value with a deducvalue are recognised in net interest income and expense in conjunction with tion for accumulated depreciation, impairments and reversed impairments. hedging of fair value and on other comprehensive income in conjunction with The depreciation period is based on each property’s useful life. cash flow hedging. The net of the accrued interest income and interest During the year 0 (0) properties were revised upwards. Depreciation on expense is allocated to specific periods and expensed over the term of the the upwards revaluation occurs linearly with such an amount that the revalderivative. In conjunction with financing in a foreign currency, all future payuation is completely written off when the properties are otherwise fully ment flows are hedged so that no currency risk remains. Currency risk hedgdepreciated. ing takes place with the aid of currency derivatives (currency future contracts, currency swap agreements or combined with an interest swap agreement). Shares in subsidiaries Currency derivatives are translated at the period-end exchange rate and when Shares in subsidiaries are reported at the acquisition value. hedge reporting is applied, the effects of the currency translation of the derivative naturally meet the effects of the currency translation of the debt in the Remuneration to employees financial result. Independent derivatives, i.e. derivatives that are not included The Parent Company’s pension undertakings have been calculated in any hedge relationship, are valued at fair value and the change in value is and reported based on the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act. recorded directly against the net interest income and expense. Application of the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act is a prerequiWith the aim of evening out price variations on the electricity market, and site for the right to make a tax deduction. in doing so achieve an even trend for the Group’s electricity costs, future electricity use is hedged with the aid of electricity derivatives. Electricity derivaDeferred tax tives are measured continuously at fair value and the changes in value are The amounts that are allocated to untaxed reserves comprise taxable temrecognised continuously in profit and loss. The effects of price hedging, the porary differences. Because of the link between accounting and taxation, the difference between the electricity future’s hedged price and the average spot deferred tax liability that is attributable to the untaxed reserves is not price during the term of the electricity future, are offset against profit and are reported separately in a legal entity. These are thus reported at the gross transferred on maturity from net interest income and expense and reported amount in the Statement of Financial Position. The appropriations are as an operating cost. Consequently, the result of the electricity future and the reported at the gross amount in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Group’s physical electricity purchases constitute the actual electricity cost. Hedge accounting Akademiska Hus’ applies fair value hedge accounting. This means that both the hedged item/exposure and the hedging instrument are measured at fair value. Akademiska Hus uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge bonds issued in foreign currencies. This is done in accordance with the finance policy and plan for handling financial risks. Changes in value are continuously recognised through profit and loss, which also means that accounting ineffectiveness is also recorded in profit and loss. The requirements that must be met to qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 are economic relationship, credit risk and hedge ratio. “Economic relationship” means that there must be an economic relationship between Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 3 Estimates and judgments When preparing reports in compliance with IFRS, the Executive Manageremaining period of service for those covered by the pension plan as well as ment and the Board of Directors must make assessments and assumptions expected mortality assumptions. The levels of these parameters are adapted that affect the reported assets and liabilities items and income and cost to company-specific conditions and partly to normal external conditions items in the final accounts as well as information provided generally, includ(see also Note 30). ing contingent liabilities. These assessments are based on historical experience and different assumptions the Executive Management and the Board of Directors have considered reasonable under the prevailing circumstances. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT The conclusions drawn form the basis for decisions regarding reported valThe sensitivity analysis shows how the pre-tax profit, return on operating ues of assets and liabilities in those cases where these cannot be established capital and fair value of the properties would be affected in the event of easily through information from other sources. The actual outcome could changes in different variables. The analysis shows the impact on an annual differ from these assessments if other assumptions are made or if other conbasis at full effect. ditions emerge. Assessments could have a material impact on the Akademiska Changes in the cost of capital or yield target are factors that highly affect Hus profit and financial position, particularly with regard to valuation of the fair value. The impact on profit of a change in value, however, would not properties (see also Note 12). affect the cash flow as it is unrealised. In the sensitivity analysis, the current When calculating the Group’s pension liability in accordance with IAS 19, lease portfolio has been taken into account with regard to rental revenue a number of assumptions are made, including the discount rate in current and vacant space. value assessment, expected salary increases, inflation, staff turnover, SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT Impact on return on Impact on pre-tax operating capital, Impact on fair Impact on fair value, Change profit, SEK m percentage points value, SEK m1 percentage points Rental revenue, +/one percentage point 59 0.1 418 0.5 Vacant space, +/one percentage point 57 0.1 -693 -0.8 Operating costs, +/one percentage point 9 0.0 -86 -0.1 of which media provision 6 0.0 -43 -0.1 Cost of capital, + one percentage point -5,033 0.2 -5,033 -5.9 Cost of capital, one percentage point 5,550 -0.2 5,550 6.5 Yield target, + one percentage point -6,692 0.2 -6,692 -7.8 Yield target, one percentage point 9,997 -0.3 9,997 11.6 1) Refers only to properties subjected to discounted cash flow analysis. The amounts for change in the cost of capital and yield only relate to properties that were measured through cash flow, which is SEK 73,082 million (85%) 4 Rental revenue All properties are leased under operational lease agreements and generate period totalled KSEK 2,178,553 (1,977,109). The two largest tenants are rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period amounted to KSEK Karolinska Institutet and Lund University, which account for 11.7 per cent 5,927,669 (5,581,924) and the direct costs for the properties during the and 9.6 per cent of rental revenue, respectively. CONTRACTED RENTAL REVENUE AS AT 31 DEC. 2018 LEASE TERMS AS AT 31 DEC. 2018 ACCORDING TO THE SIZE OF THE LEASE Number of Contracted Number of Contracted Due date leases annual rent Proportion, % Annual rent leases annual rent Proportion, % Non-residential premises Non-residential premises 2019 281 326,120 6 > 70,000 4 524,852 9 2020 363 781,579 14 30,000–70,000 29 1,199,417 21 2021 295 782,635 14 10,000–30,000 129 2,189,976 38 2022 139 454,359 8 7,500–10,000 42 373,303 7 2023 78 547,883 10 5,000–7,500 61 379,852 7 2024 62 374,609 7 2,500–5,000 113 426,093 8 2025 and later 201 2,307,260 40 < 2,500 1,041 480,953 9 Other 311 54,573 1 Other 311 54,572 1 TOTAL 1,730 5,629,018 100 TOTAL 1,730 5,629,018 100 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 Notes 5 Other property management income Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Parking revenue 68,407 66,275 68,408 66,275 Profit on the sale of other non-current assets — — 1,424 168,628 Income from external property management assignments and similar assignments 31,843 49,286 31,843 49,286 Income from services performed on behalf of tenants 83,371 78,217 83,370 78,217 Other 5,413 30,438 5,413 30,437 TOTAL 189,034 224,216 190,458 392,843 6 Other property management expenses Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Site leasehold charges, property tax and other risk costs -93,419 -92,144 -93,419 -92,144 Studies -21,153 -25,072 -21,153 -25,072 Loss on the sale and disposal of other non­current assets — — -13,821 -3,004 Costs for external property management assignments and similar assignments -16,122 -44,188 -16,122 -44,188 Costs for services performed on behalf of tenants -77,534 -71,247 -77,534 -71,247 Other -27,908 -35,422 -27,908 -35,422 TOTAL -236,136 -268,073 -249,957 -271,077 7 Categorised operating costs Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Functions reported in the Income Statements Property management -2,178,553 -1,977,109 -2,181,664 -1,958,703 Central administration costs -78,069 -66,809 -78,069 -66,809 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS ACCORDING TO FUNCTION -2,256,622 -2,043,918 -2,259,733 -2,025,512 CATEGORISED FUNCTION COSTS Energy, fuel and water -599,776 -539,896 -599,776 -539,895 Property administration -76,668 -66,429 -72,325 -66,429 Maintenance costs, material and services purchased -776,509 -715,656 -790,330 -718,659 Site leasehold charges -84,382 -82,717 -84,382 -82,717 Property tax -3,775 -3,725 -3,775 -3,725 Personnel costs -453,886 -402,046 -453,886 -384,568 Depreciation -6,368 -3,932 -3,932 Other costs -255,258 -229,517 -255,259 -229,519 TOTAL CATEGORISED OPERATING COSTS -2,256,622 -2,043,918 -2,259,733 -2,025,512 8 Depreciation, impairments and reversed impairments in property management Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Properties — — -1,309,125 -1,155,992 Equipment, fixtures and fittings -6,368 -3,932 -6,368 -3,932 TOTAL -6,368 -3,932 -1,315,493 -1,159,924 Depreciation for the Group is recognised under property administration and operating costs. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 9 Financial income and expense Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 INTEREST INCOME Total interest income 32,057 9,707 32,057 9,707 INTEREST EXPENSE Total interest expense -299,929 -198,171 -391,861 -299,340 TOTAL NET INTEREST INCOME/EXPENSE -267,872 -188,464 -359,804 -289,633 UNREALISED CHANGES IN VALUE Independent derivatives -159,991 10,478 -159,991 10,478 Fair value hedges -160,492 -181,219 -160,492 -181,219 TOTAL UNREALISED CHANGES IN VALUE -320,483 -170,741 -320,483 -170,741 REALISED CHANGES IN VALUE Independent derivatives -39,149 -71,527 -39,149 -71,527 TOTAL REALISED CHANGES IN VALUE -39,149 -71,527 -39,149 -71,527 NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE -627,504 -430,732 -719,436 -531,901 10 Employees and personnel costs The average number of employees was as follows: GENDER DIVISION, BOARD, GROUP MANAGEMENT AND OTHER PERSONS IN EXECUTIVE POSITIONS 2018 2017 The Board comprises 7 (9) members elected at the Annual General Meeting AKADEMISKA HUS AB and 2 (2) members appointed by the employees. 3 (4) of the members are Head Office, Gothenburg 98 93 women, i.e. 33 per cent (36). Overall management of the Group rests with South 103 118 the Executive Management, which comprises 5 (5) men and 5 (5) women. The Executive Management team comprises the President, Chief Financial Mid-Sweden 172 139 Officer and Vice President, Project Manager, three Market Area Directors, North 107 99 Administrative Manager, Corporate Communications Officer, Head of InnoSubsidiaries — — vation and Sustainable Development and the Human Resources Director. GROUP, TOTAL 480 449 The Group’s and Parent Company’s outstanding pension obligations to the President, Regional Directors and other members of Executive Management total KSEK 7,239 (5,483). The subsidiaries do not have any employThe proportion of women (based on the average number of employees) ees and no salaries have been paid. in the Parent Company and the Group is 31 per cent (29). SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 SALARIES AND REMUNERATION Board members, President and Vice President 7,904 7,578 7,904 7,578 Other employees 278,990 249,403 278,990 249,403 TOTAL 286,894 256,981 286,894 256,981 SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS Board members, President and Vice President 3,528 3,942 3,528 3,942 (of which pension costs) (2,179) (2,629) (2,179) (2,629) Other employees 149,020 125,139 149,020 125,139 (of which pension costs) (88,682) (70,979) (88,682) (70,979) TOTAL 152,548 129,081 152,548 129,081 (of which pension costs) (90,861) (73,608) (90,861) (73,608) Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 Notes REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD 2018 2017 Audit and Director’s Investment Remuneration Finance Director’s Investment Remuneration Finance Audit fees Committee Committee Committee fees Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairperson Anitra Steen 313 30 10 — 298 30 20 — — Member Britta Burreau 153 — — 30 145 — — 10 15 Peter GudmundMember son 153 — — 30 75 — — — 15 Employee Thomas Jennrepresentative linger — — — — — — — — — Employee representative Anders Larsson — — — — — — — — — Member Anna Magnusson1 — — — — — — — — — Member Christer Nerlich 153 — — 40 105 — — — 20 Member Örjan Wikforss 153 20 — — 75 10 — — — Member Ingemar Ziegler 153 20 5 — 145 40 — 10 — Member Caroline Arehult2 75 10 — — 75 — — 10 — Member Kristina Ekengren2 — — — — — — — — — Member Gunnar Svedberg2 75 5 — — 145 — 20 — — Member Olof Ehrlén3 — — — — 70 — — — — Member Ingela Lindh — — — — 35 — — — — TOTAL 1,225 85 15 100 1,168 80 40 30 50 1) Elected as board member 27 April at the 2018 Annual General Meeting 2) L eft the Board of Directors as a board member at the Annual General Meeting 27 April 2018 3) L eft the Board of Directors as a board member at the Annual General Meeting 28 April 2017 REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2018 2017 Basic salary1 Pension cost Basic salary1 Pension cost CEO/President Kerstin Lindberg Göransson 4,082 692 4,028 1,064 CFO/Vice President Catarina Fritz 2,252 541 2,235 537 Administrative Manager Jonas Bjuggren 1,979 464 1,577 357 Market Area Director Peter Bohman 1,591 349 1,616 359 Market Area Director Birgitta van Dalen 1,574 747 1,554 729 Head of Innovation and sustainable development Ulf Däversjö 1,592 301 1,302 284 Project Manager Hayar Gohary 1,573 345 1,467 327 Market Area Director Magnus Huss 1,504 325 1,459 311 CIO Cecilia Wide 1,215 153 1,226 254 Human Resources Director Marie Hallander Larsson 1,491 321 1,222 256 TOTAL 18,853 4,238 17,686 4,478 1) No payments were made in addition to the above reported basic salary. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 11 Fees and disbursements to auditors Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 KPMG AB Audit assignment — 1,038 — 1,038 Audit work in addition to the audit assignment 90 — 90 — Tax consulting 145 2 145 2 Other services — 87 — 87 TOTAL 235 1,127 235 1,127 ÖHRLINGS PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS AB Audit assignment 984 — 984 — Audit work in addition to the audit assignment 150 150 Tax consulting 184 — 184 — Other services 1,082 — 1,082 — TOTAL 2,400 0 2,400 0 TOTAL 2,635 1,127 2,635 1,127 ‘Audit assignment’ refers to payment to the auditor for the statutory audit, formance of other such duties. ”Other services” refers mainly to fees for consuch as work necessary to submit the audit report. “Audit work in addition sultation in conjunction with mapping of internal procedures. These serto the audit assignment” in effect refers to what can be designated quality vices were primarily carried out in 2017 and before PwC took over as assurance services (for example, examination of a prospectus for an EMTN auditors. programme) as well as the provision of advice or other assistance as a result of observations made in conjunction with such an examination or the per12 Properties (Group) VALUATION MODELS/METHODS The fair value of the Group’s properties as at 31 December 2018 has been set The fair value of properties has changed during the year as follows: using an internal property valuation. The valuation has been conducted using different valuation methods as follows: Group SEK 73,082 million (85 per cent) of the fair value has been set through an internal cash flow valuation, where the cash flow figures used comprise the 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Change in property holdings, in SEK 1,000 2018 2017 net operating income for each property. Rental revenue was calculated based on current leases and an assessment of market rent level is made after Opening fair value 80,444,369 73,012,860 the term of the lease has expired. Operating costs are estimated based on the + Investment in new construction, normalised historical outcome of each property, while maintenance costs extensions and redevelopment 2,749,796 2,554,724 and property administrative costs are assessed based on actual costs and key + Acquisitions — — indicators for the industry. + Capitalised interest expense 91,932 101,170 For an initial calculation period of ten years, a current value is computed Sales -6,000 -203,750 for the cash flow generated each year using a nominal cost of capital. The residual value from year 11 is calculated based on the market’s actual yield +/Change in value, unrealised 2,585,030 4,979,366 targets. Residual value is in turn calculated at the current value using nomiOf which change in value due to adjusted nal cost of capital. The property’s fair value comprises the sum of the curvalue index -230,289 — rent cash flows during the calculation period and the current residual value. Of which change in value due to a change in The starting point when choosing the cost of capital is the nominal interthe cost of capital and yield requirement 1,384,985 3,394,625 est rate on the secondary market for government bonds with a term equivaOf which change in value due to the changed lent to the length of the calculation period. A risk premium is added to cover value index (valuation status, average the market risk and the property-related risk. The yield targets are assessed, ­remaining term, property type) -237,197 18,318 as far as possible, using the property transactions that have been completed Of which capitalised interest expense -91,932 -101,170 on the market and, as far as possible, using comparable properties. Each Of which other change in value 1,759,463 1,667,590 year, Akademiska Hus has the yield target, cost of capital and other valuaCLOSING FAIR VALUE 85,865,127 80,444,370 tion prerequisites verified by two external valuation institutes. Both the cost of capital for discounting the cash flow as well as the yield target have been differentiated for each property depending on the town, 2018 2017 location, lease term and type of premises. The risks are thus analysed in sevChanges in value, property holdings eral dimensions and are generally assessed to be higher for properties with shorter leases, installation-intensive premises and properties in less attracPositive 3,945,051 6,116,866 tive locations. Negative -1,360,021 -1,137,500 Expansion reserves, SEK 1,142 million (1 per cent), were measured TOTAL CHANGES IN VALUE, PROPERTIES 2,585,030 4,979,366 according to the sales comparison approach based on external valuations. In some cases, the planning conditions for new construction are unclear and consequently the pure land values have been used to establish the fair value. The expansion reserves include construction rights covering a gross area of approximately 1.61 million square metres. SEK 11,641 million (14 per cent) of the assessed market value was set based on other valuation methods. This primarily relates to properties with a special risk assessment where a more individually adapted cash flow Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 Notes method has been used to be able to adapt the length of the estimate and yield Other assumptions requirement based on needs. This group also includes objects valued by The following assumptions form the basis for the internal market valuation: external valuers or at indicative selling price. The total fair value of properties includes new construction in progress Valuation assumptions amounting to SEK 4,404 million (5,717), which has also been valued using Lease term > 10 years, > 6 years < = 10 years, < = 6 years the internal cash flow valuation with a deduction for remaining investment. Division into town, city, location 26 towns, cities, locations Valuation conditions 2018 Special adaptation/type of Installation-intensive premises/non-installapremises tion-intensive premises Yield requirements and cost of capital declined by between 0.05 and 0.40 Calculation period 10 years percentage points during the year, due to general price-driving factors in the property market for local authority housing. Overall, the positive change in Inflation assumption, year 1 2.0% value attributable to changes in yield requirements and cost of capital in Inflation assumption, years 2–10 2.0% 2018 amounted to SEK 1,385 million (3,395). Well-located, efficient properVacant space Actual and/or 3% ties with a strong customer base and good rental potential are in greatest Property administration SEK 45/m² demand and are naturally less sensitive to external changes and are therefore assigned a lower yield requirement. Maintenance costs, non-installaCharacteristic of Akademiska Hus are long leases with stable, credit­ tion-intensive premises SEK 100/m² worthy customers. The majority of tenants have a public principal and thus Maintenance costs, installaa very good credit rating, which means a low rent risk during the term of the tion-intensive premises SEK 140/m² lease. Around 87 per cent of income derives from the dominant customer group, universities and colleges. All centres of education, apart from ChalmAssumptions about inflation have been made based on the views of different ers University of Technology, have the Swedish state as principal and thus forecasters, such as the National Institute of Economic Research, the Swedhave a high credit rating. The average remaining lease term is 6.5 years (6.0). ish Central Bank and other banks. The long-term inflation assumption of 2 The valuation divided the leases into three categories based on average per cent corresponds with the Swedish Central Bank’s long-term inflation remaining lease term. For valuation properties with a longer remaining target. The rent trend during the term of the lease is estimated at maximum lease term, the relative risk is lower as the cash flow valuation is based preof inflation (CPI), with consideration taken to the index share of the lease. dominantly on hedged revenue flows. Actual vacancy is applied as it occurs and after the contract period a standThe city, town and location classifications have been based in part on ard vacancy rate of 3 per cent is applied. Standard formulas are applied for the general division of the property market. Larger and important cities property administration costs and maintenance costs. and towns have been assigned a higher degree of attractiveness from, for example, a demographic, employment and economic point of view. From Sensitivity analysis the point of view of higher education and research, in addition to Sweden’s The sensitivity analysis shows how the fair value is affected in conjunction three largest cities – Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö – the classic uniwith changes in different variables. The impact on profit of a change in value, versity towns of Lund and Uppsala, and to a certain extent Linköping and however, would not affect the cash flow as it is unrealised. Umeå, are considered to be more attractive and more stable in the long Impact on fair term. The division into different cities, towns and locations reflects the Impact on fair value, percentdemand on the market and the attractiveness of the properties. Inner-city Change value, SEK m age points locations in Stockholm and Gothenburg are in greatest demand and most Rental revenue, +/one per cent +/418 0.5 attractive while smaller, rural locations are less in demand. Vacant space, +/one percentage point +/693 0.8 Akademiska Hus operates in a specific segment of the property market, Operating costs, +/one per cent +/86 0.1 which means that our properties are more adapted to specialist uses and consequently they have a slightly more uncertain residual value than for of which media provision +/43 0.1 more general properties, such as office buildings and residential buildings. Maintenance costs, +/SEK 10/m² 537 0.8 This means that many of our properties are not available for new tenants or Property administration, +/SEK 10/m² 537 0.8 other purposes without substantial redevelopment. After an initial calculaCost of capital, + one percentage point -5,033 -5.9 tion period, assessment of the residual value needs to reflect the more property specific risks in more concrete terms. An assessment of the uncertainty Cost of capital, one percentage point 5,550 6.5 regarding modernity, standard/condition, technical risk and redevelopYield target, + one percentage point -6,692 -7.8 ment/adaptation requirements is made at the point at which residual value Yield target, one percentage point 9,997 11.6 is calculated. These risks are quantified mainly in the form of charges to cash flow and in the direct yield target. A change in the maintenance costs that affects the profit and return on equity has been calculated based on actual maintenance costs. The impact on fair value has been The cost of capital for the cash flow varies for different properties within calculated based on a standard maintenance cost and standard property administrathe range 6.03–11.18 per cent depending on the lease term, town/city, location cost in the valuation model. tion, and type of premises. The long-term yield target varies between 3.95 per cent and 9.80 per cent depending on the town/city, location and type of premises. Other The average yield target and cost of capital for each segment are shown There are no limits with regard to the right to sell the properties or use the in the table below. rental revenue. All properties are leased under operational lease agreements and gener31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 ate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period amounted to KSEK 5,927,669 (5,581,924) and the direct costs for the properties during the Yield Cost of Yield Cost of target, % capital, % target, % capital, % period totalled KSEK 2,178,553 (1,977,109). South 5.7 7.8 5.8 7.9 External valuation Mid-Sweden 5.0 7.1 5.1 7.2 To assure the internal valuation, selected properties are valued each year by North 5.8 8.0 5.9 8.1 external valuation companies. During the year, valuation buildings at a fair Group 5.4 7.5 5.5 7.6 value of SEK 22,955 million were valued externally, corresponding to approximately 27 per cent of the Akademiska Hus total fair value. The 2018 valuations were carried out by Svefa AB, an appraisal firm that is authorised The yield requirement and cost of capital for 2012 to 2018 have been by the Swedish Professionals for the Built Environment. The external valuaadjusted by 0.2 percentage points for the stamp duty, which is attributable to tions confirm the reliability of the internal valuation model. the change in the model implemented in 2018. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 13 Properties (Parent Company) Carrying amount for properties amounts to KSEK 44,373,630 (42,951,358). The amount includes land, land systems, buildings, building equipment and land equipment. Fiscal residual value amounts to KSEK 27,288,820 (25,093,306). The carrying amount of properties changed as follows during the year: Parent Company 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Opening acquisition value 55,639,687 53,186,067 Investment in new construction and redevelopment 2,749,796 2,554,724 Sales and disposals -41,384 -101,104 CLOSING ACCUMULATED ACQUISITION VALUE 58,348,099 55,639,687 Opening impairments 7,082,756 7,253,723 Depreciation for the year on revaluations -170,967 -170,967 CLOSING ACCUMULATED REVALUATIONS 6,911,789 7,082,756 Opening depreciation -19,632,018 -18,670,770 Reclassifications -1,218 -6,002 Sales and disposals 18,737 47,013 Depreciation for the year -1,124,239 -1,002,259 CLOSING ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION ACCORDING TO PLAN -20,738,738 -19,632,018 Opening impairments -139,067 -178,267 Reclassifications 1,218 6,002 Sales and disposals 5,068 15,966 Reversed impairments 9,967 26,224 Impairments for the year -24,706 -8,992 CLOSING ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENTS -147,520 -139,067 CARRYING AMOUNT 44,373,630 42,951,358 14 Appropriations and untaxed reserves Parent Company 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 APPROPRIATIONS Change in tax allocation reserve 543 -164,683 Difference between recorded depreciation and depreciation according to plan -138,100 -16,400 TOTAL -137,557 -181,083 UNTAXED RESERVES Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2012 — 449,374 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2013 441,894 441,894 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2014 447,887 447,887 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2015 507,298 507,298 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2016 537,145 537,145 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2017 571,000 602,169 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2018 480,000 — Additional depreciation 1,358,539 1,220,440 TOTAL 4,343,763 4,206,207 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 Notes 15 Segment reporting The Group’s operations are controlled and reported by unit Segment report‘Investments’ refer to gross investments in properties, construction of proping has been prepared using the same accounting policies applied to the erties in progress and equipment, fixtures and fittings. ‘Other operations’ Group as a whole. Revenue and assets per segment are based on the tenant’s refer to operations that are not attributable to the segments. geographical location whilst assets and liabilities are based on the tenant’s Net operating income is the most important measure of performance and physical location. is reported and followed up on a regular basis by the Group’s chief decisionAll revenue is generated in Sweden and all units engage in property manmaker. The profit after net operating income is not reported and is not folagement. lowed up for each segment. Properties are the asset measurement that is For details of larger customers, see Note 4. reported internally and is followed up for each segment. Internal follow-up of No sales between the segments have taken place other assets and liabilities only takes place on the overall level for the Group. . Segment information Total, operating Other 1 Jan. 2018 – 31 Dec. 2018 South Mid-Sweden North segments operations1 Group Rental revenue 1,567,910 2,785,017 1,574,786 5,927,713 -44 5,927,669 Other property management income 48,997 76,280 63,757 189,034 — 189,034 Total income 1,616,907 2,861,297 1,638,543 6,116,747 -44 6,116,703 Operating costs -279,181 -352,454 -248,447 -880,082 -13,552 -893,634 Maintenance costs -182,537 -335,549 -157,811 -675,897 -490 -676,387 Property administration -72,416 -72,400 -58,672 -203,488 -168,907 -372,395 Other property management expenses -41,204 -125,210 -52,991 -219,405 -16,731 -236,136 Total costs, property management -575,338 -885,613 -517,921 -1,978,872 -199,680 -2,178,553 NET OPERATING INCOME 1,041,569 1,975,684 1,120,622 4,137,875 -199,724 3,938,151 Central administration costs -78,069 Net interest income/expense -267,872 PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAXES 3,592,206 Change in value, properties 322,278 1,531,519 731,233 2,585,030 — 2,585,030 Change in value, financial instruments -359,632 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 5,817,604 Total assets include: Properties 19,570,659 44,927,148 21,367,320 85,865,127 — 85,865,127 of which invested during the year 535,803 1,886,569 419,356 2,841,728 — 2,841,728 Segment information Total, operating Other 1 Jan. 2017 – 31 Dec. 2017 South Mid-Sweden North segments operations1 Group Rental revenue 1,504,067 2,553,792 1,523,781 5,581,640 284 5,581,924 Other property management income 68,307 63,788 92,121 224,216 — 224,216 Total income 1,572,374 2,617,580 1,615,902 5,805,856 284 5,806,140 Operating costs -233,176 -322,762 -227,765 -783,703 -957 -784,660 Maintenance costs -157,710 -341,381 -116,353 -615,444 -32 -615,476 Property administration -50,559 -60,749 -39,004 -150,312 -158,588 -308,900 Other property management expenses -77,100 -138,536 -53,608 -269,244 1,171 -268,073 Total costs, property management -518,545 -863,428 -436,730 -1,818,703 -158,406 -1,977,109 NET OPERATING INCOME 1,053,829 1,754,152 1,179,172 3,987,153 -158,122 3,829,031 Central administration costs -66,809 Net interest income/expense -188,464 PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAXES 3,573,758 Change in value, properties 940,159 2,780,678 1,258,529 4,979,366 — 4,979,366 Change in value, financial instruments -242,268 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 8,310,856 Total assets include: Properties 18,712,579 41,509,060 20,222,731 80,444,370 — 80,444,370 of which invested during the year 458,353 1,740,123 457,418 2,655,894 — 2,655,894 1) “Other operations” refer to operations that are not attributable to the respective segment. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 16 Tax Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Current tax Current tax on profit for the year -314,677 -389,372 -314,677 -389,372 Total current tax -314,677 -389,372 -314,677 -389,372 DEFERRED TAX ATTRIBUTABLE TO TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES Financial instruments 64,851 18,173 64,851 18,173 Properties -1,006,805 -1,454,600 -96,728 -115,395 Tax allocation reserve 119 -36,230 — — Pension provisions 9,705 3,843 — — Effect of change in tax rate 743,148 — 154,939 — Total deferred tax -188,982 -1,468,814 123,063 -97,222 TOTAL TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR -503,659 -1,858,186 -191,615 -486,594 The difference between the reported tax expense and tax expense based on the current tax rate comprises the following components: Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Reported profit before tax 5,817,604 8,310,856 1,685,908 2,076,348 Tax at the current tax rate -1,279,873 -1,828,388 -370,900 -456,796 Tax effect of expenses that are not tax deductible/taxable (permanent differences): Non-deductible expenses -1,738 -39,151 -1,738 -39,151 Non-taxable revenues 8,658 2,500 8,658 2,500 Taxable standard interest calculated on the tax allocation reserve -2,340 -1,207 -2,340 -1,207 Effect of change in tax rate 743,148 — 154,939 — Adjustment of tax expense for previous years 28,486 8,060 19,766 8,060 TOTAL REPORTED TAX EXPENSE -503,659 -1,858,186 -191,615 -486,594 REPORTED DEFERRED TAX RECEIVABLES/LIABILITY Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Deferred tax assets attributable to temporary differences Financial instruments 86,325 28,387 86,325 28,387 Pension provisions 51,617 45,420 — — Total, reported deferred tax receivables 137,942 73,807 86,325 28,387 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to temporary differences Tax allocation reserve -656,749 -656,869 — — Properties -11,110,875 -10,859,206 -2,283,767 -2,342,247 Cash flow hedges — -1,248 — -1,248 Other — -24 — -43 Total, reported deferred tax liability -11,767,624 -11,517,347 -2,283,767 -2,343,538 TOTAL, REPORTED DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY -11,629,682 -11,443,540 -2,197,442 -2,315,151 Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Cash flow hedge currency derivatives — 320 — 320 electricity derivatives — 508 — 508 actuarial gains and losses 8,193 6,306 — — TOTAL DEFERRED TAX REPORTED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 8,193 7,134 0 828 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 Notes 17 Dividend The dividend paid to the shareholder on 02 May 2018 totalled SEK Available for allocation at the Annual General 1,630,000,000 (1,393,000,000). The dividend per share was SEK 763.47 Meeting: (652.46). Profit brought forward SEK 912,820,348 As regards the dividend for the year, the Board proposes a dividend of Profit for the year SEK 1,494,292,155 SEK 778.92 per share, for a total of SEK 1,663,000,000, to be paid to the Total SEK 2,407,112,503 shareholder as instructed by the owner. A decision regarding a dividend will be reached by the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting. The dividend The Board of Directors and the President propose that the profit be allohas not been recorded as a liability in the Annual Report. cated in such a way that SEK 1,663,000,000 is paid to the shareholder and SEK 744,112,503 is carried forward. PROFIT USED AS A BASIS FOR CALCULATION OF DIVIDEND, SEK M Outcome Changes in value Profit used for consolidated results in the Group calculation of dividend Income from property management 6,117 6,117 Property management expenses -2,179 -2,179 NET OPERATING INCOME 3,938 3,938 Central administration costs -78 -78 Net interest income/expense -268 -268 PROFIT BEFORE CHANGES IN VALUE AND TAX 3,592 3,592 Changes in value, properties 2,585 -2,585 — Changes in value, financial instruments -360 320 -40 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAX 5,818 -2,265 3,552 Tax/current tax -1,247 467 -780 Effect of changed tax rate 743 -743 — PROFIT AFTER TAX 5,314 -2,541 2,772 Dividend, 60% of the profit available for the payment of a dividend 1,663 The dividend as decided at the Annual General Meeting held on 27 April 2018 was SEK 1,630 million. 18 Equipment, fixtures and fittings Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Opening acquisition value 77,199 76,255 77,199 76,255 Purchases 21,470 945 21,470 945 CLOSING ACCUMULATED ACQUISITION VALUE 98,669 77,200 98,669 77,200 Opening depreciation -69,082 -65,151 -69,082 -65,151 Depreciation for the year -6,368 -3,932 -6,368 -3,932 CLOSING ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION -75,450 -69,083 -75,450 -69,083 CARRYING AMOUNT 23,219 8,117 23,219 8,117 19 Shares in Group companies Parent Company 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Opening acquisition value 650 650 Acquisition of subsidiaries — — Sale of subsidiaries — — CARRYING AMOUNT 650 650 Specification of the Parent Company’s shareholdings in Group companies: Parent Company Company Registered Total number Share of 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Subsidiaries reg. no. office of shares equity in %1 Carrying amount Carrying amount Akademiska Hus Utveckling och Support AB 556610-2975 Gothenburg 500 (500) 100 (100) 500 500 Kunskapsmiljön 7 AB 556966-0037 Gothenburg 500 (500) 100 (100) 50 50 Akademiska Hus Holding AB 556981-6803 Gothenburg 100 (100) 100 (100) 100 100 TOTAL 650 650 1) Corresponds to the number of votes. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 20 Loans and financial instruments All amounts apply to both the Group and the Parent Company unless otherwise indicated. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY, SEK 1,000 2018 Derivatives for hedging. Measured at Measured at fair Fair value through fair value through value through Measured at other comprehenTotal carrying profit and loss profit and loss amortised cost sive income amount Total fair value Non-current assets Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives 805,937 805,937 805,937 Cross currency interest rate swaps 791,999 791,999 791,999 Electricity derivatives 16,324 16,324 16,324 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 791,999 822,261 — — 1,614,260 1,614,260 Current assets Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives 25,439 25,439 25,439 Cross currency interest rate swaps Electricity derivatives 41,408 41,408 41,408 Current investments 1,841,605 1,841,605 1,841,605 Accounts receivable 651,707 651,707 651,707 Cash and cash equivalents 1,462,187 1,462,187 1,462,187 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS — 1,908,452 2,113,894 — 4,022,346 4,022,346 Non-current liabilities Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives 829,817 829,817 829,817 Cross currency interest rate swaps 111,513 111,513 111,513 Electricity derivatives Foreign bonds 15,220,104 15,220,104 15,220,104 Swedish bonds 11,719,726 11,719,726 13,727,590 Other loans 1,322,137 1,322,137 1,033,211 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 111,513 16,049,92 13,041,863 — 29,203,297 30,922,235 Current liabilities Currency derivatives 28,267 28,267 28,267 Interest rate derivatives 107,857 107,857 107,857 Cross currency interest rate swaps Electricity derivatives ECP 2,800,067 2,800,067 2,854,672 Foreign bonds Swedish bonds 2,443,110 2,443,110 2,455,813 Other loans 15,514 15,514 15,514 Accounts payable 415,958 415,958 415,958 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES — 136,124 5,674,649 — 5,810,773 5,878,081 1) T  he amount shown in the table is the Group’s cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Company has KSEK 1,462,043 in cash and cash equivalents. All derivatives are held for hedging purposes. The fair value of accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents and accounts payable corresponds to the carrying amount. Loans FINANCING COST The Group’s financing takes place mainly through the public financing proNet interest income and expense amounted to SEK -628 million (-430) and grammes. Through their standardised terms and conditions, these permit the average net liability portfolio was SEK 29,941 million (27,265). The rational, cost-effective financing. The Group has international ECP and financing cost amounted to 2.30 per cent (1.79), calculated as interest EMTN programmes, as well as a domestic commercial paper programme. expense in relation to average interest-bearing net loan liability, excluding The MTN programme has not been updated since 2009. Bank financing is cash and bank holdings. The changes in value in the financial derivative used to a limited extent. The average capital for bank financing during 2018 instruments correspond to an increase in interest expense of 1.33 per cent was SEK 103 million (258). (0.85). Loans in the Group are reported at amortised cost. The Group’s risk management is presented in Note 21 Financial risk management. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87 Notes FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY, SEK 1,000 2017 Derivatives for hedging. Measured at Measured at fair Fair value through fair value through value through Measured at other comprehenTotal carrying profit and loss profit and loss amortised cost sive income amount Total fair value Non-current assets Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives 605,161 605,161 605,161 Cross currency interest rate swaps 448,197 448,197 448,197 Electricity derivatives TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 448,197 605,161 — — 1,053,358 1,053,358 Current assets Currency derivatives 16,856 16,856 16,856 Interest rate derivatives 2,671 2,671 2,671 Cross currency interest rate swaps 578,228 578,228 578,228 Electricity derivatives Current investments 5,480,660 5,480,660 5,480,660 Accounts receivable 316,423 316,423 316,423 Cash and cash equivalents 998,824 998,824 998,824 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 578,228 5,500,187 1,315,247 — 7,393,662 7,393,662 Non-current liabilities Currency derivatives Interest rate derivatives 528,433 528,433 528,433 Cross currency interest rate swaps 413,342 413,342 413,342 Electricity derivatives 6,307 6,307 6,307 Foreign bonds 10,581,000 10,581,000 10,581,000 Swedish bonds 13,278,651 13,278,651 14,943,246 Other loans 1,338,689 1,338,689 1,428,358 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 413,342 11,109,433 14,617,340 6,307 26,133,808 27,888,072 Current liabilities Currency derivatives 52,506 52,506 52,506 Interest rate derivatives 14,722 14,722 14,722 Cross currency interest rate swaps Electricity derivatives 1,293 1,293 1,293 ECP 4,768,714 4,768,714 4,774,000 Foreign bonds 2,127,729 2,127,729 2,127,729 Swedish bonds 3,391,240 3,391,240 1,902,000 Other loans -746,370 -746,370 -746,370 Accounts payable 492,159 492,159 492,159 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES — 2,194,957 7,905,743 1,293 10,101,993 8,618,039 2) T  he amount shown in the table is the Group’s cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Company has TSEK 998,678 in cash and cash equivalents. All derivatives are held for hedging purposes. The fair value of accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents and accounts payable corresponds to the carrying amount. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes FINANCING COST, BREAKDOWN, % ing and with sales of fixed interest at a later date. As time passes, no surplus or deficit values of interest rate derivatives will remain at maturity. 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 The currency and interest risks that arise in conjunction with long-term Loan financing cost, financing, usually bonds in foreign currency, are hedged with cross currency including charges, % 0.88 0.74 0.83 1.38 2.01 interest rate swaps. The changes in value for each instrument can be attribInterest swaps, net interest, % 0.09 0.20 0.47 0.58 0.42 uted to changes in both exchange rates and interest rates. Hedge accounting is applied for these forms of financing, where only the inefficiency that arises Financing cost, % 0.97 0.94 1.30 1.96 2.43 due to different valuation practices is recognised in the income statement. Changes in value, financial derivatives, % 1.33 0.85 0.85 -0.74 2.61 Financial instruments valued at fair value TOTAL FINANCING COST 2.30 1.79 2.15 1.22 5.04 The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value. They are classified in a hierarchy, comprising three levels and based on the information used to set their fair value. EFFECT OF FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES ON PROFIT Level 1 refers to when fair value is set based on listed prices on active marIndependent interest rate derivatives are reported at market value (fair kets for identical assets and liabilities. value) and variations in market value are recognised in net interest income Level 2 refers to when fair value is set based on observable data other and expense. Interest derivatives are mainly entered into to extend the fixed than listed prices on active markets. Level 3 refers to when the set fair value interest period in the liability portfolio, which largely consists of financing is essentially based on data that is not observable, i.e. the Company’s own at variable interest rates. Falling interest rates entail a negative impact on assumptions. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is set by using profit from these interest rate derivatives; the opposite is true when interest information that is attributable to one or more of the above-mentioned levrates rise. The changes in value relate to the changed present value of future els. cash flows from interest rate derivatives, at prevailing interest rates. ConseThe classification is determined by the lowest level in the hierarchy for the quently these do not have any immediate effect on cash flow, as long as they information that has a material impact on the value. The Group mainly holds remain unrealised. Certain interest rate derivatives are closed and settled derivatives that are on level 2. The valuation of the instruments is done on an ongoing basis (monthly or quarterly) and replaced with new ones, according to the zero coupon method, which means that all the future cash which means that profits are continuously realised. Falling interest rates, flows of the instrument are set at the current value. The zero coupon interest combined with interest rate derivatives for purposes of extension, mean rates used to discount the cash flows are calculated with the aid of STIBOR/ that interest expense will be higher than if the extension had not been LIBOR for short-term interest rates and swap notations for longer terms. implemented. However, the lower interest rate can be used when refinancThe source of this information is real-time data from Thomson/Reuters. 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total ASSETS ASSETS Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Current investments 1,841,605 1,841,605 Current investments 5,480,660 5,480,660 Stand alone derivatives 889,108 889,108 Stand alone derivatives 624,688 624,688 Fair value hedges 791,999 791,999 Fair value hedges 1,026,425 1,026,425 Other investments — Other investments — TOTAL ASSETS — 3,522,712 — 3,522,712 TOTAL ASSETS — 7,131,773 — 7,131,773 Liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss Liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss Stand alone derivatives -965,941 -965,941 Stand alone derivatives -595,661 -595,661 Fair value hedges -111,513 -111,513 Fair value hedges -413,342 -413,342 Bonds (fair value) -15,220,104 -15,220,104 Bonds (fair value) -12,708,729 -12,708,729 TOTAL LIABILITIES — -16,297,558 — -16,297,558 TOTAL LIABILITIES — -13,717,732 — -13,717,732 No moves between levels were made during the year. 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Fair value measurement Measurement method Fair value Impact on profit Fair value Impact on profit Derivatives — stand alone and in Discounted cash flows: The valuation model hedge relationship uses the present value of future cash flows 603,653 -235,113 642,110 -128,735 Current investments: Discounted cash flows: The valuation model Commercial paper uses the present value of future cash flows 1,841,605 -1,649 5,480,660 -442 Bond Discounted cash flows: The valuation model uses the present value of future cash flows -15,220,104 -124,519 -12,708,729 -113,533 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89 Notes MATERIAL CONTRACTUAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The general terms and conditions for the EMTN and MTN programmes The Group strives to achieve good growth in profit, financial sustainability include a clause which specifies that if the Swedish state ceases, directly or and financial capacity. The financial objectives are set to provide a combinaindirectly, to hold more than 50 per cent of the shares, equivalent to more tion of a high return on equity, high growth capacity and financial stability. than 50 per cent of the shareholding and more than 50 per cent of the votes, According to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, the divithe loans and any interest shall fall due for repayment immediately. The condend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent of the net profit after tax tractual terms and conditions for the short-term financing programmes do after reversal of changes in fair value and related deferred tax. When decidnot include any equivalent undertaking. Ever since the programmes were ing on a dividend, consideration should be given to the Group’s capital strucestablished, the Group’s policy has been not to accept any terms and conditure and capital requirements. The equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 tions that require, for example, that a certain rating, equity ratio or interest per cent and return on operating capital should be at least 6.5 per cent. coverage ratio be maintained. At the end of 2018, the equity ratio was 45.8 per cent (43.3) for the Group and 19.4 per cent (19.0) for the Parent Company. After the dividend of SEK HEDGE ACCOUNTING 1,663 million proposed by the Board of Directors, the equity ratio will be 44.8 When financing in a foreign currency, all future cash flows are hedged so that per cent for the Group and 16.7 per cent for the Parent Company. the exchange risk is eliminated. Through cross currency interest rate swaps, The Group’s capital structure comprises an interest-bearing net debt and all interest payments, both fixed and variable, are hedged as well as future equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder (share capital, repayments. All the measures taken have the express purpose of hedging and other contributed capital, retained earnings, including profit for the year). eliminating exchange rate risk so that all financing is denominated in SEK. Effective hedging means that changes in the value of the hedged position and the hedging transaction counteract each other. Group Parent Company Capital management, SEK 1,000 2018 2017 2018 2017 Gross debt -33,520,658 -34,739,653 -33,520,658 -34,739,653 Assets Collateral for derivatives, net -890,663 -572,629 -890,663 -572,629 Cash and cash equivalents 3,303,792 6,479,484 3,303,792 6,479,484 Current receivables 691,869 856,982 691,869 856,982 Net debt -30,415,660 -28,975,816 -30,415,660 -27,975,816 Interest-bearing portion of pension liability -555,339 -496,522 -304,772 -290,069 TOTAL INTEREST­BEARING DEBT -30,970,999 -28,472,338 -30,720,432 -28,265,885 The net debt portfolio has been redefined for the 2018 annual report. Derivatives are now excluded from the concept. All loans are included in gross debt. The net debt portfolio includes some current receivables, cash and cash equivalents and security transfers for derivatives. 21 Financial risk management (Group) portfolio. At the turn of the year, long-term bonds totalling SEK 5,576 million (4,778) were issued, equivalent to 16.99 per cent (14.07) of the total portfolio. Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real interest rate, must Akademiska Hus carries out active debt management where the strategy is not exceed 10 per cent (10) of the total portfolio. At the turn of the year, to weigh up the financial risks, given the existing mandate, against the index-linked bonds totalling SEK 900 million (900) were issued, equivalent desired low and stable financing cost over time. The two key policy docuto 2.74 per cent (2.65) of the total portfolio. ments adopted by the Board are: Basic portfolio – consists of the remaining portion of commercial paper, • Finance Policy: Describes the long-term strategic orientation, the ECPs, bonds, loans and interest rate derivatives. The portfolio is managed Group’s approach to financial risks and the mandate to handle these risks, within an average fixed interest period mandate. The current mandate is a as well as the allocation of liability. fixed interest period of 3 to 6 years (3 to 6 years). The fixed interest period at • Plan for handling financial risks (Risk Plan): Justifies annual mandates the year-end was 4.1 years (4.5), including interest derivatives. for financial risk management in the light of the risk scenario and existing exposure. Also includes analysis of developments in financial markets, MATURITY STRUCTURE FOR FIXED INTEREST PERIODS AND including both opportunities and challenges from the point of view of LIABILITY MATURITY, SEK M debt management. Fixed interest, INTEREST RATE RISK SEK m Maturity, SEK m The term ‘interest rate risk’ refers to the risk that the Group’s net interest 2019 16,829 5,246 income and expense may vary due to a change in market interest rates. A 2020-2024 8,914 9,040 balance must be reached between saving and uncertainty on the one hand 2025-2029 1,400 6,546 and higher costs (risk premium) and predictability on the other. The average 2030-2034 200 776 fixed interest period is a measure of the sensitivity in net interest income and expense in conjunction with a change in market interest rates; the 2035-2039 1,895 2,626 longer the fixed interest period, the longer it takes for an interest rate 2040-2044 2,736 5,812 change to be reflected in current cash flow. Since it is not possible to achieve 2045-2049 705 2,633 a desired fixed interest on individual financing occasions, interest derivaTOTAL 32,679 32,679 tives are used to adjust the fixed interest period. According to the Finance Policy, there should be a mandate to manage interest rate risk in the three main sub-portfolios as follows: The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts have been Long-term bond portfolio – bonds denominated in SEK with fixed interest recalculated at the year-end rate. A positive figure means that the Group pays and maturity terms in excess of 15 years. These bonds represent a significant interest and a negative figure means that the Group receives interest. interest risk exposure, which justifies a separate mandate. The portfolio is therefore permitted to amount to a maximum of 20 per cent (20) of the total Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Cross currency interest rate swaps affect the financial position and earnings of the Group as shown in the tables below. Hedge accounting is applied for cross currency interest rate swaps. CROSS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES 2018 WHERE HEDGE ACCOUNTING IS APPLIED, SEK 1,000 AUD CHF EUR HKD USD Carrying amount (SEK 1,000) -1,284 581,954 96,537 1,625 1,653 Nominal amount in each currency 91,000 850,000 440,000 1,314,000 100,000 Maturity 2026-2032 2021-2044 2032-2048 2021 2023-2027 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 Change in value for outstanding derivatives since 1 January SEK 1,000 1,656 348,083 103,566 120,038 62,399 Change in value of the hedged item to determine effectiveness SEK 1,000 1,294 -448,824 -197,615 -105,427 -52,930 Weighted average for forward rate during the year 3.52 0.82 1.74 1.86 2.78 CROSS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES 2017 WHERE HEDGE ACCOUNTING IS APPLIED, SEK 1,000 JPY AUD CHF EUR HKD USD Carrying amount (SEK 1,000) 160,888 -2,763 669,006 -34,120 -118,913 -61,015 Nominal amount in each currency 10,000,000 91,000 950,000 180,000 1,314,000 100,000 Maturity 2018 2026-2032 2018-2029 2032-2045 2021 2023-2027 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 1:1 Change in value for outstanding derivatives since 1 January SEK 1,000 -68,044 -2,110 -606,778 -58,488 -145,125 -89,033 Change in value of the hedged item to determine effectiveness SEK 1,000 86,051 -2,039 504,866 14,468 120,829 64,184 Weighted average for forward rate during the year 1.84 3.52 1.19 1.63 1.86 2.78 In conjunction with debt issuance denominated in foreign currency, AkadeCURRENCY BREAKDOWN, LOANS AND DERIVATIVES, SEK M miska Hus enters into cross currency interest rate swaps where the critical terms are identical for the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Original currency Loans Derivatives Total Accounting ineffectiveness arise since the basis spreads only affect the AUD 568 -568 0 market valuation of derivatives and not the valuation of the issued bonds. CHF 7,648 -7,648 0 EUR 4,460 -4,460 0 Interest rate swaps affect the financial position and earnings of the Group as shown in the table below: HKD 1,488 -1,488 0 SEK 15,469 17,089 32,558 2018 2017 USD 3,697 -3,697 0 Interest rate derivatives where hedge accounting is not applied, SEK 1,000 Fair value Fair value TOTAL 33,330 -772 32,558 Carrying amount -106,298 64,676 The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts have Nominal amount 3,600,000 2,600,000 been recalculated at the year-end rate. Maturity 2019-2028 2018-2023 Currency derivatives affect the financial position and earnings of the Group The table above shows the nominal amount and maturity for the swaps that as follows: are current as at the closing day. Nominal amount for forward starting swaps is SEK 9,600,000 thousand (8,900,000). Currency derivatives where hedge accounting is not applied, SEK 1,000 2018 2017 Interest sensitivity Carrying amount -28,267 -36,650 Akademiska Hus is sensitive to higher/lower interest expense due to Nominal amount 2,858,118 4,559,850 changes in interest rates. Interest risk shows a change in value in SEK 1,000 at an interest rate movement of one basis point. This interest sensitivity Maturity 2019 2018 amounts to SEK 22,160 thousand (20,655) at year-end. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISK A foreign currency risk is the risk that exchange rate changes will have an Refers to the risk that the Group will be exposed to higher expenses than impact on the Income Statements and Consolidated Statement of financial expected or that financing potential is limited when loans are due to be refipositions. According to the Finance Policy, all foreign currency risk in connanced. The aim is to limit the costs by seeking to strike a balance between junction with financing in foreign currency should be eliminated since the short-term, medium-term and long-term financing, and endeavouring to operation is denominated exclusively in SEK. All cash flows in foreign curachieve diversification between different financing arrangements and rency attributable to financing are therefore hedged with forward rate markets. The Group’s extremely high creditworthiness allows a diversified agreements and cross currency swaps. supply of credit through the public financing programmes. According to the maturity mandate, a maximum of 40 per cent (45) may fall due for refinancing within a 12-month period. At the year-end the percentage maturing within 12 months was 16.1% (26.5%). Unutilised credit facilities should be in place to guarantee good payment capacity. The Group’s cash and bank balances at the end of 2018 totalled SEK 3,304 million (6,479). At year-end, there were also committed credit facilities in banks for a total of SEK 5,500 million (3,000). Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 Notes FINANCE PROGRAMMES AND RATING The table below shows financial assets and liabilities (derivatives) that are Rating Utilised, not offset in the balance sheet, but are covered by framework agreements for Standard & Rating Framework nominal netting or similar agreements: Poor’s Moody’s 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 Committed credit SEK 5,500 m 0 Amounts that are not offset, but are facilities in bank covered by framework agreements for Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m 0 netting or similar agreements ECP (Euro CommerA1+ P-1 EUR 1,200 m EUR 277 m 2018 cial Paper) Carrying SEK 1,000 amount Collateral Net MTN (Medium Term AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 770 m Note) 1) Derivatives financial assets 1,681,107 -1,005,356 675,751 EMTN (Euro Medium AA/A1+ EUR 4,000 m EUR 2,901 m Derivatives financial liabilities -1,077,454 103,710 -973,744 Term Note) TOTAL 603,653 -901,646 -297,993 1) N  ot updated since 2009. The net amount for 2018 is relatively high because of a difference between The following table shows the remaining contractual term for the Group’s the day of valuation and day of transaction for transfer of collateral (GAP financial liabilities. The liquidity flows are not discounted and foreign flows risk). During these days certain prices were volatile. have been translated at the rate on the closing date. For those instruments where the future variable rate of interest is unknown, the rate of interest has Amounts that are not offset, but are been calculated with the aid of the implicit forward interest rates for the covered by framework agreements for netting or similar agreements yield curve on the closing date. Use is made primarily of rental revenue to meet the obligations linked to 2017 the Group’s financial liabilities presented in the table below. The rental reveCarrying nue falls due for payment quarterly and is subject to long agreement terms. SEK 1,000 amount Collateral Net The credit risk associated with rental revenue is considered low. Derivatives financial assets 1,651,114 -857,982 793,132 Derivatives financial liabilities -1,003,989 231,144 -772,845 Liquidity Current Accounts TOTAL 647,125 -626,838 20,287 risk, SEK m Loans Derivatives investments payable Total 2019 -5,520 -33 1,840 -416 -4,129 The table below shows the Group’s exposure to counterparty risks divided 2020 -2,658 13 -2,645 according to different rating categories: 2021 -5,328 29 -5,299 Collateral 2022 -1,293 32 -1,261 Counter-party risks, excludreceived/ Net ing rent receivables, SEK m Receivable Liability granted exposure 2023 -733 119 -614 INSTITUTIONS WITH A 2024-2028 -6,002 -166 -6,168 LONG RATING 2029-2033 -4,444 54 -4,390 AA-/Aa3 66 -65 13 -12 2034-2038 -2,782 -181 -2,963 A+/A1 -57 -42 -14 2039-2043 -2,836 -9 -2,845 A/A2 313 576 -261 2044-2048 -3,951 -3,951 A-/A3 53 70 -17 TOTAL -35,547 -142 1,840 -416 -34,265 BBB+/Baa1 251 -16 285 -50 INSTITUTIONS WITH ONLY A SHORT RATING CREDIT RISK AND COUNTER-PARTY RISK K-1 400 400 The risk of a loss if a counterparty does not meet its undertakings. The Group Companies wholly owned by is exposed when surplus liquidity is placed in financial assets and in conthe Swedish state 1,240 1,240 junction with claims for change in value of derivatives. The Risk Plan includes a limit system where permitted exposure depends on the credit Companies wholly owned by the Swedish state 200 200 rating of the counter party, ownership and the term of the commitment. The limits are related to the Group’s risk capacity in the form of equity. TOTAL 2,466 -81 902 1,486 In addition, investments should be characterised by good liquidity in the secondary market. The Group’s policy is that internationally standardised netting agreeCREDIT RISK ATTRIBUTABLE TO RENT RECEIVABLES ments, ISDA agreements, should always be signed with a counterparty A large proportion of the Group’s receivables are rent receivables. The maxibefore uncleared derivative transactions take place. As at 31 December 2018, mum credit risk exposure for rent receivables and accounts receivable is the total counterparty exposure in derivatives (calculated as the net claim equal to their carrying amounts. However, the assessed credit risk in rent per counterparty) stood at SEK 683 million (815). With the aim of reducing receivables is low in the light of the high credit rating of the tenants. exposure to a counterparty risk, the Group has entered into a number of supplementary agreements, Credit Support Annexes (CSA), to the ISDA ELECTRICITY PRICE RISK agreements. The agreements mean that the parties mutually undertake to The risk approach and mandate for handling the electricity price risk is govmake collateral available in the form of cash and cash equivalents or bonds erned by the guidelines for purchasing electricity. The term ‘electricity price for the undervalues in outstanding derivative contracts. At the year-end, the risk’ refers to the risk that the future price of electricity will affect the Group had received SEK 902 million (627) net. Group’s operating costs negatively and with low predictability. With the aim of reducing exposure to changes in the electricity price, different financial commodity hedging instruments are used (electricity derivatives). The Group stipulates a long-term price hedging strategy. Trade in physical electric power (spot) and financial commodity hedging instruments takes place through Nord Pool. To limit the counter-party risk, all financial trading is cleared through third party against which Akademiska Hus pledges and receives security, depending on whether the derivative position has a positive or negative value. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes Electricity derivatives affect the financial position and earnings of the Group due, KSEK 4,815 were 30–60 days overdue and KSEK 22,728 were more than as follows: 60 days overdue. Overdue receivables do not include impaired receivables. Electricity derivatives where hedge The provision for doubtful rent receivables and accounts receivable changed accounting is not applied, SEK 1,000 2018 2017 as follows: ELECTRICITY DERIVATIVES Carrying amount 57,732 5,014 Group Parent Company Nominal amount (MWh) 1,329,785 1,697,832 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Maturity 2019-2021 2018-2020 Opening balance -828 -1,053 -828 -1,053 Provisions for the year -5,822 -472 -5,822 -472 RISK CONTROL Established credit losses 219 697 219 697 Ongoing work is being done to improve the level of expertise, routines and CLOSING BALANCE -6,431 -828 -6,431 -828 internal control. There is strict allocation of responsibility between the Treasury and Risk Control. The unit handles accounting and administration as well as compliance with the mandates. The task of developing and refining analytical support and risk control is ongoing. 25 Other current receivables Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 22 Maturity structure, receivables 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group Parent Company VAT receivable 447,148 340,442 447,148 340,442 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Settlement, taxes and 2018 2017 2018 2017 charges 691,870 856,982 691,870 856,982 Receivables expected to 2,239,827 1,784,754 2,239,827 1,784,753 Other current receivables 252,418 123,007 252,418 123,006 be cleared within one year TOTAL 1,391,436 1,320,431 1,391,436 1,320,430 of the year-end Receivables expected 1,277,577 838,969 1,277,577 838,969 Other current receivables are reported at amortised cost. to be cleared within 1–5 years of the year-end Receivables expected to 767,018 1,001,549 767,018 1,001,549 be cleared later than five years after the year-end 26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income TOTAL 4,284,422 3,625,272 4,284,422 3,625,271 Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 2018 2017 23 Other non-current receivables Accrued rent 45,148 35,539 45,148 35,539 Prepaid operating costs 31,638 30,655 31,638 30,655 Other 17,713 62,179 17,713 62,179 Other non-interest-bearing receivables will be cleared as follows: TOTAL 94,499 128,373 94,499 128,373 Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cleared within 5 years 199,361 120,851 199,361 120,851 Cleared after 5 years 230,972 88,080 230,972 88,080 27 Cash and cash equivalents TOTAL NON-INTEREST­ 430,333 208,931 430,333 208,931 Group Parent Company BEARING RECEIVABLES 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current investments 1,841,605 5,480,660 1,841,605 5,480,660 Cash and bank balances 1,462,187 998,824 1,462,043 998,678 24 Rent receivables and accounts receivable TOTAL 3,303,792 6,479,484 3,303,648 6,479,338 Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents are recognised and measured at cost. Fair value is Rent receivables and equivalent to the carrying amount. Current investments comprise tempoaccounts receivable 658,138 317,251 658,138 317,251 rary surplus liquidity that is invested in the short term. These investments are measured at fair value. Current investments can be found on level 2 in Provision, doubtful rent receivables and accounts the fair value hierarchy. Blocked bank funds in respect of pledged assets for receivable -6,431 -828 -6,431 -828 exchange-cleared derivatives are included to the amount of KSEK 4,967 TOTAL 651,707 316,423 651,707 316,423 (64,148) in the reported amount for cash and bank balances for the Group and the Parent Company. This is a buffer to cover expected daily collateral requirements. Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported at amortised cost. The fair value of rent receivables and accounts receivable concurs with the carrying amount as of the year-end and no impairment requirement has been identified. Of the overdue rent receivables and accounts receivable as at 31 December 2018, KSEK 352,804 were 1–5 days overdue, KSEK 3,488 were 5–30 days overAkademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 Notes provisions in the PRI system as well as the ITP plan family pension, sickness 28 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve pension and occupational group life through insurance premiums. All penGroup Parent Company sion commitments which the Akademiska Hus Group took over from the 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. National Board of Public Building when the Company was formed on 1 Octo2018 2017 2018 2017 ber 1993 are defined benefit plans, secured through provisions in the StateOpening balance 6,814 9,592 6,814 9,592 ment of Financial Position, guaranteed by the National Debt Office and administered by the National Government Employees’ Pension Board Change in value, deriva(SPV). All defined benefit pension commitments are credit-insured by PRI tives (cash flow hedging) Pensionsgaranti. currency derivatives — -2,178 — -2,178 The most recent actuarial calculation of the present value of the defined electricity derivatives — -2,154 — -2,154 benefit commitment was carried out by an authorised actuary on 31 DecemTransferred to operating -6,814 726 6,814 726 ber 2018. When calculating the present value of the defined benefit commitprofit ment and associated costs for employment during the current and previous Tax effect — 828 — 828 periods, the Projected Unit Credit Method was used. The ITP 2 plan exposes the Group to a number of actuarial risks, such as CLOSING BALANCE 0 6,814 0 6,814 an interest risk, risk regarding life expectancy and the increase in the income base amount. In 2018 Akademiska Hus decided to longer apply hedge accounting for cash Interest risk – A reduction in the bond rate of interest will increase the flow hedges. New hedges are recognised instead at fair value through profit pension liability. Possible future falls in the interest rate on first-class mortor loss. The tax effect, KSEK 0 (-828), refers to the change for the year. The gage bonds in SEK could thus entail a risk that the Group’s pension expense closing deferred tax receivable/payable is reported in Note 16 Taxes. and undertakings could increase. Life expectancy risk – The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated with consideration given to the Group’s best assessment regarding mortality for members of the plan, both during and after employment. There is a risk that life expectancy will increase for the members of 29 Other liabilities the plan, which would in that case increase both the pension costs and the Group’s commitment. Group Parent Company Salary risk – The present value of the defined benefit commitment is cal31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. culated in the light of future salaries for members of the plan. Major salary 2018 2017 2018 2017 increases compared with what was included in the actuarial calculations Other interest­bearing 1,005,356 857,982 1,005,356 857,982 entail a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could the Group’s liabilities pension expense. Other non-interest­bearing 286,041 359,391 286,641 359,991 Income base amount – The present value of the defined benefit obligaliabilities tions is calculated in the light of future increases in the income base amount. TOTAL 1,291,397 1,217,373 1,291,997 1,217,973 A larger increase than assumed in the actuarial calculations means a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could the Group’s pension The fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount of other liabilities. The expense. Parent Company has entered into a supplementary agreement, a Credit SupThe actuarial computation of the pension commitments and pension port Annex (CSA) to the ISDA agreement, with the aim of handling exposure costs is based on the following assumptions: to counterparty risks in derivatives. The agreement means that the parties mutually undertake to furnish collateral in the form of cash and cash equivAssumptions 2018 2017 alents or securities with a good rating for undervalues in outstanding derivDiscount rate, % 2.35 2.50 atives. The agreement in turn gives the secured party right of disposal of colSalary increase, % 3.00 3.00 lateral received. As of the year-end, the Group received collateral through the CSA agreements totalling KSEK 1,005,356 (857,982). Inflation, % 2.00 1.90 Of the Group’s other liabilities, KSEK 1,245,069 falls due for payment Income base amount, % 2.50 2.50 within one year of the year-end, KSEK 0 within one to five years of the yearPersonnel turnover, % 2.00 2.00 end, and KSEK 46,328 later than five years after the year-end. Remaining period of service, years 10.70 12.10 Mortality DUS14 DUS14 Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on public statistics and 30 Provisions for pensions experience of mortality calculations in Sweden and have been adopted in The Group’s pension commitments include both defined contribution and consultation with actuarial experts. These assumptions result in the followdefined benefit pension plans according to collective bargaining agreements. ing average remaining life expectancy for a person who retires at the age of 65: DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS Estimated average remaining life The Group’s defined contribution pension plans, ITP1 and Alternative ITP expectancy, years 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 (a pension for high-income earners) and flex pension cover all Group Retirement at the year-end employees. The defined contribution pension plans mainly comprise a retirement pension, sickness pension and family pension. The premiums Men 21.8 21.8 are paid continuously throughout the year to different insurance companies. Women 24.4 24.4 The premiums are based on salary. Retirement 20 years after the year-end The total cost for the financial year for defined contribution pension Men 23.6 23.6 plans excluding payroll tax (Group and Parent Company) amounted to Women 25.5 25.5 KSEK 27,355 (24,722). DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS All Group employees are covered by the Group’s defined benefit pension plan, ITP 2. According to this plan, the employees are entitled to pension benefits based on their pensionable income as well as the number of years of service. The pension plan mainly comprises a retirement pension, sickness pension and family pension. The pension commitments are secured through Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes The following amounts regarding the defined benefit pension cost are Below is a sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligations reflecting reported in the Income Statement: changes in the applied assumptions for the discount rate, inflation and wage growth. The sensitivity analysis is based on the change in one assumption Amount reported in the Income Statement 2018 2017 while all other assumptions are held constant. Such a scenario is unlikely in Benefits earned during the year 21,011 27,564 practice, and changes in certain assumptions can be correlated. Interest on pension provision 12,767 11,547 PARTS OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT PEN33,778 39,111 SION COST REPORTED IN THE PROFIT FOR Sensitivity analysis, pension obligations 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 THE YEAR Recorded pension obligation under the reported assumptions 555,339 496,522 Discount rate increases by 0.5 percentThe defined benefit costs have been reported as a personnel cost and interage points 502,101 449,377 est cost respectively. The following actuarial gains and losses have been reported under Total comprehensive income: Discount rate decreases by 0.5 percentage points 616,162 550,356 Inflation increases by 0.5 percentage points 598,672 534,786 Total amount reported under Other comprehensive income 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Wage growth increases by 0.5 percentage Actuarial gains and losses that arise as a points 590,405 527,007 result of changes in financial assumptions 24,574 41,807 Actuarial gains and losses that arise as a FUTURE PAYMENTS result of changes in experience 15,198 -13,142 The Group is expected to pay KSEK 37,584 (33,778) in charges for the TOTAL AMOUNT REPORTED UNDER OTHER 39,772 28,665 defined benefit plan during the forthcoming financial year. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS IN THE The change for the period in the defined benefit obligation can be seen in the PARENT COMPANY following table: The reported pension liability in the Parent Company comprises: 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Change in the defined benefit obligation for the period 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 FPG/PRI pensions 244,951 228,182 Opening balance 496,522 442,794 Other pensions 59,821 61,887 Service costs during the period 21,011 27,564 TOTAL 304,772 290,069 Net interest cost 12,767 11,547 Other pensions in the Parent Company mainly refer to the historical penActuarial gains (-)/losses (+) sion liability that was taken over from the National Board of Public Building Changes in financial assumptions 24,574 41,807 when the Akademiska Hus Group was founded in 1993. Pension commitments and provisions for pension commitments for the Experience-based adjustments 15,198 -13,142 defined benefit plans in the Parent Company have changed as follows: Pension payments -14,733 -14,048 CLOSING BALANCE 555,339 496,522 Pension commitments 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Opening balance 290,069 282,484 The estimated term of the Group’s defined benefit pension commitment can Pension costs, defined benefit plans 18,058 10,265 be seen in the following table: Interest expense 11,897 11,451 Payments -15,252 -14,131 CLOSING BALANCE 304,772 290,069 Estimated term for the pension commitment 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Fall due for payment within one year of the year-end 14,863 14,530 The total pension cost in the Parent Company is broken down as follows: Fall due for payment 1–5 years after the 2018 2017 year-end 57,793 55,143 Pension costs, defined benefit plans 18,058 10,265 Fall due for payment later than five years Interest part of the pension cost 11,897 11,451 after the year-end 482,683 426,849 PENSION COSTS, DEFINED BENEFIT TOTAL 555,339 496,522 PLANS 29,955 21,716 Pension costs, defined contribution plans 27,355 24,722 Employer’s contribution and tax on the yield, other pension costs 13,593 10,942 TOTAL PENSION COSTS 70,903 57,380 ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS The actuarial calculation of pension commitments and pension costs in the Parent Company is based on the actuarial assumptions laid down in the PRI system and by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 Notes COMMENTS FINANCING ACTIVITIES 31 Accrued expenses and prepaid income Opening liabilities for interest-bearing liabilities including derivatives in Group Parent Company the Group total KSEK 35,743,642. The closing balance is KSEK 34,598,112. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. This decrease consists of a negative cash flow of KSEK 1,552,614 from 2018 2017 2018 2017 financing activities and changes that do not affect cash flow of KSEK 407,084 relating to amortisation of premiums/discounts, exchange rates and fair Prepaid rental revenue 1,700,135 1,553,637 1,700,135 1,553,637 value. The equivalent also applies for the Parent Company. Accrued salary and per43,184 37,730 43,184 37,730 sonnel costs Accrued operating and 106,359 81,371 106,359 81,371 maintenance costs 34 Pledged assets Accrued investments 33,160 1,021 33,160 1,021 Group Parent Company Accrued interest 213,665 208,566 213,665 208,566 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Other interim liabilities 57,806 67,821 57,806 67,821 2018 2017 2018 2017 TOTAL 2,154,309 1,950,146 2,154,309 1,950,146 Blocked bank funds 4,967 64,148 4,967 64,148 Current investments 114,692 231,144 114,692 231,144 TOTAL 119,659 295,292 119,659 295,292 32 Maturity structure, liabilities Group Parent Company Unsettled results from transactions as well as standardised computed safety margins using exchange-cleared derivatives have been secured through 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2018 2017 2018 2017 blocked bank funds. Liabilities due for pay9,210,151 13,222,607 9,212,904 13,225,360 ment within one year of the year-end Liabilities due for pay9,711,837 9,708,292 9,711,837 9,708,291 35 Contingent liabilities ment within 1–5 years of the year-end Group Parent Company Liabilities due for pay31,722,810 28,440,132 22,040,002 19,105,292 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. ment later than five 2018 2017 2018 2017 years after the yearContingent liability, end FPG/PR 4,899 4,564 4,899 4,564 TOTAL 50,644,798 51,371,031 40,964,743 42,038,943 TOTAL 4,899 4,564 4,899 4,564 33 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 36 Transactions with related parties Group Parent Company In conjunction with intra-Group purchases and sales, the same pricing principles are applied as would have been the case in transactions with an exter2018 2017 2018 2017 nal party. Intra-Group property purchases and sales take place subject to a Depreciation, etc 6,368 3,932 1,315,493 1,159,923 fiscal residual value. Purchases and sales of other current assets take place at Change in value, -2,676,962 -5,080,536 — — the carrying amount. There were no transactions with the President, Board properties of Directors or senior executives, apart from salary and other remuneration, Capital gain (-)/loss — — -1,423 -168,627 see Note 10. Transactions with Group companies are shown in the table (+) on sale of tangible, below. non-current assets Changes in value, 359,797 312,945 359,797 312,945 Group Parent Company financial instruments 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash flow hedge — -3,607 — -3,607 Income Change in pension pro31,581 25,063 29,579 7,585 visions and similar Companies within the commitments Akademiska Hus Group — — — — Other -33,389 — -28,227 — TOTAL — — — — TOTAL -2,312,605 -4,742,203 1,675,219 1,308,219 Liabilities PURCHASE SUM IN CONJUNCTION WITH INVESTMENTS, ACQUISICompanies within the Akademiska Hus Group — — 2,153 2,153 TIONS AND DISPOSALS For investments and acquisitions for the period, a total of KSEK 2,776,089 TOTAL 2,153 2,153 (2,555,667) has been paid, of which KSEK 2,776,089 was paid in cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Company also invested KSEK 0 (0) in shares in subsidiaries. For disposals for the period, a total of KSEK 6,000 (203,750) has been received, of which KSEK 6,000 was received in cash and cash 37 Events after the year-end equivalents. A sales agreement was signed with the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) for part of the property Ultuna 2:23. The buyer will take possession on 1 March 2019. The purchase price is SEK 355 million. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Certification Certification The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that the Annunational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the EU, al Report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts and provide a fair picture of the Group’s position and results and that Act and RFR 2 and provides a fair picture of the Company’s position the Administration Report for the Group provides a fair overview of and results and that the Administration Report provides a fair overview the development of the Group’s operations, position and results and of the development of the Group’s operations, position and results and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the companies that describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Company. form part of the Group. The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that the The Sustainability Report for 2018 has been approved for publication Consolidated Accounts have been prepared in accordance with Interby the Board of Directors and the CEO. Gothenburg, 14 March 2019 Anitra Steen Britta Burreau Peter Gudmundson Chairman Board member Board member Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Anna Magnusson Employee representative Employee representative Board member Christer Nerlich Örjan Wikforss Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson President Our Audit Report was submitted on 15 March 2019. Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Helena Ehrenborg Authorised Public Accountant Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 Audit report Audit Report To the General Meeting of Shareholders of Akademiska Hus AB, Corp. Id. No. 556459-9156 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinions Basis of Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on statements of Akademiska Hus AB for 2018, with the exception of the Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Corporate Governance Report on pages 48-55. The annual accounts The auditors’ responsibility according to these standards is described and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 37-95 in detail in the section Auditor’s Responsibility. We are independent in this document. of the Parent Company and the Group in accordance with professionIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordal ethics for accountants in Sweden, and have otherwise fulfilled our ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material reethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This spects, the financial position of parent company as of 31 December 2018 includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no proand its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in hibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and group as of 31 December 2018 and their financial performance and cash appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Other disclosure Accounts Act. Our opinion does not include the Corporate Governance The audit of the annual accounts for the financial year 2017 has been Report found on pages 48-55. The statutory Administration Report is performed by another auditor, who submitted an Auditor’s Report on consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated the 16 March 2018 with a non-modified opinion in the Report on the accounts. annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the Parent Company and the Group. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to the Parent Company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit report Our audit approach Emphasis and scope of the audit We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient The Group’s operations comprise owning, developing and managing work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial properties for universities and other higher education institutions, statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, with a main focus on education and research. In Akademiska Hus’ operthe accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the ations it is, above all, the large impact on the financial statements of the group operates. assessments and estimates made by the Board and management that impact our risk assessment. In our opinion, the largest risk of misstateMateriality ments in the Annual Report stems from the valuation of properties. The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materialIn addition to this, we have identified a number of other risks and key ity. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the areas which have impacted the financial statements. financial statements are free from material misstatement. MisstateOur audit comprises the review of all significant properties and ments may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material business processes for the financial reporting, including rent process, if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to purchase process, financing process and valuation process. influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the financial statements. risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quanIn particular, we considered where management made subjective titative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates the financial statements as a whole (see the table below). These, togeththat involved making assumptions and considering future events that er with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures risk of management override of internal controls, including among and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Materiality Audit scope • Overall materiality: SEK 930 million, corresponding to 1% of the Our audit is based a Group audit method. This means that our audit Group’s total assets. is focused on central business processes and the audit of investment • Special materiality: SEK 190 million, corresponding to 5% the properties from a Group perspective. The overall aim of the audit is to Group’s profit before tax, excluding changes in value of investment evaluate whether Akademiska Hus’ Annual Report has been prepared properties and financial instruments. Used as our starting point in in accordance with IFRS. the audit of items in the income statement and balance sheet related to property management. Key Audit Matters • Valuation of Investment Properties Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99 Audit report Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesmatters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Measurement of investment properties Our audit has, among other areas, focused on the Company’s internal We refer to the Administration Report and the description of the Akadcontrol and quality control concerning measurements made as of the emiska Hus Group’s summary of General accounting policies, Note 2, 31 December 2018. The audit team, including our evaluation specialists, and Changes in the value of investment properties, Note 12. has collected and reviewed a sample of the evaluation reports in order As of the 31 December 2018, the value of the investment properties to assess the cash flow evaluation applied by Akademiska Hus, the was SEK 85.9 billion. The investment properties comprise a significant mathematical correctness and the reasonability of assessment made. part of the balance sheet, and the measurement of the investment properties are, by their nature, subjective and subject to management’s Our audit has, among other task, included the following audit proceassessments of, for example, the specific property’s location, condition dures and future rent income. • Checked that the measurements are in accordance with Akademiska Fair value of the Group’s property portfolio is based on internal calHus’ guidelines and instructions for property valuation. culations, mainly by applying measurement of cash flows. For a minor • Reviewed, by samples, significant controls in the Group’s internal part of the property portfolio, the location price method is used or, valuation process. alternatively, measurement at cost. In order to the ensure the quality of • Sampled the mathematical calculations of the model. the internal measurements, external measurements have been collect• Assessed input through sampled follow-up against historical outed as well for approximately 27% of the value of the property portfolio. comes and compared with accessible market data. When determining the fair value of the properties, consideration is • We have had meeting with management to discuss significant assesstaken to current information, such as current rent agreements, assessments and evaluations. ment of rent levels and operating costs. In order to arrive at the final • Sampled input in the calculation models against information in valuations, the Company uses assessments and make estimates about relevant systems. future returns, net operating costs and assessed market rent, which • Taken part of the external valuations and compared these to the are impcated by current requirements of direct yield and comparable internal calculations. market transactions. The significance of the assessment and estimates that are included in Our work has been focused on the largest investment properties, the the determination of the fair value is significant, together with the fact most significant assessments and the properties where values have that the amounts are significant, make the measurement of investment varied most compared to last year. In the cases where assessments of properties to a key audit matter. future operating costs net, occupancy grade and requirements of returns have deviated from our initial expectations, these deviations have been discussed with representatives of the Group and, when needed, complementing documentation has been collected. Finally, we have certified that the models used, that the assessments and sensibility analyses made by Akademiska Hus, are described correctly in Note 12. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Audit report Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Auditors’ responsibility This document also contains other information than the annual acOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the counts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-36 and 102annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from 115. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an for this other information. auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted not cover this other information, and we do not express any form of in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in assurance conclusion regarding this other information. Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. MisIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolistatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proceannual accounts and consolidated financial statements. dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspekmaterially misstated. tionens’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, description is a part of the Auditors’ Report. conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Opinions The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Diand that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual rectors and the Managing Director of Akademiska Hus AB for the year Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the Company’s profit or loss. with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the Annual Accounts Act. The We recommend that the meeting of the General Meeting allocate the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are also responsible profit in accordance with the proposal in the Administration Report for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the and grant the members of the Board and the Managing Director dispreparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free charge from liability for the financial year. from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the annual accounts and the consolidated financial Basis of Opinions statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing responsible for the assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indeconcern and application of the going concern basis of accounting. The pendent of the Parent Company and the Group in accordance with progoing concern basis of accounting is, however, not applied if the Board fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled of Directors intends to liquidate the Company, to cease operations, or our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. has no realistic alternative but to do so. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Direcappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the Company’s financial reporting process. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 101 Notes Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance report The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaThe Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance tions of the Company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this statement on pages 48-55 has been prepared in accordance with the includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considAnnual Accounts Act. ering the requirements which the Company’s and the Group’s type of Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conductoperations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and ed in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that in general. our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and The Board of Directors is responsible for the Company’s organisubstantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with zation and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing among other things continuous assessment of the Company’s and the standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us Group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organizawith sufficient basis for our opinions. tion is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the A corporate governance report has been prepared. Disclosures in company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administrathe Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph tion according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfil the and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the manageAccounts Act. ment of assets in a reassuring manner. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, 113 97 Stockholm, was appointed auditor of Akademiska Hus AB by the general meeting of the shareholders Auditors’ responsibility on the 27 April 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since the 27 Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby April 2018. our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material Stockholm, 15 March 2019 respect: Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the Company; • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Helena Ehrenborg • Authorised Public Accountant Our goal with the audit of the proposal of allocation of the Company’s profit or loss, and therefore our opinion thereof is to, with reasonable assurance assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect acts and omissions which can give rise to liability to the Company, or that the proposed allocation of earnings or loss is not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration can be found on the web page of The Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors (Revisorsinspektionen): www.revisorsinspektionen.se/ revisornsansvar. This description is a part of the Auditors’ Report. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 102 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Sustainability notes ABOUT AKADEMISKA HUS’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Sustainability Report of Akademiska Hus follows the financial year, is The Annual Report is Akademiska Hus’ sustainability report and follows the published annually and covers the entire Group, see Note 1. The Sustainability guidelines in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. As of 2018, the Report includes pages 4–5, 12–32, 43–47 and 100–110 and also includes report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards at the Core level. Akademiska Hus’ statutory sustainability reporting in accordance with GRI indicators 205-1, 303-5, 305-1, 305-3, CRE-3, 307-1, 403-1 to 403-10 are chapter 6 of the Annual Accounts Act. Akademiska Hus’ external auditors new for 2018 and are a complement to the reporting to provide increased examined the information and the Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on transparency regarding important areas. Akademiska Hus aims to fully intethe Sustainability Report and statement regarding the Statutory Sustainagrate sustainability into its regular operations, for which reason the descripbility Report are presented on page 111. The previous Annual Report was tion for the most part is incorporated into the regular structure of the Annual published on 23 March 2018. Report. The Company has transitioned from GRI G4 to GRI Standards with No significant changes occurred in the organisation or in our supply the 2018 financial year. For increased transparency and clarity, information chain in 2018, but Akademiska Hus’ property portfolio has changed someabout boundaries, responsibilities, follow up and governance is provided for what due to sales, acquisition and completion of new buildings/projects. each sustainability aspect in the sustainability notes on page 103. The changes do not significantly affect the sustainability report, but need to Since 2013 Akademiska Hus has supported the UN Global Compact and be considered when comparing energy consumption and other emissions. thus takes a stand and accepts responsibility for the ten principles relating No significant changes in the scope or boundaries of GRI reporting have to human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption issues, been made from previous years and relevant boundaries are described which comprise the base of the Global Compact’s mission. The report serves under each sub-area. as our Communication on Progress and is an account of our support linked to both the ten principles of the Global Compact and the UN’s 17 global susCONTACT tainability goals. Mia Edofsson Sustainability Manager mia.edofsson@akademiskahus.se DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Akademiska Hus’ most important stakeholder groups are described on page 13. The dialogue with stakeholders and mapping of their expectations of our operations are fundamental to value creation. We continually engage in dialogue with our stakeholders. For more information about the materiality analysis, see page 12–13. FORMATS FOR STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUES Customers (and their employees) Employees Local and business communities Owner • Meetings with various • Performance reviews and • Regional and city-wide planning • Annual strategy seminar ­executives goal-setting process and development meetings • Meetings with a focus on • Development of campus plans • Meetings to discuss corporate governance • Customer satisfaction surveys Suppliers establishment plans • Board meetings • Meetings related to procure• Meetings with and participation Students and researchers ment of framework contracts in interest groups and industry Lenders, banks and credit rating • Interviews and meetings on and orders, as well as supplier organisations agencies campus meetings • Meetings out in conjunction • Startup meetings with financial reports • Audits • Meetings Based on the materiality analysis, we have identified four topics that we conThe matrix on the next page describes the strategic impact and relevance of sider to be particularly important for our sustainability efforts. Each of these each area in our operation, as well as sustainability governance for them. For areas links to the three cornerstones of the sustainability area: finances (F), more information on how the four areas are defined, see page 12. environment (E) and social (S): ● Value-adding knowledge environments (F + S) ● Resource efficiency for reduced climate impact (F + E) ● Caring for people (S) ● Responsible relationships (F + S) Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 103 Four material topics VALUE-ADDING SUSTAINABILITY KNOWLEDGE RESOURCE EFFICIENCY FOR RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTS REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT CARING FOR PEOPLE RELATIONSHIPS WHY THE TOPIC IS By creating value-adding, Our operations have an impact on The key to success, development As a major client in IMPORTANT TO US sustainable and inclusive the environment, but by increasing and profitability is our employees. It an industry known for knowledge environments, resource efficiency and working is therefore important that everyone corruption and human we can contribute positively according to the precautionary in our premises experiences wellrights violations, we have to the social economy, the principle, we can reduce our impact. being and job satisfaction. a responsibility to build environment and the people The principle is applied when Our operations, with both responsible relationships who live in our environments. choosing materials and planning construction projects and property with high ethical standards projects to prevent damage to the operations, are at risk of negatively and a strong moral environment and injuries to people. impacting occupational health and compass. safety. GRI 103-1 RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to Our responsibility is to be resource We are formally responsible for Our responsibility is to AND IMPACT ON meet a need for knowledge efficient in our operations, while our employees. We are committed set clear requirements. THE VALUE CHAIN environments from making demands on suppliers of to achieving the goal of zero Suppliers and entrepreneurs customers, students and energy and materials. occupational injuries for everyone in have a major responsibility researchers. Impact occurs in conjunction with our premises or whom we hire. to comply with them. Impact occurs in con­ construction, purchasing, property This impact affects the Impact occurs in junction with construction, management and development. workday of our employees during conjunction with purchasing, property construction, management, and construction, purchasing, management and purchasing. property management and development. development. BOUNDARIES IN We develop knowledge We focus on the entire operation, Reporting mainly occurs regarding The boundary was set to REPORTING environments and campuses from planning and implementation our own employees with additional include our employees, as primarily together with of construction projects to the information for suppliers where well as first-line contacts our customers, but other ongoing management of properties such information is available. We do regarding our suppliers. stakeholder groups are also and campuses. not report on customers and users. involved in the processes. HOW WE WORK We develop campus plans We promote resource-efficient use See specific governance in the Our process includes “shall” that are long-term and of materials and energy, but also Sustainability notes (403-1–7) and criteria for suppliers when take into account current efficient use of premises. information in the employee section signing contracts and and future needs, through on pages 31–32. randomly following up on dialogue with customers and them. other stakeholders. WE WANT TO The goal is to create The goal is to reduce the climate We want to create a healthy and The goal is to achieve a ACHIEVE THE value-adding knowledge impact by reducing resource risk-free workplace that inspires high standard of ethics FOLLOWING environments that help consumption and through efficient people to grow and contribute. in procurement, to to make the centres of use of those resources. monitor compliance with education more attractive these standards, and to and strengthen Sweden as a build responsible and nation of knowledge. accountable relationships. • POLICIES1 Process method for Campus Sustainability policy Equality and diversity plan Code of Conduct, internal development, with a focus Energy policy Sustainability policy and for suppliers on sustainability Travel guidelines Anti-bullying guidelines Procurement policy GRI 103-2 Purchasing procedures • COMMITMENTS Campus plans and other Member of Fossil Fuel-Free Sweden; Work to promote stronger industry We support the Global IN ADDITION TO planning documents signed two roadmaps requirements through the “Håll Compact in its work with SWEDISH LAWS together with customers Certification of new buildings and Nollan” initiative its ten principles and the AND GUIDELINES major renovation projects according UN’s global sustainability to Miljöbyggnad standards goals • GOALS1, 2 Customer Satisfaction Index Energy reduction Accident index Customer Satisfaction Cooperation index and Number of environmentally Performance index Index Reliability index certified buildings Presenteeism/absenteeism due to Number of cases of Number of student Climate balance sheet illness corruption residences Number/percentage of Innovation in collaboration supplier controls • SPECIAL Process method for Campus System and material selection Reporting in the IA system for Whistle-blower system, PROCESSES, development studies in projects incidents and accidents internal and external PROJECTS, Citylab action Environmental building Reporting of “Sick and healthy” PROGRAMMES Environmental and certifications Assignment appraisal AND INITIATIVES1 Occupational Safety Environmental and Occupational and Health Management Safety and Health Management Systems Systems EVALUATION Analysis of Customer Annual carbon footprint Annual audits (internal, external) Ethics Council GRI 103-3 OF CONTROL Satisfaction Index Environmental and Occupational Number of completed training Supplier Assessments Safety and Health Management initiatives Systems followed up through Management review GRI STANDARDS Economic Performance Energy Occupational health and safety Anti-corruption Indirect economic impacts Emissions Diversity and equal opportunity Supplier Environmetal Diversity and equal Environmental compliance Assessment regarding opportunity Product responsibility the environment and social criteria Read more about the division of responsibilities and control mechanisms in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 48–55. 1) All Akademiska Hus’ properties and units are included. 2) Read more about goals and outcomes on pages 18–19. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 104 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES In this section we describe the methods, assumptions, and conversion facGRI 302-1: Energy Consumption within the organisation tors used to develop Akademiska Hus’s GRI indicators. In addition, suppleAll energy is measured and includes energy consumption by tenants. Fuel mentary tables and information are presented for the annual report, as well from personal vehicles is not included since the company only owns a few as a description of omitted information. cars. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MWh 2018 2017 Financial accountability for our operations along with sound and stable Total energy consumption (non-renewable energy) 38,192 48,773 finances are fundamental if we are to succeed with the mandate from our Total energy consumption (renewable energy) 755,615 730,842 owner. Demonstrating financial accountability is also crucial for a long-term approach and meeting the expectations of our customers and other stakeTotal electricity 384,370 381,601 holders. Financial accountability is important in all four of our areas of – including energy charges passed on to tenant 271,164 270,936 focus, but it is absolutely crucial in “Value-adding knowledge environments” Total heating 307,876 307,389 and “Responsible relationships”. – including energy charges passed on to tenant 115,924 83,718 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Total cooling 86,662 74,103 SEK 1,000 2018 2017 – including energy charges passed on to tenant 79,483 64,188 DIRECT VALUE GENERATED Total steam1 14,899 16,523 Income 6,117 5,806 – including energy charges passed on to tenant 7,570 9,586 1) Fuel types are presented under indicator 305-1. ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED Energy consumption has risen by 1.8 per cent, which can be attributed to Payments to suppliers1) -1,730 -1,571 some extent to an increase in building holdings, as well as to an increased Employee wages and benefits -279 -249 need for cooling because of an unusually warm summer. Renewable or Fees and remuneration to the Board and President -11 -12 recovered energy currently account for 95 per cent of energy consumption. Social security costs -149 -125 Recovered energy refers to the proportion stated in the district heating suppliers’ production mixes; for example, heat from waste incineration and Tax2) -403 -476 waste heat from industry. Interest paid to lenders, net -719 -532 Dividend to shareholder -1,630 -1,393 GRI CRE-1 Energy intensity kWh/sq m 2018 2017 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 1,196 1,448 Energy intensity = Energy consumption per square 1) O  perating costs, property administration, other property management expenses and metre 201.4 200.8 central administration 2) Current tax, property tax and site leasehold charges Energy intensity has increased by 0.3 per cent, primarily for the reasons listed under 302-1. Energy consumption also includes energy consumption ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY by tenants. Usable floor area (UFA) is used in the calculation and is a timeLarge quantities of materials are used in new construction, renovations and weighted value. retrofitting of our properties. The materials impact the environment both when they are produced and when they are transported. It is therefore GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption important to reduce the quantity of material used and to aim to reduce the climate impact of the materials we choose. We also need to ensure that those 2018 2017 materials that are used do not contain hazardous substances that are spread indoors or to the ecosystems. The topic of environmental responsibility is Total reduction (MWh) -14,191 4,383 primarily reflected in our focus on “Resource efficiency for reduced climate Invested, SEK 126,996,023 186,360,175 impact”. Specific energy investments are estimated to be largely unchanged from Energy consumption 2017, but energy investments have been specifically reported more clearly in All energy consumption reported below is based on the system limit “purour internal systems in 2018, which provides a more accurate description of chased energy”, for which reason energy from solar panels, geothermal this volume. Energy investments refer to installation measures, including energy, etc., are not included in the Company’s combined energy consumpreplacement of heat recovery batteries, fans, pumps, lighting, installation of tion or when assessing climate impact. heat pumps and climate scale measures such as window changes and addiAkademiska Hus invests in increased capacity for renewable energy in tional insulation. the form of solar panels, which reduces the need for purchased energy while also helping to reduce the carbon footprint. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS MWh 2018 2017 Akademiska Hus’ main greenhouse gas emissions occur through indirect emissions attributable to the purchase of electricity, heating, cooling and Own electricity generation from renewables steam (scope 2), as well as indirect emissions primarily from construction – Solar power 2,057 1,228 projects (scope 3). Direct emissions are minimal in our operations but are reported to give the overall picture of our total climate impact for the long The production capacity of electricity through solar panels has increased by term. Read more about our climate-related initiatives on page 30. 68 per cent, and now corresponds to about 0.5 per cent of our total electricGRI 305-1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) ity consumption. In 2018 scope 1 emissions amounted to only 1.2 tonnes CO2e, attributable to the research and incinerator plant that Akademiska Hus has at Chalmers University of Technology. The boiler has been undergoing a technology change during the year, so operating time has been limited. Tonnes CO2e 2018 2017 Total emissions 1.2 Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 105 Fuel consumption within the organisation amounted to 3,618 MWh in 2018, SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY based on purchased biogas (3,612 MWh) and natural gas (6 MWh). The Our operations are based on collaboration, within the organisation, with our emission factor for biogas is 0 g CO2/kWh and for natural gas 204 g CO2/ customers and with other stakeholders. Strengthening Sweden as a nation of kWh. For heating, cooling and steam, emissions are based on the environknowledge through value-adding knowledge environments entails placing mental reporting of each respective supplier. Fuel from personal vehicles is people at the centre and taking many different needs into consideration. It not included since the company only owns a few cars. This is the first year also means that we work to create a working climate and a culture where we are calculating direct emissions of greenhouse gases, for which reason we equal treatment, equal opportunity, diversity, safety and security are a given, are not reporting values for 2017. internally as well as externally. Social responsibility is important in all four of our areas of focus, but it is absolutely crucial in “Value-adding knowledge GRI 305-2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) environments” and “Responsible relationships”. Emissions consist of CO2 from purchased electricity, heating, cooling and All personnel data have been compiled as of 31 December 2018. steam. CO2 calculations are based on input data provided by suppliers for 2017 (unless stated otherwise) and include CO2e – in other words, the entire Workforce greenhouse effect. GRI 102-8: Workforce As of 31 December 2018 Akademiska Hus had 485 (466) employees, of whom Tonnes CO2e 2018 2017 481 (447) are permanently employed and the remainder are temporary Purchased electricity, heating, cooling employees. In all, 20 employees within the organisation had part-time conand steam 29,129 28,495 tracts, including 11 men and 9 women. Akademiska Hus has no significant variations in the number of employees over the year. CO2 emissions have increased somewhat during the year (+2.2 per cent), mainly due to an increase in heat consumption in a couple of our property Number of employees per unit and gender areas, with relatively high specific CO2 emissions. For our largest supplier of heating, Stockholm Exergi, key figures for CO2emissions for 2018 were used Number Women Men Total (which are higher than 2017). Under the Akademiska Hus’ strategy, in the long term we will purchase more additional products for heating and cooling Staff 78 46 124 with lower carbon dioxide load. However, the volume of this practice is curCampus and Business Development 12 11 23 rently too low, for which reason CO2 emissions from heating and cooling can Property Management 47 239 286 be assumed to be the same for site-based vs market-based values. We report Projects 19 33 52 heat consumption adjusted for consumption in a normal year. Cooling data TOTAL 156 329 485 have not been adjusted for usage in a normal year. CO2emissions from purchased electricity during the year have been Per cent 32 68 100 adjusted from 5 grams to 1 gram CO2/kWh as a result of increased precision of data linked to the CO2 load for the Company’s purchased origin-labelled In addition to employees, a large number of hired workers are engaged. The electricity. This means that the CO2 load for purchased electricity is 384 majority of them can are contractors, architects and construction engineertonnes of CO2. If site-based values (Nordisk Residualmix) are used for puring consultants. The scope of this group varies over time and it is difficult to chased electricity the CO2 load would be 126,458 tonnes CO2. find reliable statistics for the number of people in this group, for which reaGRI 305-3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) son it is excluded from the report. In 2018 Akademiska Hus began to calculate the climate impact of construcGRI 102-41: Proportion of the workforce covered by collective tion projects, but at the end of the year no projects had been completed with bargaining agreements this information available. Scope 3 also includes business trips by air, train, Collective agreements apply to all employees except those who belong to rental car, taxi and car. In 2018 this item was 376 tonnes CO2e (275). Executive Management. GRI CRE-3: Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Diversity and equal opportunity Greenhouse gas emissions levels from Akademiska Hus properties was 7.0 GRI 405-1: Diversity in the Board of Directors, management and other kg of CO2 per square metre (7.0 kg CO2/m²). employees based on age and gender Emissions intensity is based on Scope 2 as presented in 305-2 and is Akademiska Hus’ management group is completely equal with 5 (5) men and unchanged compared with the previous year. 5 (5) women. The Board of Directors is represented by 6 (7) men and 3 (4) Usable floor area (UFA) is used in the calculation. women. The table below shows the distribution between men and women, broken ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE down by activity and excluding management. In the company as a whole, GRI 307-1: Environmental compliance Akademiska Hus has 32 per cent (30) women. The Management Unit is least equal in the company, with only 16 per cent (19) women. The most even genAkademiska Hus uses an external web-based service where all current laws der distribution can be found in the Campus and Business Development and regulations are collected regarding the work environment and environunit. ment. All employees can access this tool. New or amended laws and regulations are updated twice a year. A compilation of relevant changes is sent to Gender distribution employees, excluding Executive Management managers and is also addressed in the Health and Safety Committees, both locally and centrally. Per cent/ Per cent Unit Gender unit total Number Once a year, a statutory compliance is checked within the Management Unit. In the Project unit, environmental and work environment items are Staff Women 62 16 74 entered in the project tool “Aka Projekt”, to be followed over the course of Men 38 9 45 the project. Campus and Business Development Women 55 2 11 With Akademiska Hus’ new approach to promoting employee developMen 45 2 9 ment – where performance reviews are replaced with assignment appraisals and with implementation of Akademiska Hus Performance index – the Property Management Women 16 10 47 organisational and social work environment will be followed up in the same Men 84 50 238 tool. In this way we will ensure good follow-up and systematics in the area. Projects Women 37 4 19 No fines or sanctions were imposed relating to the work environment or Men 63 7 32 the environment in 2018. AKADEMISKA HUS TOTAL Women 32 151 Men 68 324 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 106 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Diversity within the organisation The table below shows the age distribution among all employees, management and the Board of Directors: 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Composition of the company Number of women Number of women Number of men Number of men Total number Total number Board of Directors Under 30 years — — — — — — 30–50 years — 2 — — — 2 Over 50 years 2 2 4 7 6 9 Executive Management Under 30 years — — — — — — 30–50 years 1 1 4 5 5 6 Over 50 years 4 4 1 — 5 4 Employees in managerial position1 Under 30 years 1 1 1 1 2 2 30–50 years 22 17 21 23 43 40 Over 50 years 8 5 14 21 22 26 Other employees Under 30 years 7 6 18 19 25 25 30–50 years 73 71 132 126 205 197 Over 50 years 37 35 141 131 178 166 1) Excluding Executive Management OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Akademiska Hus has a cohesive contract with occupational healthcare GRI 403-1-7: Topic-specific management approach for health and safety providers. Through dialogue and structured follow-up meetings, we ensure Occupational health and safety is a high priority at Akademiska Hus. Our that the organisation’s needs for support are met. In 2018 the “Sick and workplace will be risk-free and healthy. By using a structured approach to Healthy” service was launched for all employees, providing an improved address the issues we can practice proactive risk prevention regarding structure and support for management of reporting absence due to illness job-related injuries and ill health. To ensure that we work systematically, we and reporting back to work after illness, as well as reporting absence to take have chosen to qualify for certification to AFS 2001:1 Systematic Occupacare of sick children. The service gives employees access to professional tional Health and Safety Management, which covers the entire operation. healthcare advice, available 24 hours a day, every day of the year. In order to The management system with procedures and guidelines can be accessed on capture early signs of ill health with the possibility of introducing measures our intranet. The management system requirements apply to all employees at an early stage, the “Sick and Healthy” service provides an indication of and hired workers. repeated short-term absence. Our Occupational Health Care contract Risk identification and risk elimination are the foundation of our systemincludes a dedicated Rehab Coordinator to provide optimal rehabilitation atic work environment management. Risk assessments are carried out on support. The Occupational Health Care service is primarily intended to supdifferent levels and for different activities, such as annual risk assessments port managers with delegated occupational health and safety duties, but in all units, or risk assessments prior to call off/orders in conjunction with each employee also has the right to schedule an appointment with the Occupurchasing of construction related services. pational Health Care service to receive support and guidance on issues conRisk assessments are also part of the management of incidents and accicerning conditions at work. dents. All matters (related to both the environment and the work environAll employees have health insurance that provides access to several ment) are reported in the IA system (which is the AFA information system). eHealth services as well as counselling, available free of charge and around Using the system for support, the responsible manager, together with the clock. In order to enable employees to take good care of their health, all employees and possibly a safety representative, takes a structured approach employees are offered a health analysis at a certain interval. to incidents to assess them for risk, investigate them and implement correcAt Akademiska Hus, employees have considerable influence over the tive measures. Through this systematic management approach we can preCompany’s occupational health and safety initiatives and the safety reprevent incidents and accidents from happening again. In 2018, measures were sentative plays a central role. Influence is exercised through participation in implemented to increase the reporting rate, as this is considered to be an risk assessments, occupational health and safety committees, the wellness important factor in risk prevention. It is also possible to report work envigroup, etc. ronment-related risks through our whistle-blower system, or by speaking Cooperation between employees and employer also takes place within with the safety representative, HR staff or occupational health, all of whom the framework of our health and safety committees. We have six local health are subject to confidentiality. Safety representatives have the right to stop and safety committees and one central committee in which both employer any work that is experienced as dangerous or that could be associated with a and employee representatives participate. Both local and central health and risk of injury. safety committees meet twice a year. The local health and safety committees Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 107 mainly address local health and safety issues and the key issues that affect GRI 403-9: Work-related injuries the entire Company. The intranet is the primary method of communication During the year a total of 18 work-related injuries were reported for Akadefor health and work environment-related issues, but other channels are also miska Hus personnel, including 4 vehicular accidents. The most common used when particularly important information needs to be addressed. type of work-related injury for our own personnel are contact with sharp Akademiska Hus offers different types of training programmes to its objects (6), vehicular accidents (4), falls on the same level (3), hit by flying or employees. For example, all new employees are offered a two-day introducfalling objects (2). No serious accidents or deaths occurred during the year. tory training programme where they can learn about the Company and meet representatives from Executive Management. All employees are required to 2018 2017 attend a dedicated occupational health and safety training programme when Number of deaths 0 0 they first join the company. Employees also have the opportunity to attend Number of work-related injuries (own 18 24 dedicated programmes aimed at various roles such as project managers, personnel), with and without absence facilities engineers, etc. In 2018 Akademiska Hus launched an education platform, “Akademin”, where all training programmes available to our vehicular accidents 4 7 employees are gathered. accidents with absence 0 * Akademiska Hus wants to inspire and create opportunities for a healthy serious accidents 0 * lifestyle. Each year our wellness coaches promote a wellness theme with work-related illness 0 3 various wellness activities that are carried out at all Company locations. In 2018 the wellness theme was Brain Strong. Each employee has access to a Accident Rate (LTAR)1 0 * wellness grant of SEK 3,000. In 2018 we also initiated our collaboration with Accident rate, contractors (ELTAR)2 2.4 * ActiWay, which provides simple administration of the wellness grant and * Basis not available due to transition to new reporting system (IA). makes wellness easily available to employees. 1) Relates to accidents regarding our own employees with absence, excluding Akademiska Hus operations include many buildings and large land areas vehicular accidents. all over Sweden. In order to achieve resource-efficient management, opera2) The accident rate for our contractors (ELTAR) was measured for the first time tion and construction, we need to cooperate with many different suppliers. in 2018. Reporting regarding accidents involving contractors is not complete since all projects do not yet report contractor accidents in the IA system. Collaboration on business terms is based on clear requirements and expecThe accident rate is defined as the number of workplace accidents that lead to tations, as well as dialogue and follow up. By setting clear requirements for absence on one or more contractual workdays per 1 million hours worked divided the work environment, we can contribute to and promote sustainable develby hours worked. The number of hours worked for our own employees in 2018 opment for the entire construction and property industry. Our Code of Conwas 768,600. The number of hours worked for contractors is based on the duct for suppliers, clear specifications in procurement documents and assumption of an hourly fee of SEK 500 per hour plus 60% of invoiced amount instructions for suppliers are some examples of how we work with these for purchased services. issues. We are also actively involved in the “Håll nollan” initiative, which Our reporting system, IA, does not distinguish between accidents and seriaims to achieve the goal of zero accidents in the industry. ous accidents. However, we have a good overview of all accidents and can GRI 403-8: Number of workers covered by an occupational health and conclude that we have not had any serious accidents according to the Swedsafety management system ish Work Environment Authority definition in 2018. The statistics include vehicular accidents to and from work. All employees at Akademiska Hus are covered by the requirements, guideWe primarily report statistics for our own employees, but added the accilines and procedures in our occupational health and safety management sysdent rate (ELTAR) for contractors. tem. The system complies with relevant laws and regulations. Our manageAll incidents reported in the IA system are managed, rectified and closed. ment system is also certified to AFS 2001:1 Systematic work environment The cause of the incident is also analysed. The analysis includes a risk management. assessment to determine whether a similar incident could occur again. Akademiska Hus aims to contribute to good health and safety for suppliWhen necessary, preventive measures are introduced to ensure that such ers, employees, customers and end users. incidents are not repeated. All units also conduct an annual risk assessment The management system also contains governing documents that apply to with a focus on prevention of incidents/accidents. our consultants, suppliers and contractors. At this time we are unable to extract statistics for hired personnel, suppliers and contractors. ConseGRI 403-10: Work-related ill health quently, they are not included in the reporting. In 2018 Akademiska Hus had no confirmed cases of work-related ill health or deaths among our employees, compared with three cases of work-related ill health due to stress in 2017. However, two cases of stress-related illness, which has proven to be our greatest risk for work-related illness in recent years, are currently under investigation. We present statistics for all of our own employees. We do not have access to statistics on hired personnel and contractors who work in our workplaces. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 108 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI index GRI index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page or Comment/ Global GRI Standard Disclosure Description reference Disclosed information Compact principle ORGANISATION PROFILE GRI 102: 102-1 Organisation name Cover, 48 General standard 102-2 Important brands, products, and services 3, 42, 48 disclosures, 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters 114 102-4 Location of operations 11 102-5 Ownership and legal form 48 102-6 Markets served 3, 11 102-7 Scale of the organisation 1, 11, 36, 58 102-8 Workforce 105 6 102-9 Supply chain 22-23 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and 102 its supply chain 102-11 Application of precautionary principle 102 7 102-12 External initiatives on sustainability that the 103 organisation supports and/or by which it is covered 102-13 Membership of organisations Available on our website akademiskahus.se/en/ sustainability STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 102-14 Statements from decision-maker 4-5 1 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 2, 6, 10 102-16 Values, principles and ethical guidelines 12, 23, 51–52, 103 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 48-55 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 102-40 Stakeholder groups 13 102-41 Proportion of the workforce covered by 105 3 collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholder 13 groups 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102 102-44 Stakeholder concerns and how they are 12-13, handled 20-36 REPORTING PROFILE 102-45 Entities included in the reporting 85, 102 102-46 Process for defining report content and topic 12-13, 102 boundaries 102-47 Identified material topics 12, 102 102-48 Restatements of information 102 102-49 Material changes 102 102-50 Reporting period 102 102-51 Date of most recent report 102 102-52 Reporting cycle 102 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 102 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI index 108 102-56 External assurance 111 The Sustainability Report has been reviewed by auditors on behalf of the Board of Directors and the President of Akademiska Hus. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 109 GRI index GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARDS Page or Comment/ Global GRI Standard Disclosure Description reference Disclosed information Compact principle ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 103-2, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 104 Economic distributed performance, 2016 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 103-2, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 203: 203-1 Investments in infrastructure and services for 10, 16-17, Indirect economic public benefit 20, 24 impacts, 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 103-2, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 205: 205-1 Percentage of operations assessed for risks 46, 52-53 Anti-corruption, related to corruption 2016 205-3 Number of cases of corruption 52 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS ENERGY 8, 9 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-31, 103 Reporting is based on Management 103-2, management and evaluation “purchased” energy for all approach 2016 103-3 indicators under energy. GRI 302: 302-1 Energy Consumption within the organisation 26-27, 104 Energy, 2016 CRE-1 Energy intensity 104 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 104 The report indicates change in energy consumption on a total level between 2017 and 2018, not by initiative. EMISSIONS 8, 9 GRI 103: 103-1, 103Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 2, 103-3 management and evaluation approach 2016 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 30, 104 Emissions, 2016 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 30, 105 305-3 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 30, 105 Climate impact from construction projects omitted due to the lack of information. CRE-3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 105 COMPLIANCE GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 103-2, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 307: 307-1 Compliance with environmental laws and 105 Environmental regulations compliance, 2016 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT 8 GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 103-2, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 308: 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers screened using 23 Screening of new environmental criteria suppliers using environmental criteria, 2016 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 110 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI index GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARDS Page Comment/ Global GRI Standard Disclosure Description reference Disclosed information Compact principle OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 103-2, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 401: Topic-specific management approach for health and safety Health and safety, 403-1 Occupational health and safety management 106 2018 system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and 43, 106 incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 32, 106 403-4 Consultation and communication on 32, 106 occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 32, 106 safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health 32, 106 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 32, 106 health and safety impacts Results occupational health and safety 403-8 Number of workers covered by an occupational 107 health and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 107 Reporting concerning contractors is under development and there­fore is incomplete. 403-10 Work-related ill health 107 Statistics only relate to own employees. We do not have access to statistics on hired personnel and contractors. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 103-2, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 105-106 Diversity and equal opportunity, 2016 ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS GRI 103: 103-1, Description of the material topic, its boundary, 51-53, 103 Management 103-2, management and evaluation approach 2016 103-3 GRI 414: 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers screened using 23 Screening new social criteria suppliers using social criteria, 2016 INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES CRE: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CRE-8 Type and number of sustainability certificates, 22 ratings and scores for new construction ÖVRIGT Child Labour, Forced Labour The Code of Conduct 4, 5 includes these principles, but the areas are not identified as main risk areas within our operations. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 111 Assurance Report Assurance Report Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Akademiska Hus AB’s (publ.) Sustainability Report and Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report To Akademiska Hus AB (publ.), reg. no. 556459-9156 Introduction The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement and reWe have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Akademiska Hus view according to RevR 12 do not allow us to obtain such assurance that (publ.) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Akademiska we become aware of all significant matters that could have been identiHus AB’s (publ.) Sustainability Report for the year 2018. The company fied if an audit was performed. The stated conclusion based on a limited has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report and the Statutory assurance and review in accordance with RevR 12, therefore, does not Sustainability Report on page 102 in this report. have the security that a stated conclusion based on an audit has. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible Directors and the Managing Director as described above. We considfor the preparation of the Sustainability Report including the Statutory er these criteria as suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Sustainability Report, in accordance with the applicable criteria, and Report. the Annual Accounts Act respectively. The criteria are defined on page We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 102 in the Sustainability Report, and are parts of the Sustainability appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Reporting Guidelines published by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), which are applicable to the Sustaianbility Report, as well as the Conclusion accounting and calculation principles that Akademiska Hus AB (publ.) Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has developed. This responsibility also includes the internal control, has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainabilwhich is deemed necessary to establish a Sustainability Report that ity Report is not, in all material respects, prepared in accordance with does not contain material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Managing Director. A Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared Responsibilities of the Auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed Göteborg, 15 March 2019 and to provide an opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance PricewaterhouseCoopers AB with ISAE3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. We have conducted our review regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with FAR’s recommendation RevR 12, the Auditor’s Opinion on the Statutory Helena Ehrenborg Åsa Ekberg Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement and a review Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR according to RevR 12 have a different focus and a considerably smaller scope compared to the focus and scope of an audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The audit firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are independent in relation to Akademiska Hus according to generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and have fulfilled our professional ethics responsibility according to these requirements. Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 112 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 2018 2017 2016 20158 2014 INCOME STATEMENTS, SEK M Property management income 6,117 5,806 5,666 5,646 5,681 Operating costs -894 -785 -764 -771 -808 Maintenance costs -676 -615 -686 -618 -621 Property administration -372 -309 -294 -316 -326 Net operating income 3,938 3,829 3,667 3,740 3,717 Central administration costs -78 -67 -85 -72 -46 Net interest income/expense -268 -188 -308 -347 -391 Earnings before changes in value and taxes 1 3,592 3,574 3,274 3,321 3,280 Change in value, properties 2,585 4,979 3,682 2,655 3,529 Change in value, financial instruments -360 -242 -241 165 -548 Profit before tax 5,818 8,311 6,714 6,141 6,261 Profit for the year 5,314 6,453 5,148 4,780 5,215 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION, SEK M Fair value, properties 85,865 80,444 73,013 66,575 61,437 Other assets 7,612 10,113 9,417 7,858 8,282 Equity 42,832 39,186 34,152 30,271 33,432 Interest-bearing liabilities 35,081 37,051 35,627 30,831 26,082 Other liabilities and provisions 15,564 14,320 12,651 13,331 10,205 CASH FLOW, SEK M Cash flow from current operations 2,998 2,121 2,721 2,485 3,161 Cash flow from investments -2,991 -2,341 -2,548 -2,204 -439 Cash flow before financing 7 -220 172 281 2,722 Cash flow from financing -3,183 1,330 893 -534 -853 Cash flow for the year -3,176 1,110 1,065 -253 1,869 PROPERTY-RELATED KEY FIGURES Total yield, properties, % 8.5 12.5 11.4 11.0 13.4 of which direct yield, % 2 5.1 5.5 5.7 6.4 6.9 of which change in value, % 3 3.4 7.0 5.7 4.6 6.5 Rental revenue, SEK/m² 1,791 1,715 1,697 1,710 1,715 Operating costs, SEK/m² 270 241 237 242 252 Maintenance costs, SEK/m² 204 189 212 194 194 Net operating income in relation to property management income, % 64 66 65 66 65 Net operating income, SEK/m² 1,190 1,176 1,135 1,174 1,160 Level of vacant space, area, % 5.2 4.2 3.9 3.8 3.6 Level of vacant space, rent, % 1.7 1.0 0.9 1.1 1.2 Fair value, properties, SEK/m² 4 24,173 22,476 20,638 19,238 17,471 Energy use, kWh/m² 201 201 204 212 224 CO2, kg/m² 7 9 8 8 11 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Return on equity after standard tax, % 11.2 17.6 16.3 15.0 15.5 Return on operating capital, % 5 5.5 5.9 6.2 6.9 7.3 Return on total assets, % 6.6 10.1 10.8 10.7 10.9 Net debt, SEK m 30,416 27,976 26,962 23,924 18,871 Equity ratio, % 45.8 43.3 41.4 40.7 48.0 Interest coverage ratio, % 736 871 694 743 671 Financing cost, % 2.3 1.8 2.2 1.2 5.0 Loan-to-value ratio, % 35.4 34.3 37.0 35.9 30.7 Internal financing level, % 115 137 84 132 278 Ordinary dividend, SEK m 6 1,630 1,393 1,290 1,445 Additional distribution, SEK m 7 — — — — 6,500 PERSONNEL Average number of employees 480 449 440 409 408 1) T  here is a new heading under the income statement. Changes in value are reported separately. See also Note 1. 2) E  xcluding properties under construction and expansion reserves. 3) C  hange in value in relation to average value of properties, excluding properties under construction and expansion reserves. 4) E  xcluding the value of properties under construction and expansion reserves. 5) T  he owner’s yield target is that the return on operating capital, excluding changes in value, should be at least 6.5 per cent. 6) T  he Board of Directors will decide on the proposed dividend at its meeting on 14 March 2019. 7) D  ecision at Extraordinary General Meeting on 19 October 2015. 8) 2  015 figures have been adjusted to facilitate comparison. The reason is the change in accounting of tenant improvements. In addition, the distribution between property administration costs and central administration has changed. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 113 University Högskolanofi Borås Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 114 KEY FIGURES Key figures ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Period-allocated financing cost In accordance with European Securities and Markets Authority guideNet interest income and expense in the form of the financing cost for lines (ESMA) on reporting of alternative performance measures, the loans, net interest for financial derivatives and period allocation of definition and reconciliation of alternative performance measures for realised profits on financial derivatives over the remaining term of the Akademiska Hus are presented here. The guidelines entail additional underlying instrument, in relation to average interest-bearing capital. disclosures regarding financial measures that are not defined in IFRS. (Please see the table below.) The performance measures presented below are reported in the interim report. They are used for internal governance and follow-up and are Internal financing ratio generally accepted in the property industry. Owner objectives have also Cash flow from current operations before changes in working capital in been set for return on operating capital and the equity ratio. Since not relation to net investments. all companies calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always comparable to measures used by other companies. NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE, BREAKDOWN, SEK M 1 Jan. 2018– 1 Jan. 2017– SEK m 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Return on equity Interest cost, net loans and financial assets -278 -221 Profit before tax after 22 per cent tax rate in relation to average equity Net interest derivatives -27 -60 (IB+UB)/2. Other interest costs -55 -8 Return on operating capital Capitalised interest expense, projects 92 101 Earnings before changes in value and tax, excluding net interest inTotal net interest income/expense -268 -188 come/expense in relation to average operating capital (IB+UB)/2. Change in value, independent financial derivatives – unrealised -160 -8 Return on total assets – realised -39 -54 Earnings before appropriations and taxes excluding financial expenses Changes in value, fair value hedges -160 -181 in relation to average Total equity and liabilities (IB+UB)/2. Total changes in value -360 -243 Reported net interest income and expense -628 -431 Loan-to-value ratio Interest-bearing net loan debt in relation to the closing value of Average interest-bearing capital (full-year ­properties. basis) -31,688 -29,973 Yield Net investments Operating surplus in relation to the average fair value, excluding buildClosing balance minus the opening balance for non-current assets plus ings under construction. depreciation and impairments minus revaluations. This performance measure shows the return from operations in relation to the value of the properties. Net loan liability All loans are included in gross loan debt. Net loan liability includes Net operating income ratio some current receivables, cash and cash equivalents and security Net operating income in relation to property management income. transfers for derivatives. Pension provisions and similar items are not The net operating income ratio shows how much the Company gets included. to keep from each krona earned from business operations. It is a type of 1 Jan. 2018– 1 Jan. 2017– efficiency measure that is comparable over time. SEK m 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Gross loan debt -33,521 -34,740 Total financing cost including changes in value Assets Net interest excluding capitalised interest expense and the change in valCollateral for derivatives, net -891 -573 ue of financial derivatives, in relation to average interest-bearing capital. Cash and cash equivalents 3,304 6,479 (Please see the table on the top right.) Current receivables 692 857 Total net debt -30,416 -27,976 Interest coverage ratio Net operating income with the addition for central administration in relaOperating capital tion to net financial income/expense, including period allocation of realEquity plus interest-bearing net loan liability. ised profits from derivatives and including capitalised interest in projects. The interest coverage ratio is a financial measure that shows how Equity ratio many times the Company is able to pay its interest with adjusted earnEquity in relation to Total equity and liabilities. ings before financial items. Total yield Direct yield from properties and their change in value, expressed in per cent. Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 DEFINITIONS, INFORMATION AND ADDRESSES 115 DEFINITIONS Operating costs Floor space, m², GFS Operating costs are costs incurred to keep a property, installation or Gross floor space of building. Comprises rentable floor space as well as similar facility functioning. Operating costs are divided into media common areas and the areas surrounding the building. provision, supervision and service. Floor space, m² Property administration Rentable floor space in square metres. Cost of management, day-to-day accounting administration, leasing, contact with tenants, handling of registers, contracts and drawings, Maintenance costs technical planning and follow-up and human resource administration. Costs for measures taken aimed at reinstating the original standard and function of worn or damaged parts of a building. Costs for tenant Rental revenue adaptations are also recognised here. The basic rent, index-linked, and estimated rent for vacant rentable floor space and supplements, with a deduction for vacant space and Rental and vacancy levels rent reductions. Leased or vacant floor space in relation to the total floor space. Financial leasing or vacant space levels are rental revenue for space leased and estimated rental revenue for vacant space in relation to the total rental revenue. INFORMATION SCHEDULE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: 29 April 2019 Annual General Meeting Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President 29 April 2019 Interim Report, January–March 2019 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 60 12 July 2019 Interim report April–June 2019 E-mail: Kerstin.LindbergGoransson@akademiskahus.se 23 October 2019 Interim Report, July–September 2019 February 2020 Year-end report 2019 Catarina Fritz, CFO March 2020 Annual Report 2019 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 81 E-mail: Catarina.Fritz@akademiskahus.se ADDRESSES Headquarters Regional Offices Akademiska Hus Akademiska Hus Lund Box 483 Ole Römers väg 2 SE-401 27 Gothenburg SE-223 63 Lund Street address: Stampgatan 14 Telephone: +46 46 31 13 00 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 00 akademiskahus.se/en Akademiska Hus Linköping info@akademiskahus.se Olaus Magnus väg 34 Company registration number: SE-583 30 Linköping 556459-9156 Telephone: +46 13 36 45 00 Akademiska Hus Stockholm Box 1394 SE-171 27 Solna Street address: Berzelius väg 8, floors 3–5 Telephone: +46 8 685 75 00 Akademiska Hus Uppsala Villavägen 20 SE-752 36 Uppsala Street address: Artillerigatan 7 Telephone: +46 18 68 32 00 Akademiska Hus Umeå Box 7985 SE-907 19 Umeå Street address: Artedigränd 2 Telephone: +46 90 17 62 00 Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 | Akademiska Hus 116 Education Building, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) Akademiska Hus | Annual and Sustainability Report 2018 PRODUCED BY Akademiska Hus in cooperation with Narva PHOTOS: Jean-Baptiste Béranger (Cover, inside cover, pages 8, 9, 23), Ola Kjelbye (pages 3, 14, 22, 26, 28, 31,35) Åke E:son Lindman (page 28), Catarina Fyrberg (page 34), Brita Nordholm (page 37), Rasmus Norlander (page 43) Joachim Lundgren (page 70). ILLUSTRATION: LINK arkitekter (page 25), Tengbom arkitekter (page 33). PRINT: Göteborgstryckeriet The information in this Annual Report is such that Akademiska Hus (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act. The information was submitted for publication at 5:00 p.m. CET on 22 March 2019. akademiskahus.se/en
