CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 COP REPORT FOR RTX GROUP CVR NO.: 17 00 21 47 Contents PREFACE: CSR AT RTX 3 4. DIVERSITY POLICY AND OBJECTIVE FOR THE UNDERREPRESENTED GENDER 19 1. INTRODUCTION AND CONTEXT 4 4.1 Diversity policy 20 1.1 Corporate Social Responsibility in RTX 5 4.2 Objective for the underrepresented gender 20 1.2 RTX – Vision and Mission in a knowledge 4.3 Activities 20 based business environment 5 4.4 Follow-up and reporting 20 1.3 Legislation and standards for CSR reporting 5 5. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE INDEX 2. PROGRESS ON MATERIAL CSR ISSUES 7 AND SDG MAPPING 21 2.1 Stakeholders material to RTX 8 5.1 Global Compact Principle Index 22 2.2 CSR issues and risk material to 5.2 Sustainable development goals most RTX and our stakeholders 9 material to RTX 23 2.3 CSR issues and risks with highest materiality 10 2.4 Progress on other material CSR issues 13 3. CSR REPORTING IN A MANAGEMENT PERSPECTIVE 14 3.1 The RTX business model 15 3.2 Policies for CSR 16 3.3 Policy action and due diligence 17 3.4 Risk management 17 3.5 KPIs and results 17 3.6 Future plans and expectations 18 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 2 Preface: CSR at RTX RTX is committed to being a responsible Our values are founded in the belief that, as a business, business leader in a globalized world. The RTX influences and impacts people, environments and communities across the globe. Based on this, we constantly way we do it is defined by societal needs and strive for reducing any potential harm, while at the same our business priorities as well as our values time maximizing the benefits for our stakeholders. Thus, and commitment to the ten principles of adherence to our stated values and responsible business conduct is paramount to maintain the continued support the UN Global Compact, which we adopted from our stakeholders thereby also serving as the foundain 2014, and which we believe constitutes a tion for our license to operate. good foundation for focusing on responsible business practices. Safeguarding the world’s As a company with a global reach and operation we are “My team and I are personally global health and meeting development committed to meet our corporate responsibility to respect engaged, and we believe that commonly accepted human rights throughout our operchallenges are major tasks, and meaningful ations and business relationships as set out in the UN Guidthrough consistent focus, apdevelopment and progress require close ing Principles on business and human rights. We expect the propriate follow-up and evalucollaboration by influential stakeholders, same from our partners and through our Code of Conduct ation we support a sustainable require them to work with all the principles of the UN not least including the private sector, global development in line Global Compact. governments, NGOs and other societal with the principles of the UN organizations. During 2018/19, the strengthening of our newly established Global Compact.” central Supply Chain function has increased our ability to work coherently on CSR issues and risks throughout our Peter Røpke, CEO supply chain, where the majority of RTX’s CSR footprint occurs. Further, we have increased our focus on selected CSR-related KPIs. My team and I are personally engaged, and we believe that through consistent focus, appropriate follow-up and evaluation we support the proliferation of the principles in the UN Global Compact. I hope this report will provide you with some inspiring insight about both some of our specific actions as well as the fundamental principles, which we strive to follow, when we conduct business in RTX 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 3 Introduction and Context 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 4 1. Introduction and Context 1.1 C  ORPORATE SOCIAL During 2018/19, RTX has further developed the central Supof our employees. RTX’s overall business model is to build RESPONSIBILITY IN RTX ply Chain function serving both business units, Business on our unique core capabilities within short-range digital Communication and Design Services. The central handling wireless and audio technologies by deploying these in RTX Group takes corporate social responsibility (CSR) seriof supply chain activities also creates the foundation for attractive B2B markets. Our vision, mission and values are ously. CSR is an integral part of the way we work and of our even more coordinated and optimized handling of CSR highlighted on the next page. corporate culture. We have aligned our business priorities issues across all RTX’s activities and business units. and values with the ten principles of the United Nations In order for RTX to maintain its position as a preferred supGlobal Compact (UNGC). Since 2016, we have reported on Our Code of Conduct for suppliers is at the heart of these plier of specialized wireless products and solutions within CSR by way of a Communication of Progress (COP), and we efforts. Suppliers to RTX are obliged to sign and comply with the Enterprise, ProAudio and Healthcare B2B markets, it is report in compliance with section 99a and 99b of the Danour commercial terms including our Code of Conduct. Our essential that the Group’s employees have a broad insight ish Financial Statements Act. Our customers, investors and experience with the implementation of the RTX Code of Coninto the engineering disciplines required to carry out other stakeholders are increasingly taking an interest in our duct and other aspects of our management system has led complex technology development projects from the design CSR practices. This also contributes to making CSR an even us to widen the focus in our CSR approach to also include and planning phase to delivery of wireless communication more important aspect of our business. We are therefore materiality in relation to CSR as key for directing our efforts. services and products. The structure of the organization continuously strengthening our CSR practices and developMateriality is a key underlying principle of new legislation enables prompt integration of additionally skilled employing our CSR reporting. and standards in this area. In 2017/18, we took a major step ees. Thanks to our locations near Aalborg University in towards more proactively monitoring CSR, by engaging exDenmark and in the industry environments in Hong Kong RTX Group is a global growth company serving a customternal CSR experts to identify and assess our CSR practices, and the US, RTX has access to an international pool of er base consisting of a wide range of major international and to initiate an analysis of the materiality of CSR issues resources in terms of development, logistics and quality brands. The international exposure is an important factor for RTX’s stakeholders and for our business. In 2018/19, we assurance. in the development of our CSR practices. Obviously, Eubuilt on this approach, while also focusing more on selected ropean, American and Japanese customers have different KPIs related to important CSR issues (section 3.5) and also 1.3 L  EGISLATION AND STANDARDS expectations, but our growing and increasingly diverse expanding our focus on diversity (section 4). FOR CSR REPORTING customer range has widened our focus from safeguarding human rights to being compliant with product safety This CSR report covers the RTX offices in Denmark, Hong SECTION 99 OF THE DANISH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACT legislation such as REACH and RoHS. The latter two are Kong and the United States. Unless otherwise explicitly RTX is required by law to report on its CSR practices, as now a basic requirement from virtually all customers and stated, the reported information reflects CSR practice at stated in section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements following on from our ISO 9001 certification, RTX has built RTX group level. Act, through which Denmark has implemented Directive up a management system to deal with such very important 2014/95/EU on non-financial reporting. This RTX COP report CSR-related customer requirements. The management 1.2 R  TX – VISION AND MISSION for 2019 is aligned with the requirements of section 99a. system also makes RTX more agile in relation to continuIN A KNOWLEDGE-BASED Further, this RTX COP report includes reporting in complially adapt and respond to regulatory changes and to meet ance with section 99b of the Danish Financial Statement Act BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT customer expectations by applying similar requirements to regarding the underrepresented gender (refer to section 4). suppliers and other partners in our supply chain. To ensure that RTX can unfold our business model, our guiding vision and mission, we rely on the specialized skills 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 5 One of the central requirements of section 99a is the comply or explain principle. Hence, if RTX does not have a policy for one of the four main CSR areas addressed in section 99a, for example, we would be required to explain why not. Having a policy for a particular CSR area most often means VISION VALUES MISSION that it has some level of materiality to the company. Therefore, choosing to conduct a materiality analysis is both a good way of determining the policy need and conversely to explain why a specific policy is not needed. Our vision is that Acting trustworthy and RTX’s mission is to enable customized wireless value adding, we earn global brands to freely Another element of section 99a is the requirement to resolutions will lead long-term partnerships innovate and launch port on any due diligence processes implemented to follow up and take action on particular CSR issues. RTX has due the way. RTX delivers with our customers. targeted, unique wireless diligence processes in place for CSR issues, and they are adapted simplicity solutions by providing reflected throughout this COP. to users and market Our teams being the specialist products, advantages to customer focused and solutions and know-how Section 99a offers different format options for reporting businesses. goal-oriented, we work that makes it all possible and as a Global Compact signatory, RTX has chosen to continue its COP reporting to the Global Compact standard. openly and efficiently – wireless wisdom. with integrity and mutual THE GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD AND COP REPORTING respect in an informal The Global Compact standard requires signatories to reenvironment. port their Communication on Progress (COP) annually, with a “…description of practical actions the company has taken or plans to take to implement the Ten Principles in each of the four areas (human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption)” and “a measurement of outcomes”. Hence, Global Compact is a principles-based standard and as such, there is no official requirement to the format for the reporting on this progress. A commonly-used approach, however, is to report an index, which connects the principles with relevant sections in the report, as we have done in section 5.1 of this COP. Furthermore, we have utilized the materiality analysis prepared for this COP to provide a basic assessment of the SDGs material to RTX. This assessment is visualized in section 5.2 in the report, which contains the information needed to report on the SDGs when submitting the COP. 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 6 Progress on Material CSR Issues 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 7 2. Progress on Material CSR Issues In accordance with the developments in FIGURE 1 – STAKEHOLDERS legislation, standards and norms directing CSR reporting by companies, RTX has Compe­titors adopted a materiality approach to reporting in this COP. RTX first identified stakeholders material to our business and their expectations to our CSR practice, before identifying the CSR issues most central to Union ShareManage­our business. Through this approach, we ­holders ment NGO report in greater detail on the CSR issues most material to our business, while perhaps not reporting as thoroughly on other material CSR issues. Employees RTX DS GROUP Custo­mers 2.1 STAKEHOLDERS MATERIAL TO RTX RTX is committed to conduct our business responsibly and sustainably, but the continued advancement of our CSR End Family Suppliers BC practice is also driven by our stakeholders and the expectausers Customers tions they express to us. First and foremost, our customers in all business areas, including Business Communication (BC) and Design Services (DS), drive us in various ways to engage on CSR in general and with extra emphasis on particular issues. Hence, our customers are material to RTX in the sense that their expectations to our CSR practice have Govern­a direct impact on our business. In addition to customers, ment/EU 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 8 our material stakeholders include our employees, shareFIGURE 2 – MATERIALITY MATRIX FOR RTX GROUP holders and our suppliers. We do have other stakeholders of importance, but their impact on our business is often less tangible and hence not our primary consideration in terms of this COP report. High Transparency/ RoHs tracability 2.2 C  SR ISSUES AND RISKS MATERIAL TO RTX AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS Reach Employee working Product conditions safety In the process of identifying stakeholders material to RTX, Supply Chain Management Materiality for stakeholders we mapped their expectations to our CSR practices in terms of particular CSR risks and issues. The CSR risks and Sustainable packaging CSR reporting issues identified were then evaluated to assess the impact they have or potentially could have on our business in the near to medium term. This approach facilitates the estabCorporate governance Competence lishment of a materiality matrix for RTX, which is depicted development in figure 2. Environment-friendly Stakeholder products The materiality matrix illustrates the degree of materiality consultation Anti-corruption of certain CSR risks and issues to RTX’s business and our and bribery stakeholders respectively and thus the CSR risks related to RTX’s business. The larger the dot representing a CSR Diversity and issue, the more comprehensive it is in terms of sub-issues inclusion covered by the CSR issue. The CSR issues placed in the top right part of the matrix have the highest level of materiality to RTX and are therefore also the issues that will be reported on in more detail in the following sections. Next, Low the other CSR issues in the matrix will be reported on in a Low Materiality for RTX's business High more compact format. 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 9 2.3 C  SR ISSUES AND RISKS WITH TRANSPARENCY AND TRACEABILITY At RTX, we have increased our focus on due diligence in HIGHEST MATERIALITY Our customers’ expectations to RTX and our efforts to CSR. In this COP report, we have increased transparency ensure compliance with the environmental directives by connecting our practices directly to the Global Compact PRODUCT SAFETY reflect a broader trend across stakeholders to expect more principles in section 5.1 and by expanding reporting on Product safety is of paramount importance to RTX in gentransparency concerning CSR in general and traceability the results of CSR-related actions through selected KPIs in eral and in all our business areas as well as to our stakeregarding specific materials. section 3.5. holders. The term product safety here encompasses both environmental and technological aspects of products and CONFLICT MINERALS AND OTHER MATERIALS SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT will be elaborated on in the following. In the electronics industry, particular attention regarding With production outsourced to EMSs, a large part of RTX’s traceability is paid to conflict minerals, which refers to CSR footprint occurs via our suppliers and therefore supply REACH, RoHS and WEEE are abbreviations for EU directives, natural resources extracted in a conflict zone and sold to chain management is of high importance for handing CSR which regulate environmentally-safe production and hanperpetuate fighting in conflict zones. RTX will not support issues and risks. dling of electronic equipment. Today, the overriding and the latter in any way. In 2013, we established a corporate paramount requirement of our customers is that RTX is policy requiring all suppliers to provide information about High quality products and services is an RTX hallmark and compliant with these directives. This expectation is formalthe origin of the metals used to manufacture RTX designs with manufacturing outsourced, our robust supply chain ized as a requirement in most our contracts with customand products. Since 2018, RTX has retrieved this informamanagement practice is vital to meeting our customers’ ers, which typically also require RTX to ensure compliance tion through a Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) high expectations to quality and increasingly also to CSR by our suppliers, which are the de facto manufacturers of provided by the Responsible Minerals Initiative. Based on issues. Processes concerning the REACH, RoHS and WEEE the products sold by both our Business Communications information provided by our suppliers, we do not knowingdirectives are already an integral part of our mainstream and Design Services business units. The establishment of ly use metals derived from conflict regions in our products. supply chain management, which includes a rigorous proa central Supply Chain function and the recent consolidacess for obtaining and validating the information requested tion of RTX’s supplier base with the majority of the spend Moreover, RTX maintains – through our supply chain – from suppliers. RTX regularly performs site visits at its allocated to fewer, large EMS (Electronics Manufacturing extensive traceability on key components and materials EMS providers’ production plants and conducts scheduled Service) companies facilitate managing these requirements which facilitates remedial actions such issues regarding audits, sometimes together with customers. Such visits and document compliance. Our EMS suppliers are obligatproduct safety, environment or conflict minerals occur. are also used to monitor any non-compliance with RTX’s ed contractually and/or via annual or bi-annual declaraCode of Conduct (see below) with respect to Human Rights, tions to ensure compliance with the requirements. TRANSPARENCY THROUGH REPORTING Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. ON DUE DILIGENCE In addition to compliance with the directives, RTX also Stakeholder expectations on the issue of conflict minerals reTHE RTX SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT ensures that the products brought to market are within the flect a broader tendency in legislation, standards and norms RTX’s expectations to suppliers on the broader range of accepted SAR-value ranges for wireless devices. Extensive towards achieving increased transparency through the CSR issues are reflected in the RTX Supplier Code of Conmeasurements and prototyping ensure compliance and reporting on due diligence set out for CSR issues. This is exduct, which is based upon the principles of the UN Global address a health aspect of product safety. emplified in the requirements on due diligence in section 99a Compact. All significant current suppliers have signed our of the Danish Financial Statements Act and the general focus Code of Conduct or have affirmed that they support and on due diligence in standards such as the Global Compact. have adopted the UN Global Compact. The RTX Code of 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 10 Conduct has been used to assess potential suppliers, and EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION our contracts with suppliers selected require them to adFor the latest four consecutive years (2016-19), the survey here to the Code of Conduct with respect to Human Rights, results have shown that RTX’s employees are highly moLabour, Environment and Anti-Corruption and in accordtivated and committed, and the satisfaction ratings have ance with RTX’s applicable policies in these areas. continued to climb year by year. RTX employees generally are appreciative of their colleagues, the challenges their SUPPLIERS’ (EMS’) CSR ACTIVITIES AND REPORTING work offers, the ability to flex their working schedule and The largest suppliers utilized by RTX have their own CSR the dining opportunities provided by RTX. programs and do CSR reporting. The, by far, largest supplier to RTX, is a global EMS who prepares an annual +90 page The employees are less appreciative of the work pressure corporate-wide CSR report. This report highlights the supand the challenges that certain development tasks and plier’s sustainability focus areas and actions. The focus areprojects entail in terms of structuring work. RTX activities as include people, communities, environment, innovation, lead to occasional peak periods, but we are committed to integrity and supply chain. In its latest report, the supplier reducing the potential work pressure, and our managers reports – among other things – a significant improvement are instructed to monitor workloads in our time registrain health and safety incidents, an increase in the share of tion system and act on work overload. Also, individual deelectricity from sustainable sources, while the participation partments follow up on the employee satisfaction survey, in the company’s community outreach activities stagnated which is conducted anonymously, by using it as a basis for during the year. a discussion regarding employee satisfaction and specific improvement areas. EMPLOYEE WORKING CONDITIONS At RTX, our employees are vital to our performance and to WORKPLACE ASSESSMENT the development of the innovative products and services RTX conducts a workplace assessment (APV) every three that enable us to uphold and expand our market share. years, most recently in 2018. Compared to the employHence, it is important to RTX that our employees thrive and ee satisfaction survey, the workplace assessment more that their working conditions support this ambition. specifically targets particular aspects of our employees’ physical and mental work environment. Overall, the APV RTX utilizes three primary sources of information in order complements the positive impressions of the employee to continuously improve the working conditions for our satisfaction survey with the vast majority of our employees employees. One is RTX’s employee satisfaction survey covbeing either very satisfied or satisfied with their job overall, ering all group employees annually. Another is the workand with a similar distribution of responses regarding the place assessment for employees based in Denmark, which physical and mental work environment respectively. RTX is required to conduct according to Danish legislation. Finally, RTX monitors certain further employee-related KPIs However, the details of the workplace assessment also reregarding absence and retention. veal that some employees experience challenges in terms 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 11 of noise levels in the workplace and the indoor climate, ing environment and a high level of job satisfaction leads which RTX continuously addresses. to greater employee satisfaction, higher efficiency levels, lower staff turnover and low absenteeism. EMPLOYEE-RELATED KPIS RTX periodically measures and follows up on employee Every four years, RTX A/S employees elect three members absence and on employee retention. Both act as leading to the Board of Directors pursuant to the Danish Compaindicators for employee satisfaction. Equally important, nies Act. The current three employee representatives were performance in these areas are directly linked to RTX’s elected to the Board of Directors at the most recent Annual overall success as this builds on attracting, retaining and General Meeting in January 2019. Employee representadeveloping people with the right skill set not least within tives are elected for four-year terms. our core wireless and audio areas. The KPIs are further described in section 3.5. RTX A/S is a publicly listed company and the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with investors for a business update and to CORPORATE GOVERNANCE discuss the financial results of the quarter. Good corporate governance is vital to any company and is required by most stakeholders, although they might RTX’s practices regarding corporate governance are further differ in their expectations. For RTX, corporate governance described in our Annual Report and in a separate Corpoincludes balancing the interests of our stakeholders and rate Governance Report both also published on our webefficiently executing our system of rules, practices and site. The separate report describes our compliance with the processes by which we are directed and controlled. Hence, Danish recommendations on good corporate governance. our Code of Conduct, general management system, supply chain practices, surveys on working conditions etc. are all Corporate governance also concerns the governance part of our corporate governance and are described in the of CSR issues, which follows a distributed governance preceding sections in this COP. approach with responsibilities anchored at different levels and functions of the organization. The overall responsibility At the end of the 2018/19 financial year, the RTX Group for CSR reporting resides with the Executive Management, employed 289 people: 195 in Denmark and 94 outside which also has the overall responsibility for the working Europe. We strive in all aspects to manage the company in conditions of RTX employees. The ongoing management of a professional manner and to be as open and transparent specific CSR issues is handled independently in each of our about our management approach as possible. The Executwo business units as well as in our central Supply Chain tive Management of RTX regularly invites all employees to function. internal employee briefings, where an open and constructive dialogue is encouraged. We believe that a good work2019 COP report for RTX Group | 12 2.4 PROGRESS ON OTHER MATERIAL CSR RISKS AND ISSUES In addition to the CSR issues and risks considered highly material to RTX, the materiality matrix (figure 2) depicted in section 2.2 lists additional CSR issues that are also – albeit to lesser degree – material to RTX’s stakeholders, its business or both. In the following list, we provide a compact description of the status and progress on selected CSR issues and risks. ENVIRONCOMPETENCE SUSTAINABLE ANTIDIVERSITY AND STAKEHOLDER MENTALLYDEVELOPMENT PACKAGING CORRUPTION INCLUSION CONSULTATION FRIENDLY AND BRIBERY PRODUCTS RTX is acutely aware of the All products from RTX are RTX maintains zero tolerance RTX’s workforce is diverse Stakeholders generally importance of having the right packaged in brown boxes from towards corruption and and represents more than appreciate being consulted and Many of the products and employees and therefore recycled cardboard, which has bribery. RTX has had a 10 different nationalities. RTX already engages strongly services provided by RTX supports and encourages not been exposed to chlorine whistleblower policy and a More women have been with employees, investors and are environmentally-friendly continuous professional or other chemical substances. whistleblower program in hired in 2018/19, but the suppliers. This COP is also part beyond compliance with the development. Also, we We strive for the most place since the 2012/2013 ratio of women to men is of RTX’s broader stakeholder environmental aspects of have further developed our compact packaging possible, financial year. There is still low, compared to other engagement together with product safety. Increasingly, Corporate Technology Office with a minimum of surplus no history of incidents industries, as is often the case our Annual Report and the customers request specific (CTO) in 2019 conducting space, allowing for smaller involving RTX, and no issues in highly engineering-focused specific Corporate Governance environmentally-friendly research and widening our packages and more efficient were reported through the companies. A diversity policy Report. Further, management features and focus is on skill set within selected statepackaging in transport. This whistleblower program in the has been formulated – among have quarterly meetings with more energy efficient of-the-art wireless and audio reduces transport costs per reporting year or in prior years. other things to increase the investors and analysts on the products. Again in 2019, technologies. In addition, we unit and results in a more In 2019, the whistleblower share of women in the Group development of the company RTX has attempted to stay have launched a leadership environmentally-friendly reporting program is available and in management. Please and information and discussion at the forefront on industry development program in 2019 product with less CO2 emitted to third parties, e.g. suppliers refer to section 4. meetings with employees at developments regarding covering managers in the per unit. We believe that or customers, to report on least bi-monthly together with environmentally-friendly organization to increase the sustainable packaging will be potential irregularities through a monthly newsletter and twice products including the ability to lead the development an area with increased focus in RTX’s website. annually an RTX magazine to development of DECT ULE of processes within RTX as we the future and are preparing employees. (Ultra Low Energy) and BTLE grow. further actions in this area. (Bluetooth Low Energy) solutions providing low energy consumption. 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 13 CSR Reporting in a Management Perspective 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 14 3. CSR Reporting in a Management Perspective There is a tendency to integrate management perspectives in CSR legislation and FIGURE 4 – HOW WE WORK standards. This is also the case for both the UN Global Compact and section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Section 99a requires description of the company’s SPECIFICATION AND DESIGN business model, policies, actions, due diligence, risk management, KPIs, results, etc. At RTX, we start by truly understanding customer requirements and user needs. This is accomHence, although these requirements are to some extent addressed in the previous plished by focusing on the ‘why’ and not only sections of this COP, we will also briefly touch upon them in the following sections. the ‘what’. We combine this insight with our wireless know-how into a Product Requirement Specification. Our engineering teams then design the optimal solution based on a combination of mechanics, hardware and software. Combined 3.1 THE RTX BUSINESS MODEL FIGURE 3 – RTX with our list of patented solutions and in-house developed protocols, we ensure our customers a Further to the RTX vision, values and BUSINESS MODEL compelling result. mission described in section 1.2, the RTX business model and value chain is generDEVELOPMENT AND INTEGRATION ally based on RTX as the preferred partner In close collaboration with our customers, folfor the design, development and production of wireless communication solutions. RECURRING REVENUE lowing agile development practices, we develop FROM ODM/OEM MODEL FOR prototypes to evaluate system performance Both our business units – Design Services in-house. We build on our extensive wireless and INCREASED RECOURCE SCALABILITY and Business Communications – conduct audio capabilities and experience and integrate development projects either targeted to ineach design at system level so that every compodividual customers within different market nent and sub-system works perfectly, evaluating segments or development projects funded performance against test cases for the fully by RTX. These development projects integrated system. typically result in subsequent deliveries of ODM/OEM products or customized modTESTING AND CERTIFICATION ules to customers – with RTX outsourcing Based on years of experience, our in-house physical production to suppliers (EMS). The ENTERPRISE HEALTHCARE PROAUDIO pretest services reduce time to market and lower approval and certification costs for our custombusiness model for the two business units ers. If required, we can also handle the full type continue to converge into this common approval service for our customers. model, and the establishment of a central Supply Chain function across business PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN units has further strengthened this conversion. Also, this organizational change WIRELESS WISDOM MANAGEMENT EXPERTS IN SHORT-RANGE DIGITAL Using a well-established network of ISO9001, has a positive impact on CSR management SO14001, ISO13485, TS16949 and AS9100 cerWIRELESS TECHNOLOGIES at RTX as this becomes more uniform and tified manufacturers, we guarantee production integrated into the business model. through the entire product life-cycle. 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 15 3.2 POLICIES FOR CSR RTX is committed to the ten principles of the Global HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT POLICY POLICY Compact and hence to implementing the principles in our business – as also evident from the Global Compact Principle Index in section 5.1 . As displayed in the index, the principles are categorized into the areas human rights, ”RTX supports and respects the protection of “RTX supports a precautionary approach to labor, environment and anti-corruption. These areas are internationally proclaimed human rights and environmental challenges and initiatives to prosimilar to the ones companies are required to report under section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act, commits all business units of the RTX Group to mote greater environmental responsibility. We specifically concerning their policies on these areas and the collaborate only with individuals, companies or commit all business units of the RTX Group to action taken. organizations, which respect the internationally collaborate only with individuals, companies or acknowledged UN Human Rights.” organizations, which support a precautionary RTX has defined policies for human rights, environment approach to environmental challenges. and labor as listed to the right. These areas are conserved highly material to our business and stakeholders as reflected in the materiality matrix in section 2.2. At present, LABOR AND RTX furthermore supports the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly techDIVERSITY POLICY RTX has no defined policies for anti-corruption as this area is not considered highly material to our business and nologies. RTX Group therefore encourages all stakeholders. Should this area become highly material to business units to engage with customers and RTX, we will define specific policies for it. Nonetheless, RTX “RTX is committed to our employees and to other relevant stakeholders who wish to develis taking action on all four areas in the Global Compact as ensuring that they thrive in a safe and stimuop or apply such technologies.” listed in section 5.1 of this GOP – including a whistleblower reporting program which can help in counteracting potenlating work environment with good working tial corruption or bribery issues. conditions. RTX finds it important that everyone is treated equally irrespective of nationality, gender, social status and political opinion. RTX Note: The above policies are further supported by a staff Group therefore requires all units of the RTX policy applying to all employees of the RTX Group as well as the RTX Code of Conduct and a conflict minerals policy Group to uphold or implement the measures applying to suppliers to RTX. required for such a work environment. This also applies to RTX suppliers.” 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 16 3.3 POLICY ACTION AND DUE DILIGENCE In addition, RTX has management procedures that include The target for the absence KPI is <3% for RTX in Denmark RTX has taken and continues to take action not only on our maintaining constant awareness of upcoming or potential and <1.5% for RTX in Hong Kong corresponding to a group policies, but on all of the four areas in section 99a and on bans of substances used in our products. Our agile apaverage of <2.5%. The actual average absence for 2018/19 all the ten principles of the Global Compact. However, as proach allows us to react swiftly to such new requirements met this target and developed positively (decreased) comnot all CSR issues are equally material to RTX’s stakeholdand we have zero tolerance towards suppliers, who do not pared to the prior year as can be seen below. ers and our business, we do not apply due diligence to the engage properly with us on this matter. same extent on every CSR issue. KPI: EMPLOYEE RETENTION Employee working conditions are also highlighted as a CSR In continuation of employee absence, our ability to retain In section 2.3 and 2.4 we describe the actions and due risk and issue, as the employees are the backbone of RTX’s the right staff is also highly important to the development diligence approach taken on the CSR risks and issues most critical core capabilities and thus of the business model. and performance of RTX. During 2018/19, our employee important to RTX, and in section 5.1, we connect these to RTX monitors and manages this risk through employee satturnover decreased (thus retention increased) and is on a the ten Global Compact principles in a cross-referencing isfaction surveys and various KPI measurements as leading relatively low level as can be seen below. index. indicators. 3.4 RISK MANAGEMENT 3.5 KPIs AND RESULTS As documented by the materiality matrix in section 2.2 and A central aspect of our corporate governance approach is given RTX’s business model with outsourced production, to define relevant key performance indicators (KPIs) that our supply chain is the central risk to our business from a can help us deliver robust performance and development. CSR point of view. Further, product safety has been idenThe actions and results related to our CSR practice are tified as a highly material CSR issue and risk for RTX. Thus, described in section 2, which accounts for our progress on RTX has established our Code of Conduct for suppliers and CSR issues material to RTX. In the sections below, we furEMPLOYEE ABSENCE (%) other supply chain specific requirements including REACH, ther illustrate this through three specific CSR-related KPIs RoHS, conflict minerals and further requirements as risk used and results achieved. 2017/18 1.9 management measures – as also described in section 2.3. Hence, robust management processes have been set up to KPI: EMPLOYEE ABSENCE 2018/19 1.7 ensure compliance by RTX Group and its suppliers, thereby As stated repeatedly in this COP (but never often enough) de facto addressing the most common risks associated our employees are our most vital resource and RTX relies with supply chain and product safety. on the availability of their performance and ingenuity on a daily basis. Hence, the health and well-being of our employees is very important to us, as is keeping the number of EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (%) days of absence to a minimum. 2017/18 10.8 2018/19 6.4 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 17 KPI: ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION 3.6 FUTURE PLANS AND EXPECTATIONS Although the direct stand-alone impact of RTX’s in-house RTX plans to maintain a strong focus on supply chain electricity consumption is limited due to production being management, product safety, traceability including conflict outsourced, we do consider it a measure that helps to minerals and employee working conditions – as the most direct the awareness of the organization to sustainable dematerial CSR risk areas. Further, we plan to increase focus velopment. As can be seen below, our electricity consumpon sustainable packaging e.g. by reducing the use of plastic tion at RTX sites in 2018/19 decreased compared to last bags inside the sustainable packaging for new products. year both in absolute terms and when measured relative to For 2019/20, we are also planning to upgrade our efforts the number of employees, which is a satisfactory result. to develop and maintain our management system by introducing a new central function for “Quality and Compliance” which over time is also expected to further increase our CSR focus. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION – ABSOLUTE AND RELATIVE (PER EMPLOYEE) DEVELOPMENT FROM 2017/18 TO 2018/19 (%) As potential longer-term development areas, we envision a corporate Code of Conduct supplementing and updating Absolute -1 the current supplier Code of Conduct as well as increased efforts to disseminate existing policies and a potential fuRelative -12 ture corporate Code of Conduct internally (among employees) and externally (primarily among suppliers). Absolute development 1% lower electricity consumption Relative development per employee 12% lower electricity consumption per employee 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 18 Diversity Policy and Objective for the Underrepresented Gender 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 19 4. D  iversity Policy and Objective for the Underrepresented Gender RTX has defined policies and actions to 4.2 O  BJECTIVE FOR THE candidates. In connection with employment at manageensure diversity and sets targets for the UNDERREPRESENTED GENDER ment level, an elaborate assessment is conducted as to underrepresented gender at management The Board of Directors has defined an ambition that the which skills, background and experience is needed to best female share of board members elected by the annual match the needs of the company and to contribute to the level. This section is the statutory report general meeting should be at least 17% by 2021. The aim of overall skill set and efficiency of management. on gender distribution 2019 in accordance the adopted ambition is to increase the number of female with section 99b of the Danish Financial board members elected by the annual general meeting and During 2018/19, we initiated a leadership development prothus to increase the diversity in a male dominated industry. gram for middle management in order to develop the individStatements Act. However, as of 2018/19 the Board of Directors consists ual and collective leadership skills at RTX. Participants in this only of males. During 2018/19, one new board member program are 12% female and 88% male indicating the start of was elected by the annual general meeting, however, within an internal pipeline of female candidates for further manage­ 4.1 DIVERSITY POLICY this male dominated industry it has been hard to identify rial positions as well as cultivating such female candidates. As stated in RTX’s diversity policy: “RTX finds it important the right female board member possessing the unique that everyone is treated equally irrespective of nationality, competencies deemed relevant for the board duties in RTX, To promote diversity and inclusion and to ensure a balgender, social status and political opinion”. To meet this and thus also the new board member is a male and the obanced composition of skills and experience, RTX A/S has policy, RTX is conducting a number of diversity-related jective is not yet met. RTX maintains its objective for 2021. instituted a seniority policy. Thereby, employees aged 60+ activities and sets targets for the gender composition in can influence the planning of their senior work life to enmanagement. In order to promote, facilitate and increase the number of sure a managed transition to the third age – if so desired by women in management level positions at RTX, managethe employee. This is done in the annual employee develRTX’s staff policy aims to attract and maintain highly qualment has defined an objective to increase the percentopment dialogue and can result in, for instance, modified ified and motivated employees. Regarding gender compoage of females at management level as vacancies arise. tasks, reduced working hours over time, as agreed between sition in relation to employment and recruitment we enDuring 2018/19, two positions were filled within the Group company and employee. Also, RTX has instituted a disability deavor to have both male and female candidates, despite Management Team. Although RTX explicitly asked the policy to promote inclusion of people with disabilities in the the fact that we operate in a male dominated industry. RTX external recruiting agency employed to also present female work force. recognizes that the current percentage of females in our candidates in the search process, no interested suitable festaff of engineers may be too low to secure a pipeline of male candidates could be identified by the search firm and 4.4 FOLLOW-UP AND REPORTING future female candidates for management level in RTX. In therefore there is no change compared to last year. To increase awareness regarding gender diversity, the Board our recruitment process RTX therefore encourages qualiof Directors discusses reporting on progress against the fied female applicants to seek vacancies as they arise. The 4.3 A  CTIVITIES objectives set at least once annually on a board meeting. general split between male and female employees in the RTX strives to focus on increasing the share of women at Annually, RTX also publishes our report on diversity through Group is 18% female and 82% male. Regarding nationality, management level as vacancies arise. Thus, when hiring at our COP report and submitted in our Annual Report. our team of employees is diverse and includes more than managerial level through external recruitment agencies, 10 different nationalities. the agency is explicitly asked to identify and present female 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 20 Global Compact Principle Index and SDG Mapping 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 21 5. Global Compact Principle Index and SDG Mapping 5.1 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE INDEX For each principle, references are made to the sections in this COP report, illustrating the implementation of the principle. Additionally, section 3.1 to 3.6 further elaborates how RTX work with the principles in terms of policies, due diligence, risk management, KPIs and future plans. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRON­MENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should work against corruption in all protection of internationally proclaimed human association and the effective recognition of the approach to environmental challenges; its forms, including extortion and bribery. rights; and right to collective bargaining; Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 Refer to section 2.4 Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 4 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Make sure that they are not complicit in human The elimination of all forms of forced and environmental responsibility; and rights abuses. compulsory labor; RTX: Section 2.3 and 2.4 RTX: Section 2.3 and 2.4 RTX: Section 2.3 and 2.4 PRINCIPLE 9 PRINCIPLE 5 Encourage the development and diffusion of The effective abolition of child labor; and environmentally friendly technologies. RTX: Section 2.3 and 2.4 RTX: Section 2.3 and 2.4 PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. RTX: Section 2.3, 2.4 and 4 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 22 5.2 S USTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS MOST MATERIAL TO RTX The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are at the heart of UN’s 2030 agenda for sustainable development. At present, the determination of which of the SDG’s are most material to RTX is based on a simple assessment based on the materiality matrix in section 2.2 of this COP report and only considers CSR issues that are highly material to RTX. More advanced assessments are available and map more accurately the current and potential contribution to a goal and may be considered by RTX at a later stage. 2019 COP report for RTX Group | 23 RTX A/S Stroemmen 6 9400 Noerresundby Denmark www.rtx.dk
