JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 Universal design fonts used B-(2)-060008 for easy readability. The JXTG Group supports the tree movement promoted by the Forestry Agency of Japan. The paper used to print this report was sourced under the 3.9 paper” mechanism whereby thinned timber is used from regions where the JXTG Group is working on afforestation activities. As a result, the JXTG Group is contributing to the increased absorption of carbon dioxide by forests in Japan. Printed in Japan Contents Editorial Policy Overview Editorial Policy 1 The purpose of the JXTG Report CSR Report for a Sustainable Future JXTG Group 2018 is to compile the approaches taken and initiatives implemented JXTG Group Overview 2 by the JXTG Group in fiscal 2017 for a range of environmental, social and governance-related CSR issues. Used in conjunction with the JXTG Integrated Report 2018, which summarizes the JXTG Group’s mediumto long-term growth through Representative Director, Chairman of the Board Representative Director, President JXTG Group Philosophy 3 both financial and non-financial information, the report enables even Yukio Uchida Tsutomu Sugimori more stakeholders to gain an understanding of the JXTG Group Management Message 5 as it aims to become one of the world’s largest integrated energy, resources, and materials business groups. It should be read together Oil and Natural Gas Exploration & Energy Business Production Business Metals Business with CSR-related information from each Group company. CSR Management 8 Scope of Report Listed subsidiary Shared function companies NIPPO Katsuyuki Ota Hiroshi Hosoi Shigeru Oi This report covers JXTG Holdings, Inc., JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Representative Director, President President and CEO President and Chief Executive Officer Corporation, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation, JX Nippon Governance Report 15 Mining & Metals Corporation (hereafter, “JXTG Holdings and core operating companies”), as well as other subsidiaries and affiliated Corporate Governance Framework 16 companies for a total of 716 companies. The JXTG Group’s Businesses In cases where the scope is different from that above, the relevant Compliance 23 scope will be indicated. Reporting Period Principal Business Environmental Report 27 In principle, the report covers the period from April 2017 to March 2018. However, some information from April 2018 onwards is also • Manufacture and marketing of petroleum products (gasoline, kerosene, lubricants, etc.) included, as necessary. • Manufacture and marketing of petrochemical products Environmental Management 28 • Import and marketing of gas (LPG and LNG) and coal Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 31 Publication Date • Electric power sales January 2019 Petroleum products Gasoline, kerosene, diesel fuel, heavy fuel oil, naphtha, lubricants, asphalt, etc. Initiatives for Promoting the 3Rs Basic chemical products Paraxylene, benzene, propylene, ethylene, etc. 35 (Previous issue: January 2018; Next issue: January 2020) (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) Main Products Specialty and performance chemical Ethylidene norbornene (ENB), functional films, liquid crystal polymers, etc. products Guidelines Used as Reference Other products Liquefied natural gas (LNG), coal, electric power, etc. Management of Chemical Substances 37 • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards Domestic Manufacturing Refineries Sendai, Kashima, Chiba, Kawasaki, Negishi, Sakai, Wakayama, Osaka, Mizushima, Marifu, Oita Sites Plants Muroran, Kawasaki, Yokohama, Chita Initiatives to Prevent Environmental Pollution 39 • The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition), Ministry of the Environment, Japan Initiatives for Biodiversity 42 Enhancing Reporting Reliability Environmental and social information for fiscal 2017 indicated with Social Report 45 has been assured by an independent practitioner to ensure objective and reliable reporting. Principal Business • Exploration for and development of oil, natural gas, and other mineral resources Safety 46 • Extraction, processing, storage, sale, and shipment of petroleum, natural gas, and other minerInquiries al resources and their secondary products Human Rights 51 JXTG Holdings, Inc. General Administration Department Main Products Crude oil, natural gas Human Resource Development 55 1-2 Otemachi, 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8161, Japan Worksites U.S. Gulf of Mexico, UK North Sea, Vietnam, Myanmar, Malaysia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, Australia, UAE, Qatar, Brazil, Japan http://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/ Health 59 Email: csr@jxtg.com Healthy Work Environment 61 Disclosure media framework Quality 65 Shareholders, investors, analysts Principal Business Supply Chain Management 68 Disclosure of information Concise explanation of Disclosure of Disclosure of more • Development and mining of non-ferrous metal resources, smelting and refining, and marketabout financial/business mediumto long-term comprehensive CSR detailed information ing of non-ferrous metals (copper, gold, silver, etc.); manufacture and marketing of electronic Social Contribution 71 performance, governance, etc. growth strategy (value creation story) information on each company materials • Recycling of non-ferrous metal materials; treatment of industrial waste for reuse JXTG Holdings Integrated Report Resources development Copper concentrate, molybdenum concentrate Data 77 Excerpts of material financial and Excerpts of useful CSR Copper smelting and refining Electronic materials Copper, precious metals, rare metals, sulfuric acid Electro-deposited copper foil, treated rolled copper foil, precision rolled products, precision processed products, thin-film materials information for investors Main Products governance information Recycling and environmental services Precious metals, rare metals Governance, Environmental, and Social Data 78 Link to more Titanium Titanium sponge, titanium ingots JXTG Holdings detailed information JXTG Holdings Tantalum and niobium Tantalum and niobium products (high purity metal powders and oxides, etc.) Main Sites and Areas of Core Operating IR website (financial data, etc.) CSR Report, website 83 Resources development Caserones Copper Mine, Los Pelambres Copper Mine, Escondida Copper Mine Company Groups Copper smelting and refining Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Hitachi Refinery), Tamano Smelter of Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd., LS-Nikko Copper Inc. (South Korea), etc. Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 85 Excerpts of useful CSR information for stakeholders Principal Worksites Electronic materials Isohara Works, Hitachi Works, Kurami Works, Kakegawa Works of JX Metals Precision Technology Co., Ltd., Takatsuki Works of JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd., etc. Recycling and environmental services HMC (Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex) Department of Hitachi Works, JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd., etc. JX Nippon Mining & Metals Titanium Chigasaki Works and Wakamatsu Works of Toho Titanium Co., Ltd., etc. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Sustainability Report, CSR website CSR website Tantalum and niobium H.C. Starck Tantalum and Niobium GmbH Comparative Table with GRI Standards 86 CSR website 1 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 2 Philosophy Code of Conduct 1. Positioning of JXTG Group Code of Conduct 3. Applicable Scope of the Code of Conduct This JXTG Group Code of Conduct (hereinafter referred to as In principle, this Code of Conduct is applicable to all directors, the “Code of Conduct”) is a set of standards that we, as the officers and employees who work at JXTG Holdings, Inc., JXTG Group directors, officers and employees, apply in order and its subsidiaries. We also encourage companies that are to realize the JXTG Group Philosophy through our business part of our value chain to comply with this Code of Conduct. activities and fulfill our social responsibilities. The Code of These companies include, but are not limited to, suppliers of Conduct, as the foundation of all of our corporate regulations, raw materials, logistics companies, construction companies, shall serve as the cornerstone for making judgments in all of and sales companies. our business dealings. 4. Relation to National and Local Laws JXTG Group Philosophy We, as the JXTG Group directors, officers and employees, Mission respect this Code of Conduct, in addition to local laws and customs. National and local laws will take precedence over Our Five Core Values the Code of Conduct when the provisions of such laws are more rigorous than the Code of Conduct. JXTG Group Code of Conduct Various policies JXTG Group Code of Conduct 1. Compliance Corporate regulations and policies 2. Safety and security 3. Environmental conservation 4. Health enhancement 2. Important Aspects in Living Up to the Code of Conduct 5. Respect for human rights We, as the JXTG Group directors, officers and employees, 6. Product and service quality shall comply with this Code of Conduct when performing our 7. Equitable and fair transactions duties. When violations of this Code of Conduct are found, they 8. Appropriate relationships with governments and shall not be overlooked, and each one of us must do what we public administrations can to deal with such issues. 9. Avoidance of conflicts of interest Executives and supervisors shall fulfill their obligations according to their responsibilities so that all business 10. Corporate asset protection and management operations are carried out in accordance with this Code of Conduct. 11. Information management and disclosure Ask yourself the following questions if you are in doubt 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment as to what is the correct course of action in performing your day-to-day business operations. 13. Contribution to the development of civil society • Is your conduct and the conduct of others around you in 14. Actions for violations and measures to prevent compliance with laws and regulations, the Code of Conduct, recurrence and high ethical standards? • Can you unreservedly give an account of your conduct to the people around you, including your family and friends? WEB The full text of the JXTG Group Code of Conduct is available on our • Can you respond with confidence to questions about your conduct website. from third parties or the authorities, or reports by the media? JXTG Group Code of Conduct 3 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 4 Management Message To Our Stakeholders Over the past several years, the global environment has undergone great changes, including the occurrence of extreme weather conditions around the world. Japan, too, has suffered extensive damage due to heat waves, torrential rains and super typhoons. At the same time, there is a growing number of global social issues that need to be resolved, including poverty, as well as food and energy issues resulting from population increases. Amidst these circumstances, the JXTG Group, as a group of companies engaged in the energy, resources and materials businesses, has formulated its Group Philosophy and Group Code of Conduct. We have also determined the following eight ESG focus areas: high ethical standards, compliance, safety and the environment, human rights, human resource development, health, quality, and social contribution. In addition, based on these eight focus areas, we have identified material issues in the form of the top CSR priorities of the Group, reflecting priorities as seen from within and outside the Group. In fiscal 2018, we are advancing initiatives based on these ESG focus areas and the top CSR priorities of the Group. Through innovation and by taking on new challenges, the JXTG Group will address changes taking place in the social environment in a swift and flexible manner to achieve sustainable growth as a corporation, while engaging in active dialogue with stakeholders to fulfill our various corporate social responsibilities. Through these efforts, we will contribute to the development of society and help to create a vibrant future. November 2018 Tsutomu Sugimori Representative Director, President Representative Director, Representative Director, Yukio Uchida Chairman of the Board President Representative Director, Chairman of the Board 5 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 6 Messages from Senior Management of the JXTG Group’s Core Operating Companies CSR Management JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Further incorporation of ESG perspectives for agile response to changes in Basic Approach Priority Fields for CSR Activities the business climate The JXTG Group recognizes that society’s trust is essential for achieving sustainable growth as a company. With this Based on the 14 standards in the JXTG Group Code of The business climate faced by JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy is changing rapidly, as understanding, we conduct ongoing CSR activities aimed at Conduct, we have established eight priority fields for evidenced by declining demand for oil products in Japan, initiatives aimed at realizing contributing to the development of communities and helping CSR activities. a low-carbon society, and the growing presence of electric vehicles. In light of these circumstances, since the business integration we at JXTG Nippon to ensure a vibrant future. The JXTG Group Code of Conduct Oil & Energy have worked to strengthen our response to change and create a system for contributing to the attainment of the SDGs. These efforts include the formulation 1. Compliance of an ESG promotion policy by the CSR Management Council, which comprises Basic Policy for CSR 2. Safety and security 3. Environmental conservation management at the director, senior vice president level and above. Consideration 4. Health enhancement In order for JXTG Group executives and for the environment, spanning our businesses and the entire supply chain, including 5. Respect for human rights the environment near our refineries and plants, as well as maintaining the health and employees to realize the mission set forth in the 6. Product and service quality safety of our employees, a stable supply of energy, and compliance are critical issues JXTG Group Philosophy, they follow in good 7. Equitable and fair transactions Katsuyuki Ota for management, and we recognize that these are also priority issues for our business 8. Appropriate relationships with governments and public Representative Director, President faith the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, which administrations operations. Going forward, we will place even greater emphasis on these matters in 9. Avoidance of conflicts of interest JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy the management of our business. is based on our five core values. In this way, 10. Corporate asset protection and management In addition, as an ESG perspective is important for the identification of risks and we aim to ensure that we are a corporate group 11. Information management and disclosure opportunities for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, we will incorporate ESG more actively into 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment worthy of the trust of our stakeholders. our business operations to adapt to the rapidly changing business climate. 13. Contribution to the development of civil society 14. Actions for violations and measures to prevent recurrence JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Priority Fields for CSR Activities Developing oil and natural gas resources as a responsible member of sociHigh Ethical Standards Human Resource Development ety, with close attention to safety and the environment Compliance Health The JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group is engaged in the oil and natural gas E&P business worldwide. We lead projects,in particular,as an operator in Vietnam and Safety and Environment Quality Malaysia. In addition, in the United States, we are implementing the CO2-EOR project, Human Rights Social Contribution in which CO2 is captured from the flue gas of a thermal power plant and injected into a depleted oil field to both increase crude oil production and reduce CO2 emissions. Through these and other day-to-day business activities, the JX Nippon Oil & Correlation with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Gas Exploration Group, as a good corporate citizen trusted by society, seeks to enhance its corporate value while promoting ESG initiatives with a central focus on The JXTG Group strives to realize the SDGs adopted at the United Nations summit in September 2015. HSE (occupational health, safety and the environment) and compliance, thereby contributing to the development of society and the creation of a vibrant future. Priority Fields for Priority Fields for CSR Activities Related SDGs CSR Activities Related SDGs Hiroshi Hosoi President and CEO JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration High Ethical Human Resource Standards Development JX Nippon Mining & Metals Contributing to the attainment of the SDGs through a stable supply of resources and materials Compliance Health Copper, a metal resource that is central to the business operations of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group, is vital for the development of society. As copper is unevenly distributed and its reserves are limited, we must use existing resources effectively by improving extraction efficiency and promoting recycling, among other initiatives. Quality We recognize that our corporate social responsibility is to provide a stable and efficient supply of high-quality copper to contribute to economic growth and Safety and improved quality of life, while addressing social issues such as the mitigation of Environment environmental impacts and respect for human rights, as well as pursuing innovation in the productivity of resources and materials using the technologies and knowledge accumulated throughout our history of more than 100 years. Taking into account the social climate and the needs of our stakeholders, we will contribute to the attainment Social Contribution Shigeru Oi of the SDGs through all of our business activities, including those in the supply chain. President and Chief Executive Officer Human Rights JX Nippon Mining & Metals 7 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 8 CSR Management The Group’s Top CSR Priorities (Material Issues) CSR Promotion Structure We have established the JXTG Group CSR Council, which by and reported to the JXTG Group CSR Council are in turn The JXTG Group has identified nine issues as top CSR priorities (material issues) from two viewpoints: priority from an external is chaired by the representative director and president of reported to the JXTG Holdings Board of Directors, which perspective and priority from the Group’s internal perspective. In addition, we have established 12 targets (KPI) for the top CSR priorities. Going forward, we will make efforts to achieve each KPI through the Group’s CSR promotion system. A heart symbol is JXTG Holdings, as the body for promoting CSR activities in provides instructions. used to indicate initiatives for the Group’s top CSR priorities. priority fields throughout the JXTG Group. The JXTG Group We have assigned CSR promotion managers from each CSR Council is composed of Group company presidents and department to serve at the front lines of the Group CSR Considerations at each step Diagram of the Group's Top CSR Priorities relevant executives. From a perspective that spans the entire promotion structure, spearheading various activities and Group, the council deliberates basic policies and reviews and sharing information. Priority: High STEP 1 Identify social issues to consider evaluates the status of activities. The matters deliberated Following an exhaustive review of various guidelines (GRI G4 Guidelines, Development of a low-carbon society ISO 26000, etc.) as well as the assessment items of ESG research Ensuring safety / Health enhancement providers and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 32 social JXTG Group CSR Promotion Structure Compliance Development of issues were identified for consideration. a recycling-oriented society Promotion of diversity and inclusion Respect for JXTG Holdings STEP 2 Prioritize from an external perspective human rights Promotion of work-life management Monitoring/Supervision Priority from external perspective Priority from an external perspective was assessed for the 32 social Human resource Board of Directors Body Responsible for issues identified at Step 1, taking into account such factors as the development Risk Management assessment weight given by ESG research providers. Report JXTG Group CSR Council Collaboration Monitoring/Supervision (Chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings) Internal Control Council STEP 3 Prioritize from the Group’s perspective Executive Council Report Priority from the Group’s internal perspective was assessed, taking into account such factors as reviews of the expert committees within the CSR promotion structure, as well as the guidelines of the U.S. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). Expert committees E (environmental) item STEP 4 Identify the Group’s top CSR priorities S (social) item JXTG Group JXTG Group JXTG Group Human Rights Promotion and After assessing priority from an external perspective and priority from the G (governance) item Compliance Committee Environment & Safety Committee Human Resource Development Committee Group’s internal perspective, nine issues of particularly high priority were identified as the Group’s top CSR priorities. Priority: Low Priority from Group’s internal perspective Priority: High Table of the Group’s Top CSR Priorities (Material Issues) The Group’s top Achievement Category Initiative Target (KPI) Applicable companies CSR priorities target (fiscal year) Development of a Reduction in CO2 emissions Reduce by 2.72 million tons Core operating company groups Environment Fiscal 2019 low-carbon society (Reduction amount through own efforts) compared to 2009 NIPPO (Total of 38 companies) JXTG Holdings Group JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group Development of a Ratio of landfill disposal Core operating company groups recycling-oriented Reduction in landfill disposal Maintain zero emissions Fiscal 2019 NIPPO (Total of 41 companies) society (less than 1%) Core operating company groups CSR promotion managers CSR promotion managers CSR promotion managers CSR promotion managers Ensuring safety Reduction in occupational injuries Zero occupational fatalities Fiscal 2018 in each department in each department in each department in each department NIPPO (Total of 45 companies) JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Respect for human 100% participation rate in Human rights awareness Fiscal 2018 Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & rights human rights training Metals (Total of 4 companies) Development of human resources Implementation of effective JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX JXTG Group CSR Council Human resource responsible for enhancing corporate training based on human Fiscal 2018 Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & development value resource development plan Metals (Total of 4 companies) Position Organization subordinate to the JXTG Holdings Executive Council Women comprise at least 25% JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Advancement of women in the of newly hired graduates by Fiscal 2020 Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & Promotion of workplace fiscal 2020 Metals (Total of 4 companies) 1. Formulation and implementation of the JXTG Group’s Basic Policy for CSR Society diversity and inclusion JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Roles 2. Review and evaluation of the JXTG Group’s CSR promotion structure and status of CSR activities (including degree of Advancement of employees with At least 2.2% employment rate Fiscal 2018 Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & understanding and prevalence of the JXTG Group Philosophy and JXTG Group Code of Conduct) disabilities of people with disabilities Metals (Total of 4 companies) JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX At least 80% of annual paid Promotion of workstyle reforms Fiscal 2018 Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & Chair Representative director and president of JXTG Holdings leave days taken Promotion of workMetals (Total of 4 companies) life management JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Utilization of work-life balance support Maintain 100% rate of return to Fiscal 2018 Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & 1. Members of the JXTG Holdings Executive Council (including directors) and the officers responsible for CSR at the Group’s core systems/programs work after childcare leave Metals (Total of 4 companies) business companies Build database as infrastructure JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Members Health 2. JXTG Group company presidents nominated by the Chair Ensure health of employees for planning various measures Fiscal 2018 Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & 3. Other persons nominated by the Chair enhancement (covering 14,000 employees) Metals (Total of 4 companies) Conduct legal compliance Companies for which legal compliance inspections Legal compliance inspections Fiscal 2018 Corporate inspections are carried out* (Total of 89 companies) Frequency of meetings In principle, twice a year (April and October), and extraordinarily as required Thorough Implement training on important governance compliance Compliance with important laws and Companies for which legal compliance inspections laws and regulations Fiscal 2018 regulations (Anti-Monopoly Act, etc.) are carried out* (Total of 89 companies) (Anti-Monopoly Act, etc.) Priority fields and JXTG Group Code of All fields and standards * JXTG Holdings, core operating company groups, and Nippo Corporation. Conduct standards overseen by the council 9 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 10 CSR Management JXTG Group Compliance Committee Implementing Measures to Raise Awareness Major Initiatives About the Group Philosophy and Code of Conduct Position Advisory body to the president of JXTG Holdings The JXTG Group established the JXTG Group Philosophy CSR Council Meetings 1. Deliberation on compliance matters (policy, direction, etc.) for the JXTG Group, and reporting on these matters to the JXTG Group CSR Council and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct in 2017. We are now Roles 2. Confirmation, evaluation and the sharing of information on the status of compliance measures at each JXTG Group company, and reporting to During the two meetings of the JXTG Group CSR Council implementing various measures to raise awareness of the the JXTG Group CSR Council convened in fiscal 2017, discussions were held to determine Group Philosophy and the Code of Conduct among the JXTG Chair Officer (director) responsible for the Legal & Corporate Affairs Department at JXTG Holdings the Group’s top CSR priorities (material issues). Reports Group’s officers and employees, and to foster understanding were made on the activities of the JXTG Group Compliance and cooperation among everyone involved in the JXTG Group’s 1. Relevant general managers at JXTG Holdings nominated by the Chair Committee, the JXTG Group Environment & Safety business activities. Members 2. Relevant officers and general managers of the Group’s core business companies Committee, and the JXTG Group Human Rights Promotion 3. Other persons nominated by the Chair Purpose Measure and Human Resource Development Committee, as well as Frequency of meetings In principle, twice a year (April and October), and extraordinarily as required progress on raising awareness of the Group Philosophy and Hold briefings nationwide the Code of Conduct. 1. Compliance The discussions and reports heard by the JXTG Distribute Group Philosophy cards and Code of Conduct handbooks 7. Equitable and fair transactions Group CSR Council were reported to the Board of Display posters Priority fields and JXTG 8. Appropriate relationships with governments and public administrations Group Code of Conduct Directors, which affirmed the direction of the Group’s CSR Ensure 9. Avoidance of conflicts of interest awareness standards overseen by the activities in fiscal 2018. Use of digital signage in company workplaces committee 10. Corporate asset protection and management 11. Information management and disclosure Translation into 9 languages (English, Chinese [Simplified / 14. Actions for violations and measures to prevent recurrence (development of internal whistleblowing systems and promoting their use) CSR Promotion Manager Workshop Traditional], Korean, Spanish, Portuguese, Vietnamese, Thai, Indonesian) and distribution In order to help ensure that we maintain the trust of our JXTG Group Environment & Safety Committee Publication of special feature series in Group employee magazine stakeholders, the JXTG Group appoints personnel at the Promote Position Advisory body to the president of JXTG Holdings deputy general manager level as CSR promotion managers. understanding E-learning for all officers and employees These CSR promotion managers are responsible for 1. Deliberation on matters concerning safety and the environment (policy, direction, etc.) for the JXTG Group, and reporting on these matters to the Monitoring Confirmation using employee awareness surveys JXTG Group CSR Council the implementation of CSR activities in their respective Roles 2. Confirmation, evaluation and the sharing of information on the status of measures concerning safety and the environment at each JXTG Group workplaces at each Group company. Every year, CSR company, and reporting to the JXTG Group CSR Council promotion managers from across the Group meet for a Chair Officer (director) responsible for the department in charge of environment and safety at JXTG Holdings training session, where we convey our basic policy on CSR and share information. 1. Relevant general managers at JXTG Holdings nominated by the Chair In fiscal 2017, we organized a presentation by an Members 2. Relevant officers and general managers of the Group’s core business companies outside expert on worldwide trends concerning the SDGs 3. Other persons nominated by the Chair and the latest developments in ESG investment. There was Frequency of meetings In principle, twice a year (April and October), and extraordinarily as required also a report on the Group’s CSR activities undertaken in fiscal 2017. 1. Compliance (laws and regulations concerning safety and the environment) Priority fields and JXTG Group Code of Conduct 2. Safety and security standards overseen by the 3. Environmental conservation committee 4. Health enhancement (primarily occupational safety) JXTG Group Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource Development Committee Position Advisory body to the president of JXTG Holdings Digital signage in company workplace 1. Deliberation on matters concerning human rights, human resource development and health (policy, direction, etc.) for the JXTG Group, and reporting on these matters to the JXTG Group CSR Council Roles 2. Confirmation, evaluation and the sharing of information on the status of measures for human rights, human resource development and health at each JXTG Group company, and reporting to the JXTG Group CSR Council CSR promotion manager meeting Chair Officer (director) responsible for the Human Resources Department at JXTG Holdings 1. Relevant general managers at JXTG Holdings nominated by the Chair Establishment of Policies Members 2. Relevant officers and general managers of the Group’s core business companies 3. Other persons nominated by the Chair In 2018, the JXTG Group established the Anti-Corruption Policy and the Human Rights Policy to supplement the JXTG Frequency of meetings In principle, twice a year (April and October), and extraordinarily as required Group Code of Conduct, following deliberations by the JXTG 1. Compliance (laws and regulations concerning human rights, human resource development and health) Group CSR Committee. Priority fields and JXTG Group Code of Conduct 4. Health enhancement (primarily occupational health) For details, please see the following: page 24 for the Antistandards overseen by the 5. Respect for human rights Corruption Policy and page 51 for the Human Rights Policy. committee 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment Code of Conduct handbook Group Philosophy card 11 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 12 CSR Management • CDP • International Council on Mining Employee Awareness Survey Stakeholder Engagement & Metals (ICMM) The JXTG Group conducts its business activities while maintaining relationships with a variety of stakeholders, including Once every two years, the JXTG Group conducts an shareholders, investors, customers, business partners, and employees. We seek to earn society’s trust by accurately assessing the anonymous survey of all employees on such topics as the needs of our stakeholders and responding conscientiously. Group Philosophy, the Code of Conduct, compliance, day-today work and workplace culture. Shareholders and Investors Customers Business Partners Identifying the level of employee awareness and any • Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) issues inherent in each workplace assists in the improvement JXTG Holdings is committed to the prompt, The JXTG Group is committed to developing The JXTG Group makes purchasing information of a variety of CSR issues. The most recent survey was proper, and fair disclosure of information to and delivering products and services that fulfill available to business partners on its website, conducted in the first half of fiscal 2017, and the results were • Keidanren 1% Club • Council for Better Corporate shareholders and investors in accordance with customer needs and expectations and earn actively provides business opportunities, and Citizenship (CBCC) its Disclosure Policy customer trust and satisfaction. strives to ensure fair business opportunities. reported to the Board of Directors and the management team in accordance with the Group’s CSR promotion system. Main means of communication Main means of communication Main means of communication General meetings of shareholders, presentation Communications through marketing activities Communications through procurement activities meetings on financial results, and information Provision of safe, reliable, and valuable products Use of websites Principal Declarations and Initiatives the JXTG sessions for individual investors and services Surveys of business partners Group Participates in and Supports Disclosure of information in the Integrated Disclosure of information on websites • Japan Business Initiative • Sport for Tomorrow Report, in shareholder reports, and on websites for Biodiversity (JBIB) Inquiry channels through phone and websites UN Global Compact (UNGC) Four Group companies—JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, and JX Nippon Mining & Metals—participate in the UN Global Compact, supporting the compact’s 10 principles in the four categories of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. Communication with Industry Organizations NPOs/NGOs Local Communities/Global Society Employees Organization Name Position Held by Group Executive, etc. The JXTG Group has built cooperative The JXTG Group strives to engage in responsible The JXTG Group positions employees as critical JXTG Holdings Japan Business Federation Vice Chair, Director, relationships with NPOs and NGOs and actively corporate activities by responding to the needs stakeholders in its operations and has (Keidanren) Permanent Secretary undertakes environmental preservation and and expectations of and engaging in active established various systems to ensure that each Petroleum Association of Japan Vice-President social contribution activities. communications with the local communities in employee can work with peace of mind and to the areas where it conducts its business activities his or her full capability. Japan Petrochemical Industry Director JXTG Nippon Association as well as international society. Oil & Energy Policy Coordinating Main means of communication Main means of communication Main means of communication Japan Chemical Industry Committee member, Labor Association Collaboration on biodiversity preservation activities Information sessions for members of local Periodic communications between labor unions Committee member communities and management The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Collection and donation of unsent postcards, Japan Petroleum Development unused stamps, etc., by employees Participation in and sponsorship of local events Dissemination of information through the Group JX Nippon Vice Chairman Human Rights Oil & Gas Association Collaboration on child-rearing support activities Volunteer activities employee magazine and the company intranet Exploration Japan Natural Gas Association Director Establishment of various support systems for Periodic employee awareness surveys Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 oil-, gasand copper-producing countries internationally proclaimed human rights; and Japan Mining Industry Vice Chairman, Director make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 2 Association (JMIA) Labour The Sulphuric Acid Association Participation in the Global Conference on Reflecting Customer Feedback to Achieve of Japan Chairman Business and Human Rights Further Improvements Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the JX Nippon Principle 3 Mining & Japan Copper and Brass The JXTG Group participated in the 2018 Global Conference JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy receives feedback and requests effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Director Metals Association (JCBA) on Business and Human Rights in Tokyo, hosted by Caux from customers through the JXTG Customer Service Center. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 4 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 5 Japan Society of Newer Metals Director Round Table Japan (CRT), on September 13 and 14, In fiscal 2017, 23,695 inquiries were received by the former the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Japan Catalyst Recovering 2018. Through discussions with human rights experts JX Nippon Oil & Energy’s ENEOS Customer Service Center. Principle 6 Association Chairman occupation. from overseas, human rights NGOs/NPOs, and the many The JXTG Customer Service Center replies within 24 hours to Environment companies in attendance, we shared and exchanged customers who wish to be contacted, and strives to resolve information on the latest worldwide trends and viewpoints inquiries satisfactorily for customers within 72 hours. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 on business and human rights, along with best practices in environmental challenges; Inclusion in ESG Indices undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 8 human rights due diligence used by other companies. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Through ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, we will technologies. Principle 9 continue to maintain an accurate understanding of human Anti-Corruption rights issues we need to address as a company. For more information, please see the CRT Japan website. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including WEB Principle 10 extortion and bribery. http://crt-japan.jp/en/ 13 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 14 Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Governance Report Corporate Governance The JXTG Group works to strengthen corporate governance and promote Framework compliance in order to increase our corporate value through highly transparent management and fair business practices. Basic Approach and Framework Corporate Governance Framework General Meeting of Shareholders Election and removal of directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members and Election and removal of directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members independent auditors (Audit firm) JXTG Holdings Audit Audit and Board of Directors Supervisory Committee (Chaired by representative director, chairman) Collaboration Independent 5 directors who are Audit and 13 directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members (3 of whom are outside directors) Supervisory Committee members Auditors 5 directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members (3 of whom are outside directors) Supervision (3 of whom are outside directors) Delegation of decisions Submission on important business execution matters Consultation Recommendation Report on results Consultation Recommendation of monitoring Representative director, president Election and removal of executive officers Discussion Financial audit Supervision Collaboration Nomination Advisory Compensation Advisory Executive Council Internal Control Council Committee Committee (Chaired by representative (Chaired by representative (Chaired by outside director) (Chaired by outside director) director, president) director, president) Collaboration Approval Monitoring Resolution Business Execution Audit Internal Audit Executive Officers Department Internal audit (Internal Audit Division) Management supervision + Internal control of corporate group Priority Fields for CSR Activities High Ethical Standards Group Companies Core Operating JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals Other Group Companies Companies Compliance Safety and Environment Corporate Governance Data (As of June 27, 2018) Item Details Human Rights Format of institutional design Company with an audit and supervisory committee Number of directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members 13 (10 inside, 3 outside) Human Resource Development Number of directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members 5 (2 inside, 3 outside) Total number of directors 18 (12 inside, 6 outside) Health Ratio of outside (independent) officers 33.3% Ratio of female officers 11.1% Quality Term of directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members 1 year Term of directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members 2 years Social Contribution Adoption of executive officer system Yes Institution assisting the president’s decision making Executive Council Voluntary advisory institutions for the Board of Directors Establishment of Nomination Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee 15 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 16 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Framework Transition to a Company with an Audit and of optimizing the value of the JXTG Group as a whole, the request outside directors to be involved from the stage of of business execution, and share these with other Audit Supervisory Committee Company takes charge of formulating basic management consideration, and to fully discuss matters from multiple and Supervisory Committee members. The Company transitioned to a company with an audit and policies, including the JXTG Group Philosophy, the JXTG points of view; and in decision-making on the execution of 7. Governance framework of core operating companies supervisory committee effective June 27, 2018, with the Group Code of Conduct, and the medium-term and longmaterial operations as well as supervision of execution of (1) Each core operating company is a company with a board aim of further strengthening the management functions term management plan and budget (hereinafter, “basic material operations, fully verify consistency with the basic of corporate auditors. Each core operating company has (deliberation and determination of basic management management policies”), allocating management resources, management policies, taking opinions of outside directors a board of directors as a mechanism enabling directors policies) and supervisory functions of the Board of Directors, and overseeing the management of each core operating into account; and to fulfill mutual supervision functions, and each core as well as to further improve the agility of the execution company. In turn, each core operating company shall (2) In determining personnel affairs and compensation of operating company will independently carry out sufficient of operations. Through this transition, the Company will agilely execute its business activities in accordance with directors at meetings of the Board of Directors of the analysis of risks and verification of consistency with basic promote the separation of management and supervision from the basic management policies. Company, ensure transparency of the decision-making management policies. In addition, full-time Audit and the execution of operations, and strive to further enhance 2. Institutional design process by consulting with the Nomination Advisory Supervisory Committee members of the Company will be corporate governance. The Company is a company with an audit and Committee and the Compensation Advisory Committee, dispatched as part-time corporate auditors of each core supervisory committee. half of whose members are outside directors, and which operating company to perform audits on the execution of 3. Board of Directors are chaired by an outside director. duties by directors of core operating companies. Basic Policy on Corporate Governance The Board of Directors of the Company consists of the 6. Executive officers and Executive Council (2) With respect to decision-making related to the execution In order to achieve the sustainable growth of the JXTG chairman, the president, more than one full-time director, (1) The Company will appoint executive officers as an of important business of the core operating companies Group and increase its corporate value over the medium part-time directors concurrently serving as the presidents of institution for the agile execution of operations pursuant to (including the execution of important business projects to long term, the Company established the JXTG Group the core operating companies, and outside directors. The the decisions of the Board of Directors. under the control of the core operating companies), after Basic Policy on Corporate Governance, with the objective Board of Directors is operated pursuant to the policy below: (2) For the determination of business execution by the a decision by the Board of Directors of a core operating of establishing and operating a corporate governance (1) The Board of Directors will focus on deliberation/ president, the Company has established the Executive company, in principle, the matter must be decided by or framework for the conduct of transparent, fair, timely, and determination of basic management policies, and the Council as the institution for discussing matters approved reported to the Board of Directors of the Company. With decisive decision-making in the Group’s management. This supervision of business execution; by the president. The Executive Council, comprising respect to the execution of other business of the core policy describes systematically and comprehensively the (2) Certain decisions on the execution of material operations the chairman of the Board of Directors, president and operating companies, execution will be entrusted to each Group’s basic approach to corporate governance as well as will be delegated to the president of the Company in order executive officer, executive vice presidents, senior vice core operating company within the scope of the basic its establishment and operation, taking into consideration to improve the agility of business execution; and presidents appointed by the president, and the presidents management policies and management resource allocation the Corporate Governance Code created by the Tokyo (3) With respect to material matters related to investment return of core operating companies, makes decisions based on determined by the Company, and these matters shall be Stock Exchange. This basic policy is published on the JXTG evaluations for, as well as risks and progress of, important prudent deliberations. approved by the president of the core operating company Holdings website as our commitment to all stakeholders, business execution projects for the Company and core (3) Full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee members will after deliberation by the Executive Council of the core including shareholders of JXTG Holdings along with JXTG operating companies, the president of the Company and attend meetings of the Executive Council to understand operating company. Group customers, business partners and employees, and the the presidents of the core operating companies will submit the process for making important decisions and the status local communities where we operate. reports, which will be verified for consistency with the basic WEB JXTG Group Basic Policy on Corporate Governance management policies and then supervised. Composition of Nomination Advisory Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee and Fiscal 2017 Results (Available in Japanese only.) 4. Audit and Supervisory Committee https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/system/pdf/ Advisory Bodies Nomination Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee (1) The Audit and Supervisory Committee of the Company governance01.pdf Chairperson Outside director (Otsuka)* Outside director (Otsuka)* will carry out organized and systematic audits with high efficiency and objectivity through appropriate collaboration Members Representative directors: 3 (Uchida, Sugimori, Mutoh)* Representative directors: 3 (Uchida, Sugimori, Mutoh)* Basic Approach to Corporate Governance (including chairperson) Outside directors: 3 (Ota, Otsuka, Miyata)* Outside directors: 3 (Ota, Otsuka, Miyata)* between full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee By appropriately establishing and operating corporate members, who possess powerful information-gathering Ensure the transparency of the process of determining director Ensure the transparency and objectivity of the process of determining the Purpose candidates compensation and other benefits for directors and executive officers governance, the JXTG Group works to realize the JXTG skill, and outside directors who are Audit and Supervisory The committee met a total of three times and held deliberations on The committee met a total of three times and held deliberations on the Group Philosophy, to achieve sustained growth, and to Committee members, who possess strong independence Results in fiscal 2017 personnel matters for the Company’s director candidates and corporate introduction of a stock compensation system and the policy for determining increase corporate value over the medium to long term. along with a wealth of knowledge and experience; and auditor candidates. the compensation for the Company’s directors and executive officers. Based on this recognition, the Company has established and (2) The Audit and Supervisory Committee of the Company will * Please see https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/directors/ for the profiles of officers (Board of Directors and Audit and Supervisory Committee Members) operates the corporate governance of the Group as follows. supervise business execution by means of each director who is an Audit and Supervisory Committee member Nomination Advisory Committee Compensation Advisory Committee Basic Principles on the Establishment and Operation exercising their voting rights at meetings of the Board of of Corporate Governance Directors and by means of each director who is not an To ensure the transparency of the process of determining the director To ensure the transparency and objectivity of the process of candidates of the Company, the Nomination Advisory Committee determining the compensation and other benefits for directors 1. Role of each company in the holding company structure Audit and Supervisory Committee member exercising has been established to provide advice to the Board of Directors. and executive officers, the Compensation Advisory Committee The JXTG Group is a group of companies whose core their right to voice their opinion concerning personnel and The Nomination Advisory Committee consists of three outside has been established to provide advice to the Board of Directors. business consists of three business fields: the Energy compensation matters. directors and three representative directors, and one of the outside The Compensation Advisory Committee comprises three directors on the committee acts as chairperson. At meetings of outside directors and three representative directors, and one business, the Oil and Natural Gas E&P business and 5. Outside directors the Nomination Advisory Committee, deliberations are held on of the outside directors on the committee acts as chairperson. the Metals business. In view of the fact that these To take advantage of the wealth of knowledge and the personnel matters of the Company’s director candidates, and The Compensation Advisory Committee is responsible for three businesses are so distinct, the JXTG Group has experience of outside directors and to ensure transparency recommendations are made to the Board of Directors on the results deliberating the policies for determining the compensation and established a structure under which the Company serves and objectivity in decision-making, the Company shall take of these deliberations. In addition, opinions are exchanged on the other benefits for directors and executive officers as well as other issue of succession planning for the Company’s chairman and related matters. The results of the committee’s deliberations are as a holding company and the three core operating the following measures: president and for the presidents of the core operating companies, recommended to the Board of Directors. companies, which promote each core business, are (1) In determining the basic management policies at and advice is received from the outside directors. placed thereunder. Under this structure, from a standpoint meetings of the Board of Directors of the Company, 17 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 18 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Framework been made in the provision of information to outside officers, Training for Outside Directors (Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2018) Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of which was cited as an issue last year, and that the Board was Topic Intended for Timing (fiscal year) Content of training Directors generally evaluated as effective. In addition, each director Corporate governance Newly appointed directors and corporate auditors 2017 JXTG Group corporate governance Overview of Evaluation of the Effectiveness of and corporate auditor evaluated initiatives underway since Internal control Newly appointed directors and corporate auditors 2017 JXTG Group internal control systems Overview of JXTG Holdings and the Board of Directors fiscal 2017 to improve the operation of the Board of Directors, core operating companies Newly appointed directors and corporate auditors 2017 Basic knowledge about JXTG Holdings and the core operating companies From November to December 2017, the Company conducted including ensuring enough time for deliberations. 2017 (Energy) Kawasaki Refinery, Kawasaki Plant, Bulga Coal Mine (Australia) (Oil E&P) Nakajo Oil and Gas Field an evaluation of the effectiveness of the entire Board of On the other hand, directors and corporate auditors Worksite tours All directors and corporate auditors (Energy) Oita Refinery, Malaysia LNG Plant 2018 (plan) Directors. To conduct the evaluation, the Company employed continued to point out certain issues, such as the roles of (Metals) Toho Titanium, Kurami Works, Saganoseki Smelter and Refinery an external consultant, and a questionnaire and interviews the holding company and the core operating companies, the Investor relations All directors and corporate auditors 2017, 2018 (plan) Opinions of institutional investors (expectations regarding the JXTG Group) were implemented for all directors and corporate auditors, organization of matters for deliberation, and improvement of including outside directors and corporate auditors. The results monitoring. Moving forward, the Company will work to make and other benefits is determined by resolution of the Board were analyzed and it was determined that improvements have further improvements in these areas. Determination of Director Compensation of Directors after deliberation and recommendation to the The upper limit of the total amount of compensation, etc., for the Compensation Advisory Committee (comprising three outside Process for Evaluation of Board Effectiveness Company’s directors was determined, as follows, at the eighth directors and three representative directors; and chaired by an Evaluation by an outside consultant Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 27, 2018. outside director). Compensation is paid out within the above Questionnaire for all directors and corporate auditors based on the results of questionnaire 1. The amount of compensation for directors who are not maximum amount pursuant to this policy. (both inside and outside) Tabulation and analysis and interviews analysis performed by Improvements based on Audit and Supervisory Committee members shall be equal The compensation and other benefits of directors who results of evaluation an outside consultant to or less than 1,100 million yen (including 200 million yen are Audit and Supervisory Committee members comprise Interviews led by an outside consultant Self-evaluation by the Board of Directors for outside directors who are not Audit and Supervisory a fixed compensation amount in view of the independence Committee members) per business year. of their duties. Compensation is paid out within the above 2. The amount of compensation for directors who are Audit maximum amount pursuant to deliberations involving each provides explanations to the outside directors about important and Supervisory Committee members shall be equal to or director who is an Audit and Supervisory Committee member. Method of Appointing Director Candidates agenda items before the meeting. Furthermore, to enhance less than 200 million yen per business year. The Company strives to appoint independent outside directors* the auditing function by all Audit and Supervisory Committee In addition, in a separate framework from the above, at the Introduction of Share Compensation Plan to at least one-third of director positions. As of June 27, 2018, members, including outside directors, the Company has eighth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held on the ratio of outside independent officers was 33.3%. established the Office of Audit and Supervisory Committee, June 27, 2018, it was determined that a share compensation The Company introduced a share compensation plan As directors who are not Audit and Supervisor which is clearly independent from the chain of command plan for the Company’s directors who are not Audit and beginning in fiscal 2017. The share compensation plan adopts Committee members, the Company has appointed for divisions responsible for business execution (including Supervisory Committee members (excluding outside directors) a mechanism called Board Incentive Plan Trust (BIP Trust). people who have such characteristics as high standards personnel evaluations). Full-time staff members have been and executive officers who do not serve concurrently The plan covers the period of execution of the duties of the of business ethics, strategic thinking ability, superior assigned to the office to assist with the duties of the Audit as directors (hereinafter, “the Directors, etc.”) would be Directors, etc., over three fiscal years, from fiscal 2017 to fiscal decision-making capabilities, and flexible attitudes toward and Supervisory Committee members. Moreover, to support implemented once again. The upper limit of the plan is 600 2019, and entitles the Directors, etc., to the delivery of the change, as well as the ability to supervise decision-making the outside directors who are not Audit and Supervisory million yen over a period of three fiscal years. Company’s shares based on their roles. Certain portions of and management from the viewpoint of what is best for Committee members in business execution, the Board The compensation and other benefits of directors such Company shares may be provided by cash equivalent of the Group as a whole. Two or more of the directors are Members’ Support Office has been established, and full-time who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members the value of the Company’s shares upon conversion. independent outside directors. staff members have been assigned. comprises the three components of fixed compensation paid The purpose of the introduction of this plan is to clarify the As directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee monthly based on role, a bonus whose amount fluctuates linkage between the compensation of the Directors, etc., and members, the Company has appointed people who have based on performance, and share compensation in which the value of the Company’s shares; to further raise the incentive such characteristics as high standards of business ethics, a Training for Directors and the Corporate Auditors the Company’s shares are provided based on role. This is a of the Directors, etc., to contribute to the enhancement of certain level of specialist knowledge in legal affairs, finance of Core Operating Companies balanced compensation system that reflects the Company’s corporate value; to further increase awareness for shareholderand accounting, as well as the ability to appropriately The directors of the Company and core operating companies business performance for the business year as well as centered management; and to improve the medium-to-longaudit the execution of duties by directors and the ability to and the corporate auditors of core operating companies stock value over the medium to long term in compensation term corporate value of the JXTG Group. appropriately supervise the execution of business. A majority have the duty of working toward the realization of the Group amounts. The policy for determining this compensation of these are independent outside directors. Philosophy, the sustained growth of the JXTG Group, and the * The term “independent outside director” refers to outside directors who achievement of increased corporate value over the medium Amount of Compensation and Other Benefits for Each Category of Officer (Fiscal 2017) have satisfied the Company’s “Criteria for Assessing the Independence of Independent Officers.” to long term. To that end, to support efforts to enhance Total amount of Total amount of compensation and other Number of eligible Total amount of compensation and other Number of eligible Grantee compensation and other benefits by type (Millions of yen) benefits by type (Millions of yen) necessary knowledge and skills, the Company and its core benefits (Millions of yen) Fixed compensation Bonus officers Share compensation officers operating companies provide opportunities for directors Directors (excluding outside directors) 605 354 228 14 23 8 Support System for Outside Directors and corporate auditors to receive training related to the Corporate auditors (excluding 104 104 — 4 — — outside corporate auditors) Each of the three outside directors who are not Audit and Companies Act, internal control systems, accounting and Outside directors 60 60 — 5 — — Supervisory Board members and the three outside directors taxes, business strategies, and organizations. In addition, Outside corporate auditors 33 33 — 4 — — who are Audit and Supervisory Board members meet the the Company also pays for expenses arising from self-study independence standards based on the rules of the Tokyo initiatives. Furthermore, when outside directors are appointed, Amount of Compensation and Other Benefits for Each Officer (Fiscal 2017) and Nagoya stock exchanges, on which the Company is the Company provides explanations of basic matters Total amount of compensation and Total amount of compensation and other benefits by type (Millions of yen) Name Grantee other benefits (Millions of yen) Fixed compensation Bonus Share compensation listed. The Company sends materials regarding the agenda regarding the JXTG Group’s businesses, and after their Yasushi Kimura Representative Director 112 67 42 4 of meetings of the Board of Directors to the outside directors, appointment, the Company offers business presentations and Yukio Uchida Representative Director 112 67 42 4 in principle, three days before the meeting, and the Company worksite tours to deepen their understanding. Note: Only persons with total compensation and other benefits of 100million yen or more are listed. 19 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 20 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Compliance Corporate Governance Compliance Framework Framework Internal Control Risk Assessment of Business Activities Information Security Risk Management The JXTG Group has introduced an enterprise risk Based on the JXTG Group Philosophy and in alignment with The JXTG Group has developed company rules and Based on its Basic Rules for Information Security, the JXTG management (ERM) system, through which it strives to the Code of Conduct, the Company has established and regulations for combating various kinds of risks in its business Group works to prevent the improper use or disclosure, share and visualize risk information that contributes to operates an internal control system to ensure appropriate activities. For the screening of new investments, in addition including leakage, of company information, which is a management decision making and the day-to-day execution operations. The Board of Directors formulated the Basic to country risks and foreign exchange rate risks, we analyze corporate asset. The JXTG Group also strives to maintain the of business operations. Policy on Internal Control System, which addresses the and evaluate ESG-related risks, including environmental risks accuracy and reliability of its corporate information as well operation of this system, and is monitoring the status of such as those related to the scope of response to biodiversity as prevent falsification or erroneous handling while making it operation of this system. and environmental regulations, risks in the procurement of possible for authorized users of information to have constant Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) WEB The JXTG Group’s Basic Policy on Internal Control System is published raw materials including water, and human resources risks access to information when they need it. The Company established an office in charge of risk on our website. including occupational health and safety aspects. Based on management within the Corporate Planning Department in https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/system/pdf/policy.pdf this, appropriate actions are taken when necessary. Cyber Security Measures April 2017, which has been working on the development and For example, when reviewing a potential investment, operation of an ERM system. The Internal Control Department takes the lead in assistance we perform screenings based on the stage-gate system The JXTG Group conducts training drills, issues reminders on In fiscal 2017, based on the COSO* ERM framework, and general management for the development and operation prior to reaching a final decision. The objective of the stagesuspicious email delivered to employees and provides Groupthe Company comprehensively identified risks facing of the JXTG Group’s internal control system. In particular, gate system is to narrow down important projects for the wide security training using curriculum translated into multiple the JXTG Group with an eye on the current condition of the department works on building and reinforcing internal advancement of business strategies in an efficient manner. languages in order to protect its important information and the entire JXTG Group and future changes in the social control systems for general operations pursuant to the COSO Under this system, processes from initial review to execution systems from cyberattacks, which have become stealthier in and economic situation. Afterward, through interviews of framework, which has become a global standard on internal are broken down into stages of review. In turn, gates are recent years. managers and other means, we determined specific risk controls. Starting in fiscal 2018, an approach to internal set up that must be cleared in each of these stages. During The IT Security Basic Procedures for JXTG Group events that could affect the JXTG Group. After calculating controls following a risk-based PDCA cycle was rolled out screenings, we clarify various risks, including ESG-related have been established as a set of rules that must be the impact and probability of these risks according to and deployed at JXTG Holdings and JXTG Nippon Oil & risks, using sensitivity analysis and case analysis among followed by Group companies. The Company is now assessment criteria, we selected those risks exceeding a Energy. Under this approach, each organization identifies other means and take steps to minimize risks. For important working to further enhance cybersecurity countermeasures certain threshold as “material risk events.” Furthermore, and evaluates risks that could impede business operations, investments, follow-up is carried out after a certain period for the entire JXTG Group. we determined the degree of latency of these material risk formulates and implements appropriate controls based on the of time has passed to clarify impacts on the initial outlook events in a comprehensive manner and defined multiple risks identified, and then regularly monitors these risks. We caused by environmental changes or other factors and priority response risk events. The Board of Directors receives plan to roll out and deploy this same approach at other Group determine whether to continue with the project thereafter. reports on these priority response risk events and verifies the companies in the future. Furthermore, ESG-related risks pertaining to existing effectiveness of the overall ERM process. businesses are managed and monitored appropriately within In fiscal 2018, we will examine detailed contingencies Risks and Opportunities Concerning the framework of the Company’s CSR promotion structure. for each designated priority response risk event and begin Climate Change implementing these contingencies after reporting them to the The Company has identified climate change as a Crisis Management Board of Directors. We will also continue to closely monitor management strategy risk within ERM. Specifically, the changes in the social and economic situation as we identify Company faces risks related to the transition to a lowWhen crises or emergency situations arise that may material risk events that could affect the JXTG Group and carbon society and risks related to the physical impacts of significantly affect the management of the JXTG Group, the assess these risks, as well as designate priority response risk climate change. Company exercises overall control and has prepared the events and prepare for them. The JXTG Group maintains a diverse business portfolio Rules for Responding to Crises and Emergency Situations, Furthermore, the core operating companies, JXTG that spans the fields of energy, resources and materials. Along which specifies measures to be taken to minimize any Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, and with risks related to the transition to a low-carbon society, damage that may occur. JX Nippon Mining & Metals, each have established and are there are various business opportunities that can be gained The Crisis Management Department of the Company operating an ERM system based closely on their individual from this transition as well, including those in sectors such as functions as the standing organizational unit in charge of business operations and characteristics. natural gas, electricity, renewable energy, functional materials, crisis response and management. The general manager of Departments in charge of risk management of the and electronic materials. In particular, the Company believes this department acts as head of this crisis response unit, Company and its core operating companies work together to that development and strengthening of businesses that and when such situations arise at the Company and Group share information on risks. If a risk event that could seriously will be mainstays of the future as indicated in the mediumcompanies, operating procedures require that the situation impact the JXTG Group’s management is detected at a core term management plan (overseas business, power and gas and measures to be taken be reported immediately to the operating company, a system is in place in which both the business, and technology-driving business) will help it cope head of the crisis response unit. core operating company responsible for the risk event and the with the transition to a low-carbon society. In addition, depending on the magnitude of the crisis, Company will work together to share information as well as Please see the Special Feature section on pages 33 to 40 of our the Company may, at its discretion, form a crisis response WEB examine and implement contingencies for the risk event. Integrated Report for more about the JXTG Group’s contributions headquarters or a joint crisis response headquarters with JXTG to the realization of a low-carbon society. * COSO stands for Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Group companies to respond quickly and appropriately to the Commission. It refers to a framework for internal control released by the https://www.hd.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/ir/library/annual/ commission and adopted by countries around the world. crisis, thereby fulfilling the social mission of the JXTG Group. 21 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 22 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Framework Compliance Framework Compliance training on the prevention of bribery. In this manner, we are corrupt practices along with actions complicit in corrupt working to raise employee awareness of this important issue. practices among its officers and employees, etc., both Internal audits and other means are used to continuously inside and outside of Japan, regardless of whether the monitor whether these mechanisms are functioning properly. Compliance The results of monitoring are reported to the JXTG Holdings other party is a public servant or a private individual. 4. Management of Payment Records Board of Directors through the CSR promotion structure and In cases where officers and employees, etc., of the the Internal Control Council. Furthermore, we have a system JXTG Group provide money or other benefits to third in place to promptly detect and rectify problems through our parties involved in business execution processes, the whistle-blowing system. JXTG Group will appropriately retain evidence of such In fiscal 2017, there were no occurrences of serious transactions, and require that the money or other benefits violations related to bribery or corruption, and no internal be recorded in accounting records, accurately and Basic Approach Compliance Inspection without exception, in terms of amount, accounting item, disciplinary measures related to such violations. etc., in order to prevent off-the-books handling. The JXTG Group works to achieve thorough compliance, Compliance inspections are conducted annually as an The Group is participate in the United Nations Global calling for high ethical standards in our Group Philosophy as initiative to proactively ascertain our state of compliance with Compact, and actively supports the 10 Principles, including 5. Training well as our Code of Conduct. laws, contracts, and corporate regulations at each workplace. anti-corruption. The JXTG Group will provide appropriate training to its officers and employees, etc., to ensure that this policy is Compliance-related cases in which the JXTG Group Through interviews by managers with each member of their appropriately implemented in the business activities of all incurred heavy fines or penalties in fiscal 2017 are stated staff, issues with compliance spanning the entire scope of JXTG Group companies. under “Compliance Violations” on page 25. operations are identified, and solutions are developed and Establishment of Anti-Corruption Policy 6. Penalties for Violations implemented. This functions as the core of the JXTG Group’s The JXTG Group established basic rules on the prevention The JXTG Group will impose rigorous penalties on any compliance promotion structure. of bribery and corruption within “7. Equitable and fair JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) of its officers or employees, etc., found to be in violation transactions” and “8. Appropriate relationships with of this policy, based on the rules of the JXTG Group 1. Compliance governments and public administrations” of the JXTG company the officer or employee belongs to. In addition, Compliance Training Group Code of Conduct, and requested cooperation not the JXTG Group will impose rigorous penalties on (1) We ensure compliance with laws, contracts, and advisors, consultants, agents, or contractors, etc., hired JXTG Group Philosophy cards and JXTG Group Code only from the Group but also companies in the value chain corporate regulations and follow social norms and by the JXTG Group if they are found to be in violation of customs in an appropriate manner. of Conduct handbooks are given to all executives and to aid in compliance. However, we decided to establish an this policy. employees of the JXTG Group to instill awareness that official anti-corruption policy in order to further clarify that (2) We shall neither ignore nor participate in any 7. Compliance System each individual is responsible for compliance in his or her the Company will not be involved in nor tolerate any acts of compliance violations. day-to-day business operations. We also conduct training bribery or corruption. Going forward, we will continue to raise The presidents of all JXTG Group companies bear a responsibility to ensure that their officers and employees, on topics related to compliance, such as anti-monopoly awareness concerning the application of the JXTG Group etc., abide by this policy. In addition, officers or laws and the prevention of bribery. Code of Conduct and ensure compliance with it. employees, etc., of the JXTG Group who detect any In fiscal 2017, training was conducted for Group action that violates or could violate this policy are required Compliance Promotion Structure companies for the following: prevention of insider to report such action immediately to their company. The JXTG Group Compliance Committee, chaired by the trading, compliance with competition laws, and the JXTG Group Anti-Corruption Policy 8. Applicable Scope officer (director) responsible for the Legal & Corporate prevention of bribery. The JXTG Group conducts its business activities under This policy applies to all officers and employees of the Affairs Department of JXTG Holdings, has been established the JXTG Group Philosophy, which states that we will JXTG Group. All business partners involved in the JXTG under the JXTG Group CSR Council, which is chaired by contribute to the development of our communities and Group’s business activities will be requested to cooperate the president of JXTG Holdings. The committee adopts Initiatives to Prevent Bribery and Corruption help to ensure a vibrant future through creation and with this policy. innovation in energy, resources, and materials. policies for actions related to compliance matters that must The JXTG Group will not tolerate bribery in any form. We 9. Positioning This policy was formulated as a guideline for the be addressed by the Group as a whole, and reports on the have internal regulations in place to prevent bribery at our entire Group to prevent corrupt practices along with This policy supplements the provisions of the JXTG Group results of these activities. Group companies inside and outside of Japan, and all officers actions complicit in corrupt practices, as well as to fulfill Philosophy and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. and employees actively work under a clear commitment by its corporate responsibilities to society. Notes 1. JXTG Group: JXTG Holdings and the subsidiaries of JXTG management to prevent bribery. 1. Basic Approach Holdings, including both those directly and indirectly owned. Whistle-Blowing System (Compliance Hotline) In addition, as indicated below, we have established the 2. Corrupt practices: Bribery, embezzlement, coerced benefit sharing, Under this policy, officers and employees, etc., of the bid-rigging and other acts that involve the abuse of the authority or To detect legal violations in the early stages and take prompt JXTG Group Anti-Corruption Policy. JXTG Group, both inside and outside of Japan, are position of oneself or a third party. corrective actions, principal Group companies have set 3. Bribery: Refers to both giving bribes, where money or other Specifically, a mechanism has been put in place required to comply with laws on the prevention of interests or benefits are offered, promised or actually given, and up whistle-blowing systems (compliance hotlines) for their to check for bribery involving travel expenses, business corrupt practices in Japan and other countries and receiving bribes, where interests or benefits are requested or actually prevent corrupt practices as well as actions complicit in received, for the purpose of obtaining interests or benefits by wielding employees and those of our contractors as well. In addition entertainment, gift giving, and donations, taking into improper influence over the duties of the other party. corrupt practices. to reporting within Group companies, whistle-blowers, who consideration the laws and regulations of each country. 4. Actions complicit in corrupt practices: Actions including judicial interference, concealment of corrupt earnings, money laundering, and may elect to remain anonymous, can also make reports to We also implement third-party due diligence procedures to 2. Compliance with Applicable Laws and instigation, assistance or conspiracy to commit corrupt practices. designated external attorneys-at-law. Regulations 5. Employees, etc.: Employees, contract workers, and part-time prevent our involvement in bribery through a third party such employees of the JXTG Group, temporary workers dispatched to the We are now working to set up similar hotlines for as an agent, agency, or distributor. The JXTG Group complies with applicable laws and JXTG Group, and other persons subject to the instructions or orders regulations in the countries and regions where it conducts of the JXTG Group. overseas subsidiaries in accordance with the circumstances Employees are able to access relevant internal 6. Public servant: Includes, but is not limited to, national its business activities. government employees, local government employees, persons of each country. At certain overseas subsidiaries, we have regulations at any time via the company’s in-house intranet or engaged in official duties for international institutions, persons already introduced in-house whistle-blowing systems that other means. They also undergo various forms of compliance 3. Prohibited Actions deemed to be engaged in public duties per laws and regulations, and officers and employees of companies effectively controlled by a accept reports in multiple languages. The JXTG Group prohibits, both directly and indirectly, national government or local government. : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. 23 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 24 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Framework Compliance Framework Compliance Disclosure Framework and Workflow Compliance Violations Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and 3. Disclosure Standards Tax Administrations and the Base Erosion and Profit Information on Nippo Corporation, a member of the JXTG Group, received Decisions Events Shifting Project). Financial Results The Company shall disclose material information, a cease and desist order along with a surcharge payment including information about financial results, and 3. Fostering Awareness of Tax Compliance Each division and Group company of JXTG Holdings decisions and events likely to influence investment order (134.24 million yen) for violating Japan’s Antimonopoly Act during two-layered sound-proofing pavement work for the Through continuous training concerning tax matters and Report decisions, in compliance with applicable laws and other relevant training, we make efforts to maintain and regulations including Companies Act, Financial Tokyo Metropolitan Government, pavement work for Tokyo improve our awareness of tax compliance. Director Responsible Instruments and Exchange Act and other laws and Port Terminal Corporation and pavement work for Narita regulations, and the Tokyo Stock Exchange and other International Airport Corporation. 4. Optimization of Tax Costs Discussion/Report*¹ exchanges' rules on timely disclosure of corporate Nippo Corporation is now carrying out measures such By using the Advance Pricing Arrangement and other information by issuers of listed securities (“Timely relevant systems, we attempt to obtain agreement with Representative Director *² as training on Japan’s Antimonopoly Act and regular audits Disclosure Rules”). In addition to information required Board of Directors tax authorities, and make efforts to reduce risks and to be disclosed by the Timely Disclosure Rules, (monitoring of sales representatives) performed by its in-house optimize costs. Disclosure directive the Company shall also proactively disclose other legal department in an effort to prevent reoccurrence of such information in response to the needs and wishes of 5. Establishment of Relationships of Trust with Information Disclosure Officer violations in the future. JXTG Holdings will continue to provide shareholders and investors. Tax Authorities (General Manager of Finance & Investor Relations Department) guidance to Nippo Corporation to ensure that it maintains At the request of tax authorities, we timely and properly Disclosure execution 4. Group Systems and Procedures for Timely compliance with applicable laws and regulations. provide them with necessary information. Disclosure of Company Information Securities Exchanges 6. Applicable Scope As the JXTG Group's holding company, the Company oversees the management of JXTG Group companies. Tax Matters Policy This policy applies to all officers and employees etc… (Followed promptly by disclosure on the Company’s website) The Company shall establish systems and procedures Companies have a corporate social responsibility to of the JXTG Group. All business partners involved in the to expeditiously and accurately gather, manage, and *¹ Whether timely disclosure is required is determined through consultation JXTG Group’s business activities will be requested to among the director responsible, the general managers of the General disclose information about not only itself but also JXTG appropriately honor their tax liabilities in the countries cooperate with this policy Administration, Legal & Corporate Affairs, and Controller departments, the Group companies. A flowchart of the JXTG Group's and areas in which they conduct their business activities. information disclosure officer (general manager of the Finance & Investor 7. Positioning Relations Department), and the general managers of any other relevant timely disclosure procedures is shown at left. Therefore, we have formulated the JXTG Group Tax Matters departments or offices. Policy as follows. This policy supplements the provisions of the JXTG Group 5. Information Disclosure Methods *² Disclosure of information regarding events that require urgent disclosure may Philosophy and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. be made on the authority of a representative director without being reported Information to which the Timely Disclosure Rules apply to the Board of Directors. shall be disclosed by the Company via the Tokyo Stock JXTG Group Tax Matters Policy Exchange's TDnet information disclosure system. In addition, after disclosure, the Company shall promptly The JXTG Group conducts business activities under post the same information on its website. the JXTG Group Philosophy, which states that we will Disclosure Policy JXTG Group Disclosure Policy For information not subject to disclosure per the contribute to the development of our communities and The Company is fully aware that the timely and proper Timely Disclosure Rules, the Company shall accurately help to ensure a vibrant future through creation and disclosure of corporate information is a key element of healthy The JXTG Group conducts its business activities under and impartially communicate the information to innovation in energy, resources, and materials. the JXTG Group Philosophy, which states that we will shareholders and investors in accord with the above capital markets. Accordingly, the Company makes efforts to This policy was formulated as a guideline for the contribute to the development of our communities and Basic Policy and Disclosure Standards. entire Group in fulfilling its responsibility to carry out its tax ensure prompt, appropriate, and fair disclosure of information help to ensure a vibrant future through creation and obligations appropriately. to shareholders and other investors with the aim of promoting innovation in energy, resources, and materials. 6. Quiet Periods (periods during which inquiries transparency in management. Systems are in place to This policy was formulated as a guideline for disclosing on financial results are declined) 1. Basic Approach material information in an accurate and clear manner. obtain, manage, and disclose information on the Company To prevent information leaks concerning financial results, Among others, companies have a corporate social the Company shall observe quiet periods for three responsibility to appropriately honor their tax liabilities as well as information on JXTG Group companies quickly 1. Basic Approach weeks before it publicly reports its financial results. in the countries and areas in which they conduct their and accurately. Information that is subject to the Timely The JXTG Group fully recognizes that adequate and During quiet periods, the Company shall refrain from business activities. Therefore, we have determined and Disclosure Rules is made public through the timely disclosure timely disclosure of company information is a cornerstone answering any questions or otherwise commenting subsequently implement the “JXTG Group Tax Matters system (TDnet) provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and of sound capital market formation. The Company shall about its financial results. However, if a substantial Policy,” as follows. endeavor to expeditiously, appropriately, and impartially deviation from the previously announced earnings others, and the same information is made available on the disclose information to shareholders and investors to forecast comes to light during a quiet period, the 2. Compliance with Applicable Laws and Company’s website. Information that is not subject to the establish a highly transparent corporate management. Regulations Company shall disclose such information. Timely Disclosure Rules is disclosed proactively based on We comply with the relevant tax laws and regulations 2. Compliance with Applicable Laws and 7. Applicable Scope basic policies and disclosure standards. in the countries and areas in which we conduct our Regulations The Company has prepared Insider Trading Prevention This policy applies to all officers and employees of the business activities. We conduct our business activities The JXTG Group complies with the laws, ordinances and JXTG Group. All business partners involved in the JXTG Regulations, and systems have been created to communicate regulations applicable in the countries and regions where in accordance with the purposes of the rules regarding Group’s business activities will be requested to cooperate international tax matters (such as the OECD Transfer regulations regarding insider trading throughout the JXTG Group. it conducts its business activities. JXTG Holdings, Inc., with this policy. (“the Company”) has adopted Insider Trading Prevention Regulations. Through these internal regulations, the 8. Positioning Company has established controls to promote GroupThis policy supplements the provisions of the JXTG Group wide awareness of insider trading restrictions. Philosophy and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. 25 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 26 Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Environmental Report Corporate activities are contingent upon a Environmental Management healthy global environment. Recognizing that preservation of the global environment is an important issue shared by all humankind, the JXTG Group has included environmental conservation as a standard in its Group Code Basic Approach Plan and Targets of Conduct and as a priority field for CSR As part of its responsibilities as a corporate group involved in The JXTG Group has formulated the Medium-Term activities as part of its efforts to contribute energy, resources, and materials, the JXTG Group maintains Environmental Management Plan (fiscal 2017–2019) and to the development of a sustainable society a proper understanding of the impact of its business established environmental targets for fiscal 2030, aimed at through its business activities. activities on climate change risks and natural capital. In contributing to the development of a low-carbon, recyclingaddition, environmental conservation has been included as oriented society. We are now moving ahead with relevant For data pertaining to the Environmental a standard in the JXTG Group Code of Conduct, and the environmental activities under this plan and these targets. Report, please see the Data section of environment has been identified as a priority field for the We now plan to draw up a long-term vision for the this report. Group’s CSR activities. Group along with the next Medium-Term Environmental Specifically, the JXTG Group has formulated the JXTG Plan, set to begin in fiscal 2020, with the goal of actualizing Group Environmental Policy and set relevant targets as our mediumto long-term strategy. This includes expanding part of our efforts to contribute to the development of a disclosures considering the final report of the Task Force sustainable society. on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) released in June 2017. JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) Environmental Targets in the JXTG Group’s 3. Environmental conservation Medium-Term Environmental Management (1) We recognize that we are stewards of the environment Plan (Fiscal 2017–2019) and for Fiscal 2030 and its limited resources. We strive to conserve biodiversity and natural capital, including, but not limited 1. Reduction in CO2 emissions along the entire to, water, soil, and the atmosphere, and contribute to supply chain (as compared with FY2009) the development of a sustainable society. Medium-term target (FY2019): (2) We strive to promote renewable energy and energy Reduction of 2.72 million tons conservation in order to contribute to the development FY2030 target: of a low-carbon society. Reduction of 4.08 million tons Priority Fields for CSR Activities (3) We strive to contribute to the establishment of a 2. Waste-to-landfill ratio circular economy by reducing, reusing and recycling, High Ethical Standards while using resources effectively and efficiently. Maintain zero emissions (waste-to-landfill ratio of less than 1%) (4) We strive to take actions to promote sustainable Compliance production and consumption for the benefit of society while taking the same actions throughout our Safety and Environment value chain, including, but not limited to, resource development, procurement, production, distribution and sales. Human Rights : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. Human Resource Development Health Quality Social Contribution 27 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 28 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity are subject to internal audits once a year. They also undergo Major Initiatives for Achieving the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan and Results in Fiscal 2017 Major Initiatives periodic reviews by a third-party certification body to maintain Reduction in CO2 Emissions their certification. 1. Reduction in CO2 emissions (compared to 2009) Environmental Education Amount of reduction in CO2 emissions (Million tons) (1) Reduction in CO2 emissions at Group 1.49 million tons production sites: With the aim of raising environmental awareness even further, FY2019 FY2030 Environmental Accidents Energy conservation: 1.04 million tons FY2009 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 (Medium-term (Long-term the Group holds e-learning sessions for employees and (Baseline year) Results Results Plan environmental target) environmental target) CO2-EOR*: 450 thousand tons -0.80 provides regular rank-based education, training and drills, In fiscal 2017, one environmental accident occurred. -0.88 -0.90 -0.95 (2) Reduction in CO2 emissions other than 1.07 million tons -0.96 -1.50 for the purpose of instilling awareness of the Group’s basic Necessary measures were taken to address this accident and at Group production sites: -0.13-1.89 -1.07 -1.08 -1.15 environmental policies and business plans, as well as various prevent a recurrence. 2. Waste-to-landfill ratio -0.45 -0.45 -0.45 laws and regulations. (1) Thorough separation of waste, -0.16 -1.80 Date Place Description 0.6% -0.17 -0.17 and reuse and recycling: -2.56 -2.60 -2.72 (vs. target ○0.07) * CO2-EOR (Enhanced Oil Recovery): Technology for the -0.50 Environmental Audits Hitachi Works, Alkaline wastewater leaked into a river improved recovery of oil through the injection of CO2 gas. -0.28 April 2017 JX Nippon Mining & from a crack in a concrete thickener This technology simultaneously increases production of crude Energy: Scope 1 and 2 -4.08 Metals oil and reduces emissions of CO2 into the atmosphere by All business sites that have obtained ISO 14001 certification Energy: Scope 3 transporting the CO2, captured out of the processed flue gas from a coal-fired power plant, to an oil field, and injecting and Emissions Metals: Scope 1 and 2 storing the CO2 into legacy fields. 29.15* *Scope 1 and 2 emissions Oil and gas exploration: Scope 1 Major initiatives for reducing CO2 emissions Main initiatives for reducing waste-to-landfill ratio Overview of the JXTG Group’s Environmental Impact • Modifications to xylene recovery equipment at the Chiba Refinery • Use of sludge, soot and dust as a raw material for concrete • Concentrated investments in energy efficiency at the Negishi Refinery • Recovery of valuable metals from waste catalysts Input-Output of the JXTG Group (results from fiscal 2017) • CO2 separation and capture, etc., with the CO2-EOR project • Increased sales of environmentally friendly products (The graphic illustrates both the CO2 emissions associated with business activities and the CO2 emissions attributable to the consumption of products) INPUT OUTPUT Transportation of through the CSR Council. raw materials Structure In addition, chief executives and environmental The JXTG Group Environment & Safety Committee is chaired management officers have been appointed for EMS CO2 emissions by the officer (director) responsible for the department in operation, and environment-related departments have been charge of environment and safety at JXTG Holdings. This established at each Group company. 29.47million tons committee has been established under the JXTG Group CSR The Group has also obtained certification for ISO 14001, a Council, which is chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings. set of international standards for environmental management, SOx emissions The Environment & Safety Committee deliberates at many of its business sites where the EMS has been Product manufacture 13 thousand tons environment-related matters and confirms operation of the adopted (72 business sites in total). Fifty-six of these business Fuel consumption Environmental Management System (EMS) across the entire sites have obtained certification, representing a certification 10.49 million kL NOx emissions Group, and results are reported to the Board of Directors rate of 78%. OUT 15 thousand tons Electricity consumption JXTG Group Environmental Management Promotion Structure 4,569 million kWh COD emissions JXTG Holdings IN Board of Directors Monitoring/Supervision Body Responsible for Domestic distribution 2 thousand tons Service water consumption Report JXTG Group CSR Council Collaboration Risk Management and sales Monitoring/Supervision (Chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings) Internal Control Council 0.2 billion tons Landfill disposal Executive Council Report 9 thousand tons JXTG Group Environment & Safety Committee Seawater consumption (Chaired by the officer (director) responsible for the department in charge of environment and safety at JXTG Holdings) 1.6 billion tons Meets twice a year, in principle CO2 emissions attributable to Environment Meeting product consumption by customers Held once each quarter, in principle Product consumption CO2 emissions OUT 240.95 million tons JXTG Holdings Group JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Chief Executive Chief Executive Environmental Management Officer Environmental Management Officer Environmental Management Officer Environmental Management Officer Notes: CO2 emissions calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. CO2 emissions from the consumption of electricity calculated using Emission Environment-related department Environment-related department Environment-related department Environment-related department Factors by Business Operator. CO2 emissions attributable to consumption by customers calculated using the latest oil product sales volumes (for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy) in Japan based on the Basic Guidelines Note: See CSR Management on pp. 8–14 for an overview of the Group’s CSR implementation structure. on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain. Target oil products were revised in fiscal 2017. : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. 29 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 30 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity CO2 Emissions Intensity for Smelting and Supporting Research on Hydrogen Energy Refining Supply through the ENEOS Hydrogen Trust Fund （t-CO2/ton of refined copper produced） JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy established the ENEOS Hydrogen Initiatives to Prevent Global 1.5 Trust Fund in March 2006 in order to help speed up the Warming 1.0 0.93 0.86 0.86 realization of a hydrogen society. The fund is Japan’s first public trust specializing in supporting 0.5 research on the supply of hydrogen energy. The fund is large enough that a stable supply of research grants worth 50 million 0 yen each year (up to 10 million yen per project) can be provided 2015 2016 2017 (FY) for 30 years to support innovative and pioneering basic Note: Covers the smelting and refining sites of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group. and refining facilities was 13.6 GJ/t and the intensity of CO2 research into hydrogen energy supply systems. Basic Approach emissions was 0.86t-CO2/t. Both figures were little changed Breakdown of GHG Emissions Other Than CO2 The JXTG Group is working to reduce CO2 emissions from last year. Procurement/Transport across the entire supply chain in order to contribute to the In fiscal 2017, the Group invested around 6.0 billion yen in Emissions other than CO2 Tons 153,727 development of a low-carbon society. To achieve this, we are facilities for energy conservation. Going forward, we remain 1. CH4 (methane) Tons 41,480 With regard to marine transportation, which primarily involves reducing CO2 emissions by promoting energy conservation committed to promoting greater energy conservation by 2. N2O (nitrous oxide) Tons 111,725 the transport of crude oil to Japan, the Group is making active during the production stage (business activities), as well as introducing energy-saving technologies and optimizing 3. HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) Tons 308 efforts to use oil tankers with superior delivery efficiency and developing and selling environmentally friendly products that operations at our refineries and plants. fuel efficiency, and to improve fuel consumption by optimizing 4. PFCs (perfluorinated compounds) Tons 0 have a lower environmental impact, while also expanding our * Scope 1 and Scope 2 as defined in the GHG Protocol. transportation routes and controlling navigation schedules 5. SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) Tons 214 renewable energy business. and speeds. Changes in Total GHG Emissions 6. NF3 (nitrogen trifluoride) Tons 0 For information on our environmental management Regarding land transportation, in addition to CO2 Other than CO2 structure, see pp. 28–29. The main greenhouse gases other than CO2 include CH4, consolidating oil depots and improving the distribution (Million tons) 29.62 produced during crude oil extraction, and N2O, which is efficiency of tank trunks, the Group is working to reduce fuel 30 28.71 29.63 0.02 0.15 0.15 emitted from heating furnaces during the oil refining process. consumption through efforts such as insisting that drivers turn Response to Climate Change 20 We will continue working to lower these and other off their engines when stopped. Based on the results of environmental impact assessments GHG emissions. conducted under the environmental management system 28.69 29.47 29.47 10 at our refineries and other business sites, we carry out Distribution emergency training drills for flooding and tidal surges and 0 Initiatives for Operations Outside of The Group is actively implementing power-saving measures implement initiatives to prevent heat stroke. For information on our company-wide initiatives on climate 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Production Sites* at its service stations nationwide through efforts such as the Notes: Calculated in accordance with the Act on Promotion of Global Warming change, see p. 21. Countermeasures. The Group’s CO2 emissions from product consumption by installation of photovoltaic power generation systems and the For detailed data, see p. 79 of the Data section. customers in fiscal 2017 amounted to 240.95 million tons. adoption of LED lighting. The JXTG Group is working to reduce CO2 emissions Energy Consumption Intensity for Oil Refining outside of its production sites by selling environmentally Consumption Initiatives at Production Sites* (Oil equivalent consumption volume (kL)/Crude distillation unit equivalent throughput (thousand kL)) friendly products. Currently, we are working toward our 10.0 targets of reducing these emissions by 1.15 million tons The Group is promoting greater energy conservation at the Energy Conservation 8.22 8.28 8.18 8.0 in fiscal 2019 and by 1.8 million tons in fiscal 2030, both consumption stage through the development and sale of The Group’s CO2 emissions in fiscal 2017 totaled 29.47 million 6.0 compared to fiscal 2009. environmentally friendly products, which contribute to a lower tons, roughly unchanged from the previous fiscal year, even * Scope 3 as defined in the GHG Protocol. environmental impact. 4.0 though the utilization rate of production facilities increased. 2.0 Greenhouse gas emissions other than CO2 totaled 0.15 R&D Main environmentally friendly products million tons. 0 • Fuel-saving lubricants • Natural gas (LNG) 2015 2016 2017 (FY) The Group spent a total of around 20 billion yen on research • Liquid crystal polymers At the Chiba Refinery, to recover xylene fractions from Note: Covers the refining sites of the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group. gasoline, we introduced an energy-efficient distillation tower and development. technology, developed overseas, which enables the distillation Energy Consumption Intensity for Smelting and Collaboration with Business Partners of two towers in a single tower. As a result, the refinery was able Refining (Green Procurement) Response to Climate Change to reduce energy consumption by around 20%. At the Negishi When purchasing equipment and materials, the Group (GJ of heat /ton of refined copper produced) The JXTG Group is moving ahead with research into Refinery, we undertook a total of seven major investments practices green procurement, taking into account the 20.0 climate change response in the following fields in order to in energy conservation, timed to coincide with regular address climate change issues. environmental burden and other social impacts. maintenance work. These investments included increasing the 15.0 13.8 13.6 13.6 For more information, see p. 69. • Rationalization and streamlining of oil refining processes number and efficiency of heat exchangers and increasing the 10.0 • Cellulose-type bio-ethanol efficiency of rotary machines. As a result, the refinery was able 5.0 • Technical development for the manufacture, storage, to reduce CO2 emissions by around 0.07 million tons. transport and supply of hydrogen Through these and other initiatives, we reduced our crude 0 • Development of sensor materials to promote greater use oil refining energy consumption intensity by 0.1 points. 2015 2016 2017 (FY) of IoT : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. In addition, the energy consumption intensity of smelting Note: Covers the smelting and refining sites of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group. 31 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 32 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Advancement of Renewable Energy Power Building an Integrated Hydrogen Supply Increasing Crude Oil Production and Reducing Renewable Energy and Hydrogen Supply Generation Business for CO2 Reduction System, from Production to Transport and Sales CO2 through CO2-EOR (Enhanced oil recovery) Business Initiatives In light of the introduction of the feed-in tariff system for Hydrogen is a clean energy source that does not emit CO2 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is participating in a CO2-EOR As an initiative for the use and supply of low-carbon energy, renewable energy in 2012, the JXTG Group has been actively during use. Because it enables the use of renewable energy project that utilizes cutting-edge technology to reduce CO2 the Group operates a renewable energy power generation engaged in the mega solar power generation business and untapped energy sources, hydrogen is considered an emissions, a cause of global warming. business, which leverages renewable energy sources such as using its idle land. Beginning with the start of commercial important form of energy for the future. CO2-EOR refers to injecting CO2 into depleted oil solar power, wind power and hydro power, and a hydrogen operation of the Sendai Mega Solar Power Plant in February In Japan, hydrogen use has already begun in the field reservoirs, thereby improving oil recovery and storing the supply business. 2013, the Group has established mega solar power plants of mobility. As of September 30, 2018, there were around injected CO2 securely underground, thus reducing CO2 in 17 locations nationwide. In fiscal 2016, the Group began 2,800 fuel cell vehicles nationwide. Japan is also the first in emissions in the air. Generation Capacity by Energy Source (as of July 2018) operation of new mega solar power plants constructed on the the world to reach 100 hydrogen stations, 40 of which are In July 2014 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration launched Thermal (12 sites) 1,644MW premises of Nihonkai Oil in Toyama Prefecture, at the former operated by the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group. a project in the United States to build and operate a Solar (17 sites) 43MW site of the Fukui Oil Depot in Fukui Prefecture, and at the site Our ENEOS Yokohama Tsunashima Hydrogen commercial-scale carbon-capture system that collects CO2 of the former Gamagori Gas Terminal in Aichi Prefecture. Station features a showroom for sharing various forms of from the flue gas of a coal-fired power plant. The captured Hydro (1 site) 5MW The Group is also actively advancing power generation information on hydrogen called Suiso Terrace, where active CO2 can then be injected into an oil field to increase oil Wind (2 sites) 3MW businesses using renewable energies other than solar, efforts are now taking place to raise awareness about the recovery and the CO2 is stored in the oil reservoir instead of Total 1,695MW including biomass, hydro power and wind power, and has growth of hydrogen. being emitted into the air. amassed a total generation capacity of approximately 49,000 Moving forward, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy will leverage The world's largest post-combustion carbon capture Power Generation by Renewable Energy (2017) kilowatts (as of June 2018). its long-standing infrastructure and expertise in the provision facilities has been constructed at NRG Energy’s WA Parish The Group will continue to utilize these clean energies, of automotive fuel to build a streamlined hydrogen supply power plant southwest of Houston, Texas. The captured CO2 Solar 50,716MWh thereby contributing to the reduction of CO2 emissions. chain in Japan, thereby contributing to the realization of a is transported through a 130-kilometer pipeline and injected Hydro 26,686MWh hydrogen society. into the West Ranch oil field,* where it is expected to increase Wind 5,146MWh the field's output. Note: The GHG emission coefficient for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy’s electric power This is a epoch-making project set to revitalize legacy business in fiscal 2016 was 0.000495 t-CO2/kWh (after adjustment). oil fields while reducing greenhouse gas emissions from thermal power plants, and yet it is specifically advanced Expansion of Renewable Energy Power Plants Nationwide that commercialization of the project has been brought by utilization of gas emisssions from a thermal power station. As of February 2018, the project had captured a cumulative total Muroran Biomass Power Plant (under construction) of 1.2 million tons of CO2. * JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration holds a 25% interest in the West Ranch oil field. Oga Mega Solar Power Plant Akita Mega Solar Power Plant Hydrogen Manufacturing and Shipment Center (Naka Ward, Yokohama City) Akita Wind Power Plant Toyama Mega Solar Power Plant Sendai Mega Solar Power Plant A wind turbine Sakai Mega Solar Power Plant Iwaki Mega Solar Power Plant Kakinosawa Hydropower Plant Hiroshima (JX Nippon Mining & Metals) Mega Solar Power Plant Hitachi Mega Solar Power Plant Kudamatsu Mega Solar Power Plant Kasumigaura Mega Solar Power Plant Kudamatsu No. 2 Mega Solar Power Plant Asaka Mega Solar Power Plant Yokohama Tsunashima Hydrogen Interior of Suiso Terrace Station and Suiso Terrace CO2 recovery plant Ohgishima Wind Power Plant Project Map Gamagori Mega Solar Power Plant Kakinosawa Hydropower Plant Takamatsu Mega Solar Power Plant United States Texas Masaki Mega Solar Power Plant Houston Oita Mega Solar Power Plant WA Parish power plant West Ranch Gulf of Mexico oil field 130km Uruma Mega Solar Power Plant Mega solar Biomass 0 100 200km Pipeline Hydropower or wind power Uruma Mega Solar Power Plant (new construction) 33 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 34 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity secondary waste that requires landfill disposal is produced. Initiatives for the Effective Use of Resources In addition to nonferrous metals, iron and other ferrous The JXTG Group is working to reduce its use of raw metals are recovered as slag and used as raw materials for Initiatives to Promote the 3Rs materials by streamlining production and expanding the use cement and other purposes. By preventing the generation of (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) of recycled raw materials. JX Nippon Mining & Metals promotes the effective use of secondary waste, we are reducing our environmental impact. resources by efficiently recovering copper, precious metals, and (2) Proprietary Treatment Processes Based on rare metals from recyclable resources, drawing from processes Smelting and Refining Technologies that harness technologies developed in our smelting business The recycling of nonferrous metals is carried out using over more than a century. In fiscal 2017, 252 thousand tons of uniquely developed, efficient and reliable treatment processes, the 2.659 million tons of raw materials used in the company’s which are based on the technologies we have developed over Initiatives to Reduce Waste Basic Approach business activities were recycled resources. many years through our operations at mines, smelters, and In fiscal 2017, waste totaled 1.535 million tons, and landfill refineries. At the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery of Pan Pacific As part of our efforts to contribute to the development of a waste after recycling and reuse efforts totaled 9 thousand Copper Co., Ltd., which boasts Asia’s largest treatment recycling-oriented society, the JXTG Group promotes the tons, a reduction of 2 thousand tons versus the previous fiscal Recycling and Environmental Services capacity for recycling copper and precious metals, energy is effective use of resources and the reduction, reuse, and Business year. The waste-to-landfill ratio was 0.6%, indicating that we conserved by using the excess heat generated from copper recycling of waste within the Group. We also contribute to waste reduction and resource recycling in greater society continue to achieve zero emissions (waste-to-landfill ratio of Contributing to the Realization of a Recyclingconcentrate smelting for melting recycled materials. less than 1%). Oriented Society through Our Recycling and through our recycling and environmental services business. Environmental Services Business Resource-Recycling Initiatives in Pursuit of Specific initiatives for waste reduction include For information on our environmental management Zero Emissions transforming the collected particulate matter and sludge JX Nippon Mining & Metals is engaged in an integrated range structure, see pp. 28–29. Information on our targets can be released from oil refineries back into raw materials for cement, of businesses related to copper and other nonferrous metals. found in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan and the repeated use of neutralized slag1 at our smelting and These businesses encompass resource development, metal Consumers Products section on p. 28. refining facilities. smelting and refining, electronic materials, and recycling and Used home electronics, etc. Manufacturers (Urban mining) of end products In addition, we use LCA methodology2 in evaluating the environmental services. Our recycling and environmental (home electronics, vehicles, machinery, Major Initiatives development of certain lubricant products. services business, which is the main artery of this value chain, etc.) Zero emissions has also been highlighted as a Group includes environmental services for detoxifying industrial Products Industry-Academia Collaboration objective in the JXTG Group Medium-Term Environmental waste and the recycling of materials containing nonferrous Collection system Management Plan and environmental targets. With this metals into refined metals. Utilizing the key features and In recent years, the number of researchers and engineers Parts in mind, we will continue to implement proper waste strengths of this business—zero emissions, proprietary manufacturers in Japan working in fields related to smelting, refining and management and recycling programs. treatment processes based on smelting and refining recycling nonferrous metals has been declining. In response Recycled materials 1 Neutralized slag: Product generated by the neutralization reaction in the technologies, and a global collection network—we contribute Materials for electronic to this situation, JX Nippon Mining & Metals, in collaboration smelting process. components, etc. significantly to the development of a sustainable, recyclingwith the Institute of Industrial Science, the University of Tokyo, 2 LCA methodology: LCA is an acronym for life cycle assessment. LCA methodology involves quantitatively evaluating product manufacturing oriented society. launched the Endowed Unit for Nonferrous Metal Resource throughout the entire life cycle, from procurement of raw materials to Recycling and environmentalservices business Electronic materials Recovery Engineering (JX Metals Endowed Unit) with the aim manufacturing, transport, use, and disposal. business Hitachi Metal RecyclingComplex (HMC) of unifying the forces of industry, academia and government Department of Hitachi Works Tsuruga Plant Nonferrous to energize the industry and raise the level of its efforts. The metals Saganoseki Smelter & JX Metals Endowed Unit carries out various initiatives, from Waste-to-Landfill Ratio and Landfill Disposal Volume Refinery of Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. using and developing smelting and refining technologies for the Landfill disposal volume Waste-to-landfill ratio Environmental Group: development of environmentally friendly recycling technologies (Thousand tons) (%) 5 companies for nonferrous base metals and rare metals, to developing the 20 0.8 human resources in charge of the work in this field. 0.7 Business domains of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group For details, see pp. 76–81 of Sustainability Report 2018 15 0.6 0.6 0.6 published by JX Nippon Mining & Metals. 11.8 (3) Global Collection Network 10 9.9 0.4 At Tomakomai (Hokkaido), Hitachi (Ibaraki Prefecture), Research and Development Initiatives 9.3 Mikkaichi (Toyama Prefecture), Tsuruga (Fukui Prefecture), and Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex (HMC) JX Nippon Mining & Metals built a testing facility in Department of Hitachi Works Saganoseki (Oita Prefecture), we are recycling and detoxifying 5 0.2 Tsuruga City, Fukui Prefecture in 2010 to develop recycling recycled materials and industrial waste collected through the technologies for lithium ion batteries. It is now working on Key Features and Strengths of the Recycling nationwide collection network we have built. As the amount developing technologies for recovering rare metals such as 0 0 and Environmental Services Business of scrap generated in Japan has declined, we are enhancing 2015 2016 2017 (FY) cobalt and lithium from these batteries. (1) Zero Emissions our collection operations overseas and have established a Note: For detailed data, see p. 79 of the Data section. For details, see pp. 82–83 of Sustainability Report 2018 In the processes for detoxification of industrial waste and collection and pre-treatment site in Taichung, Taiwan, and an published by JX Nippon Mining & Metals. conversion of recycled materials into reusable resources as operating site in Arizona, the United States. : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. refined metals, we are pursuing zero emissions, where no 35 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 36 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity registration by 2018. In addition, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy We have specified prohibited or obsolete substances has completed registration of chemicals that it may export to (such as PCB, asbestos, and lead compounds) and Europe as follows. substances that require monitoring (metallic compounds Management of Chemical Export volume 1,000 tons or more per year November 2010 and VOCs such as xylene) to better manage their use in Substances Export volume less than 1,000 tons per year; 100 tons or more per year May 2013 products, and are working to mitigate any harmful effects they may have. In addition, we provide essential product safety Guidelines on Chemical Substances in Our information to customers and others involved with our Products and Management of Chemical products using methods such as safety data sheets (SDS). Substances In the event that we obtain new information about any substances was 1,916 tons, an increase of 166 tons from JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has voluntarily established standards hazards or environmental impacts of our products, we Basic Approach the previous fiscal year, while the transfer volume was 408 for managing the chemical substances used in its products. promptly update the relevant SDS. Based on laws and regulations such as the Pollutant Release tons, an increase of 213 tons from the previous fiscal year. and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, the JXTG Group strives to This was due to the increase in the volume of products properly manage chemical substances and reduce emissions handled that contain specified chemical substances. Low-Concentration PCB Waste Detoxification (JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd.) of such substances. In addition, we are shifting to chemicals with lower impacts on health and the environment. Management and Detoxification of PCB1 Waste Since March 2014, when JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Japan, including JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical, capable of We are also committed to properly managing chemical Based on the PCB Special Measures Act received certification from the Minister of the Environment as detoxifying not only low-concentration PCB waste materials substances not covered by these laws and regulations. The JXTG Group carries out storage notification and the first low-concentration PCB waste detoxification facility but also the transformers, drums, and other housings that systematic treatment of PCB waste based on Japan’s Act on in Hokkaido, the company has been working to improve its contain them. Moreover, there are only 11 treatment facilities Special Measures concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment treatment capacity. that perform decontamination by means of cleaning processes. of PCB Wastes (PCB Special Measures Act). A deadline of March 31, 2027 has been prescribed The number and capacity of these facilities is still inadequate to Major Initiatives JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical Co., Ltd., which has by law for disposal of waste materials containing PCB. By meet the demand for low-concentration PCB waste disposal. that date, the owner must either dispose of such materials Moving forward, we will maintain stable operations for the Management and Monitoring of Specified been certified by the Minister of the Environment to provide lowChemical Substances under Japan’s Pollutant or have their disposal handled by an agent. However, as treatment of industrial waste as part of our efforts to contribute concentration PCB waste treatment, carries out detoxification Release and Transfer Register Act of March 2018, there were only 24 incineration facilities in to the environmental conservation of local communities. operations, thereby contributing to compliance with the The JXTG Group manages and monitors the release and Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants.2 Process for Complete Detoxification of Low-Concentration PCB Waste transfer amounts of specified chemical substances—such For details, refer to p. 38. ¹ PCB: Abbreviation for polychlorinated biphenyl. Due to its excellent electric Electrostatic benzene, toluene, and xylene, which are found in gasoline— Low-concentration PCB waste (insulating oil, etc.) Bag filters precipitator insulation properties, this chemical compound was used mainly in applications Detoxified vapor based on Japan’s Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release such as insulating fluids for transformers and capacitors, and carbonless Rotary kiln furnace Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment copiers. However, its production and import are now prohibited. ² Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants: A treaty regulating and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof the production, use, and proper treatment of persistent organic pollutants, (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Act). including PCB. Fixed-bed furnace Heat separation of PCB For fiscal 2017, the emission volume of these Detoxification of Waste Asbestos Secondary Quench tower furnace Scrubber Smokestack Release of Specified Chemical Substances Housing containing low-concentration After separating out the PCB, the housing is dismantled and copper, steel, The treatment of waste, including asbestos, which was used in PCB waste (transformer, capacitor, etc.) aluminum, and other metals are recycled at a smelter or other facility. (Tons) large quantities in the past, has become a major social issue. 2,000 1,916 1,657 1,750 JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd. melts down 1,500 Changes Since Initial Certification and detoxifies asbestos, responding to the need for waste 1,000 treatment. In fiscal 2017, the company treated approximately Treated items Treatment capacity 5,600 tons of waste asbestos. March 2014 Transformers Solids: 6 tons/day (3 500 (certification by Minister Metal scrap (drums, etc.) batches of 2 tons each) of the Environment) Waste oil containing low-concentration PCB Waste oil: 8.4 kL 0 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Compliance with the REACH Regulation Waste materials from outside Hokkaido can be accepted without the March 2015 need for advance consultation with local governments Transfer of Specified Chemical Substances The European Union’s Regulation on Registration, Increased size of objects that can be treated Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals September 2015 Width: 2.5 meters / Depth: 1.5 meters / Height: 2.3 meters (Tons) (additional certification (REACH Regulation) went into effect in June 2007. The Additional treated items: Increase in treatment 500 by Minister of the Capacitors capacity purpose of this regulation, which is based on precautionary 408 Environment) Metal coating scrap containing lowSolids: 12 tons/day 400 principles, is to standardize the management of chemicals concentration of PCBs (3 batches of 4 tons each) JX Nippon Tomakomai Chemical rotary kiln furnace 300 that are distributed within the EU in order to identify these Additional treated item: 217 195 200 chemicals, as well as their risks and environmental impacts. April 2016 Ballast contaminated with lowconcentration PCB 100 The JXTG Group respects the intent of the REACH Regulation. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group has Additional treated item: 0 March 2017 Inorganic sludge (concrete scrap) 2015 2016 2017 (FY) completed preliminary registration of products that are Note: For detailed data, see p. 79 of the Data section. subject to the regulation, and plans to complete official 37 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 38 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity VOC Recovery Initiatives to Prevent Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) containing hydrocarbons The JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group’s Kiire Terminal Environmental Pollution are released into the air whenever gasoline is pumped from a tank truck into a storage tank at a service station. These recovers, without releasing, the gases that have accumulated inside tankers when loading crude oil, and reuses the VOCs VOCs are not only a source of photochemical oxidants, but contained in these gases by absorbing them into the crude oil. also cause irritating odors in neighboring communities and can Gases, including odor-causing ones, that are not absorbed are adversely affect the health of both customers and employees. broken down. Therefore, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has installed The JXTG Group was the first in the world to implement recovery equipment on the ventilation ducts of service station this mechanism. This technology is contributing to the Basic Approach Reducing NOx Emissions storage tanks, which enables tank trucks to recover these advancement of environmental conservation measures and the VOCs so that they are not released into the atmosphere. effective utilization of energy. In addition to complying with relevant laws and regulations, Nitrogen oxides (NOx), which are also known to cause acid the JXTG Group works to maintain and conserve natural rain, are released into the atmosphere mainly as a component VOC Emissions and Reduction Measures at Refineries resources such as water, soil, and the atmosphere by curbing of exhaust gases from combustion facilities. the further release of environmental pollutants, effectively The JXTG Group carries out measures such as using Storage tank Shipping facilities utilizing water resources, and other measures. low-NOx boilers at combustion facilities, removing NOx using Causes of VOC emissions Cause of VOC emissions VOC To prevent environmental pollution, we work to mitigate flue gas denitrizers, and managing emissions using voluntary • Changes in air temperature, etc., VOC Oil risks by improving our facilities and conducting emergency standards. causing internal air expansion • Internal air emitted during product loading response and other training drills covering items identified as Fifteen thousand tons of NOx were emitted in fiscal • Internal air emitted during Oil Fixed-roof tank Tank truck serious concerns from an environmental perspective through 2017, which is about the same as the previous fiscal year. unloading operations the environmental management system of each company. For information on our environmental management Reduction of VOC emissions Reduction of VOC emissions structure, see the Environmental Management section on pp. • Gas recovery VOC vapors emitted from oils such as crude oil, gasoline and 28–29. naphtha are conducted to the stripper, where they are Oil Oil recovered through means such as adsorption and absorption. • VOCs emitted from inside the truck Fixed-roof tank Stripper during loading operations are conducted • Use of floating-roof tank to the stripper, where they are recovered Rise/Fall through means such as adsorption Initiatives to Reduce the Release of Air Pollutants The roof of the tank stays in contact with the surface of the product, rising and falling with input and output. There is Input Output and absorption. Tank truck Stripper no space inside the tank for gas vapors, so there are few VOC emissions. Oil Oil Reducing SOx Emissions Sulfur oxides (SOx), which are known to cause acid rain, are released into the atmosphere mainly as a component of exhaust gases from combustion facilities. The JXTG Group carries out measures such as using is a high risk of drought, approximately 80% of the water fuels with low sulfur content, removing SOx using flue gas Effective Utilization of Water Resources and used in the production process is recycled. As an operating desulfurizers, and managing emissions using voluntary Reducing the Release of Water Pollutants mine, it has the lowest level in Chile of water usage per ton standards. Thirteen thousand tons of SOx were emitted of ore processed. Effective Utilization of Water Resources in fiscal 2017, a decrease of three thousand tons from the At each of its refineries and smelters, the Group has previous fiscal year. We will continue our efforts to reduce Flue gas desulfurizer The JXTG Group uses water for purposes such as operating implemented environmental management systems, which are these emissions going forward. and cooling power generation facilities at refineries and utilized to assess the environmental impact of water usage smelters. Approximately 90% of this water is seawater. and respond accordingly. Reducing VOC Emissions In fiscal 2017, the volume of water used was 1.85 billion Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which are thought to tons, and the water discharge volume was 1.81 billion tons. JXTG Group Water Usage and Water Discharge produce photochemical oxidants through a photochemical The scope of data aggregation was expanded in fiscal 2017 Water usage Water discharge Seawater Service water (tap water, industrial water, rainwater) Ocean River smog reaction with NOx and ultraviolet rays from sunlight, are due to the business integration. Groundwater released from places such as storage facilities for petroleum For the effective use of water resources, the JXTG (Billion tons) products. Group recycles approximately 97% of the water used for 2.0 The JXTG Group is installing VOC recovery equipment in cooling at its refineries. In addition, to reduce the amount 1.85 1.81 0.02 0.01 storage facilities and truck loading facilities. of water used, smelters that use seawater for cooling have 1.5 0.18 1.42 Sixteen thousand tons of VOCs were released in fiscal partially switched to recycled water. 1.20 0.02 Flue gas desulfurizer 0.02 0.18 2017, a decrease of two thousand tons from the previous As part of our continuous efforts to ascertain the status 1.0 0.17 fiscal year. The decrease can be attributed to a decline in the of water resources, we use tools, such as water risk maps 1.65 1.80 0.5 1.22 storage and handling volume of gasoline intermediates. from the World Resource Institute, to verify whether the 1.00 locations of our business sites in Japan and overseas are in 0 areas of elevated water risk. 2015 2016 2017 2017 (FY) At the Caserones Copper Mine in Chile, where there Note: For detailed data, see p. 79 of the Data section. 39 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 40 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Reducing the Release of Water Pollutants Preventing Marine Pollution We manage and monitor pollutants in waste water through With regard to marine transport of oil, the JXTG Group is regular maintenance of water treatment facilities based required to comply with the International Convention for the on voluntary standards that are more rigorous than laws, Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), an international Initiatives for Biodiversity regulations, ordinances, and agreements, including Japan’s convention developed by the International Maritime Water Pollution Prevention Act. Organization that includes regulations for the prevention of In addition to our efforts at refineries and smelters, we environmental pollution by oil and the prohibition of waste carry out continuous operations for the treatment of acid mine discharge into oceans and seas. drainage at closed mines. In addition to fully complying with this convention, we take further steps to prevent marine pollution, such as taking We also carry out activities such as regular environmental incinerator ash as defined in the convention back to land for Basic Approach training for employees and community contribution activities proper disposal rather than discharging it into the ocean. The operations of the JXTG Group may impact the related to environmental conservation. environment surrounding our operation and production sites. Given the nature of our business, we consider biodiversity Involvement in Initiatives Related to Biodiversity Management of Closed Mines conservation to be an important effort, as stated in the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has been a member of the Japan We carry out initiatives with attention to biodiversity in Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), a leading business Of the 39 closed mines managed by JX Nippon Mining & Metals, Closed Mines Where AMD Treatment Is Carried Out acid mine drainage (AMD) treatment is an ongoing obligation at all aspects of our business activities. These initiatives include initiative for biodiversity in Japan, since 2013. Twelve closed mines where AMD treatment is carried out 12 mines pursuant to the Mine Safety Act. JX Nippon Mining the implementation of environmental impact studies when Ecomanagement performs AMD treatment, manages tailings, establishing new operation and production sites in order and carries out other operations at these sites. Hokushin to obtain an accurate understanding of local ecosystems, The main operations taking place in the management Toyoha including plants, birds and other animals, and marine life. of closed mines include the treatment and detoxification of For information on our environmental management structure, AMD, which is strongly acidic and contains heavy metals see pp. 28–29. Kamikita from ores remaining in the mines and tailings, as well as the Namariyama maintenance and protection of tailings and mine shafts. Oyu Involvement in Biodiversity Initiatives Hanawa AMD is generated continuously after a mine is closed Oya Major Initiatives in Japan Mitate The Chita Plant is a member of the Ecological Network as a result of the chemical reaction of rainwater and other Yoshino water with ores remaining in the mines and tailings in the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, which has many production Formation and Leadership Development Program for Corporate Hokuriku dams. Therefore, the operation of treatment facilities must be Hitachi sites, has established the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group Green Spaces in the Coastal Area of Chita Peninsula and the Taho maintained continuously. Guidelines on Biodiversity. In addition, we systematically carry Project Linking Life with One Another. These initiatives, which out activities for the preservation of biodiversity, conducting involve partnerships among Aichi Prefecture, Chita City, NPOs, ecosystem studies at our major business sites in Japan, many students and companies located in the coastal area, utilize of which are surrounded by large green belts. At our other corporate green belts and other areas to provide safe and business sites as well, we carry out environmental conservation secure habitats for local flora and fauna. activities suited to the surrounding environments. The plant is working to mainstream biodiversity through measures such as ecosystem surveys (monitoring) of its Motoyama AMD treatment facility at Gallery inspection at Hanawa Mine Toyoha Mine biotope, conducted with students in the local community. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group Guidelines In fiscal 2017, ecosystem surveys of the biotope were on Biodiversity conducted on two occasions. Soil Contamination on Group Property Reported in As a result of these activities, the Chita Plant was Soil Contamination Countermeasures Basic Stance Fiscal 2017 granted certification by the Association for Business We will carry out initiatives with attention to biodiversity The JXTG Group performs systematic surveys on all land Survey results Innovation in Harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) Soil Groundwater in every aspect of our business activities, under the that it owns that has the potential for soil or groundwater Category Location Status recognition that our business activities are deeply related in 2015 after undergoing a third-party screening developed Scale Scale contamination, focusing particular efforts on our property Substance factor Substance factor to the Earth’s biodiversity. by the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), based where refineries, oil depots, service stations and other facilities Countermeasures on the JBIB Guidelines for Sustainable Businesses Sites. This Idle land Aichi Benzene 5.8 Benzene 94.00 currently under Action Policy are located. If pollution is detected, we implement appropriate certification was renewed in 2018. implementation 1. We will ascertain and analyze the impacts of our countermeasures to address it. business activities on biodiversity and strive to make In addition, NIPPO Corporation has been involved in the Soil Surveys and Countermeasures in Fiscal 2017 improvements. contamination purification business since before Japan’s Soil (Expenditure: millions of yen) Contamination Countermeasures Act took effect. Surveys Countermeasures 2. We will promote activities that contribute to Number of Expenditure Number of Expenditure biodiversity preservation, such as nature protection cases cases and environmental education. Service stations 170 224 54 1,630 3. We will disclose and share information on our efforts Oil depots 1 0.3 0 0 to preserve biodiversity. Refineries/Business sites 7 18 1 1,377 Total 178 243 55 3,007 ABINC certification mark 41 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 42 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Environmental Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Prevent Initiatives for Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Management Global Warming Promoting the 3Rs Chemical Substances Environmental Pollution Biodiversity Ecosystem surveys were begun in fiscal 2013, and are Amancay (Balbisia peduncularis), Carboncillo (Cordia initiatives such as forest thinning, laying of trails (wooden paths) decandra), and Retamo (Bulnesia chilensis). and installation of bird-watching sheds were begun in fiscal In addition to these, monitoring of native plants 2016 and are slated to continue until fiscal 2019. such as Acerillo (Buddleja suaveolens), Flor del Minero In fiscal 2017, the refinery installed a biofan to ensure the (Centaurea cachinalensis), and Baylahuen (Haplopappus circulation of pond water and maintain water quality. baylahuen) is being carried out to obtain information on their In fiscal 2018, we plan to hold interactive events and biological growth. weed grassy areas using goats. Research is also being carried out on the plant species Llareta (Azorella monantha). Since Llareta grow at altitudes between 3,000 and 3,900 meters, where the impact of the Caserones Copper Mine is greatest, these plants are of high Survey of natural environment in the greenbelt importance as objects of study, which is aimed at learning such matters as their distribution in the Atacama region, how they ENEOS no Mori forest conservation activity propagate, and their phenology. Organized tour of the refinery A butterfly skimmer in the biotope JX Nakajo Forest afforestation activity Biological diversity of Caserones Measures for Ballast Water (Sea Water) Oil tankers from Japan bound for oil-producing countries carry ballast water (sea water) as weight to maintain stability for unloaded voyages. However, this ballast water contains microorganisms and plankton that are carried to the waters of oil producing Biofan installed to keep pond water clean countries, where, if released, they can disturb the balance of local ecosystems. Since 2004, the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group has Forest Stewardship and Afforestation Activities replaced this ballast water while still at sea, and installed Monitoring by an expert Tree planting in Nikko Ryuju Forest in Nanyo City, Yamagata Prefecture JXTG Group companies are involved in forest stewardship water treatment systems* for ballast water on its new vessels activities that contribute to the preservation of biodiversity. in an effort to avoid disturbing the coastal waters of oilJXTG Nippon Oil & Energy implements forest producing countries. Initiatives at the Negishi Refinery Major Initiatives Overseas stewardship activities called ENEOS no Mori at eight locations * Systems that keep the level of aquatic organisms in ballast water within certain standards prior to release. The Negishi Refinery is one of Japan’s largest oil refineries, across Japan in partnership with local governments and the Plans for Tree Planting and Biology Research at with an area of 2.2 million square meters and a circumference National Land Afforestation Promotion Organization (NLAPO). Caserones Copper Mine (Chile) of around 12 kilometers. The area in which it is located has Since 1998, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has JX Nippon Mining & Metals is carrying out plans to plant 48,200 Use of Environmental-Hormone-Free Ship Hull Paint a network of ecosystems with a diverse array of organisms implemented a forest stewardship project called JX Nakajo seedlings of 15 native flora species in an area spanning 143.51 inhabiting an expansive green belt that includes Sankei-en and Forest for the preservation of pine trees on and around the hectares (1.43 square kilometers) to maintain biodiversity and Tributyltin is a compound found in paint that was once Negishi Forest Park. Under the concept of creating a satoyama, site of its Nakajo Field Office in Niigata Prefecture. protect plants that could be impacted by business activities commonly applied to ship hulls, however, it is now known that the Negishi Refinery carries out activities for the conservation JX Nippon Mining & Metals is also working to at the Caserones Copper Mine. The areas being planted are this compound contains environmental hormones. of biodiversity utilizing the green belt (approximately 60,000 maintain the natural environment by continually engaging those around Ramadilla on the mine site, and the off-site areas We therefore use zinc-based paints for our ship hulls, square meters), a hub for the area’s ecosystem network, at the in afforestation activities such as tree planting and thinning, around Maitencillo and Amolanas. The work is expected to be despite their being somewhat less effective, as part of our center of the premises. mainly at the sites of its closed mines. completed in 2019. Among the types of flora being planted efforts to protect and maintain ecosystems. 43 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 44 Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Social Report The JXTG Group’s mission is to harness the Safety Earth’s power for the common good and for the day-to-day life of each individual. To fulfill this mission, we contribute to resolving the challenges faced by internal and external stakeholders. Basic Approach Structure For data pertaining to the Social Report, As a corporate group responsible for the stable supply of energy, The JXTG Group Environment & Safety Committee, chaired please see the Data section of this report. resources and materials, the JXTG Group believes that ensuring by the officer (director) responsible for the department in safe operations is the basis of our business survival and social charge of environment and safety at JXTG Holdings, has been credibility, as well as the source of our competitive edge. established under the JXTG Group CSR Council, which is Based on this understanding, safety has been prioritized chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings. in the JXTG Group Philosophy, and our basic policy on safety The Committee evaluates and shares information and security has been stipulated in the JXTG Group Code of on occupational injuries and the implementation of safety Conduct. activities at each Group company, and also reviews and In addition, based on the above, each Group company implements measures to prevent occupational injuries. evaluates risks pertaining to occupational safety and For information on our structure, see the Management establishes its own safety policy in accordance with its own Structure section on p. 29. business characteristics, thereby ensuring multiple layers of effective safety activities. OHSAS 18001 Certification Specifically, we aim to enhance our safety activities and safety training programs, in which the employees of our Each Group company has built safety management systems partner companies also participate, and we have established tailored to its respective business characteristics through preventive and emergency measures to cope with all manner of initiatives such as obtaining OHSAS 180011 certification. Our accidents, problems and natural disasters. companies are continuously making efforts to raise safety awareness and prevent occupational injuries, through means such as conducting exhaustive investigations into the causes JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) of any occupational injuries and formulating and implementing 2. Safety and security measures to prevent recurrence based on the results, as well as conducting regular safety education and training. (1) We regard safety and security as the foundation of Eleven business sites in Japan have obtained OHSAS Priority Fields for CSR Activities our business activities, set high safety and security standards, always ensure safety and security, and 18001 certification, a certification rate of 15%. take appropriate measures to prevent any incidents In addition, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has High Ethical Standards and injuries. developed and deployed its own HSE2 management system, (2) We have established preventive and emergency which conforms to OHSAS 18001. Under this system, Compliance measures to minimize damage to our business sites personnel in charge of HSE discuss safety-related matters caused by natural disasters, including earthquakes. with site managers and carry out safety checks. We also make every effort to protect the lives and ¹ OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Safety and Environment safety of our directors, officers and employees, ² Acronym for health, safety and environment. communities, and others concerned. Human Rights (3) We shall not work under the influence of alcohol or drugs, when ill, or under other conditions where safety Safety Education Programs Human Resource Development cannot be ensured. In order to raise the safety awareness of our employees, we regularly implement activities such as training to improve the Health WEB Related links quality of risk assessments, as well as safety management See the following for further details on the safety policies of training and safety meetings for managerial staff. We also Quality the Group’s core operating companies. provide safety education at the JXTG Group Safety Education https://www.noe.jxtg-group.co.jp/english/company/policy/ http://www.nex.jx-group.co.jp/english/environment/hse/policy.html Center (Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture) to improve employee Social Contribution sensitivity to workplace risks (see pp. 47–48 for further details). 45 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 46 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy also holds an Environment Our main efforts in fiscal 2017 included providing training to manufacturing floor, where heavy machinery, such as forklifts, is Safety Training Program Using Virtual Reality and Safety Forum to report on environmentand safetymanagers and using hand-held WBGT devices to prevent used frequently, increasing the potential for serious accidents. related matters across the company, for the further heat stroke, as well as confirming rules on the use of safety In 2013, the JXTG Group established the JXTG Group Safety The company has considered and implemented a number improvement of environmental and safety management. lanyards. Education Center in Hitachi City, Ibaraki Prefecture. Established of countermeasures at workplaces, including demarcation of In fiscal 2017, the forum was held in November, with In addition, the Worker Safety (WS) system tire roller and for the purpose of allowing workers to experience the risks separate routes for heavy machinery and people. Currently, participation by management. wheel loader developed by NIPPO Corporation passed the inherent in their work, the aim of the facility is to raise the safety the entire JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is considering the At JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, training programs Safety 2.0 certification screening and became the first devices awareness of individual employees through simulation training. introduction of measures that go a step beyond conventional are implemented at overseas offices (Vietnam and Malaysia) to from any industry to obtain this certification in February 2018. In fiscal 2017, 1,503 employees participated in training approaches, making the use of the latest preventive safety improve safety awareness. During fiscal 2017, the programs at the facility, bringing the total number since the center technologies. From fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2018, a system for were attended by a total of 220 participants. Occupational Injuries opened to 8,467. automatically braking heavy machinery was tested at the (Persons) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 In addition, a new Group training program that utilizes Saganoseki Smelter and Refinery of Pan Pacific Copper, while a Building a Mutual Assistance System for Fatalities 0 0 0 virtual reality technology was launched in July 2017. This system that issues warnings and commands to both operators Refineries and Other Sites program enables workers to feel what it is like to be personally and workers was tested at JX Nippon Coil Center. The following JXTG Group Lost work time 17 16 9 For response in the event that a refinery sustains damage Number of Subtotal 17 16 9 involved in an accident and think about victims’ psychological is a description of the heavy machinery automatic braking from an earthquake and is unable to regain control unaided, occupational state, as well as accident causes and preventive measures, system and its benefits. It has been determined that the system injuries Fatalities 0 1 1 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has established a system for Contractors (partner Lost work time 23 18 26 with a focus four kinds of experiential risk training: steam will be adopted at the Saganoseki Smelter and Refinery. companies, etc.) emergency response operations and measures to enable Subtotal 23 19 27 explosion, being struck by heavy machinery, entanglement organized support from within the Group. This system Total 40 35 36 in a high-speed rotor, and falling from a high place. Enabling WS System – Automatic Braking System ensures the execution of a swift and agile response. participants to experience accidents from a victim’s for Heavy Machinery Note: Statistics on occupational injuries have been re-aggregated for previous fiscal years to cover the three core operating companies (JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX perspective increases the effectiveness of the training. The Worker Safety (WS) System developed by NIPPO Nippon Mining & Metals and JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration). Our production sites are also equipped with hazard Corporation is the first automatic braking system for heavy Results of Major Initiatives for Ensuring Safety simulation equipment, and workers are required to undergo machinery to be certified under Safety 2.0*, a safety standard With the goal of eliminating all serious occupational injuries,* Occupational Injury Frequency Rate training using this equipment before they can begin actual created by the Institute of Global Safety Promotion. Unlike the JXTG Group conducts extensive safety activities and JXTG Group Industry average (MHLW survey) work. Through these and other efforts, we are working to conventional systems that give warnings, the WS system was safety training programs, in which employees from its partner 2.0 ensure safety across the entire Group. developed to prevent serious accidents by physically stopping 1.61 1.63 1.66 companies also participate. 1.5 heavy machinery when its sensors detect an obstacle via radio In fiscal 2017, there were a total of 36 occupational frequency identification (RFID), stereo cameras, or other means. 1.0 injuries, one more than the previous fiscal year. Regrettably, The system using RFID works by emitting a magnetic 0.5 0.40 there was one fatal occupational injury of a contractor 0.23 0.29 field from the back of the vehicle when it is reversing. When company’s worker. We thoroughly investigated the cause, 0 the system detects radio waves emitted from an RF tag on 2015 2016 2017 (FY) a worker’s helmet inside this magnetic field, it automatically then formulated and implemented measures to prevent Notes: Scope: The refineries, plants and business sites of the three core operating recurrence and rolled them out at Group companies. companies. (For details, see p. 82.) JXTG Group Safety Education Center Virtual-reality training equipment applies the brakes to stop the vehicle. An advantage of this Nine regular employees suffered occupational injuries, Data for previous fiscal years has been re-aggregated due to changes in the system is that RFID is not easily impacted by weather, visibility, scope of business sites. a decrease of seven from the previous fiscal year. There were Frequency rate: The number of injuries and fatalities per million cumulative hours temperature or obstacles. In addition, the system can easily be no fatalities among regular employees. worked; indicating the frequency of occurrence of occupational injuries. Preventing Collisions Between Heavy installed or removed as there is no need for modification of the The occupational injury frequency rate (the number of Definition of terms by MHLW: https://www.mhlw.go.jp/toukei/itiran/roudou/saigai/03/2.html Machinery and People heavy machinery’s hydraulic piping or control equipment. injuries and fatalities per million cumulative hours worked) and The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group has designated the * Safety 2.0: A standard developed to promote widespread use of cooperative safety (Safety 2.0), which utilizes information and communication technology the occupational injury severity rate (the number of work days prevention of collisions between heavy machinery and people to achieve both a reduction in accidents due to unsafe work conditions and an Occupational Injury Severity Rate lost per thousand cumulative hours worked) were well below as a key safety issue. There is a high risk of collisions on the increase in productivity. JXTG Group Industry average (MHLW survey) the industry average, according to a survey by the Ministry of 0.10 Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW). Both rates have declined 0.09 Automatic braking Magnetic field 0.08 0.10 Magnetic field generator since fiscal 2016. 0.07 (1) Intrusion of RF tag in magnetic field 0.06 (2) Radio waves transmitted by RF tag In fiscal 2017, we adopted Group-wide safety efforts (3) Receiving antenna detects radio waves 0.04 for occupational injuries that occur with greater frequency or (4) Alarm + automatic braking 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 RF tag which are likely to lead to serious occupational injuries, and 0 Radio waves are making further efforts to prevent their occurrence. 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Detects magnetic field, * Fatal occupational injuries transmits radio waves. Notes: Scope: The refineries, plants and business sites of the three core operating companies. (For details, see p. 82.) Data for previous fiscal years has been re-aggregated due to changes in the scope of business sites. Group-wide Safety Efforts Severity rate: The aggregated number work days lost per thousand cumulative hours worked; indicating the severity of occupational injuries. • Separating people and heavy machinery Definition of terms by MHLW: • Preventing falls from high places https://www.mhlw.go.jp/toukei/itiran/roudou/saigai/03/2.html Receiving antenna • Preventing workers from falling down • Preventing heatstroke STOP Alarm + automatic braking : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. Prevention of collisions between heavy machinery and people 47 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 48 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Measures for Seismic Reinforcement of Disaster Drills Acquisition of Super Certification for High Facilities Major Initiatives to Prepare for Accidents and Pressure Gas We are moving forward with legally required seismic Problems We regularly implement comprehensive disaster drills for our JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy’s Kawasaki Refinery and Sakai reinforcement work for tanks that store hazardous materials. own disaster response organizations to ensure that we can Disaster Prevention Facilities Refinery were the first and second businesses to be certified Upgrade work on floating-roof tanks subject to this respond in a quick and agile manner should an actual disaster under the new certification regime for the High Pressure requirement was completed before the statutory deadline At our refineries, plants and stockpiling terminals, we have occur. We also hold other drills, including joint disaster Gas Safety Act in December 2017 and February 2018, (end of fiscal 2016). As for internal floating-roof tanks, which taken measures such as the installation of disaster prevention preparedness drills involving local fire departments and respectively. This certification, established by Japan’s became subject to legislation in fiscal 2011, plans are in place equipment and facilities in preparation for potential accidents disaster response organizations from nearby companies. Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, is awarded to to complete seismic reinforcement work by the statutory and disasters. refineries that satisfy certain criteria for such areas as deadline (end of fiscal 2023). advanced safety activities and operational support systems. As for high-pressure gas facilities, we have carried out Oil Spill Countermeasures As a certified business, we will continue to implement highseismic performance evaluations based on administrative quality safety activities with the goal of improving our safety directives, and since the Great East Japan Earthquake we We are able to respond quickly to oil leaks on land or at sea. practices even further. have been retrofitting spherical tanks with braces and carrying We have multiple oil dikes surrounding our storage tanks out earthquake resistance measures on critical facilities. and systems in place to prevent leaks from spreading offsite. We also have oil fences and oil recovery vessels in place to respond to oil leaks at sea. Water discharge drill using a high-capacity sprayer Initiatives at Refineries and Plants for Major Brace retrofitting on a spherical tank Earthquakes The JXTG Group implements various earthquake measures at its refineries and plants. Measures to Mitigate Damage from Disasters Deploying an oil fence as part of a drill to help prevent marine pollution Measures to Protect Lives We have installed seismographs at all of our refineries and plants as part of a system that automatically shuts down As a precaution against earthquakes and tsunamis, we have equipment in a prompt and safe manner in the event of an Fire Countermeasures Firefighting during a large-scale comprehensive disaster drill voluntarily implemented seismic reinforcement of our offices earthquake, depending on the intensity. and production unit control rooms, with priority given to the In addition to large ladder trucks with hazardous material protection of human life. response capabilities, compressed air foam system (CAFS) We have also designated locations and methods for tankers and high capacity water cannons, numerous evacuation in case of an earthquake or tsunami, and we carry foam extinguishing systems, sprinkler systems and large out disaster preparedness training every year. extinguishers have been placed onsite for response in the unlikely event of a major fire. Our facilities also have disaster response vessels with firefighting capabilities to respond to accidents or disasters at sea. Seismic reinforcement of buildings Firefighting vehicles 49 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 50 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution such as the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 6. Information Disclosure of the International Labour Organization, which sets The progress and results of initiatives for respect for forth fundamental labor rights, and the International human rights under this policy will be disclosed on our Human Rights Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant website and in reports, among other media. Workers and Members of Their Families, the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and the Children’s 7. Applicable Scope Rights and Business Principles. As a participant in the This policy applies to all officers and employees of the UN Global Compact, we support and respect the 10 JXTG Group. All business partners involved in the JXTG principles of the UN Global Compact. Group’s business activities will be asked to cooperate 4. Fulfillment of Responsibility to Respect Human with this policy. Rights 8. Positioning Basic Approach Establishment of Human Rights Policy The JXTG Group is committed to upholding human This policy supplements the provisions of the JXTG Group As a corporate group with global business operations, the The JXTG Group has established basic principles on respect rights. If it is determined that our business activities cause Philosophy and the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. or have caused adverse impacts on human rights, we JXTG Group believes that an important element in striving for human rights under “5. Respect for human rights” within will take appropriate action to remedy such impacts in for sustainable development is respect for the human rights the Group Code of Conduct. We have requested cooperation accordance with our responsibility to respect human of our employees and all stakeholders, and the mitigation of with these efforts not only from Group companies but also rights. As part of our efforts, the JXTG Group will promote human rights-related risks in our business activities. other companies across our value chain. Nevertheless, we the following initiatives. Based on this understanding, we support various decided to establish a human rights policy to further clarify Structure • Human Rights Due Diligence international norms and we have stipulated a provision our stance and the importance of respect for human rights. The Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource The JXTG Group will establish and continually implement on respect for human rights in the JXTG Group Code of Going forward, we will work to make the applicable scope a mechanism for human rights due diligence. Human Development Committee is chaired by the officer (director) Conduct. of the Group Code of Conduct known to all and ensure rights due diligence refers to the continuous process responsible for the Human Resources Department of JXTG We support international norms such as the compliance with it. of conducting preventive surveys and investigations, Holdings, and has been established under the JXTG Group CSR Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations rectifying issues using appropriate means, and disclosing Council, which is chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings. The the progress and results of such externally, in order to Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and committee is responsible for deliberation on Group-wide policies prevent or mitigate possible adverse impacts on human the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the JXTG Group Human Rights Policy rights caused by the company. and approaches to human rights. It confirms and evaluates the International Labour Organization, among others. More activities of each Group company and shares information. The JXTG Group conducts its business activities under • Dialogue and Discussions specifically, we strictly prohibit forced labor and child labor, the JXTG Group Philosophy, which states that we will Specifically, each Group company implements various The JXTG Group conducts in earnest dialogue and work to eliminate discrimination in employment and the contribute to the development of our communities and measures to ensure respect for human rights, which is discussions with relevant stakeholders to ensure that workplace, and maintain communication with labor unions help to ensure a vibrant future through creation and it comprehends and addresses the impacts it has on stipulated in the Group Code of Conduct. These measures and employees. Through these and other efforts, we work to innovation in energy, resources, and materials. human rights from the perspective of those affected. include the implementation of human rights awareness This policy was formulated as a guideline for identify and resolve human rights issues. training and human rights due diligence in accordance with promoting respect for human rights across the entire 5. Training Group and fulfilling related obligations pursuant to the the business characteristics of each company. The JXTG Group will provide appropriate training to United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and its officers and employees to ensure that this policy is Group company initiatives are also shared at Human JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) Human Rights. Rights Promotion and Human Resource Development incorporated into the business activities of all companies 5. Respect for human rights 1. Basic Approach belonging to the JXTG Group. meetings and are used for the improvement of business The JXTG Group fully recognizes that human rights must activities across the entire Group. (1) We shall not infringe on human rights through our business activities. We respect internationallybe respected in all of the countries and regions where it accepted human rights standards and diversity, conducts its business activities. Structure for Promoting Human Rights, Human Resource Development and Health acknowledging differences pertaining to gender, age, 2. Compliance with Applicable Laws and nationality, race, ethnicity, skin color, culture, thought, Regulations religion, belief, political opinions, sexual orientation JXTG Holdings The JXTG Group complies with the laws, ordinances and (LGBT), and the presence or absence of disability. Monitoring/Supervision regulations applicable in the countries and regions where Board of Directors Body Responsible for (2) We shall not engage in any type of discrimination or it conducts its business activities. In addition, the JXTG Report JXTG Group CSR Council Collaboration Risk Management harassment. Group will pursue a method for respecting international Monitoring/Supervision (Chaired by the president of JXTG Holdings) Executive Council Internal Control Council principles on human rights in case of a contradiction (3) We shall not engage in any forms of forced labor or between internationally recognized human rights and the Report child labor. laws and regulations of each country and region. Human Rights Promotion and (4) We shall not engage in business transactions which Human Resource Development Committee 3. Respect for International Norms on Human (Chaired by the officer (director) responsible for may lead to the prolongation of conflicts, human rights Rights the Human Resources Department of JXTG Holdings) violations, or inhumane acts. Meets twice a year, in principle The JXTG Group supports and respects the International Bill of Human Rights (consisting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant Human Rights Promotion and on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Human Resource Development Meeting Held once each quarter, in principle Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), which stipulates the fundamental human rights of all people, along with international norms on human rights JXTG Holdings Group JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 51 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 52 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution To improve awareness of and sensitivity toward Mine Development and Respecting the Human Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 Major Initiatives human rights, we hold workshops on blind soccer. During Rights of Local Residents these workshops, instructors from the Japan Blind Soccer The development and operation of mines can have a JX Nippon Oil & Energy Europe Limited (JXTG Nippon Oil & Participation in the UN Global Compact Association coach blindfolded participants in games and particularly significant impact on the surrounding environment. Energy Group) and JX Nippon Exploration and Production The JXTG Group is a participant in the UN Global Compact. other activities requiring teamwork, mutual cooperation, and It is therefore essential to give due consideration to the human (U.K.) Limited (JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group) We are working to protect human rights and ensure respect communication. rights of local residents and implement measures to ensure have released statements in response to the United for the rights of workers. coexistence and mutual prosperity with local communities. Kingdom Modern Slavery Act 2015, which came into effect The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group’s Minera Lumina in October 2015. Initiatives for Human Rights Due Diligence Participation in the Global Conference on Copper Chile, the operator of the Caserones Copper Mine, WEB See the following websites for further details. Business and Human Rights Initiatives for Employees applies a basic three-point policy for supporting local http://www.eneos.eu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/Anti-SlaveryFor details, see p. 13. The JXTG Group has formulated and disclosed guidelines for communities: respect for life, protection of the community and Statement_FY2017.pdf the prevention of unlawful discrimination, harassment, forced environment, and compliance with laws and regulations. In http://www.nex.jx-group.co.jp/english/environment/compliance/active/ keeping with this policy, after the project launch in 2007, the human.html Human Rights and Compliance Hotlines labor, child labor, etc. In addition, compliance inspections are conducted in each workplace every year to ascertain operator began holding explanatory meetings and engaging in To enable us to quickly identify human rights issues and compliance with these guidelines. dialogue with the Collas, the indigenous people who live in the Response to the South African Black Economic take prompt action, we have established human rights and We also strive to ensure compliance with relevant labor area around the mine site, in an effort to build up trust. Empowerment Policy (BEE Policy) compliance hotlines inside and outside the company (run laws and regulations in the countries and regions where we For further details, see the JX Nippon Mining & JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy operates a representative office WEB by an external law office) for consultation and reporting by operate. Metals Sustainability Report 2018. in Johannesburg, South Africa, for the purpose of gathering employees of the company and its contractor companies. Employees are compensated following rules established https://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/english/sustainability/pdf/ information. The office does not engage in sales and In addressing inquiries, we maintain the privacy of the based on relevant laws and regulations concerning minimum report2018_e_full.pdf marketing activities. Therefore, this representative office has individual (reports may be filed anonymously) to ensure that wage, legal benefits, etc., in each country and region. not obtained approval under this policy because the nature of those who contact the hotlines are not subject to unfavorable In Japan, we hold regular negotiations with labor unions its activities does not require it. treatment as a result. on appropriate wage levels and labor conditions, and examine the adequacy of all aspects of pay. Raising Awareness of Human Rights through Training and e-Learning Initiatives for the Supply Chain Group companies conduct human rights training, new The JXTG Group asks the suppliers that make up our supply employee training, rank-based training, and e-learning for chain, including raw materials suppliers, logistics companies, all officers and employees in an effort to raise awareness of construction companies and sales companies, to cooperate human rights and prevent human rights issues from occurring. with the JXTG Group Code of Conduct. In fiscal 2018, the participation rate in human rights We have established a policy on CSR procurement training was 100%. We encourage officer and employee for purchasing the materials and equipment needed for our Explanation session for local residents participation by providing access to training materials through business activities. We regularly conduct supplier surveys to various means, such as the company intranet and email. monitor the status of compliance regarding respect for human rights across the entire supply chain. For details, see pp. 68–69. Initiatives for Business Activities The JXTG Group analyzes and assesses human rights risks in order to combat various risks in its business activities, and when necessary, we take appropriate action. For details, see p. 21. : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. Blind soccer event 53 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 54 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Development environment Management Contribution Development environment Management Contribution Major Initiatives Human Resource JXTG Group Development Development of future leaders Candidates for future Group management positions are cultivated through rankbased training of selected personnel. Promotion of measures linked to workstyle reforms Proactive efforts are made with a variety of measures targeting workstyle reforms to Basic Approach Structure create an environment for effectively nurturing diverse human resources. Training for future Group management positions The JXTG Group believes that an important challenge in the The Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource achievement of our growth strategy in a rapidly changing Development Committee is chaired by the officer (director) business environment is the development of creative, responsible for the Human Resources Department of JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals innovative human resources who can take on challenges JXTG Holdings, and has been established under the JXTG on a global scale. Therefore, in addition to incorporating Group CSR Council, which is chaired by the president of Training by rank Training by rank Training by rank this belief into our Code of Conduct, we have established JXTG Holdings. Rank-based training and training to Rank-based training and training to Rank-based training and training to consistent systems for each phase of human resource The committee coordinates Group policy on human develop core human resources are develop core human resources are develop core human resources are development, including hiring, assignment, assessment, resource development, manages human resource implemented. implemented. implemented. promotion, and training. requirements, and carries out discussion to foster a Overseas training for young Dispatch of young employees Overseas language training shared awareness of human resource development employees overseas All management-track employees in among Group companies. College graduates in their fourth or fifth To enhance their capabilities through their second year at the company JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) As for specific measures concerning the year of employment with the company practical, comprehensive training, as well as other employees in need are sent overseas for about one month young employees with several years of language training are sent abroad development of human resources, each Group company 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment for training, which includes language of experience at the company are to study English or other foreign conducts a development program tailored to its own study and fieldwork, in accordance dispatched for three to six months to languages for one to three months. (1) We strive to enable all personnel to carry out their business characteristics and suited to the aptitude of with language skills. overseas offices and sites, where they business operations in the workplace with vigor, and Career development interviews to enable ourselves, our families and our colleagues individual employees. The challenges and objectives of focus on core learning themes to learn Local staff training for young employees each Group company are addressed by the committee, about the E&P business in the field to lead healthy and cultured lives by promoting health Group training is implemented for local Recognizing that human resources while contributing to local operations. care and work-life balance. and the PDCA cycle is implemented for the Group as a staff at overseas locations. are the source of our organization’s whole for effective human resource development. Career development interviews strength, regular human resources (2) We promote diversity in order to enable diverse Promotion of career opportunities individuals to maximize their abilities. For more about the structure, see p. 52. Employees are interviewed at key and division interviews with young for female employees points in their careers to enhance the employees are conducted as an effort (3) We strive to secure and maintain a pleasant work Seminars are held to follow up with effectiveness of career development to ensure the systematic development environment through interactive dialogue and ongoing employees taking childcare leave, to over the medium to long term, based of these employees and enhance their communication. raise awareness among supervisors, on employees’ own wishes and the proposal-making capabilities. and to support the career development needs of the company. Based on the (4) We strive to train our people, and seek to enhance the of female employees, etc. Energizing individuals and results, the company offers support abilities of ourselves and others. organizations Self-assessment interviews for every individual to take on new (5) We shall obtain the necessary confirmation and challenges in order to achieve their Efforts are made to strengthen Regular interviews are conducted human resource management and approval from the appropriate person(s) with authority future vision for themselves. in which we listen to employees’ development, as well as establish an before we commence any religious activity, political ambitions for long-term career design Employee training programs environment in which diverse human activity, or any similar activities during work. and skill development. This gives A total of 13 programs are offered resources can work with enthusiasm. the company and supervisors a throughout the year for young better understanding of employees’ employees to educate them about wishes, helping to ensure optimal E&P business technologies, contracts, assignment, relocation, and and economic calculations. Training development of employees. is led by in-house instructors using curriculum developed by the company. Training Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2017 (Hours) Total training hours Training hours per employee JXTG Holdings 1,957 12.23 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy 69,046 7.72 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration 7,985 21.24 Note: Number of hours of internal group training and external training organized by the human resources JX Nippon Mining & Metals 29,379 17.00 departments of JXTG Holdings and the Group’s core Total 108,367 9.66 operating companies, aggregated for each employer. : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. 55 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 56 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Development environment Management Contribution Development environment Management Contribution Dialogue Sessions with Management Global Business Skills Training Designed participants learned about the mindset required of candidates Initiatives to Develop Management Resources for the Systematic Development of Global for senior management positions at overseas sites and how to With an eye on the future direction of its companies, the JXTG JXTG Holdings and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy jointly hosted Human Resources manage an organization. Group must work to more systematically and strategically dialogue sessions with management for around 900 general JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy offers global business skills training In addition, the company launched an initiative in develop management resources as the future leaders of the managers, deputy general managers and group managers as part of its basic training programs. For this training, all fiscal 2018 in which highly talented locally hired overseas Group in order to address the rapid changes expected to take across Japan. employees who are college graduates in their fourth or fifth employees are assigned to the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy place in the management climate going forward. The objective of these sessions was to foster mutual year with the company are sent for about a month to a headquarters in Japan for several years to experience As the development of these management understanding by sharing roles expected of JXTG Group Southeast Asian country, where they participate in activities corporate operations firsthand. resources is a challenge facing JXTG Holdings as well leaders and middle management through direct dialogue such as conducting market research or attending language as its core companies, we will work together to identify between officers and participants, as well as sharing values classes, depending on their language skills. In view of the Supporting Employees’ Self Development employees qualified for management positions and provide and issues through dialogue between employees of the anticipated overseas expansion of our business operations comprehensive training to fully draw out their skills as future same rank. in the future, the objective of the training is not only the The JXTG Group has a self development support system to senior executives. During the dialogue sessions with officers, senior development of participants’ language skills, but also the support employees with a desire to learn. management from both companies discussed a number of enhancement of their ability to adapt to foreign cultures. topics based on questions and opinions of participants. These All employees who are college graduates are required Voluntary Participation in Training Specific Approaches to the Development of topics included the company’s future vision, organizational to take the TOEIC test every three years, and they are To support the self development of its employees, JXTG Management Resources culture, business integration, and their own career encouraged to continue learning English even after the Nippon Oil & Energy offers open seminars in which employees • Identify management resources using impartial and experiences. In the dialogue sessions between participants, completion of global business skills training. can participate on a voluntary basis in accordance with objective measures, taking into account the ideal participants meeting each other for the first time exchanged their individual needs. Employees can also pursue self candidates for senior management positions. opinions earnestly while discussing several different topics. development outside of work hours through voluntary • Management resources are provided with growth participation in company-supported language learning and opportunities by combining on-the-job training (intercorrespondence courses. departmental transfers, challenging assignments, etc.) and off-the-job training (rank-based training in house, enrollment in business schools inside or Self-Innovation Support outside of Japan, etc.) to enable them to acquire the In fiscal 2017, JX Nippon Mining & Metals launched a self necessary experience, knowledge and perspective innovation support program in which the company defrays required of future senior management. In addition, individual development plans are formulated for each half the amount of costs for self development suited to the of these processes. needs of participating employees or the company. • The Human Resource Development Committee With the progress of workstyle reforms, a growing examines the suitability of management resources in a number of employees are using their increased personal multifaceted manner and implements the PDCA cycle time for developing their skills. Given this trend, the company for the development plan. Dialogue session involving officers and middle management Global business skills training introduced this program with the goal of actively supporting employees who use their personal time for skill development. Development of Locally Hired Overseas The self development programs eligible for the Employees company’s matching contribution do not necessarily need JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy aims to boost the overseas to be directly related to the employee’s current work. The expansion of its business operations by training locally hired fact that any program that contributes to the company’s overseas employees to become senior managers at its operations from a mediumto long-term perspective is eligible overseas sites. for the matching contribution provides even greater incentive To this end, the company conducts group training of to employees with a desire to learn. managers and team leaders hired locally overseas. At training JX Nippon Mining & Metals will continue to support held for middle-management overseas staff in fiscal 2017, employees with a desire to learn. 57 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 58 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Mental Health Measures Industrial Hygiene To help prevent mental health issues, the JXTG Group makes The JXTG Group carries out industrial hygiene activities to effective use of a stress check system. prevent health hazards to workers at refineries, plants and other Health This system improves employee awareness of stress. business sites. In particular, we are implementing measures For individual follow-up for those facing high levels of stress, against exposure to chemical substances and noise. we offer sessions with occupational physicians. Additional measures include counseling with external counselors. Measures Against Exposure to Chemical We also make improvements in work environments as Substances needed as part of our mental health care efforts. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy conducts voluntary risk assessments using individual samplers* to test for specific Basic Approach Structure Health Measures for Employees Traveling and chemical substances that pose health risks in the work The JXTG Group believes that focusing on the health of our The Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource Working Overseas environments of refineries and other facilities. Based on the employees and their families results in a vibrant, productive Development Committee is chaired by the officer (director) To prevent employees traveling and working overseas from results of these assessments, we implement appropriate workforce, bringing vitality to our organization. This in turn is responsible for the Human Resources Department of falling ill, the JXTG Group actively implements measures such countermeasures to mitigate such risks. the driving force for the achievement of our growth strategies JXTG Holdings, and has been established under the JXTG as vaccinations for employees traveling to certain destinations * Direct measurement of individual workers’ exposure to harmful substances (individual exposure measurement). This method, which is used worldwide, and the source of our competitiveness. Group CSR Council, which is chaired by the president of as recommended on the website of Japan’s Ministry of is currently being reviewed by the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare for We place great importance on the maintenance and JXTG Holdings. Health, Labour, and Welfare’s Quarantine Information Office. incorporation into the current Industrial Safety and Health Act as part of the 13th Occupational Safety & Health Program (from 2018 to 2022). improvement of the health of our employees not only in The committee shares information about initiatives JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy stockpiles supplies for its Japan, but at our overseas business sites as well. by Group companies and determines focus items overseas sites as a safety measure against the spread of new Measures Against Exposure to Noise Accordingly, we have included health as a standard regarding health. types of influenza. in the JXTG Group Code of Conduct and are implementing In addition, departments in charge of human As a measure against malaria, JX Nippon Oil & Gas JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy is taking measures against health-related initiatives. resources at Group companies take on the role of Exploration has formulated standards for travel to malariaexposure to occupational noise in its refineries, plants and promoting health enhancement measures. At our sites in prone regions. The standards state that the company will bear other business sites to prevent noise-induced hearing loss. Japan, meetings of health and safety committees or health the cost of anti-malaria medication for employees traveling Comprehensive noise measurements are carried out JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) committees are convened each month for discussions overseas under certain conditions, and take appropriate in areas of refineries and plants with potentially high noise 4. Health enhancement on health between the companies and labor unions or measures if an employee is infected. levels, such as those where production equipment is located, employee representatives. to identify areas with noise levels of 85 decibels or higher, (1) Health is the core element of our business continuity For details about our structure, see p. 52. Recognition as a Certified Health and Productivity the reference value for preventing noise-induced hearing and development. We take active measures to Management Organization (White 500) loss. Based on these measurements, we have developed maintain and enhance the mental and physical health of individuals employed by our group companies. JXTG Holdings and its core operating companies have workplace maps for visual identification of areas that exceed Major Initiatives received recognition as a Certified Health and Productivity the standard noise level. We have also established rules for all (2) We endeavor to identify and evaluate health Management Organization (White 500) for implementing refineries whereby workers are required to refer to these maps disorders related to our business activities and Employee Health Management promote measures to reduce such risks. We also outstanding health management based on a health and wear appropriate ear protection, such as ear plugs or ear collect and provide information to external sources The JXTG Group works to maintain and improve the health management survey conducted by the Ministry of Economy, muffs, when working in areas with high noise levels. in order to ensure the sustainable development of of employees and their families by providing subsidies for Trade and Industry. occupational health. regular health screenings, annual medical examinations, cancer screenings and influenza vaccinations, and for employees on overseas assignments, we also offer vaccinations as required and medical support. In fiscal 2017, 99.9%* of employees underwent regular health screenings. For employees diagnosed with medical issues, we work to ensure follow-up care through efforts such as encouraging these employees to undergo further Representatives of corporations recognized as Certified Health and Productivity Management Organizations testing as needed. * Employees of JXTG Holdings and core operating companies. : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. Noise measurement 59 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 60 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Development environment Management Contribution Development environment Management Contribution Employment Status of Female Employees and an increasing number of men who are actively involved (As of March 31, 2018) in child-rearing. These companies are actively working to Newly hired female Percentage of women among new hires: change management mindsets as part of their efforts to foster 65 employees 14.1% ikubosses in this new age. Healthy Work Environment Total number of female 1,226 Percentage of women in the workforce: 10.9% Upon joining this alliance, we created and announced employees our own Ikuboss Declaration. We continue to focus on the Number of female promotion of diversity, including women’s participation in 76 Percentage of women in management: 2.5% managers the workplace and workstyle reform, in accordance with the Number of female ikuboss objectives. 2 Percentage of female directors: 11.1% directors * An “ikuboss” is a boss (executive or manager) who thinks about the work-life Average years of service for male employees: balance of staff under his or her supervision. Ikubosses support the careers and Average years of service 17.3 19.4 years lives of their staff, while delivering results to the organization and enjoying their Basic Approach Structure for all female employees years Difference in average years of service between own work and private lives. The JXTG Group aims to increase the motivation and The Human Rights Promotion and Human Resource male and female employees: 2.1 years creativity of each and every employee and enable them to Development Committee is chaired by the officer (director) Note: Data on number of female directors is from JXTG Holdings; other data is JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Ikuboss Declaration maximize their abilities through the promotion of work-life responsible for the Human Resources Department of from JXTG Holdings and core operating companies. management. JXTG Holdings, and has been established under the JXTG In view of the ikuboss objectives, JXTG Nippon Oil & Moreover, the Group believes in actively incorporating Group CSR Council, which is chaired by the president of Energy endeavors to maintain work environments where Monitoring through Employee Awareness Surveys diversity and inclusion, acknowledging differences pertaining JXTG Holdings. all employees in all stages of life can balance their work to gender, age, nationality, race, ethnicity, skin color, culture, The committee is responsible for deliberation on GroupOnce every two years, the JXTG Group conducts an and private lives while maintaining motivation to work. thought, religion, belief, political opinions, sexual orientation, wide policies and approaches to work-life management, anonymous survey of all employees. In fiscal 2017, the the presence or absence of disability, and any familial and diversity and inclusion. It confirms and evaluates the activities survey was conducted on topics such as the advancement of personal circumstances, to create new value across the entire of each Group company and shares information. women in the workplace, work-life balance, and LGBT. The organization for our continued growth. Specifically, we are implementing measures such as results were reported to the Board of Directors and reflected We have stipulated such norms in the JXTG Group workstyle reforms, workplace and career advancement in policies concerning women’s career advancement. Code of Conduct, and have implemented a variety of initiatives for female employees and employees with disabilities, initiatives for their advancement. and the expansion of systems promoting work-life balance. Re-hiring Program for Employees Who Accompany a Spouse on an Overseas Assignment As one initiative to support women’s advancement in the JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) Advancement of Women in the Workplace workplace, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has adopted a system 12. Establishment of a healthy work environment To support the career planning and growth of our female for re-hiring employees who resign in order to accompany a employees, the JXTG Group is working to change attitudes spouse who has been transferred overseas. Employees who After the signing ceremony (1) We strive to enable all personnel to carry out their Left: Tsutomu Sugimori, then president of JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy toward workstyle among both male and female employees, register at the time of resignation can be re-hired within five Right: Tokiko Koso, director of Fathering Japan business operations in the workplace with vigor, and to enable ourselves, our families and our colleagues and has put various systems in place to support the work-life years if they so request. to lead healthy and cultured lives by promoting health balance of all employees, both male and female. Promoting Career Opportunities for Employees care and work-life balance. Furthermore, our Group companies have created with Disabilities their own action plans for the advancement of women in Diversity and Inclusion For fiscal 2017, the percentage of employees with disabilities (2) We promote diversity in order to enable diverse individuals to maximize their abilities. the workplace in accordance with the Act on Promotion of In accordance with the basic approach below, the JXTG Group was 2.3%, higher than the legal requirement of 2.0%. Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, actively incorporates diversity and inclusion to create new value The JXTG Group views disability as one of many (3) We strive to secure and maintain a pleasant work environment through interactive dialogue and ongoing enacted on April 1, 2016, and have implemented measures across the entire organization for our continued growth. characteristics that make up a person’s individuality, and communication. for the achievement of these plans. fosters an environment where employees with disabilities can • We implement fair and equal hiring practices that ensure diversity. For details about our systems promoting work-life thrive by assigning each person to a job and workplace suited (4) We strive to train our people, and seek to enhance the • We endeavor to maintain a healthy work environment and carry abilities of ourselves and others. balance, see p. 63. to his or her own individuality and aptitude. out effective human resource development to maximize the talents of a diverse workforce. Moreover, workplace adaptation assistance is provided (5) We shall obtain the necessary confirmation and • We work to foster a corporate culture where each and every for employees with disabilities, including the provision of approval from the appropriate person(s) with authority Goals of Action Plan on the Advancement of before we commence any religious activity, political employee understands the importance of diversity, and work-life consultants and job coaches. Women in the Workplace activity, or any similar activities during work. where employees respect each other, help each other, and • JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy: Ensure that the ratio of grow together. women among newly hired university graduates in fiscal Re-employment of Retired Workers 2020 is at least 25%. Ikuboss Corporate Alliance Membership and The JXTG Group has put in place a re-employment program • JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration: Maintain the percentage Activities for workers who have the desire and motivation to continue of female workers at 15% of the employed workforce. • JX Nippon Mining & Metals: Steadily increase the number On September 21, 2017, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy joined the working after mandatory retirement. This program provides of female employees and ensure that the ratio of women Ikuboss Corporate Alliance, established by Fathering Japan. these employees with further opportunities to share their among newly hired university graduates is at least 30% in The Ikuboss Corporate Alliance is a network of valuable knowledge, skills, and experience with the company. order to cultivate female managers early on. companies that recognize the importance of ideal bosses, In fiscal 2017, the number of workers re-employed after or “ikubosses,”* in an age of workforce diversity, which retirement was 710. : Indicates the Group’s top CSR priorities. Please see p. 9. includes increased participation of women in the workplace 61 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 62 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Development environment Management Contribution Development environment Management Contribution Creation of Local Jobs Proper Management of Total Annual Number of Employees Utilizing Major Systems in Enhancing Systems for Childcare and Family Care Working Hours Fiscal 2017 The JXTG Group is actively engaged in employing local staff The JXTG Group defines those regulations related to Japan’s Number of employees taking childcare leave 164 (of which 107 are male) As a part of its efforts for energizing of individuals and at our overseas operating sites. Labor Standard Act—such as working hours, rest periods, Percentage of employees returning to work organizations, JX Nippon Mining & Metals is reviewing its 100% In fiscal 2017, the number of locally employed staff at days off, and leave—as human resource regulations. after giving birth or taking childcare leave existing systems and implementing new ones to create an our overseas sites was as follows. In addition, Group companies are committed to Percentage still employed 12 months after environment where even employees involved in childcare or 96.6% eliminating unpaid work, and have put in place systems to returning to work family care can fully realize their capabilities. (Persons) accurately monitor and manage employees’ working hours. Number of employees taking family care leave 3 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy 1,279 Note: Data from JXTG Holdings and core operating companies. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration 450 At the same time, various initiatives have been implemented to reduce total annual working hours (reducing overtime work JX Nippon Mining & Metals 2,029 and encouraging taking of annual paid leave). Overview of Childcare and Family Care Systems (JX Nippon Mining & Metals) Total 3,758 Pregnancy/Childbirth Childcare/Parenting Family care Encouraging Employees to Take Annual Paid Leave Time off before and after childbirth Time off to care for an ill child Time off for family care Initiatives for LGBT (Sexual Minorities) The JXTG Group promotes various initiatives at our Group Special measures for women during pregnancy and Childcare leave REVISED Family care leave We have implemented departmentand rank-based companies to encourage employees to take annual paid leave. within one year after childbirth (duration can be shortened, more changes in duration allowed) training, e-learning and other activities as part of human Status of Annual Paid Leave in Fiscal 2017 rights awareness training in order to promote understanding Time off for childbirth Exemption from overtime work exceeding limit towards sexual minorities among our employees in Number of days granted 22.3 accordance with the JXTG Group's Code of Conduct. A Number of days taken 18.8 Exemption from late-night work Workstyle support contact point has also been established for consultation Usage rate 84.0% Shorter workday (applicability expanded, may be used in conjunction with flextime) REVISED and inquiries. Note: Data from JXTG Holdings and core operating companies. In October 2018, we were Flextime (core time revised, may be used in conjunction with shorter workday) REVISED awarded the Silver Award by work with Major Systems Supporting Work-Life Balance Exemption from unscheduled work Pride* based on their PRIDE Index 2018, an evaluation index on programs The JXTG Group has in place various systems to support Childcare time related to LGBT and sexual minorities work-life balance at our Group companies. within businesses and organizations. Cumulative annual paid leave (childcare added to conditions for use) REVISED * A private organization that supports the promotion and instillment of diversity Major Systems Supporting Work-Life Balance at management concerning sexual minorities, including LGBT, within business Group Companies Telecommuting NEW organizations. System Implemented at Time off before and after childbirth All Group companies One-time maternity/childcare benefit, Childcare/family care subsidies NEW additional one-time maternity/ Time off to care for an ill child All Group companies childcare benefit (health insurance) Childcare leave All Group companies Return-to-work grant NEW Family care leave allowance NEW Work-Life Management Special time off for wife’s childbirth All Group companies Maternity allowance, Financial support, etc. In accordance with the basic approach below, the JXTG Childbirth/ Return-to-work grant JX Nippon Mining & Metals additional maternity allowance (health insurance) Childcare leave benefit (employment insurance) Childcare leave benefit (employment insurance) Childcare Group aims to reduce total annual working hours and Childcare concierge service JX Nippon Mining & Metals Exemption from paying social insurance premiums (health insurance and employee pension) JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, during preand post-childbirth leave,childcare leave, etc. encourage the taking of annual paid leave to increase the Support for babysitter use JX Nippon Mining & Metals motivation and creativity of each and every employee, and Childcare subsidies JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Childcare concierge service NEW JX Nippon Mining & Metals enable them to maximize their abilities. Time off for family care/Family All Group companies Support for babysitter use NEW care leave Family care leave allowance All Group companies Guideline Family JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Return to work NEW Home helper subsidies care JX Nippon Mining & Metals • To allow adequate time for each and every employee Family care subsidies JX Nippon Mining & Metals Support from social insurance and employment insurance Fiscal 2017 New or Revised Fiscal 2016 New or Revised Note: Telecommuting may also be utilized for reasons other than to achieve a good balance between work and private involvement in childcare or family care. Re-hiring system for retirement due JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration life, we promote the reduction of total annual working to family care Main New Systems (From Fiscal 2017) hours and encourage the taking of annual paid leave by Shorter workday All Group companies Return-to-work grant improving productivity and workflow. Exemption from unscheduled work All Group companies In order to facilitate a smooth transition back to work, a one-time grant is paid to an employee returning to work after childcare leave to ease the economic burden of preparing to combine childcare and work. • We work to ensure the establishment and utilization Flextime All Group companies Family care leave allowance of effective human resource systems and programs, Cumulative annual paid leave JX Nippon Mining & Metals During family care leave, the obligation to pay social insurance premiums and the like remains even as income declines. The family care leave allowance, paid monthly during family care leave, is so that even employees limited in their workstyles by Paid time off for personal injury JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, intended to provide partial assistance to ease this economic burden, and to make conditions more conducive to taking advantage of the family care leave system. circumstances such as childcare and family care can or illness JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Childcare/family care subsidies achieve sustainable career development and performance. JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, General Hospitalization subsidy To enable employees to combine work and childcare or family care, monthly subsidies are paid to help cover the costs of childcare-related services (to the extent these costs exceed ordinary daycare) JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration • We raise employee awareness to promote understanding or family care services (as stipulated in the Long-Term Care Insurance Act, excluding services received during continued residence in a facility) used to enable the employee to continue working. System for accompanying spouse JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy of the importance of work-life management. on overseas job assignments Childcare concierge service Leave system for supporting With the aim of helping employees return to work early or balance work and childcare, outside advisers have been appointed to provide employees with information and advice on such matters as JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration continuation of career finding a daycare center or childcare in general. Return-to-work system JX Nippon Mining & Metals Support for babysitter use Telecommuting All Group companies In another measure to support employees in balancing work and childcare, a corporate contract has been concluded with a babysitting company, enabling employees to use its services for less than Exemption from late-night work All Group companies the usual rates. This support makes it easier for employees to use these services in emergencies, such as when a child is ill or sudden overtime work arises, and also for everyday childcare. 63 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 64 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Business Sites with ISO 9001 Certification Sendai Refinery; Chiba Refinery; Kawasaki Refinery; Negishi Refinery; Sakai Refinery; Wakayama Refinery; Mizushima Refinery; Marifu JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Refinery; Oita Refinery; Muroran Plant; Kawasaki Plant; Yokohama Plant; Chita Plant; Sodegaura Terminal; Osaka Refinery, Osaka International Refining Company, Limited; Kashima Refinery, Kashima Oil Co., Ltd.; Advanced Polymers Business Unit; CF Composites Unit Quality JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Nakajo Field Office Hitachi Works (Copper Foil Dept.); Isohara Works; Kurami Works; JX Nippon Exploration and Development Co., Ltd.; Pan Pacific Copper Co., Ltd. (Hibi Smelter, Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Hitachi Refinery); Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd.; Japan Copper Casting Co., Ltd.; Domestic JX Nippon Coil Center Co., Ltd.; JX Metals Trading Co., Ltd. (Takatsuki Plant); Ichinoseki Foil Manufacturing Co., Ltd.; JX Metals Precision Technology Co., Ltd. (Tatebayashi Works, Esashi Works, Nasu Works, Kakegawa Works); Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (Headquarters, Chigasaki JX Nippon Mining & Plant, Hitachi Plant, Yahata Plant, Wakamatsu Plant, Kurobe Plant) Metals Nippon Mining & Metals (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.; Nikko Fuji Precision (Wuxi) Co., Ltd.; Nikko Metals Shanghai Co., Ltd.; Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Overseas Ltd.; JX Nippon Mining & Metals Philippines, Inc.; Materials Service Complex Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.; JX Nippon Mining & Metals USA, Inc.; JX Basic Approach Nippon Mining & Metals Korea Co., Ltd. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group Quality Policy The JXTG Group believes that the provision of high-quality, Head office, Hokkaido branch, Tohoku branch, Kanto Daiichi branch, Kanto Daini branch, Hoku-shinetsu branch, Chubu branch, Kansai We seek to earn the trust and satisfaction of our NIPPO CORPORATION safe, and reliable products and services that provide customer branch, Shikoku branch, Chugoku branch, Kyushu branch, Architect Department customers by adopting a customer-oriented perspective satisfaction is an important element in gaining the trust of our and adhering to the following. customers and achieving sustainable growth. Based on this approach, we have stipulated product and service quality in 1. Provide products and services that are safe and can be used with peace of mind; Initiatives at Manufacturing Sites Initiatives at Distribution Sites our Group Code of Conduct. Each Group company has established its own quality 2. Maintain and continuously strive to enhance the quality Thorough preventive measures are carried out at JXTG As part of our quality management efforts at distribution sites, management policies according to the nature of its business of our products and services; and Nippon Oil & Energy refineries and plants to eliminate we work with freight companies to ensure that all procedures, and works to continuously improve quality from a customer3. Provide customers with accurate information that is quality-related issues. from product loading to unloading, are carried out safely and oriented perspective based on these policies. easy to understand. without error. Standardization of Quality Management and Major initiatives for preventing accidents include the Assurance Procedures installation of state-of-the-art equipment to prevent the JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) mixing of products on tank trucks that transport gasoline, Although all of our refineries and plants have obtained ISO 6. Product and service quality JX Nippon Mining & Metals Basic Quality Policy 9001 certification, we focused on ISO 9001 requirements kerosene, and diesel, and thorough implementation of for the manufacture of oil and petrochemical products to procedures, such as having both customers and truck drivers (1) We always conduct our business activities with a spirit 1. Correctly grasp the requirements of customers and develop the Quality Management System, which has been present during unloading. of innovation and a willingness to take on challenges. society in order to offer products and services that customers can trust and that satisfy their needs. implemented at all sites. In addition, when transporting packaged lubricant (2) We strive to contribute to the solution of domestic products by truck, we work to prevent transport-related and international social issues and gain customer One of the features of this system is that risk 2. Improve and maintain quality at all processes from assessments and risk reduction measures are performed to issues by having both customers and truck drivers check the satisfaction and trust by developing and providing development, design, and production to delivery, innovative technology and useful products and services. while paying due attention to safety and environmental prevent quality-related issues from occurring. Employees at destination, product name, packing condition, quantity and conservation. all manufacturing sites learn quality risk analysis methods, appearance during unloading. (3) We comply with domestic and international standards for the products and services we provide. We perform 3. Establish a quality management system, carry out enabling them to identify risks and take appropriate measures quality control and risk management, covering areas continual improvements, and develop human resources. to address those risks, thus contributing to the achievement such as safety, security, environment and health. We Initiatives at Service Stations 4. Comply with all pertinent laws and regulations of Japan of proactive, highly effective quality management. also strive to provide a stable supply of goods and At our service stations, we work with operators to improve services, even in the event of emergencies. and other countries, and provide customers and society with accurate information on quality. Information Sharing about Quality Complaints product quality management and customer satisfaction. (4) We always provide our customers with appropriate and Issues Product quality management initiatives at our service and clear labels and explanations on our products and Information about quality complaints and issues that have stations include regular inspections of weighing devices, services, and we respond promptly and sincerely to occurred at refineries and plants is shared via databases underground tanks, and other facilities. customer inquiries. with other refineries and plants, and measures to prevent In addition, we have prepared a quality management (5) In the event of malfunctions in our products or services, Structure recurrence are discussed and implemented, thus contributing manual and other materials for the development of knowledge we strive to conduct exhaustive investigations and The JXTG Group positions quality as a priority field for to the future prevention of quality-related issues. and skills in order to ensure quick and appropriate response implement measures to prevent recurrence. CSR activities. Our Group companies regularly oversee, to product quality issues should they occur. evaluate, and share information about the status of qualityInspection of Quality Management Systems related initiatives. Many of our business sites in Japan and overseas have We seek to improve the quality management systems of obtained ISO 9001 certification, a global standard for quality our refineries and plants by carrying out inspections based management systems. on the Quality Management System. The strengths and weaknesses of the system at each location are identified and shared throughout the company, enabling us to make further improvements to these systems. 65 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 66 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Human Resource Healthy work Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Safety Human Rights Development Health environment Quality Management Contribution Strengthening the Quality Audit Function from Addressing Customer Needs a Third-Party Perspective In January 2018, as part of its efforts to strengthen its JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy receives valuable feedback from quality management structure, JX Nippon Mining & our customers through the JXTG Customer Service Center. Supply Chain Management Metals established the Quality Control Department, which The JXTG Customer Service Center responds to enquiries is in charge of planning, proposing and implementing with clear, courteous explanations and addresses complaints policies aimed at maintaining as well as improving quality promptly and in good faith. We share customer feedback management at the company. From a position independent obtained through the JXTG Customer Service Center with from the company’s business operations, the Quality the relevant departments. Control Department conducts quality audits of all business From April 2017 to March 2018, we received a total of sites to ascertain whether quality management is being 23,695 enquiries. Basic Approach JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group Basic appropriately implemented. In the quality design for products and the establishment At the JXTG Group, we work to fulfill our social responsibilities Procurement Policy The Quality Control Committee was also established of manufacturing standards, we conform to laws, regulations, across the entire supply chain by cooperating with suppliers to ascertain whether the quality management structure is and standards such as JIS, as well as the contractual of raw materials, logistics companies, construction 1. Comply with laws, regulations, and rules and specifications of our customers. In addition, to prevent engage in fair transactions. functioning properly and to share any issues. companies, sales companies and others involved in our customer use issues with our products, we carry out in-depth • Respect the letter and spirit of relevant laws and social business activities, while carrying out initiatives to ensure norms in executing business operations. studies, utilizing our abundant experience and knowledge as compliance, attention to environmental preservation, and Initiatives in Quality Control Education a database, to ensure that we provide reliable products of the • Conduct purchasing activities based on fair evaluations. respect for human rights. highest quality. • Maintain appropriate relationships with business At JX Nippon Mining & Metals, a quality control education has We have stated this approach in the JXTG Group partners based on the highest ethical values. been developed with the following three objectives: Code of Conduct, and we have also established basic procurement policies for our Group companies in 2. Protect intellectual property rights. • To standardize and raise quality control levels across the Mining • Strictly control personal information obtained in the & Metals Group; accordance with their business characteristics. Based on course of procurement activities. these policies, we work toward the continuous improvement • To improve problem-solving capability, enabling employees to • Do not illegally obtain or illegally use intellectual logically deduce the causes of problems and take the lead in of our procurement activities. property, including the patents, utility models, designs, solving them; and and trademarks of third parties, and do not infringe on • To pass along and inculcate quality control techniques. such rights. JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) 3. Build relationships with business partners To achieve these objectives, the company has made it 3. Applicable Scope of the Code of Conduct based on mutual understanding and trust. compulsory for all employees to take the Elementary and In principle, this Code of Conduct is applicable to all • Provide business partners with high reliability and “Five Why Analysis” quality control courses. directors, officers and employees who work at JXTG satisfaction through accurate, fast, and highly Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. We also encourage transparent activities. Quality Contol Education System companies that are part of our value chain to comply • Endeavor to achieve robust communication with with this Code of Conduct. These companies include, business partners and consistently promote creativity Application of QC methods / but are not limited to, suppliers of raw materials, logistics Specific methods Training in use of QC methods and innovation through advanced ideas. companies, construction companies, and sales companies. Compulsory Optional • Contribute to the development of a sustainable society General by promoting the purchase of environmentally friendly manager level materials and machinery. Practical Problem-Solving 4. Follow the principles below regarding conflict Quality Management: Advanced Seminar Courses for Manager Managers JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy CSR minerals. level Procurement Policy • Do not engage in raw materials procurement that contributes to illegal activities in conflict-affected Coordinator 1. Conduct purchasing activities based on the JXTG regions or to human rights infringements through such Problem-Solving Training Quality Assurance Quality Management: Intermediate level and Quality Group Code of Conduct and relevant policies, and illegal activities. Work Improvement Seven New QC Tools Management Level strive to gain understanding and cooperation from Five Why Analysis Seminars for • Respect the guidance of the Organisation for Economic Coordinators and business partners with regard to the Code of Conduct. Supervisors Co-operation and Development related to raw materials Supervisor 2. Place emphasis on conducting transactions on an procurement from conflict-affected areas, and control Quality Management: Elementary level equal footing with business partners with whom supply chains in an appropriate manner. a sustainable partnership is possible, and aim to establish a mutually trusting relationship. Operator 3. Consider a wide range of potential business partners Introductory level and determine their suitability from a comprehensive standpoint, taking into account factors such as quality, price, delivery, and stable supply requirements, as well as attention to the environment and greater society. Introduction New employees 67 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 68 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Development environment Management Contribution Development environment Management Contribution The Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery has also been Promotion of Green Purchasing Confronting the Issue of Conflict Minerals JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group Policy for included on the Conflict-Free Smelter list compiled by the Selecting Procurement Partners The JXTG Group periodically conducts surveys among its Regarding the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group, relevant RBA and GeSI,2 recognition that it is taking proper measures suppliers as part of its efforts to promote green purchasing, industry organizations (including the LBMA1 and RBA) have to exclude conflict minerals. 1. Comply with laws, regulations, and social which prioritizes equipment and materials with a lower established monitoring programs for eliminating conflict Moreover, in September 2017, the LBMA announced norms, such as those below, and place priority on human rights and environmental impact. environmental impact, and helps to ensure the use of such minerals. Under these programs, companies are requested its Responsible Silver Guidance (RSG), which requests equipment and materials. to carry out surveys and undergo external audits by an appropriate due diligence in silver supply chains. The JX • Obey laws and regulations related to manufacturing and sales, etc. In fiscal 2017, surveys were sent from JXTG Nippon Oil independent organization. Nippon Mining & Metals Group intends to follow RSG, and in • Comply with labor-related laws and regulations. & Energy to 160 suppliers, with responses received from 155 Accordingly, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group fiscal 2018 began establishing rules and taking other steps to suppliers, a response rate of 97%. has included a clause on the exclusion of conflict minerals ensure conformance. • Abide by laws and regulations related to safety and health and develop a proper labor environment. In fiscal 2017, surveys were sent from JX Nippon Mining in its Basic Procurement Policy, and has established and ¹ London Bullion Market Association. An industry association composed of financial institutions and others that deal in gold bullion. Inclusion on this association’s • Prohibit child labor and forced labor. & Metals to 449 suppliers, accounting for 95% of the value operates management systems to appropriately address Good Delivery List is viewed as a guarantee of high quality and reliability. • Prohibit discrimination based on race, gender, etc., and of items purchased and accepted by JX Nippon Mining & this issue. ² Global e-Sustainability Initiative (a trade association of the information and communications technology industry in Europe). The LBMA and GeSI together respect the human rights, personality, and individuality Metals, JX Nippon Environmental Services, and Pan Pacific Specifically, Pan Pacific Copper, a producer of gold created the Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) certification program given the high risk of of employees. Copper. Responses were received from 435 suppliers, a bullion, has established and operates a management conflict minerals being used in electronic and communications equipment. • Comply with environmental laws and regulations. response rate of 97%. system for supply chain due diligence that calls for the • Prohibit bribery and other unfair conduct. The survey results are used for supplier selection following actions to be taken: • Do not engage in conflict minerals procurement or use as applicable. 1. Performing supply chain due diligence before purchasing that contributes to inhumane acts. mineral raw materials. • Shut out relations with antisocial forces. Promotion of CSR Procurement 2. Notifying suppliers of the policy on exclusion of conflict 2. Engage in sound and fair business minerals. Further expanding its green purchasing efforts, the management. 3. Conducting in-house education on supply chain due JXTG Group is working toward the introduction of CSR 3. Based on the JX Nippon Mining & Metals diligence and its background. procurement, which focuses on factors such as compliance, Group’s Green Purchasing Guidelines, build 4. Conducting internal audits and undergoing external audits. environmental management systems and respect for human rights, enhancing the work environment, properly manage specified chemical substances. reducing environmental impacts, and assuring safety. Operation of the system is audited by an independent JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy established the JXTG Nippon organization specified by the LBMA, and the results are 4. Offer stable supply capacity and satisfy the quality, price, delivery, and service Oil & Energy CSR Procurement Policy in July 2018. reported to the LBMA. As a result of following these requirements of the JX Nippon Mining & In October 2018, 59 suppliers, accounting for 60% procedures, the gold bullion produced at Pan Pacific Copper’s Metals Group. of the value of items purchased and accepted, attended a Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery is included on the LBMA’s Certificate from the LBMA 5. Possess technological capabilities that meet training session for promoting understanding and cooperation Good Delivery List. the requirements of the JX Nippon Mining & with regard to this policy, and also responded to a survey for Metals Group. risk assessment. Based on analysis of the survey results, we will share measures to be implemented with our suppliers and make necessary corrections and improvements through proper dialogue. Based on the results of JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy’s initial efforts, other Group companies will also integrate CSR procurement into their business operations going forward. 69 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 70 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Development environment Management Contribution Development environment Management Contribution Social Contribution Nguyen Ba Ngoc Elementary School Expenditure for Social Contribution Activities Interns from PetroVietnam University with a company official Basic Approach (Billion yen) The JXTG Group believes that promoting dialogue, 3.0 2.9 2.9 3.0 cooperation and collaboration in the areas where we conduct Initiatives in Malaysia our business operations to build robust relationships of 2.0 As a project operator in Malaysia, JX Nippon Oil & Gas trust with local communities is an important element in the Exploration conducts a variety of social contribution activities 1.0 continuation of our business activities and the realization of closely in tune with the needs of local communities. sustainable development. The company also provides support for local cultural 0 Based on this belief, we have established the JXTG 2015 2016 2017 (FY) and sporting events. Group Code of Conduct as a basic policy of the Group. We Notes: Results for fiscal 2015 are based on the former JX Group. are also striving to contribute to the economic and social Results for fiscal 2016 represent the sum of the former JX Group and the former TonenGeneral Group. Contribution to Community Events development of the communities in which we operate in Actual values are the sum of expenditures on social contribution activities reported Japan and overseas by utilizing local companies, employing to the Keidanren 1% (One-Percent) Club plus donations of money and goods, etc. Vocational training As a proud sponsor of important annual events in the state of local staff and carrying out a variety of other activities. Sarawak—the Sarawak Regatta (boat race) and the Borneo Jazz Festival—we play a part in promoting sports and culture Educational Support Initiatives in Vietnam in local communities. JXTG Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) As a project operator in Vietnam, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Since 2006, we have provided scholarships to students in need Exploration is continuously implementing a variety of social through the Ho Chi Minh Association for Education Promotion, 13. Contribution to the development of civil society contribution activities, including the provision of scholarships a public institution working to improve education in Vietnam. In (1) We respect the environment, culture and customs and donations for school building projects. We also support 2017, scholarships were awarded to 45 students. in all of our business locations, and communicate, vocational training facilities that enable the social participation cooperate and collaborate with local communities, of young Vietnamese with disabilities resulting from the effects local governments, and civic groups, among others. of defoliants. (2) We contribute to the development of civil society through social contribution activities. Support for Construction of School Buildings A boat race during the Sarawak Regatta In addition to providing support for the construction of school buildings in various areas of Vietnam, we also provide the Enhancing Community Facilities Structure schools with teaching materials. With social contribution positioned as a priority field for CSR In fiscal 2017, we provided support for the construction We donated a kidney dialysis machine to a medical facility in Miri, activities, the JXTG Group regularly summarizes, evaluates of Nguyen Ba Ngoc Elementary School in Dak Nong Province. Sarawak, and donated a new water supply system to a school in and shares information on these activities as part of its CSR Support for Construction of School Buildings Scholarship recipients in fiscal 2017 a rural part of the same state. promotion structure. 2002 Muong Phang Elementary School in Dien Bien Province See pp. 8–10 for the Group’s CSR promotion structure. In 2011, PetroVietnam University was established 2005 Vocational training facility in Quang Tri Province by PetroVietnam, the state oil company of Vietnam, as 2007 Thanh Tuyen Junior High School in Ha Nam Province a petroleum university whose goal is to develop human Expenditure for Social Contribution Activities 2008 Binh An Junior High School in Ha Tinh Province resources to lead the petroleum industry. Since making In fiscal 2017, the total expenditure by the Group for the 2009 Trieu Dai Elementary School in Quang Tri Province a donation of 100,000 US dollars at the university’s implementation of social contribution activities in Japan 2011 Vocational training facility in Ha Tinh Province inauguration, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has provided and overseas, plus donations of money and goods, was 2012 Nguyen Binh Khiem High School in Hai Phong City scholarships and funding for operations, and hosted interns approximately 3.0 billion yen. 2013 Nguyen Truong To Elementary School in Ba Ria Vung Tau Province from the university. While actively engaging in dialogue with local 2014 Trieu Dai Elementary School in Quang Tri Province (additional classrooms) In September 2017, a graduation ceremony was held communities, we will continue to implement social 2015 Xuat Tac Kindergarten in Thai Nguyen Province for the university’s second class of graduates. contribution initiatives, which include activities involving the 2016 Hoa Mai Kindergarten in Ba Ria Vung Tau Province Water supply system donated by the company entire Group and activities unique to each Group company. 2017 Nguyen Ba Ngoc Elementary School in Dak Nong Province 71 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 72 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Development environment Management Contribution Development environment Management Contribution Assisting People in Need JXTG Children’s Story Award Performances by Past Recipient of the Initiatives in Japan Children’s Culture Award We deliver gifts to economically disadvantaged families The JXTG Children’s Story Award is a contest, open to the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy presented outreach performances Youth Baseball Classes and Basketball Clinics during Ramadan (a month of fasting observed by Muslims) to general public, which recognizes the best works from among in Osaka, Chiba and Shizuoka featuring performers from support the activities of a local Muslim welfare association. The JXTG Group runs baseball classes and basketball clinics submissions of original children’s literature on the theme of the Kazenoko Theatre Company, recipient of the 11th JXTG each year throughout Japan. The sessions target elementary “heart-to-heart contact.” The award has been presented by Children’s Culture Award in 1976. and junior high school students, and are coached by active the JXTG Group since 1970. Designed to provide children with opportunities to nurture players from the JX-ENEOS baseball team and the JX-ENEOS A total of 11,897 heartwarming entries were submitted a rich sensitivity and imagination, the performances delivered Sunflowers women’s basketball team. In fiscal 2017, we held for the 48th awards, presented in fiscal 2017. inspiration to attendees, which totaled around 1,300. 6 baseball classes for 431 participants and 70 basketball clinics for 2,778 participants. Summer Holiday Science Bus Tour for Fun Learning At the refineries of JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Summer Holiday Science Bus Tours are run in collaboration with various newspaper companies for elementary school students and their guardians. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration staff delivering a gift Each group is taken on a tour of the refinery on board a bus, where they learn about refinery processes, from the import of crude oil and refining to product shipment. They Awards ceremony for the 48th JXTG Children’s Story Award Youth baseball class also observe firefighting drills involving firefighting vehicles and Initiatives in Chile other equipment. JX Nippon Mining & Metals conducts a variety of social Scholarship Support for Children Living in Child These bus tours were held at nine of our locations in contribution activities via Minera Lumina Copper Chile Welfare Facilities fiscal 2017, attracting 706 participants, including children and (MLCC), operator of the Caserones Copper Mine. The JXTG Group sells copies of A Bouquet of Children’s their guardians. Stories—a compilation of works awarded the JXTG Children’s Assistance to Local Residents Impacted by Story Award—to raise money for charity. All proceeds are Torrential Rain and Heavy Snowfall donated to the JXTG Scholarship Program, established by In May 2017, MLCC provided assistance in the form of the Japan National Council of Social Welfare (JNCSW), to drinking water, food, charcoal, blankets and other items to the be used as financial assistance when children living in child residents in the area near the mine who suffered damage from welfare facilities enroll in university or other institutions of heavy rain and snow. The company also provided container higher education. houses and a shared storage facility to five households in Basketball clinic In April 2017, scholarship support was provided to 496 the Hornitos district who lost their homes to flooding of the children (enrolling in fiscal 2017), bringing the total number of Copiapó River. recipients since the scholarship program was created in fiscal 2003 to 4,772. Support for Disabled Sports Sponsoring Wheelchair Basketball in Japan JXTG Children’s Culture Award and Music Awards Since 2006, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has sponsored the Japan Wheelchair Basketball Championship Tournament, The Children’s Culture Award (founded in 1966) and the Bus tour at the Sendai Refinery known as the Prime Minister’s Cup, for the promotion of Music Awards (founded in 1971) are presented by the JXTG wheelchair basketball. Group to recognize contributions to the development and Many employees and their families watch the improvement of music and children’s culture in Japan, and to tournament to cheer on the athletes as well as volunteer to encourage future achievements. provide operational support and assistance. Sponsoring a Baseball League for the Disabled Since 2007, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has been working to Providing relief supplies promote and develop baseball for people with disabilities as a sponsor of the Japan Dream Baseball League. The company sponsors a nationwide tournament for disabled baseball called the Dream Cup and helps to make the games exciting, with employees and their families cheering on the players. Awards ceremony for the JXTG Children’s Culture Award and Music Awards 73 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 74 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Safety Human Rights Human Resource Health Healthy work Quality Supply Chain Social Development environment Management Contribution Development environment Management Contribution Summer STEM Challenge 2017 Forest Stewardship Activities in ENEOS no Mori Firefly Watching Event Joint Disaster Drills with Local Governments The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group supports the STEM The JXTG Group is involved in various forest stewardship JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group company JX Nippon At the oil refineries and depots of JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, Challenge —Experience Jobs in Science and Technology— activities at each of its Group companies. Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. has offered firefly watching as an disaster drills are conducted in collaboration with local initiative, which is implemented mainly by the Gender Equality JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy conducts tree thinning, annual event for more than a decade. In 2017, activities were governments, fire departments and other relevant groups, Bureau Cabinet Office. As part of this initiative, during the removal of undergrowth, and other forest stewardship activities expanded as Mito City, Ibaraki Prefecture, the sister city of assuming scenarios of a major disaster or accident in a refinery. summer break period, the Group hosted plant tours and across Japan in partnership with local governments, the Tsuruga City, Fukui Prefecture, and the junior high school In addition to carrying out practical drills to strengthen interactive experiments for junior high school students at five National Land Afforestation Promotion Organization (NLAPO) affiliated with Tsuruga Kehi High School newly co-sponsored systems for cooperation in the event of a disaster, the company of its business locations across Japan. and others. In fiscal 2017, a total of 1,447 employees and their the event. In addition to the viewing, students from the works to ensure that local residents can live their lives with Participants got to experience the unique work family members took part in the activities. junior high school gave presentations, craft workshops were peace of mind. environment of each business site and learned about the Since 1998, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has held, and the habitat distribution of Tsuruga’s fireflies was societal benefits of copper and other non-ferrous metals along worked to preserve the pine forest (coastal shelter forest) explained, with large attendance at each of the events. Many Bread Sales Drives in Support of People with what it is like to work in a science and technology job. located on and around the site of its Nakajo Field Office fireflies could be seen at the firefly viewing, enabling children with Disabilities in Niigata Prefecture. In fiscal 2017, a total of 78 officers, to experience the wonder of the natural environment. As part of its activities to foster greater employee awareness employees and their families undertook forest preservation of people with disabilities, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy holds work together with nearby residents. bread and baked goods sales drives run by staff from a JX Nippon Mining & Metals promotes reforestation bakery that employs people with disabilities. These activities activities in cooperation with local forestry associations and not only contribute to the bakery’s sales but also offer a other groups, especially at the sites of its closed mines. sense of encouragement through interactions with many of the company’s employees, not to mention providing indirect support to employment of people with disabilities. In fiscal 2017, bread sales drives for the Koro-Koro bakery, which began in fiscal 2015, were held on six occasions Interactive experiment at the company’s headquarters. Some of the company’s refineries also host baked goods sales drives by businesses in the local community that employ people with disabilities. Presentation on the habitat distribution of fireflies Assistance to Areas Affected by Major Disasters Summer Festivals Enjoyed by Local Residents Note: The STEM Challenge is an initiative established to support female students The JXTG Group provides assistance to areas affected by interested in science and technology in their selection of a future career path. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group has held related events since Every year, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group plans major disasters. 2015 as a science and technology supporter. ENEOS no Mori activity and holds summer festivals for the enjoyment of not only Assistance Provided in Fiscal 2017 employees and their families, but also the local communities JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration International Promoting Afforestation through the ENEOS around its business sites. The festivities are enlivened by Monetary donation for torrential rains in July 2017 6 million yen Student Scholarship Credit Card refreshment stands run by employees, prize drawings, and northern Kyushu As part of its social contribution activities, JX Nippon Oil & Ever since ENEOS credit cards were first issued in October music and dance performances by local children. Some of September Monetary donation for Hurricane Harvey 100,000 US dollars Gas Exploration provides assistance to international students 2001, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy has donated 0.01% of the festivals feature performances of traditional performing 2017 in the United States (approx. 11 million yen) studying in Japan. Through an initiative targeting the countries the spending on these cards at ENEOS service stations arts or fireworks displays. Monetary donation for victims of the 100,000 US dollars March 2018 where the company operates, in fiscal 2017 one-year to the National Land Afforestation Promotion Organization These events have become a much-anticipated major earthquake in Papua New Guinea (approx. 10.6 million yen) scholarships were awarded to two international students from (NLAPO). These funds are being used to help support a summer tradition for local communities. Papua New Guinea. host of environmental programs run by the organization, including afforestation work, youth tree-planting activities, Support for the TonenGeneral Sekiyu R&D the revitalization of tropical forests and the prevention of Encouragement and Assistance Foundation desertification. JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy presents scholarships to In fiscal 2017, approximately 39.2 million yen was undergraduate and graduate students studying science and donated, bringing total donations through this initiative to technology and provides research grants to young researchers about 470 million yen. in order to contribute to the development of industry and industrial technologies. Support for the Tonen International Toho Titanium Summer Festival Scholarship Foundation We provide scholarships for international students studying at Japanese graduate schools as a way to promote friendship between Japan and other countries and contribute to greater society. ENEOS credit card 75 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 76 Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Data Governance Item FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number of meetings 14 14 15 From April 1: 25 Number of members 19 19 From June 28: 22 Board of Directors From April 1: 5 Number of independent outside directors 4 4 From June 28: 4 Average attendance rate 98.1 98.9 98.6 Number of meetings 15 15 16 From April 1: 7 Number of members 5 5 From June 28: 6 Board of Corporate Auditors Number of independent outside corporate From April 1: 4 3 3 auditors From June 28: 3 Average attendance rate 98.7 96 100 Number of meetings 1 2 3 Number of members 4 4 6 Nomination Advisory Committee Number of independent outside directors 2 2 3 Average attendance rate 100 100 100 Number of meetings – 3 3 Number of members – 4 6 Compensation Advisory Committee Number of independent outside directors – 2 3 Average attendance rate – 100 100 Notes: The number of members of the Board of Directors was changed to the following at the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 28, 2017: directors: 16, corporate auditors: 6. The number of members of the Board of Corporate Auditors was changed from seven to six at the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 28, 2017. The number of independent outside corporate auditors on the Board of Corporate Auditors was changed from four to three at the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 28, 2017. As the Nomination Advisory Committee was established in April 2016, there are no figures for fiscal 2015. Environmental • The environmental information covers a total of 76 business sites at 41 companies in the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group, the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group and other operating companies (JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group: 46 business sites at 25 companies; JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group: 3 business sites at 1 company; JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group: 27 business sites at 14 companies; other operating companies: 1 company), however, the companies covered vary depending on the information. The companies covered are indicated in the “Scope of data” column. • The environmental information indicated with for fiscal 2017 has been assured by an independent practitioner. • Some figures from past fiscal years have been revised due to revisions in the scope of data, etc. Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data Energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) Million kL 11.75 11.74 11.75 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Fuel consumption (crude oil equivalent) Million kL 10.68 10.53 10.49 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, NIPPO CORPORATION Electricity consumption Million kWh 4,335 4,630 4,569 Note: Figures for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group data include energy consumption from distribution activities. Energy Consumption Intensity Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data Energy consumption intensity for oil Oil equivalent (kL)/Crude distillation unit equivalent Petroleum refining business of the JXTG 8.22 8.28 8.18 refining throughput (thousand kL) Nippon Oil & Energy Group Energy consumption intensity for Smelting and refining business sites of the GJ of heat/ton of refined copper produced 13.8 13.6 13.6 smelting and refining JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group CO2 emissions intensity for smelting Smelting and refining business sites of the t-CO2/ton of refined copper produced 0.93 0.86 0.86 and refining JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 77 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 78 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards GHG Emissions Social Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data CO2 emissions Million tons 28.69 29.47 29.47 • Social information covers the JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group, the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals (1) Scope 1 Million tons 25.56 26.29 26.25 Group and other operating companies, however, the companies covered vary depending on the information. The companies covered are (2) Scope 2 Million tons 3.07 3.12 3.12 indicated in the “Scope of data” column. (3) Non-energy-derived CO2 Million tons 0.05 0.07 0.11 • The social information indicated with for fiscal 2017 has been assured by an independent practitioner. GHG emissions other than CO2 tons 17,987 146,795 153,727 • Some figures from past fiscal years have been revised. (1) CH4 tons 17,628 38,592 41,480 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, (2) N2O tons 359 108,203 111,725 JX Nippon Mining & Metals (3) HFCs tons 0 0 308 Employees (4) PFCs tons 0 0 0 Item Total JXTG Holdings Energy Oil & Gas Exploration Metals (5) SF6 tons 0 0 214 9,935 114 7,968 327 1,526 (6) NF3 tons 0 0 0 Fixed term 346 1 232 13 100 Total GHG emissions Million tons 28.71 29.62 29.63 Non-fixed term 9,589 113 7,736 314 1,426 Notes: CO2 emissions include CO2 equivalent emissions from energy consumption (electricity, fuel, etc.) as well as greenhouse gases emitted mainly in oil and gas production. Figures for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group data include emissions from distribution activities. Male Other than full time 52 0 26 0 26 Fixed term 48 0 26 0 22 Air Pollution Load Non-fixed term 4 0 0 0 4 Number of Employees (by employment status) Subtotal 9,987 114 7,994 327 1,552 Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data (1) SOx tons 13,010 16,049 13,398 1,198 46 948 47 157 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Fixed term 66 1 55 2 8 (2) NOx tons 15,606 15,568 15,449 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, NIPPO CORPORATION (3) Soot tons 1,001 936 1,062 Non-fixed term 1,132 45 893 45 149 Female (4) VOC tons 17,841 17,819 15,872 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Other than full time 28 0 7 2 19 Notes: SOx and NOx figures for NIPPO CORPORATION have been estimated based on its 50 main plants. The scope of data for the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group includes only Fixed term 15 0 7 2 6 business sites that are subject to legal requirements. Non-fixed term 13 0 0 0 13 VOC figures from past fiscal years have been revised due to expansion of the scope of data from fiscal 2017. Subtotal 1,226 46 955 49 176 Use of Water Resources Ratio of female employees 10.9% 28.8% 10.7% 13.0% 10.2% Temporary staff 505 2 417 6 80 Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data Male 244 0 203 1 40 Water used (1) + (2) + (3) + (4) + (5) Million tons 1,198.68 1,419.63 1,847.41 Female 261 2 214 5 40 (1) Service water (tap water) Million tons 3.88 4.61 4.94 Ratio of temporary staff 4.3% 1.2% 4.5% 1.6% 4.4% (2) Service water (industrial water) Million tons 167.34 171.70 175.78 Total 11,718 162 9,366 382 1,808 (3) Rainwater Million tons 0.07 0.11 0.07 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Foreign nationals 59 0 37 9 13 (4) Groundwater Million tons 18.08 21.09 18.57 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Male 37 0 22 6 9 (5) Seawater Million tons 1,009.30 1,222.11 1,648.04 Water discharged Million tons 1,259.74 1,340.70 1,813.94 Female 22 0 15 3 4 (1) River discharge Million tons − − 15.48 Number of locally employed staff at overseas sites 3,758 0 1,279 450 2,029 (2) Sea discharge Million tons − − 1,798.46 Managerial staff 3,052 93 2,487 157 315 Notes: Overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not included in figures for the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group. Male 2,976 85 2,424 155 312 The volume of water used and water discharged by the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is the product of volume multiplied by density (seawater:1,024 t/m³; fresh water: 1,000 t/m³ ). Female 76 8 63 2 3 Number of Employees (by category), Average Age and Average Years of Service Data for water discharged from past fiscal years has been revised due to expansion of the scope of data in fiscal 2017. Ratio of female managerial staff 2.5% 8.6% 2.5% 1.3% 1.0% Water Pollution Load Up to 29 years old 0 0 0 0 0 Age 30–49 years old 1,416 56 1,176 59 125 Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data 50 years old and over 1,636 37 1,311 98 190 COD tons 1,472 1,477 1,598 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Average age 50.5 53.7 50.3 52.0 50.1 Release and Transfer of Chemical Substances (PRTR) Average years of service 25.3 23.6 25.9 25.6 21.3 Non-managerial staff 7,669 65 6,142 202 1,260 Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data Male 6,613 28 5,312 159 1,114 (1) Released tons 1,657 1,750 1,916 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Female 1,056 37 830 43 146 (2) Transferred tons 217 195 408 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, NIPPO CORPORATION Up to 29 years old 2,449 9 2,064 49 327 Notes: Overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not included in figures for the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group. Age 30–49 years old 3,645 49 2,741 140 715 The scope for the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group includes only companies with business sites required to give notification under the PRTR Law. Overseas offices and plants are not included. 50 years old and over 1,575 7 1,337 13 218 Average age 38.9 38.2 39.1 34.9 38.8 Waste Average years of service 16.9 12.8 17.8 10.1 13.9 Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data Total 10,721 158 8,629 359 1,575 Total waste tons 1,748,859 1,742,239 1,535,182 Average age 42.2 44.2 42.3 42.4 41.1 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Landfill disposal volume tons 9,896 11,765 9,304 Average age – male 42.2 45.5 42.3 42.7 41.5 JX Nippon Mining & Metals, NIPPO CORPORATION Waste-to-landfill ratio % 0.6 0.7 0.6 Average age – female 41.5 41.1 42.3 40.5 36.8 Average years of service 19.2 19.1 20.1 15.6 15.4 Environmental Accidents Average years of service – male 19.4 20.2 20.2 15.1 15.9 Number of environmental accidents FY2017 1 Monetary penalties FY2017 Nil Average years of service – female 17.3 16.4 19.5 13.2 10.3 79 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 80 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Oil & Gas Training Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2017 Item Total JXTG Holdings Energy Metals Exploration Total training hours Training hours per employee Up to 29 years old 311 0 248 7 56 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 2.9% 0.0% 2.9% 1.9% 3.6% JXTG Holdings 1,957 12.23 30–49 years old 78 0 20 3 55 Energy 69,046 7.72 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.7% 0.0% 0.2% 0.8% 3.5% Male Oil & Gas Exploration 7,985 21.24 50 years old and over 7 0 1 0 6 Number of New Hires (incl. mid-career hires) Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.4% Metals 29,379 17.00 Subtotal 396 0 269 10 117 Total 108,367 9.66 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 3.7% 0.0% 3.1% 2.8% 7.4% Note: Number of hours of internal group training and external training organized by the human resources departments of JXTG Holdings and the Group’s core operating companies, Up to 29 years old 57 0 43 0 14 aggregated for each employer. Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.5% 0.0% 0.5% 0.0% 0.9% 30–49 years old 7 0 1 0 6 Occupational injury Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.4% Female FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data 50 years old and over 1 0 0 0 1 Subtotal 17 16 9 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% Number of occupational injuries Subtotal 65 0 44 0 21 JXTG Group Fatalities 0 0 0 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.6% 0.0% 0.5% 0.0% 1.3% Lost work time 17 16 9 Total 461 0 313 10 138 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Subtotal 23 19 27 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 4.3% 0.0% 3.6% 2.8% 8.8% JX Nippon Mining & Metals Contractors (partner Fatalities 0 1 1 Up to 29 years old 34 0 30 1 3 companies, etc.) Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.3% 0.0% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% Lost work time 23 18 26 30–49 years old 38 0 23 2 13 Total 40 35 36 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.4% 0.0% 0.3% 0.6% 0.8% Male Occupational injury frequency rate 0.23 0.40 0.29 50 years old and over 102 0 87 0 15 15 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group refineries and plants, Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 1.0% 0.0% 1.0% 0.0% 1.0% Occupational injury severity rate 0.01 0.01 0.01 5 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration business sites, and 6 JX Nippon Mining & Metals business sites. Subtotal 174 0 140 3 31 Lost work days due to occupational injury 263 197 251 Employee Turnover Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 1.6% 0.0% 1.6% 0.8% 2.0% Notes: Number of contractors in “Number of occupational injuries” is for reference. Up to 29 years old 9 0 8 0 1 Targets for inclusion in the occupational injury frequency rate, occupational injury severity rate, and lost work days due to occupational injuries cover 15 JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% Group refineries and plants, 5 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration business sites (Miri, Vietnam, Kuala Lumpur, Doha, and Nakajo) and 6 JX Nippon Mining & Metals business sites (head office, Hitachi, Isohara, Kurami, Turuga, and Saganoseki). 30–49 years old 5 0 2 0 3 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.2% Female JXTG Group Safety Education Center Training Participation 50 years old and over 6 0 6 0 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Scope of data Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% Subtotal 20 0 16 0 4 JXTG Holdings, JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, JX Number of participants 1,793 1,698 1,503 Nippon Mining & Metals, affiliated Group companies, partner companies, etc. Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 0.2% 0.0% 0.2% 0.0% 0.3% Total 194 0 156 3 35 Percentage of regular employees as of March 2018 1.8% 0.0% 1.8% 0.8% 2.2% Employment rate of persons with disabilities 2.3% 2.2% 2.8% 2.3% Number of employees re-employed after retirement 710 3 688 10 9 Number of days of paid annual leave granted 22.3 23.2 22.8 22.0 19.8 Paid annual Number of days of paid annual leave taken 18.8 18.8 19.7 14.2 14.8 leave Usage rate of paid annual leave 84.0% 81.0% 86.4% 64.4% 74.4% Number of employees taking family care leave 3 0 2 1 0 Number of employees taking childcare leave 164 3 142 7 12 Childbirth/ Male employees 107 1 94 6 6 Number of employees returning to work after giving birth or taking child care childcare leave 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Percentage still employed 12 months after returning to work 96.6% 100% 97.1% 100% 66.7% Labor Labor unions 8,141 No labor unions 6,890 No labor unions 1,251 unions Number of members 99.7% No labor unions 99.6% No labor unions 100.0% Participation rate for regular health screenings 99.9% 100.0% 99.9% 100.0% 100.0% Note: Employees of JXTG Holdings are seconded from operating companies. The number of new hires and employee turnover are accounted for at their companies of origin. 81 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 82 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Main Sites and Areas of Core Operating Company Groups With many business operation sites and areas in Japan and overseas, the JXTG Group is a global business, working to become one of Asia’s largest integrated energy, resources, and materials business groups. Note: Multiple sites for a single company group located in the same city share one mark. Examples: Shanghai One mark for JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy sites, one mark for JX JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Group Nippon Mining & Metals Group sites Bangkok One mark for JX Nippon Oil JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group & Energy sites, one mark for JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group sites JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 83 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 84 Comparative Table with Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data GRI Standards Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Comparative Table with GRI Standards 1. Organizational Profile Where to find Page(s) 102-1 Name of the organization The JXTG Group’s Businesses 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services The JXTG Group’s Businesses 2 102-3 Location of headquarters Editorial Policy 1 The JXTG Group’s Businesses 2 102-4 Location of operations Main Sites and Areas of Core Operating Company Groups 83-84 （TRANSLATION） The JXTG Group’s Businesses 2 102-5 Ownership and legal form Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report JXTG Integrated Report 2018 The JXTG Group’s Businesses 2 November 29, 2018 102-6 Markets served Main Sites and Areas of Core Operating Company Groups 83-84 Mr. Tsutomu Sugimori, The JXTG Group’s Businesses 2 Representative Director, President, 102-7 Scale of the organization JXTG Integrated Report 2018 JXTG Holdings, Inc. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Data 80-81 Masahiko Sugiyama JXTG Integrated Report 2018 (Introduction) Representative Director 102-9 Supply chain JXTG Integrated Report 2018 Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain − 3-3-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Risk Management 21-22 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Compliance 22-23 We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the environmental information and the social information indicated Principal Declarations and Initiatives the JXTG Group Participates in and 14 with ✓ for the year ended March 31, 2018 (the “Sustainability Information”) included in the “JXTG REPORT CSR Report 102-12 External initiatives Supports for a Sustainable Future 2018” (the “Report”) of JXTG Holdings, Inc. (the “Company”). Communication with Industry Organizations 14 The Company’s Responsibility Principal Declarations and Initiatives the JXTG Group Participates in and 14 The Company is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordance with the calculation and 102-13 Membership of associations Supports reporting standard adopted by the Company (as described on pages 1, 78, 80 and indicated with the Sustainability Communication with Industry Organizations 14 Information of the Report). Greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty for reasons such as incomplete 2. Strategy Where to find Page(s) scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and numerical data needed to combine emissions of different gases. Management Message 5-6 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Messages from Senior Management of the JXTG Group’s Core Operating Our Independence and Quality Control 7 Companies We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, Management Message 5-6 objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Messages from Senior Management of the JXTG Group’s Core Operating 7 Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Companies Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control Risk Management 21-22 including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 3. Ethics and Integrity Where to find Page(s) JXTG Group Philosophy 3 Our Responsibility 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior JXTG Group Code of Conduct 4 Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compliance 23-26 the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or 4. Governance Where to find Page(s) Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”), ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the IAASB and the Practical 102-18 Governance Structure Corporate Governance Framework 16 Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information, issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations 102-19 Delegating authority CSR Promotion Structure 10-11 for Sustainability Information. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics CSR Promotion Structure 10-11 The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics − reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. These procedures also included the following: 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance Framework 16 ・Evaluating whether the Company’s methods for estimates are appropriate and had been consistently applied. However, our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or reperforming the estimates. 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Framework 16 ・Undertaking site visits to assess the completeness of the data, data collection methods, source data and relevant JXTG Integrated Report 2018 assumptions applicable to the sites. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Report The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, JXTG Integrated Report 2018 a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Report substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy CSR Promotion Structure 10-11 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body CSR Promotion Structure 10-11 Limited Assurance Conclusion 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance CSR Promotion Structure 10-11 Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Risk Management 21-22 calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risk Management 21-22 The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Assurance report issued in 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics CSR Promotion Structure 10-11 the Japanese language. 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting CSR Promotion Structure 10 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Compliance 23-26 Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Compliance 23-26 85 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 86 Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data Comparative Table with GRI Standards GRI Standards JXTG Integrated Report 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Report GRI 301: Materials Where to find Page(s) Determination of Director Compensation 20 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Overview of the JXTG Group’s Environmental Impact 30 JXTG Integrated Report 2018 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 301-2 Recycled input materials used Initiatives for the Effective Use of Resources 36 Corporate Governance Report 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials − 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration − GRI 302: Energy Where to find Page(s) 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio − Overview of the JXTG Group’s Environmental Impact 30 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio − 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Data 78 5. Stakeholder Engagement Where to find Page(s) 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization − 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 13 Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 31 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements − 302-3 Energy intensity Data 78 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement 13 Data 78 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 13 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Conservation 31 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement (Major Initiatives) 13 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services − 6. Reporting practice Where to find Page(s) GRI 303: Water Where to find Page(s) 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Editorial Policy 1 Effective Utilization of Water Resources and Reducing the Release of Water 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries CSR Management 8 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 40-41 Pollutants 102-47 List of material topics CSR Management 8-9 Effective Utilization of Water Resources and Reducing the Release of Water 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 40-41 102-48 Restatements of information Data 77-82 Pollutants 102-49 Changes in reporting Data 77-82 Effective Utilization of Water Resources and Reducing the Release of Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 40-41 Pollutants 102-50 Reporting period Editorial Policy 1 GRI 304: Biodiversity Where to find Page(s) 102-51 Date of most recent report Editorial Policy 1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 102-52 Reporting cycle Editorial Policy 1 304-1 Initiatives for Biodiversity 42-44 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Editorial Policy 1 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Initiatives for Biodiversity 42-44 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Comparative Table with GRI Standards 86-90 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Initiatives for Biodiversity 42-44 102-55 GRI content Index Comparative Table with GRI Standards 86-90 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in 304-4 − 102-56 External assurance Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 85 areas affected by operations GRI 305: Emissions Where to find Page(s) 103: Management Approach Where to find Page(s) Overview of the JXTG Group’s Environmental Impact 30 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary The Group’s Top CSR Priorities 9 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 31-32 103-2 The management approach and its components CSR Promotion Structure 10-11 Data 79 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach CSR Promotion Structure 10-11 Overview of the JXTG Group’s Environmental Impact 30 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 31-32 ECONOMIC Data 79 Overview of the JXTG Group’s Environmental Impact 30 GRI 201:Economic Performance Where to find Page(s) 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 31-32 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed − Initiatives for Operations Outside of Production Sites 32 Risk Management 21 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity − 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Environmental Management (Basic Approach) 28 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 31-34 Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 31-32 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) − 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans − Initiatives to Reduce the Release of Air Pollutants 39 201-4 Financial assistance received from government − 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Data 79 GRI 202: Market Presence Where to find Page(s) GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Where to find Page(s) Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum Effective Utilization of Water Resources and Reducing the Release of Water 202-1 − 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 41 wage Pollutants 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community − Initiatives for Promoting the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) and Major Initiatives 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 35-36 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Where to find Page(s) to Reduce Waste 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Social Contribution 71-76 306-3 Significant spills − 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Social Contribution 71-76 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste − GRI 204: Procurement Practices Where to find Page(s) 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff − 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers − GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Where to find Page(s) GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Where to find Page(s) Data 79 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Compliance 23-26 Environmental Accidents 30 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Compliance 23-26 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Where to find Page(s) 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliance 23-26 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supply Chain Management 68-70 GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior Where to find Page(s) Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming 31-34 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Compliance 23-26 Supply Chain Management 68-70 87 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 88 Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data Comparative Table with Governance Report Environmental Report Social Report Data Comparative Table with GRI Standards GRI Standards SOCIAL GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Where to find Page(s) 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria − GRI 401: Employment Where to find Page(s) 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Management 68-70 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Data 81 GRI 415: Public Policy Where to find Page(s) Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 401-2 − 415-1 Political contributions − part-time employees Healthy Work Environment 63-64 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety Where to find Page(s) 401-3 Parental leave Data 81 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 416-1 Quality (Major Initiatives) 65-67 categories GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations Where to find Page(s) Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes − 416-2 − products and services GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Where to find Page(s) GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Where to find Page(s) Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling − 403-1 Data 81 committees Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Results of Major Initiatives for Ensuring Safety 47-48 417-2 Compliance 23-26 403-2 labeling absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Data 82 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications − Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their Results of Major Initiatives for Ensuring Safety 47-48 GRI 418: Customer Privacy Where to find Page(s) 403-3 occupation Health 59-60 Substantiated complaints regarding concerning breaches of customer privacy 418-1 Compliance 23-26 Results of Major Initiatives for Ensuring Safety 47-48 and losses of customer data 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Health 59-60 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Where to find Page(s) GRI 404: Training and Education Where to find Page(s) 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Compliance 23-26 Human Resource Development 56 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Data 82 Human Resource Development 55-58 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Healthy Work Environment 62 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 404-3 − development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Where to find Page(s) Diversity and Inclusion 62-63 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Data 80-81 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men − GRI 406: Non-Discrimination Where to find Page(s) Compliance 23-26 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Humarn Rights 51-54 Healthy Work Environment 63 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Where to find Page(s) Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 407-1 − collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor Where to find Page(s) Supply Chain Management 68-70 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Human Rights 51-54 GRI 409: Forced and Compulsory Labor Where to find Page(s) Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Supply Chain Management 68-70 409-1 compulsory labor Human Rights 51-54 GRI 410: Security Practices Where to find Page(s) 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures − GRI 411: Indigenous Rights Where to find Page(s) 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Human Rights 51-54 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Where to find Page(s) Initiatives for Human Rights Due Diligence 53 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 412-1 Mine Development and Respecting the Human Rights of Local Residents 54 assessments Confronting the Issue of Conflict Minerals (Supply Chain Management) 70 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Human Rights 52-54 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 412-3 − clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities Where to find Page(s) Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and Social Contribution 71-76 413-1 development programs Addressing Customer Needs 67 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 413-2 − communitie 89 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 JXTG REPORT CSR Report for a Sustainable Future 2018 90
