PROGRESS ON DEPLOYMENT OF THE GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM As Fives continues its CSR actions program, it has decided in 2018 to review its commitments to meet the expectations of its stakeholders, which have evolved significantly over the past 10 years. The Group wishes to strengthen its actions on key topics such as the fight against climate change, the development of technologies to serve the circular economy and the contribution to the development of the territories in which the company operates. As every year, a review of the CSR action plan was carried out and the main summary elements are included in the following table, with a correspondence with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. This table naturally includes the new commitments of the Fives CSR policy as well as the objectives set within the new roadmap. 2019 Annual CSR report # 2018 financial year Level Commitments Group's objectives Program and action plans of maturity Achievements at end-2018 2019 goals at end-2018 Reduce our sites’ environmental • Support all our industrial sites towards ISO 14001 certification • Certification program for the Group's industrial sites: • Group Environment Directive: impacts: 75% of the Group’s industrial sites ISO 14001-certified Finalization of the Group Environment Directive, formalizing the new GC7 GC8 • Reduce the Group's energy consumption by 10% by 2022 46 sites of all types ISO 14001-certified within the Group policy and integrating the objectives set for the subsidiaries • ISO 14001 v2015: • Energy efficiency: All 46 ISO 14001-certified sites successfully completed the transition to the new 2015 version. New energy consumption reduction target for all Group companies: -10% on consumption in kWh/hour worked by the end of 2022 (base year: 2018) • Energy consumption: Definition of relevant indicators to better monitor Fives' energy consumption. Supporting companies in the deployment of this new objective: Minimizing the environmental footprint of Fives and its customers Voluntary actions to reduce energy consumption in the Group's subsidiaries (30% of the Group's sites Evaluation of their maturity level on energy management and implemented actions in 2018, while less than 20% carried out energy audits). implementation of roadmaps Improvement in the Group's energy efficiency with a reduction in energy consumption per hour worked Structuring of an energy network: provision of a collaborative workspace, (8.3 in 2017 to 7.8 in 2018). tools, organization of training sessions Supporting companies in carrying out energy audits and identifying • REACH regulation: actions to improve their energy performance. Implementation of an approach to help subsidiaries understand the expectations of European Reach regulation and integrate them into their processes. Creation of an e-learning course to present this approach to the team internally. Improve the environmental • Help subsidiaries to integrate environmental criteria into their design processes • Eco-design program: • Eco-design program: performance of our customers: Internal eco-design program: Engineered Sustainability, which complies with ISO 14062. Evolution of this approach to integrate eco-design more systematically into GC7 GC8 GC9 • Enhance and develop services that extend the life of our products and clients' 9 products currently carry the Engineered Sustainability® brand innovation and design approaches. The methodology and tools will be equipment 33% of subsidiaries (scope R&D) are involved in eco-design updated to help companies structure the development of their products. 200 people have been trained in eco-design • Promotion of solutions that contribute to preserving the Environment: Creation of a database listing all Fives products and services with a positive impact on the environment (reduction of energy and water consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and pollutants, waste, use of consumables, better recyclability, etc.) Apply our expertise to Climate Change • Adapt our solutions to meet these challenges • Circular economy: • Development of services contributing to the fight against climate and Circular Economy: Development of a new crushing system to recycle deconstruction concrete using Rhodax®. change and/or the circular economy GC7 • Climate change and circular economy: Production of electricity and heat (cogeneration) from the sugarcane bagasse (sugar activity). Promote fair market behaviour: • Define the new Group compliance roadmap • Business ethics: • Business ethics: GC10 Strengthening the non-compliance risks monitoring process (particularly in the areas of anti-corruption, Definition of an Anti-corruption charter • Setting up of the internal alert system competition law, ethics, alert law, customs and dual-use goods control) with the creation of a Compliance Launch of specific training courses for all Group companies Department and the appointment of a Group Compliance Officer, reporting to the Group's General Communication and training on the implementation of the new internal • Promote social responsibility in our commercial offer Management. alert system for the entire Group • Internal control: Creation of a Group Internal Control department to ensure: Being a responsible economic actor * the application of th Directives and guidelines set by the SBUs and the Group's senior management * the proper functioning of the Group's internal processes • Group Directives: Complete update of the Fives Group Guidelines • Enhancing the value of non-financial rating with our clients: Improvement of the rating with a Confirmed (Gold) level, 76/100, top 1% of the panel of 35000 companies rated by EcoVadis in 2018 Deploy a Responsible Purchasing • Carry out a mapping of CSR risks in Purchasing and set up means to reduce them • Purchasing: • Purchasing: approach: Integration of safety into purchasing processes to better take into account safety objectives through Updating of the General Terms and Conditions of Purchase with a GC1 – GC2 – GC3 – GC4 – GC5 – GC8 – • Integrate environmental and social criteria into purchasing processes subcontracting (selection, contracts, monitoring, evaluation of subcontractors' safety performance): this reinforcement of the consideration of environmental and social criteria. GC10 point is systematically included in Group Safety audits. 2019 Annual CSR report # 2018 financial year Level Commitments Group's objectives Program and action plans of maturity Achievements at end-2018 2019 goals at end-2018 Preserve the health and safety of the • Continue the Group Safety Ambition 2018-2020 program: • Safety results: • Group Safety Ambition program: women and men working for Fives: Enhance the Group's safety culture with: Improvement of the Group's statistics with a lost-time accident frequency rate of 3.21 Reinforce Safety coordination by geographical area, in particular by GC1 – GC2 – GC4 – GC5 Accident objectives for 2020: 1 fatal accident of a subcontractor in the Group's activities creating a China Safety coordination to help defining and implementing Reduce the accident frequency rate to 2.5 or below The number of severe accidents was halved (from 7 in 2016 to 1 in 2018) actions. Halve the number of accidents with lost-time (LTI) in Fives’ workshops Continue to implement the action plans set in 2018 across all Group Reach 0 severe accidents • Group Safety Ambition program: activities. No fatality (including subcontractors) Support for each Fives company in the implementation of tools and the monitoring of improvement Safety culture targets for 2020: action plans. • Medical and safety assistance program for the travel abroad of the Achieve the “Independent” maturity status at Group-level (Bradley Curve) Continued deployment of Health, Safety and Environment tools in all Fives companies. Group' employees: Have no company with “reactive” status Continue travellers' training to reach all Group subsidiaries. Reach “interdependent” status for some Group companies • Medical and safety assistance program for the travel abroad of the Group' employees: Carry out a new internal communication campaign to promote the Communication to all companies of the content and benefits of the program. services provided to employees. • Ensure the management of the medical and safety assistance program for the Training of travellers for French and English' subsidiaries in the use of services to prevent risks. Update the Group Travel Safety Directive. travel abroad of the Group' employees: Train and support Group companies to prevent and limit the risks to which their employees could be exposed during abroad professional missions on Fives sites or at the customer's site • Define an Health at Work program to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses Being a responsible employer Ensure a fair level of coverage in all • Harmonize and challenge the employee welfare protection regime in the main Harmonization and implementation of a framework agreement social welfare contract for all Implementation of a retirement-plan for all Canadian companies. Group subsidiaries: domains where the Group has a presence Canadian entities. Study of an additional coverage in Asia. GC1 – GC2 Harmonization and implementation of a framework agreement social welfare contract for all entities in the Middle East. Promote diversity and guarantee Promote diversity and raise awareness of non-discrimination • Prevention of discrimination: • Establishment of the Group's commitment to diversity and inclusion equal opportunity: Pursuit of training to prevent discrimination (open to managers and mandatory for recruiters). GC6 • Gender equality in the workplace and equal opportunity: • Gender equality in the workplace: To encourage, develop and enhance the place of women at Fives and support their • Female-to-Male Proportion: Deployment of the Women@Fives program, a program designed to career path 16% women among employees (+1% compared to 2017) encourage, develop and promote women at Fives. Make our organizations attractive and encourage employees to be ambassadors 41% of women are engineers and managers (+1% compared to 2017) for the Group to external stakeholders (schools, technical and scientific partners, • Professional integration of young people: etc.) • Youth Training: Introduction to the world of industry and the diversity of Fives' activities: 374 trainees in 2018 Welcoming young people in 3rd grade internships in order to promote • Professional integration of young people: 330 work-study contracts equal opportunities in education Increasing the number of young people, including those from the disadvantaged 6.11% conversion of internships/alternances into employment contracts (short and long-term contract) Ongoing work-study training within the Group areas, who will able to discover the company and the industry Promotion of programs that enhance employee engagement with young Ongoing and strengthening of the system to attract and train young talent • Disability: people 2% of the workforce are employees with disabilities in France. • Employment of people with disabilities: • Disability : Promote access to employment and secure the professional careers of people with Definition of a Group program to promote the employment of people with disabilities within the Group disabilities in the Group. Reinforce collaboration with the adapted and protected sector (EA/ESAT in France) 2019 Annual CSR report # 2018 financial year Level Commitments Group's objectives Program and action plans of maturity Achievements at end-2018 2019 goals at end-2018 Manage a forward-planning • Development of a forecast strategy for jobs and organizations in each company: • Strategic Workforce Planning: • Development of a forecast strategy for jobs and organizations in each management of jobs and skills: A 4-step program, based on the strategy defined at the activity level: Several companies have updated their Strategic Workforce Planning frameworks in France, Italy and the company: GC1 – GC2 Determine the business goals and the operational goals United States, keeping pace with the updating of their strategic plans. Continue updates, based on actions taken on the strategic plans led over a Identify the skills required to achieve these objectives 3 to 4 year cycle. Qualify existing positions in the company in relation to the required skills • Create and maintain dialogue: Perform a gap analysis and set up an action plan 618 people (+90 people compared to 2017) were interviewed by the Starter (assessment carried out 6 • Evaluate and develop: to 18 months after the arrival of a new employee to validate integration and suitability for the position). Human Resources Evaluation and Development Committee : • Human Resources Evaluation and Development Committee: 77% of employees carried out an annual review (+13% compared to 2017), including 72% of interviews Ongoing improvement of the follow-up of the animation of the action Annual career management committee in each subsidiary, attended by the fully conducted and completed in the Fives&Me HR information system. plans identified. management team and a Human Resources representative, to: Determine which measures need to be taken to improve employee performance • Evaluate and develop: • Training and monitoring of employee development: Approve personal career plans Human Resources Evaluation and Development Committee: Access to the training module for all subsidiaries integrated into the fully Evaluation for 63% of the workforce (+13% compared to 2017) with better monitoring of action plans digital HR management system: Fives&Me. • Training plan and monitoring of employee development thanks the fully digital HR management system: Fives&Me. Ongoing development of the Group's international training offer, notably through the digital platform elearning@fives. • Training and monitoring of employee development: Development of the mentoring program. 74% of the employees have followed at least one training course, including 43% technical training; 40% Development of the coaching offer. safety training; 7% management training; 5% language training; 5% personal development training. The training commitment for the year represents a total of 178,658 hours, which is 29 hours per Being a responsible employer employee. 548 managers were trained in the specific Manager@Fives program in Canada, China, France, the United States, Italy and the United Kingdom since 2015, including 139 in 2018. Strengthen the sense of belonging to • Share the vision and insights: • Be attentive to the teams: • Group intranet portal: the Group: Redesign of the Group Intranet Portal and evolution of communication tools and Carrying out a study in 2018 with a higher participation rate than in 2015 (+5.9 points): The first GroupDeployment of a new Intranet Portal and development of a Group GC1 – GC2 channels to share more visual and verbal information wide results show a general satisfaction rate of 77% for all employees, up three points compared to 2015. collaborative platform. Group-wide deployment of online collaboration tools that promote exchanges, cross-functional work and opening-up of silos The work of the last few years has made it possible to improve 41% of the items in the survey: safety • Be attentive to the teams: (89%), relations with colleagues (94%) and the direct superior (86%), and the interest of work (88%). They Support and follow-up of the implementation, by company, of the actions • Be attentive to the teams: are all results that are still on the rise and contribute to job satisfaction at Fives. identified during the satisfaction survey. An opinion survey conducted among all Group employees every three years, designed to measure satisfaction levels and any organizational malfunctions, and Satisfaction rates by theme are improving or stable, and 83% of the indicators show significant progress which gives rises to the implementation of action plans proposed by employee or stability. bodies Promote the civic engagement of • Develop a skill-based sponsorship program for all Group employees • Definition of the skill-based sponsorship program for subsidiaries: employees: The objective is to enable volunteer employees to put their skills at the Supporting Local GC6 – GC7 – GC8 service of associations working in the field of the environment and employment. Development Fives Code of conduct: • Acknowledgement of the Code of conduct by all employees, by: • Follow-up of the diffusion of the Code of conduct to all employees. • Redesign of the Code of Conduct to make it a key reference document Integrate CSR priorities into GC10 the distribution to all employees the implementation of training tools to facilitate the appropriation of the Code of conduct the organization of all Fives entities 2019 Annual CSR report # 2018 financial year
