2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Committed to Responsible Mining At New Gold we are committed to sustainable development wherever we operate by acting ethically and with integrity, and by taking responsibility for the impacts of our decisions and actions on communities and the environment. Everywhere we operate, we are working with our host communities, employees and contractors to build a prosperous future. We strive to be a significant social and economic contributor to the communities where we live and work. We believe our commitments to environmental and social responsibility not only benefit our local communities but also are directly translated into value for our shareholders. We understand that our continued success and shared prosperity depend on our ability to earn the welcome of our host communities and regions – a welcome that comes from our demonstrated respect for local culture, care and concern for the environment, and support for the long-term economic well-being of local communities. PRESIDENT & CEO’S MESSAGE New Gold is committed to responsible mining. As an organization, we strive to reach the highest standards in employee health and safety, environmental protection and community development and engagement, believing these to be key drivers to achieving a productive and profitable business. Our policies and practices are guided by principles found in the United Nations Global Compact, of which we are signatories, and our operational standards are based on the Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining Protocols. Each year we set ambitious corporate responsibility objectives and I’m pleased to report that in 2018, through the unwavering commitment of our 1,344 employees, our contractors, and with the engagement and cooperation of our community partners, we met or exceeded these objectives. 2018 Highlights 2018 was a year of restructuring and renewal for New Gold. Our New Afton (British Columbia) mine produced 77,000 ounces of gold and 85 million pounds of copper, delivering another year of solid performance. We are committed to unlocking the significant potential of New Afton by launching a self-funded development program for the C-zone, which will extend mine life to 2030. Late in 2017, we completed our first gold pour at our Rainy River (Ontario) mine. Throughout 2018, we focused on the completion of site construction, mill upgrades and operational improvements, and by year’s end, the mine had produced more than 227,000 ounces of gold. As with all of our assets, at this, our newest mine, we are operating with an exemplary commitment to safety and social responsibility. At our Cerro San Pedro (Mexico) mine, we transitioned from residual leaching to reclamation phase in 2018, producing approximately 10,200 ounces of gold. As an economic bedrock in the community for decades, we have invested heavily in equipping the community and mine workers with the tools to transition to a sustainable post-mining economy. Through these efforts, I am proud to report that there are currently seven new businesses, operating financially independent of mine support. Early in the year, we sold Peak Mines (Australia) to Aurelia Metals Limited and later in the year Equinox Gold Corp. acquired our Mesquite Mine (United States). We also made significant progress with the Blackwater (British Columbia) project and received positive provincial and federal environmental assessment decisions in the first half of 2019. 2018 Corporate Responsibility Achievements While working hard to improve operations and optimize performance, our commitment and rigour with respect to sustainability practices did not waiver. Keeping our people safe is our top priority, a value that is firmly embedded in our corporate culture and requires a personal commitment at all levels of the organization. As a result, in 2018, we achieved a total reportable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) of 1.26, representing a significant improvement over 2017’s rate of 2.64. I’m pleased to report that in December, New Afton achieved a significant safety milestone reaching one million person hours without lost time injury. To learn more about our health and safety priorities and achievements, click here. Wherever we operate, in all stages of mining activity, from early exploration and planning to commercial mining operations to eventual closure, we are committed to excellence in environmental management. In 2018, there were 23 regulatory reportable incidents representing a 46% decrease from the 42 incidents in 2017. We also expanded our tailings facility capacity at both Canadian mine sites, increasing our transparency through the addition of a tailings fact sheet in this year’s Corporate Responsibility report. To learn more about our environmental priorities and achievements, click here. Our relationship with the host communities in which we operate and live is based on mutual benefit and active engagement in a way that contributes to sustainability. We measure ourselves by eight indicators outlined in the Towards Sustainable Mining Protocols and I’m pleased to report that in 2018, we achieved a triple-A rating for three indicators, a double-A for four indicators and an A for one indicator. This represents a significant improvement from 2017. Additionally, we were a proud sponsor and supporter of almost 70 communitybased organizations that focus on the areas of arts and culture, health, environment, education and social services, contributing close to $1.2 million. To learn more about our community engagement priorities and achievements, click here. Looking to 2019 and Beyond We begin 2019 with a renewed vision for the future and a continued focus on driving responsible and profitable mining in a way that creates sustainable, enduring value for our shareholders, our stakeholders and the natural environment. Our goal is year-over-year improvement as we learn, adapt and improve our practices. We look forward to sharing the results with you in future reports. On a final note, the achievements highlighted in this report would not be possible without the dedication and commitment of our employees, contractors, host communities and the local Indigenous and non-Indigenous community groups whose contribution and engagement ensure our continued success. Sincerely, Renaud Adams, President & Chief Executive Officer OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE Each year, New Gold sets employee health and safety, environment protection and community developmental and engagement objectives which form a vital part of the Company’s corporate scorecard. These objectives are directly linked to the performance management and compensation programs of the organization to drive organizational focus on corporate responsibility priorities. Our goal continues to be year-over-year improvement as we learn, adapt and improve our practices. PRIORITIES 2018 OBJECTIVES 2018 PERFORMANCE 2019 OBJECTIVES Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate ACHIEVED Total Reportable (TRIFR) of 2.15 or less 1.26 Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) of 1.20 HEALTH & SAFETY or less Reduce reportable environmental release ACHIEVED Reduce reportable incidents 2018 Reportable environmental incidents: 23 release incidents ENVIRONMENT 2017 Reportable incidents: 24 Achieve AA across the 8 indicators of the ACHIEVED Achieve AAA for 3 Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) Aboriginal Achieved average indicators and AA and Community Outreach Protocol score greater than AA for the remainder COMMUNITY across 8 indicators. ENGAGEMENT Detailed results: AAA: 3 AA: 4 A: 1 ACHIEVED NOT ACHIEVED PARTIALLY ACHIEVED SDG = SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL TAILINGS MANAGEMENT Tailings are a common by-product remaining following the extraction and recovery of valuable minerals from mine operations. They are generated by the milling process and are a mixture of finely ground sandto clay-sized rock particles, water and processing reagents. Tailings management is an important component in the design and operation of mining projects. The objective of tailings management is to ensure robust processes are in place to ensure safe, long-term storage of mine tailings. New Gold has implemented a comprehensive tailings management approach focused on identifying and minimizing potential environmental and social impacts of our tailings facilities, from construction through to post-closure. New Gold’s Tailings Facilities Two of New Gold’s operations, the New Afton mine and the Rainy River mine, involve active tailings facilities. In addition, there is an inactive tailings facility located at the New Afton mine. More information about these tailings facilities can be found in the table below. None of the company’s active or inactive tailings facilities uses upstream construction. Tailings Management at New Gold As a member of the Mining Association of Canada (MAC), New Gold is committed to implementing the Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) performance system at each of its sites in Canada (which includes both sites with tailings facilities). This includes the TSM Tailings Management Protocol, which sets out best practices in the area. New Gold’s tailings management practices include the following important features: Design: The design of New Gold’s tailings facilities takes into account the climatic and ground conditions at each site. For example, our tailings facilities are designed to consider significant natural events, such as the probable maximum flood, so that the tailings can be safely contained in the event of extreme weather or seismic events. Operations practices: Each site has an operations, surveillance and maintenance manual (OMS Manual) which sets out, among other things, how the site’s tailings facilities will be operated and maintained in order to ensure that they function in accordance with their respective design performance objectives, as well as regulatory and corporate policy obligations. Risk assessments: Each site conducts regular risk reviews that include tailings-related risks, the key results of which are reported to corporate management at least annually. Engineer of record: Each site has appointed a qualified external professional engineer and their firm to be the engineer of record for its tailings facilities. Surveillance technology: Sites use surveillance systems, such as piezometers, inclinometers, remote sensing and other technologies to monitor tailings dams and water levels. The OMS Manual sets out early-warning trigger and alert levels, facilitating early identification and management of potential dam stability concerns. Inspections by personnel: The company’s tailings facilities are regularly inspected by trained New Gold employees – sometimes as frequently as several times a day. Dam safety inspections: Formal dam safety inspections are conducted at least annually by the engineer of record. Recommendations made by the engineer of record are tracked to ensure follow-through by site personnel. Dam safety reviews: Each facility is subject to detailed third-party external dam safety reviews every five years, comprising a review of the design basis, construction and performance. Independent reviews: The company has an independent technical review board (ITRB) to provide independent, expert advice regarding the technical aspects of our tailings facilities. The ITRB meets at least twice per year to review information about tailings management practices at each facility. Emergency preparedness: Each site has a detailed emergency response plan, which is regularly reviewed and updated. NEW AFTON RAINY RIVER Historic Afton New Afton tailings Pothook tailings tailings storage Rainy River tailings storage facility storage facility facility management area Tailings facility Dam A Pothook Dam West Dam Cell 1: TMA West Dam B East Dam Dam, TMA South Dam Dam C and Cell 1 Dam South Dam (internal) West Dam Cell 2: TMA South Dam, TMA North Dam, TMA West Dam and Cell 2 Dam (internal) Cell 3: TMA North Dam, TMA West Dam and TMA South Dam Location 50.648308N 50.653656N 50.65000N Cell 1: 48.85757N 120.509096W 120.504666W 120.33333W 94.06726W Cell 2: 48.86648N 94.06353W Cell 3: 48.85860N 94.04281W Construction Dam A Pothook Dam West Dam TMA West Dam: method Centerline Downstream Downstream Centerline Dam B East Dam TMA North Dam: Centerline Downstream Centerline Dam C TMA South Dam: Centerline Centerline South Dam Cell 1 Dam: Centerline Downstream Cell 2 Dam: Centerline West Dam Centerline Status Active Active Care and Cell 1: Active maintenance Cell 2: Active Cell 3: Active Current 37 m 10 m 70 m 12 m maximum height Current storage 21,300,000 m3 2,650,000 m3 33,000,000 m3 7,780,000 m3 impoundment volume Most recent dam 2018 2018 2018 2019 safety inspection by engineer of record Most recent dam 2017 2018 2018 New facility; first review safety review expected 2022 Most recent ITRB 2019 2019 2019 2019 review GRI GENERAL DISCLOSURES New Gold prepares its annual Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. The GRI Standards are the first global standards for sustainability reporting, representing the global best practice for organizations to report on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts. Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of New Gold Inc. organization 102-2 Activities, New Gold is a Canadian-focused intermediate gold brands, mining company engaged in the exploration, products and development and operation of mineral properties. services 102-3 Location of Toronto, Ontario, Canada headquarters 102-4 Location of Canada, Mexico operations 102-5 Ownership 100% and legal form 2018 Annual Information Form (page 8) 102-6 Markets 2018 Annual Information Form (page 12) served 102-7 Scale of a. Total number of employees 1,344 as of July 2019 organization b. Net sales or net revenues 2018 Financial Review (page 4) c. Total capitalization broken down in terms of 2018 Financial Review (page 83) debt and equity d. Quantity of products or services provided 2018 Financial Review 102-8 Information a. Total number of employees by contract by This data is not available for 2018. New Gold will be on employees location tracking employment more closely for future and other reporting needs. workers b. Total number of employees by employment This data is not available for 2018. New Gold will be type by gender tracking employment by gender more closely for future reporting needs. c. Whether a significant portion of the Workers who are not employees do not perform a organization’s activities are performed by workers significant portion of New Gold activities. who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees d. Any significant variations in the numbers Not applicable reported in Disclosures 102-8 a-c e. An explanation of how data has been compiled, At New Gold, our Human Resources department including any assumptions made works with each site to ensure accurate and timely information is captured and stored in line with our policies and procedures. 102-9 Supply chain A description of the organization’s supply chain, 2018 Financial Review (page 16) including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products and services 102-10 Significant Significant changes to the organization’s size, Early in 2018, the transaction to sell Peak Mines to changes to structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: Aurelia Metals Limited closed, and later in the year, the Mesquite Mine was sold to Equinox Gold Corp. organization and its supply There were also significant changes to the chain management of the organization. Renaud Adams was appointed CEO in September, Anne Day became VP, Investor Relations, also in September, and Rob Chausse joined New Gold as EVP & CFO in November. i. changes in the location of, or changes in, Peak Mines sale closed in Q1 2018 and Mesquite operations, including facility openings, closings, Mine was sold in Q3 of 2018. and expansions; ii. changes in the share capital structure and No significant changes occurred in 2018. other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations); iii. changes in the location of suppliers, the No significant changes occurred in 2018. structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination 102-11 Precautionary Whether and how the organization applies the Risk factors are noted in the Annual Information Form Principle or Precautionary Principle or approach for the year ended December 31, 2018: approach 2018 Annual Information Form (page 34) 102-12 External A list of externally developed economic, As a Company, we incorporate the following global initiatives environmental and social charters, principles, or guidelines and standards into our approach to other initiatives to which the organization community relations: the International Council on subscribes, or which it endorses Mining and Metals (ICMM), the Mining Association of Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) program, and the United Nations Global Compact (of which we are a signatory). 102-13 Membership A list of the main memberships of industry and Mining Association of Canada, Canadian Council for of other associations, and national or international Aboriginal Business, Ontario Mining Association, associations advocacy organizations Mining Association of British Columbia, Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada Strategy 102-14 Statement A statement from the most senior decision-maker CEO’s Letter from senior of the organization (such as CEO, chair or decisionequivalent senior position) maker Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, A description of the organization’s values, New Gold is guided by its corporate values, which principles, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour impact our behaviours, shape our culture, inform our standards and decision-making, and guide how we interact with one norms of another and how we engage with our stakeholders. behaviour New Gold’s Corporate Values: Integrity Creativity Commitment Develop Our Employees Teamwork 102-17 Mechanisms a. A description of internal and external for advice and mechanisms for: concerns about ethics i. seeking advice about ethical and lawful Code of Business Conduct and Ethics behaviour, and organizational integrity; Whistleblower Policy ii. reporting concerns about unethical or Code of Business Conduct and Ethics unlawful behaviour, and organizational integrity Whistleblower Policy Governance 102-18 Governance a. Governance structure of the organization, Corporate Governance structure including committees of the highest governance committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics b. Committees responsible for decision-making on Technical and Sustainability Committee Charter economic, environmental, and social topics Board of Directors Mandate 102-20 Executivea. Whether the organization has appointed an Chief Executive Officer; Chief Financial Officer level executive-level position or positions with responsibility responsibility for economic, environmental, and for economic, social topics environmental and social b. Whether post holders report directly to the The Chief Executive Officer reports directly to the topics highest governance body Board. 102-29 Identifying a. Highest governance body’s role in identifying Corporate Governance and managing and managing economic, environmental, and social economic, topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities – environmental including its role in the implementation of due and social diligence processes impacts b. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to Social and environmental impact assessments are support the highest governance body’s done on a regular basis. All sites have dedicated identification and management of economic, community relations teams to regularly interface environmental, and social topics and their impacts, with nearby communities to identify impacts, risks risks, and opportunities and opportunities for members. Material results from these assessments are shared with the Technical and Sustainability Committee of the Board as appropriate. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the New Gold has hundreds of stakeholders at our stakeholder organization operations and projects and at our corporate offices. groups These include but are not limited to employees, contractors, governments, shareholders, investors, industry and sector representatives, peer companies, regulatory bodies, host communities and Indigenous and non-Indigenous community groups, community organizations, etc. 102-41 Collective Percentage of total employees covered by At CSP Mine, all unionized personnel are covered by bargaining collective bargaining agreements (use data from collective bargaining agreements. agreements Disclosure 102-7 as the basis for calculating the percentage) 102-42 Identifying The basis for identifying and selecting New Gold undertakes an extensive process of and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage identifying stakeholders who may be impacted by our stakeholders operation with a particular focus on vulnerable or under-represented groups. We regularly encourage existing stakeholders to identify others with whom the company should be engaging. 102-43 Approach to The organization’s approach to stakeholder Our approach to stakeholder engagement is stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement dependent on local context and varies between sites. engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an The frequency and depth of engagement depends on indication of whether any of the engagement was local stakeholders' desire to engage with New Gold. undertaken specifically as part of the report Stakeholder engagement plans are developed preparation process annually at each operation in line with the Community Engagement and Development Management Standards and reviewed twice a year through Management Reviews at each site. Through the preparation for this report, the data collected from each stakeholder engagement plan was collected and reviewed. 102-44 Key topics and a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised Key topics that have been raised through concerns through stakeholder engagement, including: engagement are: local employment, Indigenous raised relations, and procurement. i. how the organization has responded to those New Gold believes in transparency when responding key topics and concerns, including through its to concerns from local communities. Through reporting; consultation, relationship development and further meetings we are able to address these concerns. ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the Concerns are raised and addressed through our key topics and concerns grievance processes at each operation. Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities a. A list of all entities included in the organization’s 2018 Financial Review (page 87) included in the consolidated financial statements or equivalent consolidated documents financial statements b. Whether any entity included in the No organization’s consolidated financial statements or 2018 Financial Review (page 87) equivalent documents is not covered by the report 102-46 Defining a. An explanation of the process for defining the New Gold has presented topics that have been report report content and the topic Boundaries identified as material to the Company. These material content and topics are identified annually and tracked in order to topic provide the most accurate information in this report. boundaries Each site participates in identifying material topics through discussion with stakeholders, continuous updating of risk registers, stakeholder maps, grievance registers and other consultation documents. This information is compiled at the corporate office and reviewed by senior management and the Board's Technical and Sustainability Committee. b. An explanation of how the organization has Same as above implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content 102-47 List of a. A list of the material topics identified in the Water Consumption material process for defining report content Biodiversity topics Materials Energy Emissions Effluents & Waste Environmental Compliance Employment Labour Management Relations Occupational Health & Safety Training & Education Rights of Indigenous People Local Communities Closure Planning Economic Performance Market Presence Procurement Practices Indirect Economic Impact Anti-Corruption 102-48 Restatements a. The effect of any restatements of information Not applicable of information given in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 102-49 Changes in a. Significant changes from previous reporting Not applicable reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries 102-50 Reporting a. Reporting period for the information provided Annually 2018 period 102-51 Date of most a. If applicable, the date of the most recent Q3 2018 recent report previous report 102-52 Reporting a. Reporting cycle Annually cycle 102-53 Contact point a. The contact point for questions regarding the sustainability@newgold.com for questions report or its contents regarding the report 102-54 Claims of The claim made by the organization, if it has This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI reporting in prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards. accordance Standards with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of This table represents the GRI Content Index. index the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made 102-56 External a. A description of the organization’s policy and The process for seeking external assurance is outlined assurance current practice with regard to seeking external in the Community Engagement and Development assurance for the report Management Standard and is followed on an annual basis. b. If the report has been externally assured: The report has not been externally assured. i. a reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. the relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report ECONOMIC INDICATORS Economic Performance Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material Economic performance is caused by our operations of the and activities, along with those supporting these material across our supply chain. topic and its Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which The boundary for this topic is limited to the includes a description of: jurisdictions of our mining operations. i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Disclosure of financial information is governed by our Boundary internal Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading Policy. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages A detailed explanation of how the organization management the topic manages its economic performance is outlined in the approach 2018 Financial Review. and its components b. A statement of the purpose of the management The management of economic performance helps the approach Company maintain its liquidity and reduce its costs. c. A description of the following, if the management 2018 Financial Review approach includes that component: i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization Each New Gold site adheres to its financial policies the shall report the following information: and procedures that feed into the overall corporate management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates mandate for all financial information. Financial approach the management approach, including: information is disclosed every quarter. i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Details + Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response a. If the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general New Gold has a Group RRSP plan. The company's responsibility resources, the estimated value of those liabilities and liability to the Group RRSP is limited to making payroll contributions which occurs each payroll cycle. There is no estimated value of liabilities. b. If a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities: A separate liability fund does not exist. i. the extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated No estimate covered by assets that have been set aside. to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them; ii. the basis on which that estimate has been arrived at; N/A iii. when that estimate was made N/A c. If a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully N/A covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer Employees can choose to contribute a portion of their salary and the employer will match up to 7% of the salary contributions at site and up to 9% of the salary contribution at the corporate office – in each case, subject to contribution limits set by the Canada Revenue Agency. e. Level of participation in retirement plans, such as Group RRSP is voluntary. All full-time permanent employees in participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional, or Canada are eligible to participate. country-based schemes, or those with financial impact Market Presence Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material New Gold has a meaningful presence in the areas of of the our operations. New Gold is one of the largest private material employers in the Rainy River region and therefore has topic and its significant economic impact in this area. Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which New Gold contributes locally to indirect economic includes a description of: impacts through investments in education, health, i. where the impacts occur; social services, arts & culture, and the environment ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. at each of our operations. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold’s local hiring practices are in compliance management the topic with laws and regulations and best practices in all approach areas of operation. and its components b. A statement of the purpose of the management We invest in our employees and strive to provide approach dynamic career paths with growth opportunities. Empowering people is an essential part of New Gold’s mission and culture. c. A description of the following, if the management Attracting, recruiting and selecting the right talent is approach includes that component: crucial for the continued success of New Gold and to i. Policies support our culture of empowering employees for ii. Commitments exceptional performance. Our Human Resource iii. Goals and targets teams work to ensure that the best and most iv. Responsibilities qualified individuals are recruited for all available v. Resources employment opportunities, and that the recruitment vi. Grievance mechanisms process is free from bias and discrimination. vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization The community investment strategy is reviewed and the shall report the following information: validated on an bi-annual basis at each site by the management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Management team. Goals and targets are set at the approach the management approach, including: beginning of each year, and reaching these goals is an i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness indicator of success for each operation. of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Details + Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response a. When a significant proportion of employees are Region Male Female compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of the entry level wage to the Corporate No minimum wage No minimum wage minimum wage by gender at significant locations of operation Blackwater No minimum wage No minimum wage New Afton N/A N/A Rainy River N/A N/A CSP $826.36 This is $719.07 This is daily salary daily salary (Mexican pesos) (Mexican pesos) c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at Region Male Female significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums can be used as a reference, report Corporate No minimum used No minimum used which minimum wage is being used as reference point as reference point Blackwater No minimum used No minimum used as reference point as reference point New Afton N/A N/A Rainy River N/A N/A CSP $231.53 This is $200 This is daily daily minimum minimum salary salary (Mexican (Mexican pesos) pesos) d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’ Region Corporate The Corporate office of New Gold is located at 181 Bay Street, Suite 3320, Toronto, Ontario, M5J 2T3, core downtown Toronto area. Blackwater There are two offices: Vancouver and Vanderhoof. New Afton The New Afton Mine office is located on site which is 10 km from the city of Kamloops in the interior region of British Columbia. Rainy River One office located in Thunder Bay, one office located in Emo, one warehouse in Fort Frances, mine site located 30 minutes northeast of Emo, ON. CSP The Cerro de San Pedro mine is located in the municipality of Cerro de San Pedro, in the state of San Luis Potosí, located in the central area of the state. The municipality is located in the central area of the state. The coordinates of the municipal head are: 100º 48' west longitude and 22º 13' north latitude with a height of 2040 mesnm. Its limits are: to the north and west with Soledad de Graciano Sánchez; to the east Armadillo de los Infante; to the south San Luis Potosí and Villa de Zaragoza. Is there a global policy or common practices for granting Region preference to local residents when hiring in significant locations of operations? Corporate No global policy or practice in place. Blackwater N/A New Afton N/A Rainy River N/A CSP Our policies treatment are the same to all employees. The objective of our policies is the employee's welfare to achieve the objectives of the company. a. Percentage of senior management at significant locations of Region operation who are hired from the local community Corporate 1/5 execs (80%) Blackwater N/A New Afton 67% Rainy River N/A CSP 6% b. The definition used for ‘senior management’ Region Corporate Individuals at a high level of management. Roles in senior management position: Blackwater executives and GMs. New Afton Rainy River CSP Indirect Economic Impacts Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material New Gold recognizes that in the areas where we of the operate, our investments contribute greatly to the material local and regional economies. topic and its Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which New Gold contributes locally to indirect economic includes a description of: impacts through investments in education, health, i. where the impacts occur; arts & culture, the environment and social services at ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. each of our operations. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Regional impacts are not accounted for. Boundary 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold believes in investing in local community management the topic programs that create indirect impact in the areas of approach education, health, social services, arts & culture, and and its the environment. Each operation manages a components community investment fund that indirectly contributes to the local economies and communities in the areas of operation. b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold promotes each operation managing a approach community investment fund in order to support sustainable community development initiatives that last beyond New Gold’s presence. c. A description of the following, if the management Each operation develops a community investment approach includes that component: strategy in accordance with the Community i. Policies Engagement and Development Management ii. Commitments Standard. The strategy is reviewed and revised on an iii. Goals and targets annual basis to ensure the greatest impact is being iv. Responsibilities had an each operation. v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization The community investment strategy is reviewed and the shall report the following information: validated on a bi-annual basis at each site by the management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates management team. Goals and targets are set at the approach the management approach, including: beginning of each year, and reaching these goals is i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness an indicator of success for each operation. of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Details + New Rainy Disclosure Requirement Afton River Cerro San Pedro a. Extent of development of significant No significant Municipality building restoration work at Cerro San infrastructure investments and services infrastructure Pedro. supported was developed in 2018. i. What was the extent of the Restoration of auxiliary church rooms, restoration of development? houses near the mine pit, sewage and drainage improvement in the Zapatilla community and road asphalt. ii. What was the cost? +500,000 USD iii. What was the duration? Started in 2017 and will continue until full closure. b. Current or expected impacts on In 2016, a non-profit Foundation was created as communities and local economies, including part of this initiative to support local communities. positive and negative impacts where relevant An entrepreneurship program using the SEF Canada methodology was implemented with more than 150 participants. Six new local businesses have been created in the town. c. Whether these investments and services No economic benefits to the Company but benefits are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono the communities. engagements Procurement Practices Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material This topic is material as the procurement of certain of the goods and services is essential to processes within material New Gold operations. It also has a large impact for topic and its host communities. Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Formalized local procurement and business Boundary development programs are being developed at sites in an effort to maximize the shared economic benefits of local procurement practices. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages Formalized local procurement and business management the topic development programs are being developed at sites approach in an effort to maximize the shared economic and its benefits of local procurement practices. components b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold is committed to providing opportunities approach for communities associated with our operations and to sharing in the benefits which flow from our activities. The purpose of this management system is to fulfill said commitment. c. A description of the following, if the management New Gold outlines procurement targets, policies and approach includes that component: commitments in the Community Engagement and i. Policies Development Management Standard that is ii. Commitments implemented at each site. iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization New Gold outlines procurement targets, policies and the shall report the following information: commitments in the Community Engagement and management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Development Management Standard (CEDMS) that approach the management approach, including: is implemented at each site. Each site is audited on i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness the CEDMS on a three-year cycle – internally of the management approach; audited, peer audited, externally audited. ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Details + Disclosure Requirement Rainy River New Afton a. Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that is spent on suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage of products and services purchased locally) i. Percentage of total procurement spent on local suppliers 26% 37% (community/local vendors) ii. Percentage of total procurement spent on national 95% 20% vendors. b. The organization’s geographical definition of ‘local’ Businesses in NW Ontario Businesses in Thompson Nicola Region i. Where are the “local” suppliers located? What Atikokan, Red Lake, Bawick, Stratton, Thompson Nicola regions/villages/towns? Devlin, Emo, Rainy River, Morson, Region, including Bergland, Keewatin, Nestor Falls, Kamloops and Pawitik, Sioux Narrows, Rosslyn, Dryden, surrounding towns Fort Frances, Kenora within the region. c. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’ Rainy River Mine New Afton Mine Anti-Corruption Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material New Gold ensures all directors, employees, of the contractors and representatives of the company material adhere to New Gold's Anti-Bribery and Antitopic and its Corruption Policy. Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which New Gold ensures all directors, employees, includes a description of: contractors and representatives of the company i. where the impacts occur; adhere to New Gold's Anti-Bribery and Antiii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. Corruption Policy. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic New Gold and supplier activities Boundary 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold manages anti-corruption by ensuring all management the topic directors, employees, contractors, and approach representatives of the Company operate in alignment and its with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. components Furthermore, the corporation requires all of the aforementioned participants to report violations of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold is committed to mitigating all corruption at approach all levels of company activity. c. A description of the following, if the management New Gold ensures all directors, employees, approach includes that component: contractors and representatives of the company i. Policies adhere to New Gold's Anti-Bribery and Antiii. Commitments Corruption Policy. iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization There were no significant changes in 2018. the shall report the following information: management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates approach the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Details + Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for New Gold assesses risk associated with corruption at all levels risks related to corruption of company activity. b. Significant risks related to corruption identified through the No significant risks associated with corruption have been risk assessment identified. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Details + Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response a. Total number and percentage of governance body 100% members that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region b. Total number and percentage of employees that the 100% organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region c. Total number and percentage of business partners that the 100% organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Describe if the organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures have been communicated to any other persons or organizations d. Total number and percentage of governance body 0% members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region e. Total number and percentage of employees that have 100% received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Materials Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material Many materials are required at different stages of of the the gold production process. We monitor materials material deemed to be significant, which includes explosives, topic and its tires and energy used for mining activities and the Boundary reagents used for mineral processing. The materials reported are significant because they are considered critical inputs to extract our final product and have the potential to result in environmental impacts if not managed appropriately. Other materials used by mining and milling activities are not considered to be significant because they generally present less risk and tend to be used in smaller quantities. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic is limited to the identified materials used includes a description of: by the Company and certain suppliers. i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold encourages all operations to recycle, reuse management the topic and reclaim materials within operations where approach feasible. and its components b. A statement of the purpose of the management The purpose is to optimize the use of input materials approach and ensure materials are handled, stored and transported appropriately. c. A description of the following, if the management Environmental Management Standard approach includes that component: i. Policies This standard outlines the requirements for each ii. Commitments operation to meet or exceed relevant laws and iii. Goals and targets regulations. iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization Annual reviews and evaluations are done at each site the shall report the following information: to ensure the management effectiveness of this management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates topic. approach the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness As a member of the Mining Association of Canada of the management approach; (MAC), New Gold adheres to the Towards ii. the results of the evaluation of the management Sustainable Mining (TSM) protocols at all our sites. approach; The TSM protocols require that an external review be iii. any related adjustments to the management completed every three years that confirms the level approach of adherence with these protocols. 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Total weight or volume of non-renewable materials (listed below) used during the reporting period (tonnes): i. Cyanide 1,970.30 0.00 Not available 2,875.87 ii. Acid 46.00 0.00 Not available 0.8 iii. Flocculant 149.74 1.15 Not available Not available iv. Caustic soda Not available 0.00 Not available 143.7 v. Lime 6,390.27 1,664 Not available 2,945.92 vi. Explosives 8,640.00 7.3 Not available Not available vii. Other (specified below): Not available Not available Not available Not available 2 balls Not available n/a Not available Not available 5 balls Not available n/a Not available Not available Anti-scalant 3 Not available Not available 118.48 Other types of oil (compressor oil, Not available 143.55 Not available 2 differential oil and others) Carbon Not available Not available Not available Not available Compressor oil Not available Not available Not available Not available Cutting oil Not available Not available Not available Not available Diesel Not available 3,072.576 Not available 474,142.76 Engine oil Not available Not available Not available Not available Ferric sulphate (Fe2(SO4)3) Not available Not available Not available Not available Grease Not available 5.43 Not available Not available Hydraulic oil Not available Not available Not available Not available Kluber fluid Not available Not available Not available Not available Motor/drill oil Not available Not available Not available Not available Sulfur dioxide (SO2) 3,660.67 Not available Not available Not available Transmission oil Not available Not available Not available Not available b. Total weight or volume of any renewable Not available Not available Not available Not available materials used during the reporting period (tonnes): i. Cyanide Not available 0 Not available Not available ii. Other Not available 138 Not available Not available Energy Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material This topic is material because energy contributes to of the GHG production and is a significant operating cost. material topic and its b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic boundary includes energy use at New Gold Boundary includes a description of: managed operations. Energy intensive activities i. where the impacts occur; include crushing, grinding, ventilation, pumping, ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. transport, and drilling. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages Energy use is regularly tracked and assessed to management the topic identify opportunities to improve energy efficiency, approach reduce GHG emissions, and promote energy and its conservation and the use of renewable energy. components b. A statement of the purpose of the management As per the Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) approach initiative, the purpose of management of this topic is to: Optimize energy use and promote use of renewable sources; Comply with applicable regulatory requirements; and Reduce operating costs. c. A description of the following, if the management Environmental Management Standard and approach includes that component: participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization As a MAC member, New Gold has endorsed the TSM the shall report the following information: Water Framework. management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates approach the management approach, including: We participate in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources (listed below) during the reporting period, in GJ or appropriate unit: Diesel (L) 46,855,636 3,693,300 20,158,220 521,036 Gasoline (L) 1,885,577 114,000 262,302 45,610.41 Propane (L) 2,814,510 26,000 482,806 Not available Natural gas (GJ) Not available 67,653,000 0 Not available Fuel oil Not available Not available Not available Not available Acetylene Not available Not available Not available Not available Kerosene Not available Not available Not available Not available Other Not available Not available Not available 13,408.42 Total Not available Not available Not available Not available b. Total fuel consumption from renewable sources Not available Not available Not available Not available (listed below) during the reporting period, in GJ or appropriate unit: Solar Not available Not available Not available Not available c. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Not available Not available Not available Not available Electricity consumption (GJ) 773,768.98 792,230.87 Not available 143,576.13 Heating consumption Not available Not available Not available Not available Cooling consumption Not available Not available Not available Not available Steam consumption Not available Not available Not available Not available d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Not available Not available Not available Not available Heating sold Not available Not available Not available Not available Cooling sold Not available Not available Not available Not available Steam sold Not available Not available Not available Not available e. Total energy consumption within the 2,723,354 1,005,984 Not available 163,815 organization, in joules or multiples f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or Not available Not available Not available Not available calculation tools used g. Source of the conversion factors used Not available Not available Not available Not available 302-3 Energy intensity Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization: Information is unavailable GJ/thousand tonnes of moved ore and waste 68.84 170.59 Not available Not available GJ/thousand tonnes of treated ore 422.52 172.29 Not available Not available GJ/thousand tonnes of mined ore 221.49 199.36 Not available Not available GJ/tonnes of gold production 436,016 458,892 Not available 526,736.33 GJ/distance travelled (thousand km) Not available Not available Not available Not available GJ/Full Time Equivalent (FTE) employees 3,993.19 2,429.91 Not available 1,092.10 GJ/thousand CAD revenue ($) 7.64 10.50 Not available Not available GJ/thousand USD revenue ($) 9.93 13.64 Not available Not available b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio: Thousand tonnes of moved ore and waste 39,563.05 5,896.92 Not available 0 Thousand tonnes of treated ore 6,445.54 5,353.91 Not available 0 Thousand tonnes of mined ore 12,295.86 5,838.97 Not available 0 Tonnes of gold production 6.24 2.19 Not available 0.31 Distance travelled (thousand km) Not available Not available Not available Not available Full Time Equivalent (FTE) employees 682 414 Not available 152 Thousand CAD revenue ($) 356,648.84 95,794.77 Not available Information unavailable Thousand USD revenue ($) 274,388.88 73,700 Not available Information unavailable c. Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; Propane, natural Propane, natural Not available Diesel, gasoline, whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, gas, diesel, gas, diesel, electricity or all gasoline, gasoline, electricity electricity d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption Within Within Not available Not available within the organization, outside of it, or both Water Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material Water is a key resource for the gold extraction of the process and is shared with our host communities. We material must be responsible water stewards in our topic and its operations. Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic includes water used at all New Gold sites. includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold is committed to water stewardship. Water management the topic quality and quantity are regularly monitored, approach including water treated and discharged as applicable. and its Every operation is expected to maintain a water components management plan and associated water balance. b. A statement of the purpose of the management The purpose of this topic is to comply with regulatory approach requirements, manage water resources and recycle and reuse for processing where applicable. c. A description of the following, if the management Environmental Management Standard approach includes that component: i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization As a MAC member, New Gold has endorsed the TSM the shall report the following information: Water Framework. management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates approach the management approach, including: No review on water was conducted in 2018. We i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Total volume of water withdrawn (m3) – the 4,767,397 3,104,260 Not available 64,450 sum of all water drawn into the boundaries from all sources during the reporting period: i. Surface water, including water from 376,594 3,104,260 Not available 0 wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans ii. Groundwater 413,803 0 483,874,000 64,450 iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by 3,977,000 0 Not available Not available the organization iv. Waste water from another organization 0 0 Not available 0 v. Municipal water supplies or other public or 0 0 Not available 0 private water utilities b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions Each New Gold site follows the standards and methodologies set out in the used site-specific Environment Management System. 303-3 Water recycled and reused Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Total volume of water recycled and reused by 6,100,313 13,014,298 All water is 1,347 the organization (m3) recycled in closed system. Losses are through entrainment or evaporation. b. Total volume of water recycled and reused as 127% 76% 19,956,110.81 m3 2% a percentage of the total water withdrawal as (total water specified in Disclosure 303-1 withdrawn is unavailable; therefore a percentage is unavailable). c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions Each New Gold site follows the standards and methodologies set out in the used site-specific Environment Management System. Biodiversity Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material New Gold seeks to minimize the impact of our mining of the activities on the environment and biodiversity from material exploration to closure. topic and its Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic is limited to the biodiversity aspects includes a description of: related to New Gold sites. i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold recognizes that protecting biodiversity and management the topic sustaining healthy ecosystems is fundamental for the approach responsible environmental management of our and its operations. All sites and business development components opportunities are expected to integrate biodiversity management and conservation to demonstrate our due diligence and ensure the reclamation of disturbed ecosystems. b. A statement of the purpose of the management The purpose of this topic is to comply with regulatory approach requirements and to sustain healthy ecosystems through the lifespan of all operations. c. A description of the following, if the management New Gold's Environment Management Standard approach includes that component: includes a strategy for biodiversity that is reviewed i. Policies on an annual basis. Biodiversity is managed at all ii. Commitments stages of mine life. iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization As a member of the Mining Association of Canada the shall report the following information: (MAC), New Gold adheres to the Towards management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Sustainable Mining (TSM) protocols at all our sites. approach the management approach, including: The TSM protocols require that an external review be i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness completed every three years that confirms the level of the management approach; of adherence with these protocols. ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Details + operations Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro Total number of IUCN Red List species and 18 3 Not available Not available national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level of extinction risk: i. Critically endangered Not available Not available ii. Endangered Endangered: 0 0 iii. Vulnerable Threatened: 6 1 iv. Near threatened Special 0 concern: 0 v. Least concern Not at risk: 12 2 MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) Details + disturbed or rehabilitated Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated (in hectares) 2,953.4 378 The information is not available. Total amount of land newly disturbed within the reporting 700.10 10 period (in hectares) Total amount of land newly rehabilitated within the reporting 26.90 0 period to the agreed end use (in hectares) MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management plans Details + according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place We have implemented the TSM Biodiversity Management Protocol, which requires the establishment of Biodiversity management plans across our operations. Currently, New Afton and Rainy River have a plan in place and Cerro San Pedro’s plan is under development. Emissions Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material Emissions from development, mining production and of the mineral processing activities have potential to affect material air quality. topic and its Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic is limited to the emission aspects related to includes a description of: New Gold operations. i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages Emissions are regularly tracked and assessed to management the topic identify opportunities to improve energy efficiency, approach reduce GHG emissions, and promote energy and its conservation. components b. A statement of the purpose of the management The purpose of this topic is to comply with regulatory approach requirements, quantify our impact by monitoring air quality and ensure effectiveness of any mitigation efforts to prevent any adverse effects as a result and to reduce emissions that contribute to climate change. c. A description of the following, if the management Environmental Management Standard approach includes that component: i. Policies We also participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project ii. Commitments (CDP) iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization As a member of the Mining Association of Canada the shall report the following information: (MAC), New Gold adheres to the Towards management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Sustainable Mining (TSM) protocols at all our sites. approach the management approach, including: The TSM protocols require that an external review be i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness completed every three years that confirms the level of the management approach; of adherence with these protocols. ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Details + Cerro San Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Pedro a. Total direct emissions of greenhouse This gases (in metric tonnes of CO2 information is equivalent) from: not available. Waste 0 0 Not available Not available Energy – Power plant 0 0 Not available Not available Energy – Treatment plant 0 0 Not available Not available Energy – Extraction 140,749 13,688.98 Not available Not available Energy – Support activities Not available 40.67 Not available 29.43 Company owned vehicles – Operations Not available 0 Not available 1,293.62 Company owned vehicles – Support Not available 269.87 Not available 306.02 activities b. Gases included in the calculation CO2, CH4, and N2O CO2, CH4, and N2O Not available CO2, CH4, N2O, (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, HFCs or all) c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric 0 0 Not available Not available tons of CO2 equivalent) d. Base year for the calculation, if This information is unavailable. applicable, including: i. the rationale for choosing it ii. emissions in the base year iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions (in tCO2e) that triggered recalculations of base year emissions e. Report source of the emission Canada's greenhouse gas Canada's greenhouse gas Greenhouse factors and the global warming quantification quantification quantification in potential (GWP) rates used, or a requirements, requirements, accordance with reference to the GWP source greenhouse gas greenhouse gas Mexican reporting program reporting program reporting December 2018 and December 2018 and guidelines. http://gazette.gc.ca/rphttp://gazette.gc.ca/rppr/p1/2019/2019-01pr/p1/2019/2019-0119/html/notice-avis19/html/notice-aviseng.html eng.html f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control g. Standards, methodologies, Each New Gold site follows the standards and methodologies set out in the site-specific assumptions, and/or calculation tools Environment Management System. used 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Details + Cerro San Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Pedro a. Total location-based energy indirect 0 Not available Not available Not available (Scope 2) GHG emissions from the generation of electricity, heating, cooling, and steaming which was consumed by the organization (in metric tons of CO2) b. If applicable, total market-based 0 Not available Not available 18,107.99 energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent c. If available, the gases included in the 0 Not available Not available Not available calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all d. Indicate base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: i. the rationale for choosing it Not available Not available Not available Not available ii. emissions in the base year Not available Not available Not available Not available iii. the context for any significant Not available Not available Not available Not available changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions e. Report source of the emission Canada's greenhouse gas Canada's greenhouse gas Greenhouse factors and the global warming quantification quantification quantification in potential (GWP) rates used, or a requirements, requirements, accordance with reference to the GWP source greenhouse gas greenhouse gas Mexican reporting program reporting program reporting December 2018 and December 2018 and guidelines and http://gazette.gc.ca/rphttp://gazette.gc.ca/rpfactors pr/p1/2019/2019-01pr/p1/2019/2019-0119/html/notice-avis19/html/notice-aviseng.html eng.html f. Report consolidation approach for Not available Not available Not available Not available emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control g. Report standards, methodologies, Not available Not available Not available Not available assumptions, and/or calculation tools used 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the This information organization is not available. i. Total GHG emissions (in tonnes of CO2e) 140,749.32 13,999.51 Not available 19,737.07 ii. GHG intensity – Mill (kg CO2e/tonne milled) 21.83 2.61 Not available Not available iii. GHG intensity – Mine (kg CO2e/tonne 3.55 2.37 Not available Not available moved) b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio i. Thousand tonnes of treated (milled) ore 6,445.54 5,353.91 Not available Not available ii. Thousand tonnes of moved ore and waste 39,563.05 5,896.92 Not available Not available c. Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3) d. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, Not available CO2, CH4, and Not available CO2, CH4, N2O, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all N2O HFCs Effluents and Waste Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material We monitor the waste and tailings produced as well of the as the quality of final effluent during mining material operations and through closure. topic and its Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic includes all New Gold operations and includes a description of: projects. i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic As a member of the Mining Association of Canada Boundary (MAC), New Gold adheres to the Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) protocols at all our sites. The TSM protocols require that an external review be completed every three years that confirms the level of adherence with these protocols. An internal review was conducted on tailings and a TSM audit was conducted in 2018. The results of the audit are currently being reviewed to identify areas for improvement. 103-1 c. Tailings Facility Details Details + NEW AFTON RAINY RIVER Historic Afton New Afton tailings tailings Pothook tailings storage Rainy River tailings storage facility storage facility facility management area Tailings facility Dam A Pothook Dam West Dam Cell 1: TMA West Dam B East Dam Dam, TMA South Dam C Dam and Cell 1 South Dam Dam (internal) West Dam Cell 2: TMA South Dam, TMA North Dam, TMA West Dam and Cell 2 Dam (internal) Cell 3: TMA North Dam, TMA West Dam and TMA South Dam Location 50.648308N 50.653656N 50.65000N Cell 1: 48.85757N 120.509096W 120.504666W 120.33333W 94.06726W Cell 2: 48.86648N 94.06353W Cell 3: 48.85860N 94.04281W Construction method Dam A Pothook Dam West Dam TMA West Dam: Centerline Downstream Downstream Centerline Dam B East Dam TMA North Dam: Centerline Downstream Centerline Dam C TMA South Dam: Centerline Centerline South Dam Cell 1 Dam: Downstream Centerline West Dam Cell 2 Dam: Centerline Centerline Status Active Active Care and Cell 1: Active maintenance Cell 2: Active Cell 3: Active Current maximum height 37 m 10 m 70 m 12 m Current storage impoundment 21,300,000 m3 2,650,000 m3 33,000,000 m3 7,780,000 m3 volume Most recent dam safety 2018 2018 2018 2019 inspection by engineer of record Most recent dam safety review 2017 2018 2018 New facility; first review expected 2022 Most recent ITRB review 2019 2019 2019 2019 Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages As a member of the Mining Association of Canada management the topic (MAC), New Gold is committed to implementing the approach Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) performance and its system at each of its sites in Canada (which includes components both sites with tailings facilities). This includes the TSM Tailings Management Protocol, which sets out best practices in the area. New Gold’s tailings management practices include the following important features: Design: The design of New Gold’s tailings facilities takes into account the climatic and ground conditions at each site. For example, our tailings facilities are designed to consider significant natural events, such as the probable maximum flood, so that the tailings can be safely contained in the event of extreme weather or seismic events. Operations practices: Each site has an operations, surveillance and maintenance manual (OMS Manual) which sets out, among other things, how the site’s tailings facilities will be operated and maintained in order to ensure that they function in accordance with their respective design performance objectives, as well as regulatory and corporate policy obligations. Risk assessments: Each site conducts regular risk reviews that include tailings-related risks, the key results of which are reported to corporate management at least annually. Engineer of record: Each site has appointed a qualified external professional engineer and their firm to be the engineer of record for its tailings facilities. Surveillance technology: Sites use surveillance systems, such as piezometers, inclinometers, remote sensing and other technologies to monitor tailings dams and water levels. The OMS Manual sets out early-warning trigger and alert levels, facilitating early identification and management of potential dam stability concerns. Inspections by personnel: The company’s tailings facilities are regularly inspected by trained New Gold employees – sometimes as frequently as several times a day. Dam safety inspections: Formal dam safety inspections are conducted at least annually by the engineer of record. Recommendations made by the engineer of record are tracked to ensure followthrough by site personnel. Dam safety reviews: Each facility is subject to detailed third-party external dam safety reviews every five years, comprising a review of the design basis, construction and performance. Independent reviews: The company has an independent technical review board (ITRB) to provide independent, expert advice regarding the technical aspects of our tailings facilities. The ITRB meets at least twice per year to review information about tailings management practices at each facility. Emergency preparedness: Each site has a detailed emergency response plan, which is regularly reviewed and updated. b. A statement of the purpose of the management The purpose of management of this topic is to: approach Comply with applicable regulatory requirements; Ensure waste streams are handled, stored and transported appropriately to prevent accidental release to the surrounding environment; Quantify our impact by monitoring water quality to ensure effectiveness of any mitigation measures implemented to prevent any adverse effects as a result of our mining activities. c. A description of the following, if the management See 103-2 section (a) approach includes that component: i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization As a member of the Mining Association of Canada the shall report the following information: (MAC), New Gold adheres to the Towards Sustainable management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Mining (TSM) protocols at all our sites. The TSM approach the management approach, including: protocols require that an external review be i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness completed every three years that confirms the level of the management approach; of adherence with these protocols. ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; Tailings Management iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 306-3 Significant spills Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Total number and total volume of recorded 26 2 Information not Information not significant spills (m3) available. available. b. The following additional information for each N/A spill that was reported in the organization’s financial statements: i. Location of spill Information 1. Underground about each spill 2. Greywater was reported to pipeline west of regulators. the Surface Workshop within District Lot 2017 iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills Information 1. Hydraulic oil (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water about each spill (200L) surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water was reported to 2. Combination surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly soil or regulators. of greywater, water surfaces), and other (to be specified by freshwater, and the organization) process water (20,00L) c. Impacts of significant spills None None 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Total weight of hazardous waste (tonnes): Information not Information not available. available. i. Hazardous waste transported 1,338 0 ii. Hazardous waste imported 0 0 iii. Hazardous waste exported 1,338 24 iv. Hazardous waste treated 0 b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped 0% 0% internationally c. Report standards, methodologies, and Figure does not assumptions used include waste for which volume rather than mass was provided; i.e. 165,026.9L waste oil, 300L glycol antifreeze, 410L waste fuel, 355L parts washer waste, and 590L waste oily water 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Water bodies and related habitats that are No water body No water body Information not No water body significantly affected by water discharges and/or was significantly was significantly available. was impacted by runoff, including information on: impacted by impacted by discharges in discharges in discharges in 2018 2018 2018 i. the size of the water body and related habitat ii. whether the water body and related habitat is designated as a nationally or internationally protected area iii. the biodiversity value, such as total number of protected species MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro Total amount of overburden (waste rock) 27,267,191 57,946 Information not Information not generated during the year (in tonnes) available. available. Describe the risks associated with overburden Certain amount is Certain amount is (including waste rock) PAG (potentially PAG (potentially acid generating) acid generating) Total amount of tailings (including sludges) 7,685,134 5,214,600 generated during the year (in tonnes) Describe the risks associated with tailings More information about our tailings can be found on our tailings page Environmental Compliance Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material As per our Environmental Management Standards, of the we are committed to establishing site operating material standards and procedures to enable practices topic and its designed to meet or exceed relevant laws and Boundary regulations, New Gold's environmental and social management and closure plans. We are vigilant about compliance and ensure any non-compliance is remediated swiftly. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic includes all New Gold sites. includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages Sites are expected to meet or exceed relevant management the topic environmental laws. approach and its components b. A statement of the purpose of the management The purpose of this topic is to comply with applicable approach regulatory requirements and promote accountability and transparency. c. A description of the following, if the management Tailings Management Policy and Environmental approach includes that component: Management Standard i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization As per New Gold’s Community Engagement and the shall report the following information: Development Management Standard, a community management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates and stakeholder engagement plan is required for all approach the management approach, including: of our sites to ensure feedback can be received and i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness considered. of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management A formal grievance mechanism is in place for dealing approach; with complaints and/or concerns from external iii. any related adjustments to the management stakeholders. Stakeholders are well informed of the approach grievance mechanism which is easily accessible. The Company reports back to communities periodically with the outcomes of the grievances filed. Senior management reviews the engagement system and results annually. 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed in 2018. New for non-compliance with environmental laws Gold defines a significant fine as anything above $100,000 CDN (exclusive and/or regulations in terms of: of fees and surcharges) i. total monetary value of significant fines 0 0 0 0 (USD); ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; 0 0 0 0 iii. cases brought through dispute resolution 0 0 0 0 mechanisms b. If the organization has not identified any nonNew Gold is in compliance, in all material respects, with environmental laws compliance with environmental laws and/or and regulations at all sites. regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient SOCIAL INDICATORS Employment Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material New Gold adheres to the best HR practices and of the standards for recruiting and selecting the right material individuals. The HR department is overseen by senior topic and its management and practices are reviewed regularly to Boundary ensure we are attracting and retaining strong individuals. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic includes all New Gold sites. includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Specific to New Gold employees and contractors Boundary where applicable. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages Attracting, recruiting and selecting the right talent is management the topic of critical importance to the continued success of approach New Gold and to support our culture of empowering and its people for extraordinary performance. components b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold adheres to the best HR practices and approach standards for recruiting and selecting the right individuals. The HR department is overseen by senior management and practices are reviewed regularly to ensure we are attracting and retaining strong individuals. c. A description of the following, if the management New Gold manages all aspects of employment approach includes that component: through various policies, standards and procedures i. Policies that are shared with all new employees during the ii. Commitments onboarding process. iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization Employees are required to undergo annual the shall report the following information: performance reviews with their managers overseen management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates by the HR department. Exit interviews are also approach the management approach, including: conducted to gather information. i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Details + Corporate & Rainy River New Afton Blackwater Cerro San Pedro a. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region: i. Under 30 years old (A) 75 35 0 7 ii. 30–50 years old (B) 114 19 4 9 iii. Over 50 years old (C ) 51 3 4 4 iv. Total number of employees joining the 239 57 8 20 organization (= A+B+C) v. Male new hires 201 41 5 19 vi. Female new hires 39 16 3 1 b. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region: i. Under 30 years old (A) 28 31 2 15 ii. 30–50 years old (B) 80 56 9 36 iii. Over 50 years old (C ) 35 12 5 11 iv. Total number of employees leaving 143 99 16 62 employment (= A+B+C) v. Male turnover 117 81 10 51 vi. Female turnover 26 18 6 11 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Details + employees Cerro San Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Pedro a. Benefits which are standard for full-time All employees All employees Not available All employees employees of the organization but are not are eligible to are eligible for are eligible to provided to temporary or part-time receive extended receive food employees, by significant locations of extended health and stamps, operation. These include, as a minimum: health and wellness monthly wellness benefits as security and i. life insurance benefits. well as variable ii. health care Travel provinicial bonuses. iii. disability and invalidity coverage allowance is health Monthly iv. parental leave not paid for coverage. In security bonus v. retirement provision fixed term addition to the varies for vi. stock ownership employees. In core offering, fixed term vii. others addition to the permanent non-unionized core offering, full-time employees. permanent employees are full-time eligible for employees are disability eligible for coverage disability (short and coverage long term) as (short and well as Life long term) as Insurance and well as Life Critical Illness. Insurance and Critical Illness. b. The definition used for ‘significant locations One office The New Not available The Cerro San of operation’ located in Afton Mine Pedro Mine is Thunder Bay, office is located in the Ontario, one located on site municipality of office located which is 10 Cerro de San in Emo, km from the Pedro, in the Ontario, one city of central area of warehouse in Kamloops, the state of Fort Frances, British San Luis Ontario and Columbia. Potosi, mine site Mexico. located 30 minutes northeast of Emo. 401-3 Parental leave Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Total number of employees who were entitled 11 6 Male, 8 3 Male, Not available 1 Female to parental leave, by gender 5 Female 5 Female b. Total number of employees who took parental 11 6 Male, 8 3 Male, Not available 1 Female leave, by gender 5 Female 5 Female c. Total number of employees who returned to 4 3 Male, 4 Female Not available 1 Female work in the reporting period after parental leave 1 Female ended, by gender d. Total number of employees who returned to 0 2 Female Not available 0 work after parental leave ended who were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender e. Return to work and retention rates of Not available Not available Not available Not available employees who took parental leave, by gender Labour/Management Relations Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material New Gold complies in all material respects with all of the local and national labour laws and regulations for all material operations topic and its Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which New Gold strives to maintain compliance for all includes a description of: labour regulations at all operations. i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Limited to jurisdictions that New Gold operates. Boundary 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages Operations follow the local labour codes and ensure management the topic compliance in all material respects with national approach legislation, where applicable. and its components b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold complies with all labour regulations to approach create a healthy and productive work environment. c. A description of the following, if the management See above. approach includes that component: i. Policies ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization Labour regulations have been audited in accordance the shall report the following information: with TSM. management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates approach the management approach, including: No internal or external audits or verifications were i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness conducted in 2018. of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically New Gold provides information to all key employees within the appropriate provided to employees and their representatives amount of time to ensure transparency and honesty among the New Gold prior to the implementation of significant team. operational changes that could substantially affect them b. For organizations with collective bargaining At CSP Mine, all unionized personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and agreements, and notice and provisions for consultation are specified within provisions for consultation and negotiation are the agreement. specified in collective agreements MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration, by country Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one There were no strikes or lock-outs during 2018. week's duration, by country Occupational Health and Safety Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material Occupational health and safety is material as material of the risks can have serious consequences to New Gold’s material stakeholders, both internally (New Gold employees topic and its and contractors) and externally (host communities, Boundary governments, shareholders) if not managed effectively. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic includes all New Gold operations. includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Health and safety is decentralized to all operations Boundary with oversight from New Gold’s corporate office. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages The Health and Safety Program takes a risk-based management the topic approach. All of our material health and safety risks approach are documented in risk registers for each of our sites, and its which are then consolidated to create the overall components company-wide risk register. Once risks are identified, prevention and mitigation controls are put in place to manage these risks. b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold believes in strong health and safety approach measures for all of its operations and projects. c. A description of the following, if the management The Mining Association of Canada’s (MAC) Towards approach includes that component: Sustainable Mining (TSM) program, which promotes i. Policies health and safety initiatives, as well as crisis ii. Commitments management and emergency response plans. iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities TSM: Protecting the health and safety of employees, v. Resources contractors and communities is a fundemental vi. Grievance mechanisms component of TSM and deeply engrained in the vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, Canadian mining industry's culture. programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization Compliance with company-wide H&S objectives is the shall report the following information: measured against a set of key performance management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates indicators (KPIs). approach the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 403-1 Workers’ representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. The level at which each formal joint Site level Site level Site level Site level management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organization b. Percentage of workers whose work, or 100% 100% 100% 100% workplace, is controlled by the organization, represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Details + number of work-related fatalities Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Types of injuries, injury rate, occupational disease rate, lost day rate, absentee rate and workforce-related fatalities for all employees: i. Types of injuries FAI, LTI, MTI, RDI FAI, MTI, RDI, LTI FAI, MTI, RDI, LTI MTI, RDI ii. Injury rate (IR rate = the frequency of 0.93 1.60 1.20 1.32 injuries relative to the total time worked by the total workforce in the reporting period) iii. Occupational disease rate (ODR = the 0 0 0 0 frequency of occupational diseases relative to the total time worked by the total workforce in the reporting period) iv. Lost day rate (LDR) = Days away, restricted 0.23 0.20 0 0 or transferred Frequency rate (DART FR = the impact of occupational accidents and diseases as reflected in time off work by the affected workers; it is expressed by comparing the total lost days to the total number of hours scheduled to be worked by the workforce in the reporting period) *****New Gold sites use the LTIFR, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate**** v. Absentee rate (AR = Total absent days ÷ Total: 6.16 Total: 0.22 Not available Total: 0.24 Total days scheduled to be worked for the Planned: 3.91 Planned: 0.16 period) Unplanned: 2.25 Unplanned: 0.06 vi. Total number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 b. Types of injuries, injury rate and workforcerelated fatalities for all workers (contractors minus employees) whose work or workplace is controlled by the organization: i. Types of injuries FAI, LTI, MTI, RDI FAI, MTI, RDI None None ii. Injury rate (IR = the frequency of injuries 0.69 1.74 2.29 0 relative to the total time worked by the total workforce in the reporting period) iii. Total number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 c. The system of rules applied in recording and LTIFR = Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate reporting accident statistics TRIFR = Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate AIFR = All Injury Frequency Rate RDIFR = Restricted Duty Injury Frequency Rate 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Whether there are workers whose work, or No No No No workplace, is controlled by the organization, involved in occupational activities that have a high incidence or high risk of specific diseases If yes, please provide a brief description of the activities and risks involved 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Details + Cerro San Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Pedro a. Whether formal agreements (either local or No No No Yes – Union of global) with trade unions cover health and Service safety Workers and Industry in general in the State of San Luis Potosi. b. If so, the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements: i. Personal protective equipment Yes, there is an identification of the PPE required for each job, and it is provided according to the internal procedures. ii. Joint management–worker health and Yes, and safety committees it conducts its monthly meeting during the integrated management system’s monthly meeting. iii. Participation of worker representatives The Safety and in health and safety inspections, audits and Hygiene accident investigations Commission is integrated by unionized and worker representatives; they partake in monthly meetings, monthly inspections and incident investigations. iv. Training and education According the annual program. v. Complaints mechanism A grievance mechanism is in place. vi. Right to refuse unsafe work It is established as part of the internal work regulations. vii. Periodic inspections According the annual program, one each month. Training and Education Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material Training and education is imperative for New Gold of the operations to ensure continued work with competent material and qualified individuals. topic and its Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which Training and education programs are available to all includes a description of: New Gold employees. i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold provides on-the-job training, management the topic opportunities for growth, professional memberships approach and conference opportunities. and its components b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold is committed to providing the necessary approach support, education and training to ensure effective performance and maintenance of necessary professional licences and designations among all employees. c. A description of the following, if the management A strategy and approach is outlined in the approach includes that component: Community Engagement and Development i. Policies Management Standard which is implemented at all ii. Commitments sites. iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization Annual performance evaluations are conducted as the shall report the following information: outlined in the HR Policy. management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates approach the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Average hours of training that the Each New Gold site provides training on a consistent 15,082 hr. organization’s employees have undertaken during basis to all employees tailored to the needs and level of the reporting period, by: employees. Training is conducted all year around. i. Gender New Gold did not track training by gender at these sites F: 1,186 hr. in 2018. M: 13,895 hr. ii. Employee category New Gold did not track training by employee category at Unionized: 8,706 these sites in 2018. Non-unionized: 6,256 Contractors: 120 Rights of Indigenous Peoples Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material The respect of the interests of Indigenous peoples is of the paramount to New Gold, especially with activities material that could affect these communities. topic and its Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which New Gold strives to ensure all employees and includes a description of: contractors respect the interests of Indigenous i. where the impacts occur; peoples at all operations. ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic New Gold strives to ensure that employees and Boundary contractors respect the interests of Indigenous peoples. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold upholds the relationships with communities management the topic impacted by our operations. The governance of approach these relationships is overseen by the Board of and its Directors’ Technical and Sustainabililty Committee. components This structure ensures the appropriate guidance and resources are given. Our sites manage their own community relations and development budget. They receive guidance through our Community Engagement and Development Management Standard. b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold strives to go above and beyond the approach expectations of our host communities in order to maintain trust and transparency with all of the communities we interact with at each site. c. A description of the following, if the management As a company, we incorporate global guidelines and approach includes that component: standards into our approach to community relations i. Policies such as the guidelines from the International Council ii. Commitments on Mining and Metals (ICMM), the Canadian Mining iii. Goals and targets Association’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) iv. Responsibilities program, and the United Nations Global Compact. v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization New Gold’s dedicated CSR teams have ongoing the shall report the following information: dialogue with the local communities to promote trust management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates and transparency. All our operations also have a approach the management approach, including: grievance mechanism in place to ensure any issues i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness identified are resolved in a timely manner. No of the management approach; significant changes were made in 2018. ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous peoples Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Total number of identified incidents of 0 0 0 0 violations involving the rights of Indigenous peoples during the reporting period b. For incidents identified, provide details of status 0 0 0 0 of the incidents and actions taken with reference to the following: i. Incidents reviewed by the organization 0 0 0 0 ii. Remediation plans being implemented 0 0 0 0 iii. Remediation plans that have been 0 0 0 0 implemented, with results reviewed through routine internal management review processes iv. Incidents no longer subject to action 0 0 0 0 MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous peoples’ territories, and Details + number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous peoples’ communities Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro Whether site operations are taking place in or Yes Yes Yes Yes adjacent to Indigenous peoples’ asserted territories Whether there are any formal agreements in place Yes Yes Yes with Indigenous peoples’ communities Local Communities Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material Respect and trust with our host communities is of the of the utmost importance to New Gold. material topic and its b. The Boundary for the material topic, which New Gold strives to ensure all employees and Boundary includes a description of: contractors uphold and respect the cultures and i. where the impacts occur; traditions of our host communities to ensure minimal ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. impact on communities. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic This topic is limited to the jurisdictions of New Gold Boundary operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages New Gold upholds the relationships with communities management the topic impacted by our operations. The governance of approach these relationships is overseen by the Board of and its Directors’ Technical and Sustainabililty Committee. components This structure ensures the appropriate guidance and resources are given. Our sites manage their own community relations and development budget. They receive guidance through our Community Engagement and Development Management Standard. b. A statement of the purpose of the management New Gold believes in creating positive impacts in all approach communities. As a company, our goals are to promote economic growth, build capacity and support local initiatives. c. A description of the following, if the management As a company, we incorporate global guidelines and approach includes that component: standards into our approach to community relations i. Policies such as the guidelines from the International Council ii. Commitments on Mining and Metals (ICMM), the Canadian Mining iii. Goals and targets Association’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) iv. Responsibilities program, and the United Nations Global Compact. v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization New Gold’s dedicated CSR teams have ongoing the shall report the following information: dialogue with the local communities to promote trust management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates and transparency. All our operations also have a approach the management approach, including: grievance mechanism in place to ensure any issues i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness identified are resolved in a timely manner. No of the management approach; significant changes were made in 2018. ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro a. Percentage of operations with implemented 100% of our operations have implemented local community engagement, local community engagement, impact impact assessments and development programs. assessments, and/or development programs, including the use of: i. Social impact assessments, including gender Yes Yes Yes Yes impact assessments, based on participatory processes ii. Environmental impact assessments and Yes Yes Yes Yes ongoing monitoring iii. Public disclosure of results of environmental Yes Yes Yes Yes and social impact assessments iv. Local community development programs Yes Yes Yes Yes based on local communities’ needs v. Stakeholder engagement plans based on Yes Yes Yes Yes stakeholder mapping vi. Broad based local community consultation Yes Yes Yes Yes committees and processes that include vulnerable groups vii. Works councils, occupational health and Yes Yes Yes Yes safety committees and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts viii. Formal local community grievance Yes Yes Yes Yes processes MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local Details + communities and Indigenous peoples Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro Number of significant disputes relating to land or 0 0 0 0 resource use of local communities and Indigenous peoples associated with current, planned or proposed future operations Describe the nature of these disputes 0 0 0 0 Status of the disputes relating to land use, 0 0 0 0 customary rights of local communities and Indigenous peoples Definition of ‘significant dispute’ 0 0 0 0 MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, Details + customary rights of local communities and Indigenous peoples, and the outcomes Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro What actions were taken to resolve disputes New Gold adheres to our grievance mechanisms and encourages all related to land use and customary rights of local stakeholders to contact and address any grievance. Grievances are communities and Indigenous peoples? addressed in a timely manner and all interactions are recorded and communicated back to the stakeholder. Were grievance procedures used? What was the outcome of the procedures used? Closure Planning Disclosure Disclosure Number Title Disclosure Requirement Disclosure Response 103-1 Explanation a. An explanation of why the topic is material New Gold understands that eventually mineral of the deposits wil deplete and mining operations will stop. material We are committed to responsible mine closure at all topic and its sites. Boundary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which This topic includes all managed operations. includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic The boundary for this topic is limited to the Boundary jurisdictions of our mining operations. 103-2 The a. An explanation of how the organization manages Mine Closure plans are required for each site and are management the topic reviewed and updated on a regular basis. approach and its b. A statement of the purpose of the management The purpose is to comply with regulations, promote components approach active reclamation and adequately prepare for transition from operations to closure to consider environmental and social aspects. c. A description of the following, if the management All New Gold sites develop closure plans with support approach includes that component: from the Community Engagement and Development i. Policies Management Standard. ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 103-3 Evaluation of For each material topic, the reporting organization As a member of the Mining Association of Canada the shall report the following information: (MAC), New Gold has endorsed the TSM Mine management a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates Closure Framework. approach the management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans Details + Rainy River New Afton Mesquite Cerro San Pedro Closure plan (yes/no, date of last update, status) Yes Yes Yes Yes Percentage of operations with closure plans 100%
