CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ALWAYS GUIDED BY OUR VALUES 2018 REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS LETTER WE MAKE Dr. Thomas Wünsche, CEO of Chassis Brakes International 13 CHASSIS BRAKES INTERNATIONAL A BETTER COMPANY 02 CHASSIS BRAKES INTERNATIONAL A GROUP WE ARE WE BENEFIT SOCIETY PROUD OF AS A WHOLE, EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD 03 INTERVIEW WE ARE BUILDING A BETTER WORLD Thierry Couillaud, Vice President Human Resources & Communications 19 Wolf Willems, Director Corporate Social Responsibility 10 © Published by Chassis Brakes International • Communication: Nathalie Gradelet and Morgane Fabreguettes • Copywriting, Design and Production: Lonsdale • May 2019. 2 For Chassis Brakes International, Corporate Social Responsibility is just about “doing the right thing right” I am pleased and honored to introduce this very first edition of Chassis Brakes International’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report. We are an active international player in the automotive industry. We have been a participant in the UN-Global Compact since 2017; as Our vision of Corporate Social Responsibility, simply stated, is “doing the right thing right”. Everywhere in the world, Chassis Brakes International systematically abides by the law and, whenever possible, sets the bar even higher: we consider that we owe it to our stakeholders and to society. For 2018 HAS BEEN AN EXCITING YEAR FOR OUR GROUP. OUR GOAL FOR 2019 IS EXCELLENCE ON ALL FRONTS.“ such, we are excited to publicly reaffirm our us it’s natural to be proactive: we are a strong commitment to its Ten Principles, growing company, our SmartUP 2025 and our full dedication to promote human strategy and Code of Business Conduct tainability actions demonstrates how rights, labour rights, environment presgive us solid foundations, and our highimaginative, creative and agile our ervation and anti-corruption rules and level ambitions are within our reach employees can be as they find ways of behaviors throughout our Group – and thanks to constant innovation – it’s all in teaming up and adapting to various culbeyond. our DNA. tures, needs, constraints and challenges! I, personally, am proud of each and every Dr. Thomas Wünsche, CEO of The purpose of this document is twoOn a day-to-day basis, we include Corpoone of them. Chassis Brakes International fold. By showing who we are, what we do rate Social Responsibility objectives on 2018 has been an exciting year for our and what we believe in, and by explaining two equally important levels: our core Group. Our goal for 2019 is excellence on the numerous sustainability initiatives business and society as a whole. Sustainall fronts. Corporate Social Responsibility we have implemented across the globe ability blends into our core business as a will play a major role in achieving this goal as well as their main outcomes we aim to way to boost innovation – for instance, to – let’s meet again next year to see the demonstrate our unfailing commitment make our products cleaner and reduce progress we have made to become a betto integrating the Global Compact princithe impact of our activities on the enviter company and benefit society, everyples into our business strategy, culture ronment. Sustainability is also an integral where in the world. and daily operations. In addition, we want part of our contribution to society – for to share this information, in full transparexample, with small, local, pragmatic ency, with all of our stakeholders our actions, or on a larger scale by, for employees, our customers, our suppliers instance, committing to the UN Women and all the people we cooperate with – in Empowerment Principles. Whatever we other words, the people who, every day, do, our overall guideline is to “think work by our side and share our values. global, act local”; the diversity of our sus2018 Report – Letter / 3 CHASSIS BRAKES INTERNATIONAL A GROUP WE ARE PROUD OF 4 WHO ARE WE TODAY? Chassis Brakes International is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of automotive braking solutions. Since June 2012, the Company has been part of KPS Capital Partners, LP portfolio companies. We are present in 16 countries; our 5,500 employees work in 23 locations: 12 manufacturing facilities and 11 engineering facilities or sales offices. The company has a balanced customer portfolio that includes all of the world’s major European carmakers, as well as leading auto manufacturers in North America and the Asia Pacific region. 5,500 EMPLOYEES 16 COUNTRIES* 12 MANUFACTURING FACILITIES 90 YEARS OF 23 LOCATIONS 11 ENGINEERING INNOVATION FACILITIES OR SALES OFFICES *Brazil – China – France – Germany – Italy – India – Japan – Mexico – Netherlands – Poland – Portugal – South Africa – Spain – Thailand – Turkey – USA 2018 Report – Chassis Brakes International: a Group we are proud of / 5 BRAKING SOLUTIONS TO MEET ALL NEEDS Our products – disc and drum brakes, automated parking brakes, rotors and drums, and smart brakes – are dedicated to passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. They are supplied to original equipment manufacturers and through aftermarket channel in India, marketed under the brand name KBX.​​ ZOHe ZOHe AST TM BIR / BIRplus Drum/DIH APB (GEN2) APB HD Boost APB APB-Di DISC BRAKES & DRUM BRAKES AUTOMATED PARKING BRAKES ZOHe Zero-Offset Harmonized evolution AST TM Active Shape Technology BIR Ball-In-Ramp DIH Drum-In-Hat APB Automated Parking Brake Di Motor on Drum Integrated Ventilated & solid discs Drum Smart Parking Smart BrakeTM BrakeTM ROTORS & DRUMS SMART BRAKES 2018 Report – Chassis Brakes International: a Group we are proud of / 6 OUR VISION AND VALUES Chassis Brakes International’s vision is to be a global partner in braking solutions, through innovation and passion for success! We make this vision a reality through six values which constantly guide the way we work and constitute the base of our corporate culture. By integrating these values in our day-to-day activities, we achieve our objectives, enhance our position as a global leader and create long-term value. ACCOUNTABILITY “We perform to the requirements with a constant sense of ownership and responsibility” CREATIVITY TRUST “We are empowered to test ideas and learn from our “We value positive experiences” relationships based on respect and transparency” EXCELLENCE AGILITY “We are dynamic, “We are committed to achieving high enthusiastic standards of performance” and flexible” COOPERATION “We work as one team through alignment and collaboration” 2018 Report – Chassis Brakes International: a Group we are proud of / 7 OUR CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS CODE OF CONDUCT WAS EXTENSIVELY SHARED THROUGHOUT THE GROUP IN LATE 2017. All Chassis Brakes International employees and newcomers are made aware of our Code via a mandatory 45-minute e-learning course which covers Chassis Brakes International’s Code of Business Conduct was renewed all topics with examples and games. The final quiz is checked by local HR: every employee must achieve a high score – or do it again. Local managers are also in the loop to supervise and fully deployed in late 2017. This document, translated into the main the way their teams follow the rules listed in the Code. In this way, we ensure appropriate languages of the countries in which Chassis Brakes International operates, behaviors in all of our activities. ” provides guidance on the main ethics and compliance issues related Thierry Couillaud, Vice President Human Resources & Communications to the Group’s activities. It aims to: THE WHISTLEBLOWING PLATFORM WAS IMPLEMENTED EARLY 2018. IT IS AN EXTERNAL, ENCRYPTED WEB-BASED SYSTEM WHICH ENABLES ANY EMPLOYEE, IN ANY LOCATION, TO ANONYMOUSLY REPORT A CONCERN, INCIDENT OR NON-COMPLIANT ACT – on issues such as harassment, safety, competition, illicit financing, export control, conflicts of interest, corruption, and so on – straight up to top-level management. Employees who don’t have access to a computer can call in to make their report. In either case, I get an alert message directly on my cell phone; I log into the system and either read the report as it is or get it translated via the system. RESPECT* FIGHT GUARANTEE I then escalate the complaint to the Executive Team member concerned or directly to HUMAN HARASSMENT & EQUALITY, the CEO. I’m happy to say that so far, we haven’t had any issues to deal with. But should RIGHTS DISCRIMINATION DIVERSITY & such an issue occur, the process is in place and operational.” FAIRNESS Wolf Willems, Director Corporate Social Responsibility It also includes specific chapters on how to do business with third parties, conflicts of interest, and confidentiality, as well as how FIGHT PROMOTE to report non-compliant acts. ACCOUNTING Chassis Brakes International supervisors and CORRUPTION ACCURACY & managers must lead by example; they are responAND BRIBERY TRANSPARENCY sible for ensuring that their team members are trained on ethics and compliance issues, and that no violations of the law and/or our Business Code of Conduct occur in their area of responsibility. *Protect, respect and All suppliers, intermediaries, business partners, maintain all components of personal dignity, privacy, entities over which Chassis Brakes International working conditions and has no control and other third par ties are human rights of every employee. expected to act consistently with our ethics. With our Code of Business Conduct, our permanent guideline is clearly stated: do it right! 2018 Report – Chassis Brakes International: a Group we are proud of / 8 OUR SMARTUP 2025 STRATEGY Our strategic plan, SmartUP 2025, is designed to meet the future challenges of the automotive industry. It includes a strong vision, four dimensions, as well as our financial ambitions for 2025. Our six values are at the heart of everything we do, shaping our thinking, our actions, and the way we interact with each other and with all our stakeholders. OUR ROAD TO SUCCESS Our strategic plan SmartUP 2025 is based on 4 dimensions CUSTOMERS SYSTEMS AND PRODUCTS BUSINESS EXCELLENCE ALLIANCES Our aim is to grow, “Stay In, Grow Smart, “Safer, Cleaner, “Decide, Perform, “Speed Up, Create to prove the success of our brand and Stay Out” Smarter” Improve” Synergy, Add Value” to strengthen our global presence We are involved in long-term relationWe are continuing to evolve from a Technologies requiring special expertise As an independent supplier, we use the in order to reinforce ships with automakers worldwide. We are mechanics to a mechatronics systems are manufactured in-house. We adjust advantage of our flexibility and join forces our position in a committed to providing our customers provider, in order to provide our customour production processes and locations with partners to speed up and grow furhighly competitive with braking solutions that exceed their ers with the right products and solutions. as well as the decisions on investments in ther. Thanks to this, we create synergies market. expectations in terms of quality and order to focus on strategic products. and added value for our customers. innovation. Because we are one step We are following a winning-products Our approach is systematically customahead, we are designing robust and strategy. Safer, Cleaner and Smarter are er-oriented, and our employees are fully breakthrough technologies to meet the the three drivers which derive from the empowered to create added value whenmajor automotive trends. major automotive trends and guide our ever possible. We make sure that we are innovations. doing the right thing at the right time and in the right way, with a continuous improvement mindset. 2018 Report – Chassis Brakes International: a Group we are proud of / 9 INTERVIEW Thierry Couillaud, Vice President Human Resources & Communications and Wolf Willems, Director Corporate Social Responsibility WITH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, WE ARE BUILDING A BETTER WORLD What are your respective roles Chassis Brakes International regarding Corporate Social joined the UN Global Compact Responsibility (CSR) within in 2017. What is this initiative Chassis Brakes International? and why did you join? Thierry Couillaud: As a member of the W. W.: The Global Compact is the world’s Executive Team, I contribute to the definilargest CSR initiative, supported by over tion of the Group strategy which includes 13,000 organizations in 170 countries. the CSR approach. In 2017, we stepped This international “pact” is a call to align up and created a dedicated management companies’ operations and strategies; it position at Group level, held by Wolf Wilencourages businesses worldwide to lems. CSR used to be led by local HR’s and adopt sustainable and socially responsiis now supervised at the global level. ble policies, and to report on their impleAddressing CSR challenges worldwide mentation. Today, all stakeholders – requires specific expertise! including our customers are increasingly attentive to CSR standards. CSR is a Wolf Willems: Upon joining the Group I must-do! took up the challenge to make CSR initiatives a focused effort. Today, I coordinate T. C.: CSR is crucial to the future of society and manage projects at the global level to in general and our company in particular. continuously improve Chassis Brakes Joining the Global Compact helps us International’s performance as a responput the right resources in the right sible corporate company. places, boosts us to be in a continuous 10 improvement mindset, and publicly • E nvironment: avoid environmental CSR IS CRUCIAL TO THE FUTURE OF SOCIETY IN GENERAL states our strong commitment to being a damage an d han dle dangerous responsible company. This first CSR report substances safely; AND OUR COMPANY IN PARTICULAR. Joining the Global shows that we don’t just talk – we act. • A nti-corruption: assess the risk of Compact helps us put the right resources in the right places, corruption and ensure that the internal boosts us to be in a continuous improvement mindset, and publicly What is Chassis Brakes procedures support the company ’s states our strong commitment to being a responsible company. International’s strategy anti-corruption commitment. This first CSR report shows that we don’t just talk – we act. to support the Global Compact? Each category comprises Sustainable Thierry Couillaud, Vice President Human Resources & Communications W. W.: Our guideline is the Global Development Goals (SDGs) which the Compact 2030 Agenda for Sustainable par ticipant companies commit to Development; it comprises 10 universal including in their priorities. Today, at Principles grouped in 4 categories: Chassis Brakes International we are • H uman rights: ensure workers are putting together a precise roadmap to provided safe, suitable and sanitary work meet the 17 SDGs of the 2030 Agenda; facilities, but also eliminate elements that our SmartUP 2025 strategy is fully in could harm or threaten human life and line with these goals and enables us to Creativit y, Agilit y, Cooperation and health during manufacturing, usage or integrate them in our day-to-day activities. Excellence. We are committed to offering disposal of products; the best working conditions to all our • L abour standards: ensure that the T. C.: We are in action mode, supported by employees worldwide. Our innovations What exactly company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour, comply the whole Executive Team and Board. Our SmartUP 2025 strategy provides a solid continuously make vehicles more environmentally friendly and improve the is Corporate with minimum wage standards and foundation for our CSR roadmap, as do global footprint of our operations. And Social Responsibility? objective recruitment; our Group Values: Trust, Accountability, our Business Code of Conduct helps us The United Nations define “get the job done” the right way. Corporate Social Responsibility as “a management concept In what ways does the Global whereby companies integrate Compact contribute to the Group’s social and environmental concerns 10 CSR approach? in their business operations W. W.: The Global Compact provides and interactions with their guidance and support to focus on the stakeholders. CSR is the way right topics and it encourages us to push PRINCIPLES beyond our limits. By committing to the a company balances its economic, to guide our actions environmental and social principles, targeting the Sustainable and stay aligned with the participants imperatives, while at the same 17 Development Goals, and reporting on of the UN-Global Compact time addressing the expectations our progress, we are finding our place in of its stakeholders”. the global sustainability challenge and Inside the company, Chassis Brakes we are making Chassis Brakes InternaInternational Chief Executive Officer +100 tional a better company. In addition, the Dr. Thomas Wünsche gives a somewhat Global Compact provides a network, with SUSTAINABLE shorter definition: “CSR is just about conferences, meetings, trainings... it has DEVELOPMENT also “opened our eyes” to other guidedoing the right thing right. ” CSR INITIATIVES GOALS (SDG) lines such as the Women Empowerment organized every year to focus our efforts Principles which we now include in our within the Group on various CSR topics gender equality criteria. 2018 Report – Interview / 11 THE GLOBAL COMPACT PROVIDES GUIDANCE AND SUPPORT TO FOCUS ON THE RIGHT TOPICS AND IT The UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ENCOURAGES US TO PUSH BEYOND OUR LIMITS. 10 UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES By committing to the principles, targeting the Sustainable Development Goals, and reporting on our progress, we are finding our place in the global sustainability challenge and we are making Chassis Brakes International a better company. Wolf Willems, Director Corporate Social Responsibility HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support PRINCIPLE 7 and respect the protection Businesses should support of internationally proclaimed a precautionary approach T. C.: We are also using the UN calendar where we stand, benchmark, establish occasional one-shot actions, our vision to environmental challenges; human rights; and to boost our Group communication. We our base level, identif y improvement is mainly long-term. Coordination and have selected 17 “focus days” to highlight areas, set goals for the future, track our alignment of our efforts – supporting our PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 8 what we do, both globally and locally. actions in full transparency, and report colleagues and sharing ideas and pracmake sure that they are undertake initiatives not complicit in human rights to promote greater These days provide a framework to cooron our progress. tices – drive our continuous improvement, abuses. environmental responsibility; dinate our CSR actions and launch new internal commitment and external recogand initiatives. We started in March with the T. C.: We also need to measure our nition. There is no brake on our drive to Zero Discrimination Day and the Internafuture performance. Once we have our be a responsible corporate company. PRINCIPLE 9 tional Women’s Day. Other focus days are star ting point we will set goals and encourage the development and diffusion of planned in the coming months: the World define a measurement methodolog y. T. C.: We listen to our people. Our environmentally friendly Day for Safety and Health at Work, the Our timeframe for this is 2019. employee engagement survey provides technologies. World Environment Day, the Internainteresting bottom-up comments and tional Anti-Corruption Day, the Human Finally, how does Chassis Brakes suggestions; we also have local proRights Day... International motivate its cesses to contribute ideas. CSR activities LABOUR employees to integrate are definitely “feel good” actions: they From a practical viewpoint, where Sustainability in their day-to-day generate pride among the employees, PRINCIPLE 3 do you stand today on your CSR activities? build respect for the company, reinforce Businesses should uphold approach? W. W.: There is already a lot of momentum. the sense of belonging, boost teamthe freedom of association W. W.: We are assessing our current Some of our employees are also amazing work... and the effective recognition ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION performance and global footprint by volunteers, and many sites repeat local of the right to collective bargaining; improving and increasing our reporting , initiatives (family day, support to elderly So our motto is FULL SPEED AHEAD as well as through audits. We want to see people, etc.) every year. Although we have TO MEET THE CSR CHALLENGE PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work the elimination of all forms against corruption in of forced and compulsory all its forms, including labour; extortion and bribery. PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2018 Report – Interview / 12 WE MAKE CHASSIS BRAKES INTERNATIONAL A BETTER COMPANY Corporate Social Responsibility: at Chassis Brakes International, these words mean action – starting with everything that can be done to make our company a good employer and manufacturer. 13 OUR TOP MANAGEMENT IS FULLY MOBILIZED TO PROMOTE SAFETY IS AT THE HEART SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR ACTIVITY Safety has always been at the heart of Chassis Brakes International’s ANG_POSTERS_HSE_PRINT.indd 1 29/09/2016 12:06 activity – brakes keep people safe. We apply the same rigorous approach to our employees: it is our responsibility to provide safe working conditions CEO for everyone, everywhere, every day. REGIONS CUSTOMERS CENTRAL FUNCTIONS REGIONAL PRESIDENT VP CUSTOMER LINE W CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AMERICAS ORGANIZATION e have implemented speREGIONAL PRESIDENT cific measures to achieve VP HR / COMMUNICATION ASIA-PACIFIC our goal – bearing in mind that to star t with, our manu­f acturing processes and tools are REGIONAL PRESIDENT VP PURCHASING AND EUROPE optimized to enable our employees to SUPPLY-CHAIN make our products safely. At Group level, ANG_POSTERS_HSE_PRINT.indd 1 29/09/2016 12:04 our Golden Safety Rules, updated in 2018, REGIONAL PRESIDENT VP OPERATIONS are widely circulated and publicized. one day break from their regular work INDIA They are applicable in all of our sites. each year, to observe how things are going They are summarized by our safety motto: and contribute to safety improvements. “TAKE C.A.R.E. Cautious, Authorized, Our target is to have one observer per site Responsible, Equipped HSE is Accountaper week depending on the size of the site. bility”. The rules supplement and support Since the beginning of the program, existing company management systems, 266 employees have been Safety Ambasprograms and policies; they make our sador for a day. people fully aware of the potential risks Safety is also reinforced through dedicated 4 1 4 related to their work – such as suspended training: in 2018, we have spent more than loads, moving equipment, gas tests, etc.– 23,000 hours on health, safety and enviand highlight the simple actions our ronment (HSE) training. Reporting is carREGIONS CUSTOMER LINE CENTRAL employees can take to protect themselves ried out via a monthly Health, Safety & and others. Environment management call, during Getting ORGANIZATION FUNCTIONS business At local level, we have a permanent Safety which all local HSE teams report on inciPutting Leading strategy done our customers and supporting Ambassador Program running at all sites: dents and corrective actions and share first business every employee, at every level, can take a best practices. In addition, we are currently 2018 Report – We make Chassis Brakes International a better company / 14 rolling out our new “I-Care” portal – a global “Best Safety Safety Information System which supports and standardizes key HSE processes. Improvement Performance” More generally, a Global Safety Day is award organized every year, on the same day as the World Day for Safety and Health at On April 25th, 2018, Work. On May 17th, 2018, the theme was Chassis Brakes International’s individual safety; a large-scale awareness significant progress in safety campaign was organized, including workperformance was acknowledged by KPS shops and trainings. On April 29 th, 2019, Capital Partners. As a part of the KPS the “Safer Together” theme was more portfolio, the Group was handed the focused on safety among colleagues – an “Best Safety Improvement Performance” all-inclusive way of embedding safety into award for its year-over-year efforts all employees’ daily activities. regarding health and safety at work. Our safety results, when benchmarked, show that we are doing quite well; several sites have performed for the past years without any incident. In January 2019, our Rayong site in Thailand registered 1,815 days without incident resulting in Wroclaw, Poland, 2018 medical leave (Lost Time Incident , LTI). Realistic First Aid training 1815 DAYS ACCIDENT PREVENTION AND CLEAN AIR: OUR SITES TAKE SMART INITIATIVES Among numerous actions, the Accident Prevention Week organized at our Campinas site in Brazil in August 2018 was in Poland In November 2018, 20 of our Wroclaw employees completed 3 days of theoretical and practical First Aid training. The simulations were particularly realistic without incident particularly successful. Several presentations and trainings thanks to make-up effects which made the in our site of Rayong, took place with a fun approach which made it all very efficient! artificial wounds look like real-life injuries: Thailand On a different subject, air quality was greatly improved in a pragmatic way of enabling our employees our Dalian foundry in China thanks to the installation of to “do the right thing” in case of emergency, a Volatile Organic Component (VOC) absorption system. whether at work or at home. 90% of the airborne particles are now absorbed, thus In India, the sites of Manesar and Jalgaon providing healthier working conditions for our employees. had 1,700 and 1,450 days without LTI, respectively. We also received the KPS Best With the help of a make-up artist, Safety Improvement Performance award we organized a vivid First Aid training in 2018. However, we will only be satisfied within the facility of Wroclaw. It gave when we reach our Zero Incident goal; until our employees the chance to learn how to react during an accident.” then, we will keep communicating, training, observing, reporting and correcting whatPaulina Nandzik, HSE Technician, Wroclaw ever we can, so that safety becomes a second nature to all of Chassis Brakes InternationCampinas, Brazil, 2018 al’s employees, everywhere in the world. 2018 Report – We make Chassis Brakes International a better company / 15 SUSTAINABILITY IS EMBEDDED IN OUR BUSINESS, FROM OUR SUPPLY CHAIN TO OUR PRODUCTION LINES Interfacing with customers, suppliers and internal teams, while taking CSR criteria into account, is an important aspect of their jobs: Xavier Gouzy, Global Customer Line manager and Christophe Chauveau, Value Realization director, tell us how CSR is integrated into their day-to-day activities. Christophe Chauveau Xavier Gouzy A “clean philosophy” partnership What are your respective roles How is CSR integrated On September 13 th, 2018, regarding Sales and Purchasing into Purchasing? Chassis Brakes International signed within Chassis Brakes C. C.: A sustainable approach is vital in a strategic partnership agreement International? Purchasing: 80% of our total sales are with MANN+HUMMEL, a leading global Xavier Gouzy: I am the “customer voice” purchased, 80% of our purchases are expert for filtration solutions. Although when speaking to Chassis Brakes Internamade globally, and an increasing number brake emissions aren’t regulated, tional and the “Chassis Brakes International of stakeholders include sustainability criour companies are both seriously voice” when speaking to the customer. teria in their decision-making processes, committed to addressing this topic. I have a pivotal role between sales, project including our own Executive Team. Together we are developing a new management, and engineering; I translate CSR is integrated in our business in several brake system solution with a recyclable customer specifications into requirements ways. CSR criteria are included in our add-on particle filter able to reduce for our engineering team, and go back Code of Business Conduct applicable to particulate emissions from passengerto the customer with the corresponding all suppliers – as well as in our regular car brakes by up to 80% without offering. audit checks. In addition, our Executive consuming any energy. A good way Team decided a few months ago to “go of providing more environmentally Christophe Chauveau : As Value Realizathe extra mile” by implementing a new, friendly solutions to our customers! tion director I work in close coordination large-scale CSR Monitoring process with with our engineering and sales teams. I am the support of Ecovadis, an independent particularly involved in the deployment agenc y specialized in sustainabilit y of our Supplier Risk Monitoring process, assessments. This process evaluates our which maps our suppliers according to suppliers on 21 CSR criteria (in addition 61 criteria: financial risks, country risks, to the 61 Supplier Risk Monitoring criteria) natural risks, etc. organized in 4 categories: 2018 Report – We make Chassis Brakes International a better company / 16 1 NM (NEWTON METERS) The lowest residual drag of our brake achieved with the innovative ZOHe AST TM to develop brake systems with an add-on We also found a new supplier in Mexico particle filter to reduce particulate emisfor our Queretaro plant, which avoids sions from passenger-car brakes. These transportation from the existing sources innovations all contribute to delivering in Europe or Asia. In the future, proper “Safer, Cleaner, Smarter” systems and supplier risk management will definitely products, and illustrate our company’s create fantastic opportunities to work determination to be more and more with best-in-class companies and achieve respectful of the environment. top-level sustainability standards. How is CSR compliance monitored? X. G.: Regarding Production, our Executive Team monitors CSR compliance very closely. Every month our results are assessed against the targets set for the year. We have several Key Performance Indicators for Safety and Quality. Our main Key Performance Indicator regarding quality is our “ppm” (number of defec• environment: energy, water, pollution, objective; but today, the environment is tive parts per million): it is to be noted International waste; • social: employee health, working conalso taken into account – and for that, innovation is our key word. that between 2012 and 2017, our ppm was divided by more than 4, dropping recognition ditions; For example, we are innovating to reduce from 4.0 ppm to 0.9 ppm. of our high-level • e thics: anti-corruption, anti-competiour products’ residual drag, which will in standards 21 tive practices; turn reduce CO² emissions. In the past C. C.: In terms of Purchasing, Chassis • supply chain: environment issues and the drag was 8-10 Newton meters (Nm); Brakes International has over 800 direct Chassis Brakes International’s social practices. today our innovative disc brake ZOHe suppliers worldwide! In order to facilitate high-level standards are Today the first phase of the assessment AST TM (Active Shape Technology) – based the launch of our new CSR Monitoring acknowledged by international is under way; our aim is to integrate the on a Chassis Brakes International patent process, we have prioritized our 50 main certifications: CSR Criteria CSR ratings in the assessment of our suprenowned for high performance, excelsuppliers according to their location and A ll Chassis Brakes International to evaluate pliers (Supplier Scorecards) by the end of lent NVH (Noise, Vibration and Harshness) the amount of business we do with them. sites are IATF 16949:2016 certified; the sustainability this year. level and reliability has a residual drag This covers 50% of our spending and all In terms of product safety of our suppliers of around 1 Nm, our goal being to achieve the regions where we have a purchasing and traceability, the Chassis How is CSR integrated in Sales? a zero residual drag by 2025. Our Smart activity (10 suppliers per region). This Brakes International Group X. G.: Regarding Sales, our customers’ BrakeTM system solution, under developprocess has already proven its efficiency; is certified ISO/TS16949 requests for quotations include more ment, uses a new technology which will for instance, we recently excluded a supand more sustainability criteria. Safety is eliminate the need to recycle brake fluid. plier whose technical and commercial the first “quality” required from a braking We have also signed a strategic partnerproposal was competitive, but whose system, and used to be a stand-alone ship agreement with MANN+HUMMEL safety level was insufficient in our view. 2018 Report – We make Chassis Brakes International a better company / 17 SUSTAINABILITY ALSO MEANS PROPER PROCUREMENT RULES The first rule concerning procurement is to work with registered suppliers. We pre-qualify the companies we work with by “scanning” them, not only on their In Germany,our testing technical capabilities and financial reliability, of Noise, Vibrations but also on their maturity level regarding CSR. Heilbronn, Germany and Harshness is environmentally friendly G lobal efforts are made throughby 37% throughout the Group between importers to carry out mandatory supply out the Group to improve our 2014 and 2018. chain due diligence checks, prepare volfacilities and equipment and At Chassis Brakes International, we use untary reports on their sourcing and due During the relocation of the German Entity, the NVH to promote a mindful concertain metals and minerals to produce diligence practices, and share these via Test Benches were refurbished. The most significant sumption of energy and water among our equipment. A new European Union a registry/transparency database. We updates were the new climatic systems consuming our employees. Numerous local infraConflict Minerals Regulation concerning are already actively preparing to comply roughly 30% less electrical energy.” structure initiatives have resulted in minerals and metals originating from with these new obligations, due to take Thilo Eickhoff, Regional Engineering Service Manager, Heilbronn significant improvements: for example, conflict-affected and high-risk areas, effect across Europe on January 1st, 2021. the amount of water per part dropped any where in the world, will require Global energy consumption 2014-2018 SAVING ENERGY, PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT... OUR SITES ARE ON THE MOVE MWh / part At global level between 2014 and 2018, we Many energy-saving actions are implemented throughout the Group. For example, 0,0049 observed an increase low energy-consuming LED lighting has replaced halogen lights in several sites. both in energy 0,0048 Solar-heated showers have been installed in our Campinas site in Brazil, used by 100 employees consumption (kWh) and 0,0047 every day. In France, our Angers site – built in 1972 – is now equipped with a heat-recovery CO2 emissions (TCO2eq) machine and centralized Building Control System with automatic shutdowns on weekends. 0,0046 per part. This is due In our Suzhou site in China, a 500kW energy storage project based on charging energy at night 0,0045 to the changes in our has reduced our consumption by 35%. We have also invested 18,000€ in Jalgaon, India, to make 0,0044 volumes and their our packaging more environmentally friendly by replacing corrugated iron boxes with reusable allocation, but also 0,0043 polypropylene packages. And many sites, such as Rayong in Thailand and Lisbon in Portugal, to the implementation 0,0042 have launched energy mindset campaigns in offices and plants, to give employees useful tips of operational activities on how to save energy every day. 0,0041 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 leading to efficiency and Elec/part 0,004614378 0,004772906 0,004351165 0,004370311 0,004688377 quality improvements. 2018 Report – We make Chassis Brakes International a better company / 18 WE BENEFIT SOCIETY AS A WHOLE, EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD For Chassis Brakes International, Corporate Social Responsibility is not an only intra-Group approach. As a responsible company, we are part of the Big Picture; our aim is to push our limits beyond our internal goals in order to benefit the communities around us and society as a whole. 19 HUMAN RIGHTS AN UNFAILING RULE AT CHASSIS BRAKES INTERNATIONAL Respecting Human Rights is an unfailing rule at Chassis Brakes International. The first of our Group Values, “Trust”, summarizes our commitment to constantly promoting positive relationships and respect. O ur Code of Business Conduct, Overall, we take all necessary measures in line with the Universal to provide a high level of awareness Declaration of Human Rights of Human Rights and to fully comply with published in 1948, clearly states them throughout the Group. We respect our rules regarding working conditions, people, we listen to them, and we do our harassment and discrimination, equality, best to have a positive impact outside diversity and fairness, and respect of of the company. More simply stated, human rights and privacy – in addition to we care. safety, which is also a major human right. Our Code also ensures that we are neither involved nor complicit in any human rights abuses, such as child and forced labor or any kind of violence against people. 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / Jalgaon, India, 2018 20 It’s all about people and equality #OurPeopleAreGreat A company thrives when its people In any case, our approach is to place parthrive. At Chassis Brakes Internaticular emphasis on bringing women into tional, in addition to being totally the Group and providing them with suitable compliant with local jurisdictions, career paths. our aim is to build long-term relationships with our employees. Our In terms of internal communication, every guidelines which we consider as obligamonth we publish an interview with one of Toshiko Elbina, HR manager, tions are all indicated in our Code of our employees who has a great professional Yokohama, Japan Business Conduct: a or personal story. At fair and objec tive this point in time there 12.9% recruitment process, is a slight advantage no discrimination in for women: so far, respect of employ5 a w e s o m e la d i e s ment and occupation, (and 4 equally awefair treatment in terms some men) have been in Jalgaon, 1% of the indirect employees of promotion, mobilinter viewed for our are women, in Paris 21%, in Wuhan 38%, ity, training, salar y, WOMEN #OurPeopleAreGreat in Lisbon 56%. The differences per activity compensation, termiin R&D and Product articles. are interesting to note: the HR departATTRACTING GIRLS nation, and the proEngineering ment is overwhelmingly female (25% men TO TECHNICAL CAREERS: motion of diversity and in December 2018 vs 75% women); Finance is balanced equality at all times. (6.19% in December 2015) At Group level, our (49% men, 51% women); Supply Chain and OUR WOMEN EMPLOYEES staffing distribution is Project Management attract significantly ARE OUR BEST ADVOCATES Gender equality, in carefully monitored. more men (64% vs 36%); the widest gap is On November 30 th, 2017 our Paris site particular, is a major topic at Chassis Today, 7 corporate functions are headed in Manufacturing, where 94% of the in France organized an event in partnership with Brakes International – for which our chalby women: three in Finance, one in Business workers are men and only 6% are women. the “Act Against Exclusion” Foundation FACE – an lenge is to fight stereotypes and help Analysis, one in Legal and two in Human In other words, there is still a lot to do to organization which aims to prevent all forms of exclusion, change mentalities. The automotive Resources and Communications. Furtherreach the right balance in all activities discrimination, inequalities and poverty, and currently industry is traditionally more attractive more, 20 of the Group’s top 110 managers but we are determined to improve things supports over 368,000 beneficiaries. Several of our to men: they represent 80 to 85% of the are women. over time. women employees were given dedicated to make three applicants when we recruit for technical presentations during which they met with students and positions! Things are more balanced in In terms of indirect employees in our unemployed people, in order to familiarize them with support functions such as finance or HR, sites, the percentage is imbalanced Chassis Brakes International and give them professional although there is still room for improve– in total, 78% men vs 22% women – with advice for their job search. An efficient way of helping ment, especially in management positions. major differences between countries: people find new professional opportunities! 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 21 Gender Equality, Women The 7 Women’s Empowerment Principles Empowerment: our Bursa site in Turkey paves the way 1 ESTABLISH 2 TREAT 3 ENSURE On March 1st, 2018, Chassis Brakes International signed a Statement For Cisil Güler, Bursa Human Resources Manager, high-level corporate all women and the health, safety of Support to the Women’s gender equality and women empowerment are key leadership for men fairly at work – and well-being of Empowerment Principles to the future at her site, in the Group, and in the world. gender equality respect and support all women and men supported by the UN Global An efficient way of helping people find new professional human rights and workers Compact – thereby joining over non-discrimination 2,000 business leaders around opportunities! the world who have done so. What is the current situation regarding women employees What initiatives are being taken to promote gender equality? 4 PROMOTE 5 IMPLEMENT 6 MEASURE 7 PROMOTE in the Bursa site? CG: At Group level, Chassis Brakes Internaeducation, training enterprise and publicly report equality through Cisil Güler: There are about 300 employees tional fully complies with the Global Comand professional development, supply on progress to community in Bursa, of which only 25 are women and pact principles and our Code of Business development for chain and marketing achieve gender initiatives and only 4 including myself are managers. Conduct rules regarding gender equality. women practices that equality advocacy Unfortunately, culture and stereotypes There are no obstacles whatsoever in empower women often lead to an early “orientation” of terms of recruitment, compensation or girls; either they receive less background career plans. education, or they favor social sciences It is important to note that in terms of salrather than technical studies. The Organary, our Group is quite exemplary: there isation for Economic Co-operation and is absolutely no gender-related differDevelopment (OECD) average for female ence in salary, whereas in Turkey, for the global inquiry! At local level, we have tion is given to working conditions (lockers to make sure the WEPs are implemented. employment is 63%; in Turkey it is only same job, a woman earns on average 41% taken several measures to favor women in lavatories, breast-feeding options...). We are gradually “spreading the word” 29.3%... less than a man, according to a reliable in Bursa. In terms of recruitment, Finally, our biggest achievement in Bursa throughout the Group; for example, between two equally competent candihas been to become an active member of Women Empowerment was discussed at dates, we will choose the woman whatthe Women Empowerment Platform. the European HR workshop held last ever the position and we target women February. We are increasing awareness when we recruit for specific shopfloor What is the Women Empowerment by organizing trainings and seminars positions (forklift operator, machining Platform? on women empowerment. We are also operator...) even though female candiCG: The Bursa Women Empowerment encouraging outside companies suppliers, dates are harder to find because of the Platform (BWEP) is a local “extension” of sub-contractors, customers to sign a limited number of technical graduates. the United Nations Global Compact speStatement of Support to the WEPs, as our Regarding this particular aspect we are cifically dedicated to empowering women. CEO did last year. quite hopeful, as several of our CSR projects In each established location, the platform aim to increase the number of girl students enables companies to promote equal How do you see the future? in vocational schools. opportunities for women worldwide and CG: There is still room for improvement, We have also organized special support share good practices. By adhering to the but I am confident. We are going in the for women in their everyday lives: among 7 “WEPs” (Women’s Empowerment Prinright direction. My 3-year-old daughter other actions, a “legal rights, work condiciples), companies like Chassis Brakes will have all the opportunities she wants tions and company implementations” International show their determination when she grows up: she is raised to guideline is given to pregnant women to make gender equality and women believe that she can do anything! and their managers; when necessary, empowerment a reality. shuttle transport routes are adapted for Throughout the year the BWEP organizes women working night shifts; specific specific events, conferences and seminars, healthcare is provided, and special attenand company representatives regularly meet Bursa, Turkey, 2018 22 When it comes to labor rights, Got an idea? the rule is Let us know! simple: we talk You never know where a good idea may come from! Our employees’ and listen to one suggestions are welcome on all kinds of topics: How to promote a positive and comfortable work another environment? How to improve efficiency, quality of service and customer satisfaction? How to adapt certain processes? How to boost innovation? Numerous subjects regularly benefit from this bottom-up approach. For example, our European sites participate every year in the regional “Suggestion Scheme” project – which includes rewards for the best suggestions regarding Safety, Working Conditions, Innovation, Savings and Quality. Wuhan, China, 2019 The Trophy of At Chassis Brakes International, we employees and their representatives; as Labor Harmony: fully respect all legal requirements and social regulations regarding our an example, last year a wage settlement discussion in our Jalgaon site in India was awarded to us for the employees ’ working conditions, concluded 8 days in advance of the 4th consecutive year in all of the countries where we planned date with a win-win situation! Chassis Brakes International did it for the 4th consecutive year! operate. In addition to the clear labor This shows that goodwill on all sides enaOn March 15th, 2019, our company was once again awarded the trophy rights indicated in our Code of Business bles our company to move forward conof Labor Harmony by the Chinese Labour Union of the Jun Shan District, Conduct, we are particularly attentive to structively on labor matters. Wuhan Economic & Technology Developing Area. Since the Wuhan freedom of speech, freedom of associaPlant opened 6 years ago, we have had zero employee disputes or tion, right of representation and collecarbitrations clear evidence of the positive relationships, open tive bargaining. Our approach is both communication and equality in the working area established 6000 local and regional. Management, trade proposed by European by management, employees and trade unions, working together. unions and employee representatives employees in 2018, regularly meet, in line with country reguwith more than 1/3 of them lations; for example, our European Works “We are devoted to building good relationships, implemented to improve Council meets approximately 4 times a open communication, and equality in the working area.” SUGGESTIONS our various processes. Katheleen Wang, HR Manager, Wuhan year and more frequently if required by exceptional situations. In all cases, Chassis Brakes International management is willing to talk to and listen to the 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 23 Better lives start Promoting education can take many forms – even rallies! with better education: and we give School education delivers knowledge. We try to convert the extra push this knowledge into experience through educational and environmental tours, specialist lectures and rewards for students with remarkable academic achievements.” Khushal Rane, Training, development, and educafor both blue-collar and white-collar their schooling. We provide a large numManufacturing Manager, Jalgaon tion as a whole are an integral part of employees. We also provide soft skills ber of scholarships for our employees’ our Group HR priorities. Our aim is to training, in order to open additional develchildren ; we also set up partnerships with provide lifelong learning opportunities to opment opportunities whenever possible. local schools and associations to organize help our employees “grow” with us and In terms of V.I.E. (the French “Volontariat conferences and visits to our sites in variBy sponsoring student rallies, create a brighter future for them as well as International en Entreprise”, i.e. Volunteers ous countries, including Brazil, India, we support children’s education for the communities around our sites. for International Experience), internships China, Turkey... Our temporary employees in a fun and engaging way. Internally, Chassis Brakes International and apprenticeships, we are also very are also generally students. All of these Our employees meet the team offers a full range of training courses dynamic; at the end of December 2018, actions put together constitute a true winracers and can encourage them designed to provide our employees with they were over 130 working with us in in win approach: they help the communities before the race!” the skills they need. Some courses are several countries, including China, India, by motivating future generations, and help Jennifer Bonin, mandatory, such as those regarding safety Portugal, France and Spain. our company by attracting future talent HR Business Partner, Angers or our Code of Business Conduct. Others Externally, our approach is to show future to join our workforce as they start their focus on specific technical competencies, generations what we do and contribute to professional lives! Teaching, showing, motivating, supporting... our sites roll up their sleeves All kinds of educational operations are organized at In addition, last year we donated our older computers our sites in all countries. Many locations encourage and laptops to several underprivileged schools around and inspire our employees’ children by rewarding those our sites computer literacy is key to a better life! who obtain the best grades – for instance at our Abrantes In total, 6 schools received 68 computers donated site in Portugal, this operation represents a 3,000€ budget. by 4 sites (Jalgaon, Manesar, Pune, Sitarganj). Donation operations also take place, as at our Rayong site Our Bursa site in Turkey is also particularly active. in Thailand, which provides snacks, musical instruments It has a volunteer “Coin Box” system, with which 3,000€ and stationery sets to a local school on the national worth of basic items are purchased every year for Children Day. Our Campinas site in Brazil has opened disadvantaged students. its doors to SENAC, a local university specialized in The site has also established partnerships with environmental courses; 30 students have attended vocational schools and universities to introduce our an HSE lecture on our Environmental Management business to students (300 so far), give them a better System (SGA) and visited the plant. understanding of future career opportunities, and In India, many of our employees spend time in orphanages motivate them about technical positions and career Suzhou, China, 2018 and donate useful items: books, toys, clothes, groceries, etc. paths with us regardless of gender or background. 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 24 We are all different – we don’t leave anybody behind Running for those Our Group takes special care to intewho can’t grate employees who have a physical impairment; if necessar y, we make accommodations to enable them to work In 2018, more than 20 employees comfortably. Offering a fair workplace to and their families ran the “Sport everyone employees and applicants is Ensemble” charity run under a constant challenge that we rise to meet the Chassis Brakes International every day. In addition, we support local banner. We had a great time while raising funds for projects and associations involved in Handicap International!” inclusive initiatives. Florence Guerin, Office Manager, Paris Paris, France, 2018 Simple ways of helping one another Three ways 1 We support several initiatives for people who need extra help. For example, every year in January our Abrantes site in Portugal welcomes children and young adults from the to be an PROTECT “Centro de Recuperação e Integração”, a recovery and integration school for mentally inclusive the dignity of all human beings incapacitated people, to keep up the Portuguese tradition “Cantar as Janeiras” company (Sing The Januaries) during which the students play and sing traditional songs. On a different register, our Angers site in France outsources certain business activities to an “ ESAT” (Etablissement et Service d’Aide par le Travail), an employment center for handicapped people. Each year between 2016 and 2018, 6 disabled workers were 2 3 involved in the project, helping to maintain the 55,000m2 of green areas but also GUARANTEE RESPECT providing support for production and administrative work. A plastic collection freedom of diversity, equality association and fairness was also organized for recycling associations – this contributes to the production & collective of wheelchairs for disabled people. bargaining Abrantes, Portugal, 2018 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 25 Sharing is “enriching” – for those Education who receive assistance and for those program who give “This is our first charity program in Dalian and all the employees are very proud of this contribution to society. We were able to reach out to Our company makes it a rule to supa lot of needy families and to port the communities around our Dalian, China, 2017 give back to our communities”, sites. Over the past years a large numRobert Zhao, HR Manager, Dalian ber of local initiatives have focused on wealth sharing: we view this as a tangible way to enhance local development, fight poverty and reduce inequalities. Charity: a great way to combine useful support and “feel-good” actions! Clothes are a basic need for many populations. action to be set up also focuses on helping families: Since 2016, our Wroclaw employees in Poland in 2018 our employees donated toys and groceries have participated actively in two clothes donations to 45 families via the local government Social Aid programs: “Ciuch w ruch” (Move the Dress) and institution “DIF” (Citizen’s Consultative Council of the “Mimo wszystko” (“After All”) Foundation the National System for Comprehensive Family and 3R Recycling Solutions. Our Abrantes plant Development). And a donation campaign regularly in Portugal also organizes winter clothes takes place at our Lisbon site to support a local donations during its yearly solidarity campaign care center for babies and infants in need of health in partnership with Santa Casa da Misericordia, care Ajuda de Berço (“Crib Help”). a national charity organization. In 2017,an unusual yet useful donation took place Children are not forgotten: our employees at our Manesar site in India: 30 used High Bay lights in Angers, France, put a smile on children’s faces were donated to the village to provide proper street through the December “Toys from the Heart” lighting for the inhabitants – an eco-friendly way operation organized by Rejoué to help of increasing their safety; in parallel, 3 desktop disadvantaged families (Le Jouet Solidaire computers and a printer were given to the nearby association). In Querataro, Mexico, the first CSR school of Kasan. Rayong, Thailand, 2018 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 26 HEALTH AND WELL-BEING: WHEN PEOPLE FEEL WELL, THINGS GO WELL Health and well-being are important topics for Chassis Brakes International. Whatever the local challenges may be, our objective is always the same: to promote good health and well-being for all people, of all ages, in and around our sites. 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / Paris, France, 2017 27 Our approach to Healthcare: let’s be pragmatic! Our compagny is particularly pragmatic in providing healthcare support to our employees. Most of our plants have on-site doctors and nurses to deal with occupational health issues – in particular, from an ergonomic perspective – as well as personal issues if necessary. Prevention actions are frequently carried out – health check-ups, vaccination campaigns, awareness operations, blood Prevention is a smart donation days... – and include special approach to medical check-ups for such issues as breast or issues; in some cases, prostate cancer. it is vital 15 ON-SITE DOCTORS, Campinas, Brazil, 2018 During the visit of a health advisor, learning breathing techniques was very interesting. We got the opportunity to have our nervous system and blood vessel checked, and for some of us, the results came as a surprise! It encouraged us to be focused with our health and stress control. ” NURSES AND PARAMEDICS Healthcare is for all – employees Toshiko Ebina, HR Manager, Yokohama throughout the group and local communities alike In Brazil in addition to “Pink October”, the breast For example, our Rayong site in Thailand organized cancer prevention month, we have “Blue November”, Further, we specifically address the issue an Elder Donation Day in 2018: 20 medicine kits were the prostate cancer prevention month. We decided of breast cancer for our female employees; donated to elderly people in need, with instructions to take on both themes together.” for instance, at our Bursa site in Turkey, on how to use them to maintain their health. Sueli Rodrigues, HR Manager, Campinas awareness and examination operations Actions also take place in China: last year our Wuhan are regularly organized on site. In 2018, employees visited more than 20 residents without all 40 female employees working in the family in a care center for elderly people – a nice way site took part in these operations. to keep them company. 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 28 Sports, Health, Group Values: winning on all fronts IT ISN’T WINNING THAT COUNTS – IT’S THE WAY YOU PLAY THE GAME Sports are highly valued at many Practicing a sport is an excellent way of our sites. In 2018, 15 of our to stay healthy and happy! Medical Campinas employees teamed up to evidence shows that some form of regular become the Chassis Brakes Runners: physical activity is key to staying in shape. a nice name to promote sports At Chassis Brakes International, we at their site in Brazil, alongside encourage our employees to give it their their colleagues! best – which can be expressed through Last year in Poland, 30 Wroclaw several of our Values words: “be agile, employees joined the European cooperate with your sports partners, Cycling Challenge KręćDlaWro, trust them, and aim for excellence!” the biggest charity competition in the country; the cities represented were scored according to the number of kilometers covered by their participants – a total of 2,000,000 km during the last race – and Wroclaw won the second place! Meanwhile in India, a Cricket Championship pitted the Jalgaon “Super Kings” against the Pune/ Chakan “Super Risers”; both teams put up a good fight and although Jalgaon won, it was a good Sponsoring illustration of “Performance the Jinji Lake with alignment and collaboration”. Marathon – we’re in this for the long run! We are so proud of all Chassis Brakes International participants Suzhou, China, 2019 and looking forward to seeing more employees joining energetic games for a healthier life”. Osking Ni,HR Manager, Suzhou 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 29 Wroclaw, Poland, 2018 Well-being: at Chassis Brakes International, A Family Day, we take it seriously the Abrantes way Family Day is our annual event dedicated to happiness In our view, well-being isn’t just other events, we promote a healthy with the employees and their families.” about our own employees, but also and lively workplace each year during Ana Oliveira, HR Manager, Abrantes about our employees’ families and the the annual Family Days organized at communities around our sites. Among our sites. 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / Abrantes, Portugal, 2018 30 AT CHASSIS BRAKES INTERNATIONAL, WE CARE ABOUT OUR PLANET Protecting the environment and promoting a sustainable use of resources is one of our CSR priorities at Chassis Brakes International. O ur approach is both global and local: all of our sites are ISO 14 001 cer tif ied with regards to environmental criteria, and actions are implemented locally to meet specific needs. Tree planting is widespread, as well as awareness campaigns to teach environmentally friendly behaviors such as waste sorting, mindful consumption, clean transportation and commuting. We also apply our continuous improvement approach to these issues: we assess our impact, assign objectives, implement improvement actions, measure progress, and check where we stand at the end of each year with a management review. 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / Rayong, Thailand, 2017 31 Life on land: Environmental action and awareness: we aim to make from trees to trainings! a positive impact We are continuously planting trees and we are committed Over the past years, Chassis Brakes to doing it. Let us save the earth, let us choose a noble International sites all over the world cause, let us plant more trees. have become increasingly focused Be part of it, be proud of it.” on the environment: there is a lot of Ram Kishore, Maintenance momentum among our people to conTeam Leader, Manesar tribute to the beautiful nature around us. Action days are organized, during which our employees often accompanied by their spouses and children “green” our sites, for example by planting trees and flowers or participating in environment clean-up tasks; as an example, our The mangrove forest is employees in Thailand have removed a place with abundant garbage from a beach in Pattaya. These ecological diversity, operations have a long-term impact and sheltering threatened promote a sustainable mindset: with the and endangered species. effects of climate change becoming more It is important for us to raise and more visible, increasing awareness awareness on its protection and leading by example are of utmost and conservation.” importance! Kritsakorn Suksap, HR Development, Rayong The Energy Efficiency Plants and water: Project in Bursa tackles Nature’s best assets the challenge of energy management with the In Wuhan, China, and Jalgaon, India, large-scale support of all 300 employees tree planting actions regularly take place at by implementing campaigns, our sites; 1,500 trees have already been trainings and concrete planted by our employees in Jalgaon. actions.” We also built a dam there to collect rain water: Murat Bayram, Manufacturing a pragmatic approach to preserving natural Manager, Bursa Jalgaon, India, 2018 resources for the future. 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 32 Air quality: Improving our approach our company’s is both environmental technological footprint and behavioral Increasing awareness on environmental issues and sustainability, creating an energy-saving mindset at all As an automotive producer, we feel a our sites: day after day, we are improving particular responsibility to reduce our company’s environmental footprint. air pollution. From a technological For example, the Water Day Campaigns standpoint, several of our innovations we carry out each year across our sites to contribute to delivering “Safer, Cleaner, promote a water-saving mindset, comSmarter” systems and products; in parbined with technological innovations and ticular, our innovative disc brake ZOHe equipment modernizations focused on AST TM (Active Shape Technology) reduces water consumption, have enabled us to CO² emissions thanks to its 1 Nm residual reduce the amount of water per part by drag our goal being a zero residual drag 37% throughout the group between 2014 by 2025. The company also demonand 2018. strates its determination to protect the environment by encouraging eco friendly behaviors such as carpooling in Wroclaw, Poland. -37% Giving you a good reason to ride your bike Our Paris office has launched the IKV scheme “Indemnité Kilométrique Vélo” – a bonus scheme which encourages WATER employees to ride their bike to work; CONSUMPTION the bonus is proportional to the distance they cover. So far 17 employees have per part between benefitted from the program – a smart way to 2014 and 2018 Campinas, Brazil, 2018 reduce pollution while working out their legs. 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 33 Managing waste, recycling, re-using... From our products to our processes, all options are explored Chassis Brakes International locareplaced its corrugated iron boxes with tions, whether offices or plants, all reusable polypropylene boxes. We are promote mindful, eco-friendly conacting in many ways to become more sumption – starting with a systemenvironmentally friendly! atic rule of proper waste disposal and recycling. Our Lisbon site in Portugal has launched a poster campaign for 100% Fundação do Gil, an association which recycles toners and ink cartridges which are harmful for the environment if improperly disposed of. Regarding production, we will equip a future brake system with a recyclable particle filter, and OF OUR SITES our Smart Brake System Solution will are implementing eliminate the need to recycle brake fluid. recycling initiatives Our approach to packaging has also improved: our Jalgaon site in India has Wroclaw, Poland, 2018 Shaping our children’s future with them At our Wroclaw site in Poland, the employees’ children were invited to a Children’s Day contest during which they built their own “Ecological vehicle of the future” and received gifts for their creativity. The children also participated in a tree-planting action, during which 1,000 trees were planted at Chassis Brakes International, awareness starts early, as we are convinced that responsible children become responsible adults! Rayong, Thailand, 2017 2018 Report – We benefit society as a whole, everywhere in the world / 34 FULL SPEED AHEAD IN As a responsible company, we, at Chassis Brakes MEETING International, are part of the Big Picture. Our full commitment to the 10 United Nations Global Compact Principles guides us to “do the right thing right” with THE CSR respect to human rights, labour rights, environmental preservation and anti-corruption rules and behaviors. CHALLENGE The Corporate Social Responsibility will carefully analyse our footprint to approach that we have defined and accurately assess our impact on the implemented throughout our Group, as environment and on society. well as the pragmatic actions described in this report, enable us to meet our •W  e will give special attention to internal goals and push beyond them, 4 focus areas selected for the year: to benefit society as a whole. gender equalit y will be increased through our global policy and local iniFor the coming year, we have set 4 main tiatives, diversity will be encouraged objectives for Chassis Brakes Internain all locations, environmental awaretional: ness operations will be multiplied and safety at work will be further boosted •W e will increase the visibility of our through the improvement of our CSR actions within the company, by working facilities and training. involving each and every employee. Our objective is to have 85% of our Today, as we publish our first Corporate employees describe Chassis Brakes Social Responsibility report, we are International as a socially responsible more determined than ever to pursue company in our next Engagement Surour efforts and mobilize all energies vey, versus 75% in our 2017 survey. and levers to build a sustainable future. In this conclusion statement, we are •W e will maintain, encourage and telling you what we will do in the coming coordinate local initiatives. Our year. In our next report, we will tell you objective is to act on 100 to 200 actions what we have done. That’s a promise – in the Group, from one-shot initiatives and you can trust us to keep our word. to annual events and global policies. •W e will pursue our efforts to align our products with our “ Safer, Cleaner, Smar ter ” philosophy through constant innovation, and we 2018 Report 35 May 2019
