Trust on Sustainability 2017 JB Financial Group Sustainability Report Contents JB Financial Group CEO Message First Sustainability Report 02 About This Report Highlights of JB Financial Group’s Sustainable Management 04 Overview of JB Financial Group 06 Overview JB Financial Group Business Model 08 JB Financial Group’s sustainability report includes contents that allow the stakeholders to comprehensively understand JB FinanCreating Value 11 cial Group’s vision, principles and midto long-term strategies for sustainable management. In this report, we tried our best to show Kwangju Bank Grows with Communities 12 the vision and dedication to sustainable management of JB FiFrom a Local Bank to a Global Financial Company 14 nancial Group which strives to become a leading global financial Banks Becoming a Digital Platform 18 institution. Closer to the People 20 Breathing Life into Our Vanishing Cultures 22 Period This report includes our performance data from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 and from the first half of 2018. We have inSustainable Management System 25 cluded data on quantitative performance in 2015 and 2016 for Principles of Corporate Social Responsibility 26 comparison. Sustainable Management Strategy 28 Scope Risk Management 30 This report includes the activities and performance data on the opEthical Management 32 erations of JB Financial Group and its four subsidiaries. Key topics Governance 34 and reporting boundaries are provided separately on page 39. Communication with Stakeholders 36 Sustainability Management Material Issues 38 Standard JB Financial Group & UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 40 This report was prepared in compliance to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard, ISO 26000, ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Sustainable Management Performance 41 Development Goals (SDGs). Easy and Safe Finance 42 Assurance ZOOM IN : JB Financial Group’s Contributions to Local Festivals 49 An independent third-party assurance review was carried out acJB Happy Management 50 cording to the international assurance standard, AA1000AS (2008) ZOOM IN : Responding and Adapting to the 4th Industrial 57 to ensure objectivity and reliability of this report. You can find the Revolution through Training and Production of review results on pages 80-81. Digitally Talented Individuals Reliable Corporation 58 ZOOM IN : Contributing to the Improvement of Community 64 Welfare through Continued Partnerships Statement 65 Summary of Financial and Non-Financial Performance 66 Independent Auditors’ Report 77 ISO 26000 Performance Assessment Report 79 Third Party Assurance 80 Appendices 82 GRI Standard Contents Index (Core Option) 83 Contact Information UN Global Compact Principles Compliance 86 JB Financial Group CSR Team: Tel 02-2128-2761 jbfg@jbfg.com Membership 86 Homepage : www.jbfg.com Major Awards 86 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Dear Stakeholders Due to changes in education, policies and regulations, jobs CEO MESSAGE and people contributing to the development of human First of all, I would like to thank all of JB Financial Group’s society are becoming more diverse. The changes are stakeholders for the continued support. happening so fast. Over the years, JB Financial Group has grown together with The 4th Industrial Revolution is prevalent all across the The 17 goals of the UN SDGs for the citizens and small-to-medium enterprises of Korea. globe, VR, AR, IoT and AI are deep into our lives so we had to the sustainable development We have endeavored to become the ‘top retail financial set our goals very carefully. of the international community group for the middle class and small-to-medium enterprises’ We focused on questions like ‘How can corporations and are our shared goals. and our continued efforts brought a remarkable growth, society coexist better’, ‘What decisions do we have to make increasing the total assets of the Group from KRW 7 trillion in for our future generations’, and ‘What do we have to first to 2010 to KRW 48 trillion this year. As a result, we were able to make a better world.” become a key player in the retail finance industry for Korean citizens and small-to-medium enterprises. The answer to these questions was JB Financial Group’s continued social contributions made with Jeonbuk Bank Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank are continuously and Kwangju Bank. There were people saying that we improving their market shares based on their deep are spending too much on social contributions when our understanding of and familiarity in the regions and are income may decline but we didn’t stop. JB Financial Group expanding their grounds by opening branches in Seoul, gladly dove into the retail finance market which major Incheon, Gyeonggi Province and Sejong. banks were reluctant about because of the small Also, Cambodia’s Phnom Penh Commercial Bank (PPCB) profit and big risks. acquired by Jeonbuk Bank in 2016 is showing a stable Many people were doubtful, thinking, “It’s tough to survival growth and, JB Woori Capital’s acquisitions of business as it is and it’ll take years for the digital banking era to license in Myanmar as well as Kwangju Bank’s establishment arrive” but we broke down and completely transformed our of office in China are taking us one step closer to the panstructures and system we have built with our own hands Asian market. believing, “There is no tomorrow if we do not change today.” JB Financial Group has recently declared its transformation JB Financial Group will continue to minimize its to ‘digital banking’. We developed an open bank platform environmental impact and grow with the communities as called ‘obank’ and modularized all our work processes in API a citizen of Korea and of the world. We will take care of the format to promote digitalization of all banking processes. communities and natural ecosystems in this world and use Using an open API, we are developing partnerships with our resources wisely. We will also share our mistakes as small and large institutions and corporations all across well as our achievements with the stakeholders every step the world, sharing our know-hows and skills we have of the way. accumulated over decades in offering microfinance services and making new profits and values every day. JB Financial Group wishes to be able to say ‘We did it’ one day and asks for your continued interest and Every aspect of the environment that surrounds us is encouragement. changing so rapidly these days and we look back on the amazing journey we have embarked on thinking, ‘Wow, we Thank you. really did get this far.’ Technologies are advancing in such a fast speed but time and resources are becoming more limited every day. Kim Han CEO of JB Financial Group 02 03 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 Highlights of JB Financial Group’s Sustainable Management 109 A Company that Gives Hopes to Youth New Employees Hired(Unit: Employee) KRW 10 Billion Contributed to the Communities Over the Past Contributions to the Communities 222 In 2017, JB Financial Group hired 109 new employees through Jeonbuk 3 Years (Unit: KRW 100 million) Bank, Kwangju Bank and JB Woori Capital. In these times of hardship with JB Financial Group contributed KRW 18.6 billion in 2015, KRW 19.3 billion in serious youth unemployment and general lack of jobs, JB Financial Group 2016 and KRW 22.2 billion in 2017 to local governments, educational instituhas continuously offered youths new job opportunities over the past 3 tions, hospitals, research institutes, social welfare organizations and cultural/ 109 years, hiring 64 new employees in 2015, 68 in 2016 and 109 in 2017. It has arts organizations. And these funds have been used to improving the quality been a meaningful achievement especially because all these new employof services provided by the public infrastructure, educational, medical, culturees were hired in Jeollabuk-do and Jeollanam-do which have the lowest al/arts and social welfare services in the communities. 222 rates of job creation in the nation. Recognized for this achievement, Jeon68 64 Giving back the communities more than 10% of our revenue invigorates our buk Bank received the ‘President’s Outstanding Job-Creating Company communities and local economies. This creates a virtuous cycle because 193 Award’ in 2017. their stability becomes the foundation that supports the stability of local 186 For JB Financial Group to be a sustainable company, it must become a banks’ business and management. company loved by the youth and a company filled with youthful energy Lim Yong-teak / President of Jeonbuk Bank and new ideas. To build a company that young people want to come and work for, for a long time, we will continuously increase new hires and promote an open working environment where youths can enjoy working. JB Woori Capital Receives National Brand Award in Auto Kim Han / CEO of JB Financial Group 2015 2016 2017 Financing Category for 5th Consecutive Year Since 2013 JB Woori Capital is a loan company that specializes in auto loans. JB Woori Capital offers a variety of financial products including auto installment, auto lease and rental, personal credit loan and mortgage loan programs. To beBranches in the Capital Area (Unit : Branch) Financial Convenience for the Common People and Small come the best loan company of the 21st century, JB Woori Bank has been Businesses carrying out next-generation projects and has established a flexible system 2015 2016 2017 To provide safer and more convenient, tailored financial products and serthat can accommodate business expansions with simplicity, speed and convices to the people and small businesses in the capital area, JB Financial venience. JB Woori Capital won the National Brand Award in Auto Financing 57 Bank is strategically expanding its grounds in the capital area. We expandCategory for the 5th consecutive year since 2013. ed the branch network of Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank in the capital 53 area from 52 branches in 2015 to 53 in 2016 and 57 in 2017. We are also 52 stabilizing our position in the financial market by providing a wide variety Group Value Increased by Dividing Corporate Governance of mid-range interest rate loans and financial consulting service tailored In September, 2017, JB Financial Group held a board of directors’ meeting and passed a resolution on dividing the Group CEO to financial situation of each person and each small business which other and the president of Kwangju Bank by vote. Ever since Kwangju Bank was acquired by JB Financial Bank in 2014, Kim Han, CEO commercial banks have not been providing. of JB Financial Bank had been the president of Kwangju Bank. Kwangju Bank’s Management Recommendation Committee recommended Senior Vice President Song Jong-wook as the president of Kwangju Bank and the board of directors approved We believe we can compete in Seoul and the capital area if we can bethis decision. As a result, JB Financial Group now has a stable top management with Mr. Kim Han as the CEO of JB Financial come a bank that scratches people’s and small businesses’ itch other maBank, Mr. Lim Yong-taek as the president of Jeonbuk Bank and Mr. Song Jong-wook as the president of Kwangju Bank. jor banks can’t reach. 2015 2016 2017 Kim Han / CEO of JB Financial Group It was our long wish to divide the CEO of the Group and the president position of Kwangju Bank once Kwangju Bank becomes stabilized. Now, with a top two management system under the CEO, we will focus on further enhancing the group as a whole. Kim Han / CEO of JB Financial Group History of JB Financial Group (Past 5 Years) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013. 07. 01 • JB Financial Group established 2014. 03. 19 • JB Asset Management becomes a 2015. 04. 03 • Group’s Integrated CI declared 2017. 03. 13 • JB Woori Capital acquires business 2013. 07. 18 • JB Financial Group goes public (Jeonbuk 2014. 10. 10 • subsidiary 2016. 08. 29 • Phnom Penh Commercial Bank (PPCB) license for JB Capital Myanmar Bank delisted) Kwangju Bank becomes a subsidiary acquired by Jeonbuk Bank 2013. 11. 06 • JB Woori Capital becomes a subsidiary 04 05 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Overview of JB Financial Group World Wide JB!! JB Financial Group has a vision to become the ‘Best Retail-Specializing Financial Group for the Middle Class WJB symbolizes JB Financial Group’s global expansion. and Small-to-Medium Enterprises.’ JB Financial Group is comprised of four subsidiaries including Jeonbuk We are dedicated to providing world-class financial Bank, Kwangju Bank, JB Woori Capital, JB Woori Asset Management and, two second-tier subsidiaries services and network. 1 including Phnom Penh Commercial Bank (PPCBank) and JB Capital Myanmar. China 6 JB Financial Group’s Subsidiaries and Shares (Unit: KRW 10 million, %) Myanmar Company Established Acquired Capital Type of Business Ownership Ratio 17 Jeonbuk Bank 1969. 12. 10 2013. 07. 01 449,122 Banking 100.00 Cambodia Kwangju Bank 1968 .11. 20 2014. 10. 10 256,580 Banking 56.97 JB Woori Capital 1995. 12. 07 2013. 11. 06 421,970 Loans 100.00 JB Asset Management 2008. 07. 14 2014. 03. 19 17,720 Asset Management 100.00 PPCBank 2008. 09. 01 2016. 08. 29 91,612 Banking 60.00 JB Financial Group’s Branches Across the Nation JB Capital Myanmar 2016. 09. 21 2016. 09. 21 5,881 Small Loans 85.00 * JB Woori Capital : 100% of based on JB Woori Capital common stock, 96.45% of including preferred stock ● Jeonbuk Bank 95Branches ● Kwangju Bank 140Branches ● JB Woori Capital 16Branches Incheon & Organization Chart Gyeonggi 6 12 4 1 Gangwon-do JB Financial Group Seoul 11 19 3 Daejeon & 9 2 Chungcheong 1 Daegu Jeonbuk Bank Kwangju Bank JB Woori Capital JB Asset Management Jeollabuk-do 69 1 100% 56.97% 100% 100% Busan & Gyeong2 PPCBank JB Capital Myanmar Jeollanam-do 71 sangnam-do Jeonbuk Bank 50%, 85% Gwangju 38 1 JB Woori Capital 10% 1 Jeju JB Financial Group’s Business Structure and Status (As of December 31, 2017) Domestic Overseas Category Company Executives & Employees Total Assets (KRW 100 million) Net Income Category Company Branch Depository Office Branch Depository Office Total Office Office Holding Company JB Financial Group 113 475,936 2,644 Holding Company JB Financial Group 2 2 Subsidiaries Jeonbuk Bank 1,070 180,594 801 Subsidiaries Jeonbuk Bank 91 4 95 Kwangju Bank 1,568 234,190 1,342 Kwangju Bank 129 11 1 141 JB Woori Capital 528 60,674 712 JB Woori Capital 16 2 1 19 JB Asset Management 53 175 5 JB Asset Management 2 2 Second-Tier PPCBank 329 6,777 131 Second-Tier PCCBank 17 17 Subsidiaries JB Capital Myanmar 109 51 (-)3 Subsidiaries JB Capital Myanmar 6 6 Total 240 11 6 23 2 282 *JB Financial Group’s Total Assets and Net Assets: Executives and employees include executives, full-time and part-time employees (based on consolidate financial statements) * The head branch is included as a single branch among the domestic and overseas branches. 06 07 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report JB Financial Group Business Model JB Financial Group uses various resources to offer the ‘best and the most convenient digital finance platform.’ JB Financial Group will strengthen its business competitiveness by innovating processes, strengthening the roles of each branch and improving the quality of services. Also, it will strive to offer safe financial products and services clients can rely on by establishing the world’s best ‘integrated risk management system.’ Capital Input Capital Output Basic Strategy Financial Capital Competitive Edge through Specialization of Retail Financial Services Financial Capital Shareholders’ and Investors’ Financial Equity Net Income: KRW 346.9 billion Total Assets: KRW 47.6 trillion Serving the Middle Class and Small-to-Medium Enterprises Dividend: KRW 105.8 billion Human Capital JB Financial Group Interests Paid to Clients: KRW 503 billion JB executives and employees with a vision and a sense of vocation for financial business Corporate Tax: KRW 77.3 billion Number of Executives & Employees: 3,770 *Based on Consolidated Audit Report · Str Number of New Employees Hired: 109 ere eng Midto Long-Term wh the a ny nnels, ni Strategies e, ha k and · Stren gth bus g n Corporate Vision Human Capital Intellectual Capital im ce c wor en in i v ced exp ing e Compensation to Executives and Digitalization of Financial Services & n y eri Short-Term (-2018) iding optima en th ngthening · Prov nc l ser s, stre Employees: KRW 381.1 billion role Investment to IT c Realize reasonable, profitabilityand vi s Investment to Digital Banking : · Ex a p nsion of co nta ces a n ComStre es’ titivenes soundness-oriented growth, change anking plat ctle io p ch e oving custome n an mp impr KRW 13 billion b and innovation as the foundation for a Korea’s Core Engine en ss yt r op for br co nd, long-term growth in Retail Finance proce m, en ser novation Intellectual Capital Natural Capital ss e ss bra cess in Industry h e o Clients Using Digital Payment fic a f pr Financial Services and Infrastructure for ie Key Strategies e, ning Platform SSG (Shinsegae Pay): Digita the ness Mid-Term (-2019) liz The Best Retailng titive Sustainable Environment 65,000 clients at Strengthen competitiveness and offer Oriented Financial Digitalization of Bank Counters: e services that differentiate JB Financial Environment-Friendly Paperless Banks Group from competitors to become Group St Ris rengthening t not only No.1 but the ‘Only One’ LED Lighting Coverage: 100% Natural Capital k Ma n Investment to Environment-Friendly E nageme ra stab ed Paper Usage Reduced by 21% · Businesses: KRW 343.3 billion ted nc e Gr ou eg lish Compared to 2015 p int · Es m d va Long-Term (-2020) ris ent of an a th t as abli k mana m for ic Electricity Consumption for Lighting Social Capital se shm gement sys te d e Become Korea’s core retail financial tm e erio ns Reduced by 50% Compared to 2015 oni nt of a system for p espo engine that offers the best financial Relationships and Interaction with JB torin r services to the middle class and smallFinancial Group’s Stakeholders g and emergency to-medium enterprises Support for 218 EnvironmentJeonbuk Bank Friendly Enterprises More than 10% of Our Net Income Contributed to the Society Kwangju Bank Financial Services for the Common People Social Capital Boosts Local Economies JB Woori Capital Profit Returned to Communities: KRW 22.2 billion Manufactured Capital JB Asset Management Loans for the Common People: JB Financial Group’s Physical KRW 181.1 billion Infrastructure Assets PPCBank Percentage of Supplies Procured and Branches and Corporate Bodies at Home JB Capital Myanmar Purchased from Local Companies: and Abroad: 7 Corporate Bodies & 240 Branches More than 62% 08 09 JB Financial Group CEOs and Presidents of JB Financial Group’s Subsidiaries Jeonbuk Bank Kwangju Bank JB Woori Capital (Established in 1969) (Established in 1968, Acquired by (Established in 1995, Acquired by JB Financial Group in 2014) JB Financial Group in 2013) Striving to become an ‘Enjoyable WorkKwangju Bank has strived with passion JB Woori Capital offers a broad range of place, Strong Bank and the No.1 Local and dedication to become the ‘best reloan and financial services for auto loans, Bank of the 21st Century’, Jeonbuk Bank tail-oriented bank for the middle class and personal credit finance, real estate finance is trying to offer safer and more convenient small-to-medium enterprises.’ Kwangju and corporate finance. financial products and services to its local Bank is currently preparing to embark on clients. Jeonbuk Bank will serve as a loyal a new journey to becoming a ‘100-yearJB Capital Myanmar financial partner that brings success to the old bank’ that is loved and trusted by the (Established in 2017) clients by offering a total finance solution communities. that encompasses friendly financial advice JB Capital Myanmar is JB Woori Capital’s Song, Jong-wook / President and consulting services for any problem or corporate body in Myanmar. Myanmar is concern the clients might be dealing with. one of the fastest growing economies in the world and its small loan market is also Yim, Yong-taick / President expanding within regulations at a remarkable speed. In the midst of this growth, JB Financial Group started its small loan business and we are expecting that JB Capital Myanmar will become JB Financial Group’s new growth engine in near future. Im, Jung-tae / CEO JB Asset Management Phnom Penh Commercial Bank Creating Value (Established in 2008, Acquired by (Established in 2008, Acquired by JB Financial Group in 2014) JB Financial Group in 2016) JB Asset Management is operating reliable Phnom Penh Commercial Bank (PCCBank) investment processes in energy, resource, is a major foreign bank in Cambodia. PPCreal estate, and securities investment with Bank is offering reliable financial products the highest sense of ethics and expertise. and services in Cambodia which has a fast-growing economy to major Korean Kim, Ki-hong / CEO corporations and global corporations from Kwangju Bank Grows with Communities 12 China and Japan. PCCBank is showing a From a Local Bank to a Global Financial Company 14 stable growth and is serving as a bridge for Banks Becoming a Digital Platform 18 JB Financial Group’s entry into Southeast Closer to the People 20 Asian financial markets. Breathing Life into Our Vanishing Cultures 22 Shin, Chang-moo / President 10 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Digitalizing Banks el using its know-hows and experience acquired from Kwangju Bank’s management goal for 2018 is to ‘developerating CRMS. Using this credit assessment model, op competitiveness for the future through changes and Kwangju Bank will develop more efficient and practical innovation’ and it is currently working on digitalizing its medium-interest-rate loan programs to satisfy the finanbanks. Kwangju Bank has continuously enhanced the cial needs and demands of the clients. user interfaces for internet banking and smart banking Taking Initiative in Making warm Communities systems used by rapidly growing number of clients and Better introduced the ‘Branch Digital Transformation (BDT)’ system as a omnichannel solution to allow the clients Kwangju Bank has deep roots in Gwangju and Jeolto access banks’ financial products and services seamlanam-do regions and has grown along with the local lessly and without signing up for smartphone banking. communities. The executives and employees of Kwangju Kwangju Bank’s open banking platform is generating Bank actively participate in ‘Community Love Volunteer new clients through collaborations with various fintech Team’, reaching out to neighbors in need and people livcompanies and by introducing e-form-based Paperless ing in welfare facilities and, giving back more than 10% of Process Reengineering (PPR) system to all branches, the net income every year to the communities. Kwangju Bank was able to take one step closer to its goal Starting a New 50-Year Journey of making all banks paperless and environment-friendly. Kwangju Bank, celebrating its 50-year anniversary, deNo. 1 Local Bank Brand in Korea clared its core brand value as, ‘Everyone’s Bank that Truly In order to establish a client-oriented business system, Knows the Clients and Communities.’ Kwangju Brank will Kwangju Bank periodically measured clients’ evaluations find out exactly what clients’ needs are, deliver optimal on the banks’ product and service delivery processes and solutions, increase client value and grow together with introduced the Net Promoter Score NPS(Net Promotiom the communities. Score) system. Kwangju Bank established a virtuous cycle system to enhance its products and services based on Kwangju Bank History clients’ feedback and is training employees in charge of brand value improvement and client experience for each Nov. 1968. ● Kwangju Bank established branch to offer better client experience. Recognized for Nov. 1975. ● Seoul Branch opened these efforts, Kwangju Bank was awarded with the ‘2017 1960 –1990 Feb. 1986. ● Online business system established Brand Power in Korean Industries’ Award by the Korean Story of Creating Values #1 May. 1995. Signs an agreement to become an official Kwangju Bank Grows ● Management Association Consultants (KMAC), ranking sponsor of Gwangju Biennale No.1 in the local bank category. Nov. 1995. ● Begins operating Kwangju Bank phone banking PC with Communities Sep. 1997. Main branch built and relocated Bank for the Middle Class and Small-to-Medium ● Enterprises Apr. 2001. Credit Risk Management System (CRMS) In Gwangju and Jeollanam-do regions, there are only ● established 50-Year History Achieved Together, 100-Year History to Share few headquarters of major companies and most com2000 Apr. 2008. ● Begins operating 24/7 online system Together. Kwangju Bank, Our Local Bank that Truly Knows panies are small to medium in size. Kwangju Bank set a Jul. 2009. ● Green Financial Management declared the Clients and Communities new vision to become the ‘best retail-oriented bank for Apr. 2009. ● Selected as an ‘Outstanding Gender Equal the middle class and small-to-medium enterprises’ and Employment Company’ Kwangju Bank was established in November, 1968 by the very hands of indusNov. 2009. Selected as an official sponsor of 2012 Yeosu is focused on satisfying the financial needs of the locals ● trial workers, merchants and the locals of Gwangju and Jeollanam-do with Expo and local companies. The president of the bank visits the hope of invigorating the local economy. Over the past 50 years, with the various companies in the regions, hears the voices on communities’ support, Kwangju Bank which has now become a major subApr. 2010. Starts KJB Smart Phone Banking Service the field and tries of offer more timely, relevant and ef● sidiary of JB Financial Bank, evolved into a leading local bank that has outMar. 2012. Starts global ATM service fective financial support to the clients. Cooperating with ● 2010 ~ Nov. 2012. KJB Financial Museum opened standing stability and profitability. local governments, Kwangju Bank supports local compa● Oct. 2014. Acquired by JB Financial Group nies to invigorate the local economies and continuously ● Kwangju Bank is carrying out various commemorative projects for the clients Nov. 2014. ‘Mobile Bank’ trucks introduced provides finance to help small-to-medium merchants ● and locals with its 50th anniversary slogan, ‘50-Year History Achieved TogethNov. 2015. Senior-only, Bitgoeul Health Town Branch and business owners. Kwangju Bank also has been stra● er, 100-Year History to Share Together.’ Preparing for the future changes in the opened financial industry, strengthening financial services provided to the common tegically expanding its medium interest rate credit loan Apr. 2017. ● Organizes Korean painting competition and exhibition, ‘Hwaru’ people, establishing a client-oriented business system, improving corporate programs to win clients in Seoul and the capital area. Apr. 2017. Customer panel ‘Talk-Talk Advisory Group’ social responsibility, strengthening asset management capabilities and twoRecognizing that it is difficult to satisfy all the financial ● launched track approach to sales and planning strategic entry into overseas markets, needs of the middle class with government-backed loans, Nov. 2017. Office opened in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, Kwangju Bank will solidify its vision to becoming a prestigious, ‘100-year-old Kwangju Bank became the first local bank to develop ● China bank’ and write a new history as one of the leading local banks in Korea. CRMS and established a proper credit assessment mod12 13 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Prospects for Cambodian Financial Market Fact check ● Bank Branches(per 1.0 million people) ● Loan to GDP (Branches/%) 93 Cambodia’s High Economic 34 Growth Rate and Financial Potential 10 4 Neighboring Countries Cambodia ● Loan-Deposit Margin ● ROA ● ROE (%) 12.6 6.69 6.0 PPCBank Outstanding 2.57 Profitability 2.1 0.42 JB Financial Group PPCBank ● Credit Increase Rate ● NPL Ratio (%) Story of Creating Values #2 From a Local Bank 61.9 PPCBank 30.7 PPCBank Taking Initiative at Advancing Cambodia’s Financial Services to a Global Financial Competitiveness To evolve into a global financial corporation, JB Financial and Differentiated 2.2 Jeonbuk Bank, working with Apor Financial Group as the first loGroup is working actively on entering the markets in the 0.01 Services cal bank, acquired PPCBank in 2016. PPCBank was established Company Southeast Asian regions which have recently shown rein 2008 with a capital of only $25 million but only a year after markable economic growth. In August 2016, Phnom Penh Average PPCBank being acquired by Jeongbuk Bank, the capital increased to $80 Commercial Bank (PCCBank) in Cambodia became a submillion, making PPCBank 10th largest bank in some 40 banks in sidiary of Jeonbuk Bank and in March of the following year, Cambodia. Currently, PPCBank has 17 branches in Cambodia’s JB Woori Capital acquired the business license for JB Capital major cities including Phnom Penh and Siem Reap with 329 Myanmar. Bridge executives and employees working as members of JB Financial Phnom Penh Commercial Bank (PCCBank) to Entering Group. Southeast Cambodia: Land of Opportunity Asian Markets 7.3 Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in the world with Expected Economic Growth Rate in 2020 (%) the GDP of more than 85% of the total population of 15.20 million at less than $450. But, Cambodia has a large, dynamBusiness Value Social Value ic working force with young people in 20-30s accounting for Entry into Southeast Asian financial Invigoration of local economies of markets Southeast Asian regions more than half of the population and the country is very en7.3 Development and delivery of microfiProduction of financial professionals in thusiastic towards education. Also, after bringing in foreign 4.0 nance services in Southeast Asia Southeast Asian regions Enhanced brand image Introduce and promote advanced capital investments and carrying out various SOC projects 3.6 Development of friendly relationships financial technologies since 2000, the country has been showing an economic with the local stakeholders Introduce and promote the CSR culture growth rate higher than 7% every year since 2010. Korea World Cambodia 14 15 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report INTERVIEW Cambodia is a country with a huge gap between the rich and poor. Most Cambodian people make a living by farming or working in factories with low wages and, many work as construction workers. There are so many people in need of help but majority of companies in Cambodia are not aware of the concept of social contribution. Meanwhile, PPCBank and Korea’s JB Financial Expected Economic Growth Rate of 7.2 Group participate in volunteer activities and are Myanmar in 2020 (%) working together every year to create a health corporate culture. I feel so thankful that a foreign bank like PPCBank is doing so many positive things for Cambodia and I truly am proud to be a part of PPCBank. Phork Phyrom, Staff at PPCBank JB Capital Myanmar, Advanced and Stable Microfinance PPCBank’s remarkably fast growth is based on Jeonbuk Bank’s adService Platform for the Common People of Myanmar vanced financial engineering. Carrying out marketing that differenAfter 62 years of colonial rule under British rule, Myanmar finally became tiates PPCBank from other local banks in Cambodia and introducing independent in 1947 but following a coup d'état in 1962, it became a milidigitalized processes and infrastructure led to a stable growth. PPCtary dictatorship under the Burma Socialist Programme Party. During these Bank signed MOUs with global credit card companies and is actively times, the country’s economy experienced no growth but after entering a promoting credit cards in Cambodia where credit cards are still not fredemocratic era in 2015, the country has been dedicated to bringing politiquently used. Also, recognizing the high, 120% smartphone penetracal development and opening its economy. Myanmar is one of the poorest tion in Cambodia, PPCBank is expanding small-value transfer service countries in the world but is showing a remarkably fast economic growth rate through its partnership with Cambodia’s leading mobile money and reaching almost 8%. It also has great development potentials, having 6 counelectronic payments service provider, Wing. Moreover, PPCBank optries including China, India and Thailand as neighbors. erates Korean, Chinese and Japanese service counters to accommoJB Woori Capital paid attention to the reality in Myanmar where most citidate and provide safe and convenient services to foreign investors and zens are using unsafe private loans. After acquiring business license in March companies in Cambodia. PPCBank will not only advanced Cambodia’s 2017 in Myanmar, JB Woori Capital opened up branches in Yangon, Bago financial services but serve as a bridge for JB Financial Group entry into and Mandalay. Opening more branches in Naypyidaw and Nyaunglebin, JB Southeast Asian financial markets and play a crucial role in transformWoori Capital will focus on taking the opportunities in Southeast Asian miing JB Financial Group into a global financial corporation. crofinance markets. PPCB Spreading CSR Culture in Cambodia JB Capital Myanmar uses the know-hows JB Woori Capital accumulated over Every year, JB Financial Group’s volunteer team and the employees the years in the Korean microfinance market. Unlike any other microfinance of PPCBank carry our medical and educational volunteer activities for companies, JB Capital Myanmar offers loans products that are directly and the extremely poor in Cambodia. PPCBank’s executives and employpositively relevant to improving the quality of life and increasing people’s inees also have a volunteer team of their own that regularly visits welfare come such as loans for agricultural machinery and solar energy generating facilities for homeless children. PPCBank was also greatly welcomed systems. JB Capital Myanmar also fulfills its social responsibilities by improvand appreciated by the Korean community in Cambodia, launching a ing school restrooms, rehabilitating roads to schools and various other social check card that automatically donates a portion monthly payment to contribution activities in regions where its branches are located at. the Korean International School of Phnom Penh experiencing financial difficulties. 16 17 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report 3rd Parties Brand Improvement Open Traditional Client Experience Banking TelecommunicaBanks Business tions Companies/ Fintechs Online Portals Core Banking Business Process System Improvement JB Openbanking Platform Retail Companies New Clients Existing Clients ● Client Inflow through JB Open Banking Platform ● Internalization of Third Royalty Program JB Open Banking Parties’ Customers Platform by Sharing Banking NPS License Story of Creating Values #3 Call Center Banks Becoming a Digital Platform O! so connected bank – JB Financial Group Obank (Open Banking Platform) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=64rHWGj63tg The Changing Financial Services Business well. The know-hows and partnerships acquired through these ments earned from matching investors and lenders to OBP Partner Environment on-going efforts led to the launch of JB Financial Group’s new Bank’s account. The banks meet financial authorities’ requirements INTERVIEW The millennials (people born between 1980s to early 2000), the open banking platform called Obank. Today, people in need by providing loans holding the investments as security. Banks can digital natives who can use mobile systems and social medial of financial services are turning to third parties such as fintech earn transaction fees and clients’ information from this process. In like their second nature, are rising as the primary clients for companies, retailers and social media that are closer to them just 1 year after launching this platform, Jeonbuk Bank was able to banks. The number of online banks targeting these generathan banks are. It can be said that digitalization of financial increase the number of active clients by 2%. tions is growing fast and non-traditional financial services such services is making traditional banks more difficult to retain as e-payment, biometric authentication, P2P loans and crowdand manage the clients. To overcome this, we are planning to mPOS funding are satisfying younger generations’ financial needs. develop partnerships with the third parties that can commuSales records and personal credit information accumulated on These changes have made cooperation between financial nicate more easily with clients who are used to digitalization, mPOS are sent to Obank for analysis and Obank, integrated with companies and fintechs essential and various new models of in providing open banking financial services and ultimately banks’ core banking system, transfers business loans and personal Bank as a Platform (BaaP) which offer combination of fintech prevent losing existing clients and win new clients. With this credit loans. technologies and traditional functions of banks are rapidly solution, JB Financial Group’s banks will be able to increase the Lee, Jae-yong / Managing Director / Retail Group changing the financial services business environment today. opportunity for cross selling financial products and the third Business Strategy Division at JB Financial Group On Obank, JB Financial Group and its banks can offer a variety of parties will also be able to improve their product and service JB Financial Group’s Response to Digitalization financial products (SSL card, transfer, deposit) and offand online JB Financial Group’s Obank is an advanced digital sales by providing our banking services to their clients. channels in which the existing retail clients can purchase these financial platform designed to allow the clients to JB Financial Group has been working very hard to adapt to Obank’s Advantages products. JB Financial Group can also save clients’ activities on access the products and services of fintechs and banks these rapidly changing and emerging digital environments. JB Obank as data and used them in carrying out more relevant marmore conveniently and safely. In the past, the size and Financial Group held fintech competitions to promote fintech Obank allows third-party collaborations through Open API and keting activities. competitiveness of banks were determined by how many industry and to integrate fintech technologies into banking sercan expedite banking processes by modularizing existing probranches the banks have. But today, they depend on how vices, and, reexamined its open banking platform as part of escess through API. Obank can also organize APIs into a package convenient digital financial services are, how safely the tablishing a new strategic direction for the era of digitalization. so that third parties can access financial services more easily Business Value Social Value banks protect clients’ information and how diverse the JB Financial Group designed a new open banking platform takand in more complete form. New financial opportunities Enhanced communication with more provided financial services are. JB Financial Group has ing into account of new digital open financial ecosystems that Expedited digital banking diverse stakeholders deep roots as a local bank but it is striving to become a might emerge and is currently operating the platform stably P2P Model processes Delivery of convenience in onand offline product purchasing global digital financial corporation by adapting quickly Cooperation with fintechs and at Kwangju Bank. Moreover, to develop various open banking Obank is a collaborative platform model that links fintechs and acquisition of more clients Fulfillment of digital financial needs of to today’s rapidly changing digital financial environment. services, JB Financial Group held international heckathons as JB Financial Group’s banks. P2P companies deposit the investthe millennials This grand journey will begin from Obank. 18 19 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Story of Creating Values #4 Closer to the People Expanding Financial Products for the Common People Amount of Support for Microcredit and Youth (Unit: KRW 100 million) 1,811 Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank actively support government policies and banks’ joint projects that are aimed at providing fiIn March 2018, Jeonbuk Bank opened “Heartwarming Financial nancial support to the low-income groups, people with low credit Clinic – Jeonju Center” in Wansan-gu, Jeonju. 1,811 scores and small business owners. The ‘New Hope Seed Loan’, a loan program that allows the clients with low-income and low-cred‘Heartwarming Financial Clinic for Everyone’ it scores to receive funds easily, quickly and with minimum amount 1,238 of documentation is a loan product all banks are jointly providing. ‘Heartwarming Financial Clinic – Jeonju Center is a new kind of financial center that offers professional financial consulting services Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank also offer ‘Sunshine Loan for 594 Youth and University Students’ that are designed to reduce youth’s and solutions to those unfamiliar with financial policies, products or services and therefore experiencing difficulties in bank transacand university students’ financial burden and help them achieve tions and credit management. The Clinic offers personalized loan financial independence. Over the past 3 years, Jeonbuk Bank and consulting services tailored to each client to prevent clients from Kwangju Bank have supported a total of KRW 364.3 billion through 2015 2016 2017 a variety of loan programs for the middle-class and youth. getting loans at extremely high interest rates from non-banking financial institutions or lending firms because of exaggerated advertisements or deceptive information, even when they are fully Proportion of Microcredit to Assets (Unit: %) 0.611 eligible to receive loans from proper banks. Also, even if the clients are using loans with a high interest rate from non-banking financial institutions because their credit scores are low, if the clients Heartwarming Financial Story show the potential and sufficient willingness to repay, the Clinic 0.611 offers a loan conversion service by taking over the clients’ loan and 0.411 offering them a loan with a lower, medium interest rate. Ahn, So-yeon / Nurse’s Aide / Jeonju 0.207 Ms. Ahn So-yeon wanted to get a loan from a banking fiOffering Differentiated and Personalized Financial nancial institution but with her tier 6 credit score, most Services of the banking financial institutions refused to give her a Heartwarming Financial Clinic offers services that completely difloan. Ms. Ahn who is the head of the household needed ferentiate itself from existing bank branches. Taking into considto move so she had no other choice but to get a loan with eration that clients with a low credit score and who are too busy a 20% interest rate from a non-banking financial institu2015 2016 2017 make a living aren’t always able to visit the bank and get services tion. She borrowed KRW 10 million and had to repay a during the business hours, the Clinic introduced a reserved conmonthly interest of KRW 165,000 and the principal but sultation policy and is providing maximum convenience to its cliNumber of Beneficiaries of Microcredit after paying all her living expenses, she was barely able ents by running extended business hours, operating until 7pm on (Unit: number of loan account) 18,745 to repay the monthly interests and none of her princiweekdays and 4pm on Saturdays. pal has been repaid. But, one day, she heard about the The Clinic helps clients get out of debts and all their financial diffiopening of Jeonbuk Bank’s Heartwarming Financial culties as quickly as possible by providing personalized debt manClinic from her acquaintance and was able to receive full 18,745 support for the repayment fee, a refinancing loan with a agement services for each client. The Clinic not only offers new but provides consulting service and solutions on loans in general inmedium interest rate and eventually, repay all her intercluding loan refinancing and debt consolidation and also suggests ests and principal. 11,617 loan products with medium interest rates to clients who are eligi10,637 ble to get loans from banking financial institutions after carefully Business Value Social Value reviewing and assessing their credit to help clients improve their Accumulation of competitive and Increased access to financial services for original financial services the financially disadvantaged credit scores. Ref.: New Jeonbuk Newspaper (http://www.sjbnews.com) Increased share in the middle interest Increased opportunity to recover rate loan market financially and credit score for the Heartwarming Financial Clinic first started with Jeonbuk Bank but 2015 2016 2017 Increased clients’ trust through clients with low credit scores more Heartwarming Financial Clinics will be established under all personalized client management Financial support for common people’s economic activities of the subsidiaries of JB Financial Group so that clients can safely Establishment of a brand image as a retail-specializing financial company Financial support for the socially and conveniently access a variety of services and products by JB disadvantaged groups Woori Capital, JB Asset Management and other JB banks. 20 21 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Story of Creating Values #5 Breathing Life into Our Vanishing The name Hwaru comes from ‘Hwaeru’, an artistic gathering and Cultures competition organized by the disciples of Kim Jeong-hui who was one of the most celebrated practitioners of calligraphy, epigraphists, and scholars of Korea’s later Joseon period. Hwaru Kwangju Bank has been holding a Korean painting competition titled ‘Hwaru’ since 2017 to support artists and their activities that can not only offer new visions for Korean painting but contribute to preserving and developing traditional Korean painting. Artists can submit any type of work under the theme of Korean painting and the winning entries are exhibited to the public. JB Financial Group CEO, Kim Han explained the meaning and purpose of Hwaru by saying, “Since the old days, Gwangju had been known as the home of culture and arts and painting was a very important culture in the region. But, in these times of declining interest in and support for Korean painting, I believe we need a long-term support program exclusively for Korean painting.” INTERVIEW Korean painting is not forgotten. Europe’s modernization began in the 18th century and it also modernized the Western painting around that time but Korean painting already existed way before that, as early as the 3rd century and I believe that Gwangju Hwaru will bring back that beautiful and prestigious Jeollanam-do, or South Jeolla Province is home to many colorful culhistory and culture of Korean painting to this tures and arts. There is an old Korean saying, ‘Music in Buk-do (North modern world of ours. Us artists who are Jeolla Province), Painting and Writing in Nam-do (South Jeolla Provstudying and pursuing Korean painting are ince)’ that even shows how renowned Jeollanam-do were nationwide. sincerely thankful for the opportunities and After industrialization, the declining interest in our traditional cultures motivation that allow us to move forward is threatening the existence of our cultural ecosystem but JB Financial with our creative activities. Group is dedicated to preserving and passing on our precious tradiLee, Ho-eok / tional culture and arts. Grand Prize Winner of 2017 Competition Grand Prize Winner of 2017 / Lee, Ho-eok / Time, the Moving Things and Living Things 22 23 JB Financial Group Jeonju International Sori Festival Jeonju International Sori Festival has been annually since 2001, inviting music from all over the world. In 2017, 165 teams from 28 countries participated in the Festival and the festival was selected as one of the top 25 Best International Festivals by the prestigious British magazine Songlines for the 4th consecutive time. JB Financial Group CEO, Kim Han has been working to contribute to the success of the festival, as the president of the festival Sustainable organizing committee since the 10th Jeonju International Sori Festival held in 2010. Management System Muju World Taekwondo Championships The 2017 World Taekwondo Championships was held at Taekwondowon (Temple of Taekwondo) located in Muju, Jeollabuk-do with teams participating from 183 countries. JB Financial Group sponsored the event to support preservation of Korea’s traditional martial arts and boost pride of 80 million Taekwondo Principles of Corporate Social Responsibility 26 practitioners around the world. Sustainable Management Strategy 28 Risk Management 30 Ethical Management 32 Business Value Social Value Governance 34 Growth of Korean tourism Visions for Korean painting Communication with Stakeholders 36 industry Globalization of traditional Korean Invigoration of local economies music Sustainability Management Material Issues 38 Preservation of traditional Korean JB Financial Group & UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 40 martial arts 24 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Principles of Corporate Social Responsibility As a corporate citizen, JB Financial Group generates both economic and social values. JB Financial Group Corporate Social Responsibility Committee JB Financial Group strives to earn trust and satisfy all of its stakeholders including its clients, shareholders, JB Financial Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSR Committee) is operated by the CEO of the Group and investors, executives and employees, the government, local autonomous bodies, communities, NGOs, the representatives of the Group’s subsidiaries with the CEO of the Group as the chairman. The CSR Committee deliberates partners and the environment. (Resolved by the Board of Directors of JB Financial Group) key topics and policies related to CSR and suggests the direction of the Group’s CSR. It also makes decisions on important matters such as setting goals for sustainable management, evaluation of performance in sustainable management, publishing and assurance of sustainability reports. In order to develop and promote collective knowledge in economic, environmental and social topics, the CSR Committee appoints outside experts as advisory members and holds advisory 1 Governance JB Financial Group has established and is operating a sound governance structure that helps the Group to fulfill its social responsibilities. This means that JB Financial Group sessions and lectures during committee meetings. The key matters decided on the CSR Committee are reported to the integrates and operates its principles of economic, legal, ethical, social and environboards of directors of JB Financial Group and its subsidiaries. mental management in making and executing all the decisions related to the Group’s management. CSR Committee CEOs of JB Financial 주주총회 Group and 2 its Subsidiaries Human Rights JB Financial Group has respect for all human rights. This means that JB Financial Group Management shall never violate individuals’ rights for any reason. JB Financial Group shall respect and CSR Working Group fulfill its human rights responsibilities based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). Working-Level Personnel at JB Financial Group’s CSR Team JB Financial Group and its Subsidiaries 주주총회 Secretary of the Committee, WorkingLevel Personnel at JB Financial Group 3 Labor Rights JB Financial Group shall guarantee the rights of its workers and employees. This means that JB Financial Group shall provide a safe and pleasant working environment, reasonable compensation and welfare policies to guarantee and improve all workers’ and Jeonbuk Bank Kwangju Bank JB Woori Capital JB Asset Management employees’ most fundamental right to pursue happiness and, respect their freedom of Management Planning Team Management Planning Team Management Planning Team Management Planning Team association and right to collective bargaining to improve their interests and rights. JB FiCSR Personnel CSR Personnel CSR Personnel CSR Personnel nancial Group shall also comply with the International Labour Standards set by the International Labour Organization (ILO). The CSR Working Group is established under the CSR Committee and it is comprised of the Group’s CSR Team and working-level personnel from JB subsidiaries’ departments related to areas of sustainable management such as management Environmental Management 4 JB Financial Group shall practice environmental management. This means that JB Financial Group shall recognize the importance of the nature of our one and only Earth and planning, management support, human resources, legal compliance, client management, product development and social contribution. The CSR Working Group meets twice a year to determine and assess risks and opportunities in terms apply the concept of improvement, protection and preservation of natural environment in all areas of corporate management. of sustainable management as well as changes in management environment, social aspect, environmental aspect and governance and, provide appropriate support in sustainable management practices. The CSR Working Group shares the performance of the Group and its subsidiaries and discusses about generating synergistic effect for sustainable manage5 Fair Trade JB Financial Group practices fair trade. This means that JB Financial Group shall ensure ment through cooperation and collaboration between subsidiaries. fair competition, equivalence and ethical trade between trading parties according to free market principles. CSR Committee CSR Working Group JB Financial Group’s · Chairman: Group’s CEO ·C hairman: Chief of Management Support 6 JB Financial Group protects the rights and interests of consumers and clients. This means Sustainable ·M embers: CEOs of Group’s Subsidiaries Division of JB Financial Group Consumer and Management ·M embers: Working-level personnel in charge of Client Protection that JB Financial Group shall provide its consumers and clients accurate and fair informa·R oles: Monitoring of changes Execution in sustainable management management planning, management support, tion, enter into fair contracts, provide safe business environment, protect their informaStructure environment / Formulation of policies human resources, training, client support, tion, hear and solve their complaints in regards to all products and services its provides. and developmental direction for social contributions from JB Financial Group’s sustainable management / Formulation subsidiaries of sustainable management goals, · Secretary: JB Financial Group’s CSR Team 7 evaluation of performance, approval ·R oles: Monitoring of changes in sustainable Contribution to JB Financial Group contributes to the communities. This means that JB Financial Group of project plans management environment / Formulation of the Development shall use a variety of its resources including its profit and management activities for solvof Communities ·R eporting: Boards of directors of FB working-level sustainable management project ing communities’ issues and for developing the communities. Financial Group and its subsidiaries plans and performance sharing / Coordination (regularly once a year and whenever of cooperation and collaboration in sustainable necessary) management between the subsidiaries ·R eporting: CSR Committee (regularly twice a year and whenever necessary) 26 27 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainable Management Strategy The Three Principles of Sustainable Management Sustainable Happy Sustainable Growth with the People [ Sound Finance ] Management Vision The stakeholders’ trust is the backbone of JB Financial Group’s sustainable growth. The board of directors, executives and employees of JB Financial Group understand that the clients and stakeholders are always watching them and will thor( Heartwarming and Trustworthy JB Financial Group ) oughly practice ethical and law-abiding management in the field and throughout all decision-making processes. ▶ [ Happy Finance ] JB Financial Group wishes to make all of its clients and stakeholders happier through sustainable management. JB Financial Group will provide the safest financial services to the clients who are the most important stakeholders and a happier The Three Principles working environment to its executives and employees. JB Financial Group will carry out sustainable management practicof Sustainable 01 02 03 Management es and hear the voices of various stakeholders to make everyone happy. Sound Finance Happy Finance Value Finance [ Value Finance ] JB Financial Group endeavors to carry out sustainable management practices creating shared values and improving non-financial values like social and environmental values. that create shared values. Expanding financial products and services tailored to the common people, expanding employment and job creation for the youth, returning corporate profits to communities and active social contribute activities will strengthen the economic foundation of the communities and ▶ enhance the stability of Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank. JB Financial Group’s entry into Southeast Asian markets such Sustainable · Strengthen social responsibility and ethics of the corporate governance Management Goals through operation of the CSR Committee as Cambodia and Myanmar will offer these countries which have the poorest economies in the world, an opportunity to for Three Areas Governance · Promote CSR in working environment by operating the CSR Working Group develop the economy and communities. · Improve reliability of the executive and employees by innovating the corporate culture Sustainable Management Development Plan · Expand microfinance products and services that common people can safely [ Short-Term (2018) ] and conveniently use · Expand youth job creation and employment to stabilize local economies Marking year 2018 as the starting year of sustainable management, JB Financial Group will establish the foundation of susSociety and solve youth unemployment tainable management by setting up ‘Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSR Committee) and ‘Corporate Social · Contribute to the qualitative improvement of local welfare services by Responsibility Working Group (CSR Working Group)’, establishing the ‘Principles of CSR’, publishing ‘Sustainability Report’, giving back corporate profits to communities and participating in social contribution activities carrying out an outside evaluation on its CSR, introducing global guidelines on sustainable management and establishing a system for practicing sustainable management and CSR. · Practice sustainable, environment-friendly management by saving [ Mid-Term (2019) ] resources like paper, electricity, fossil fuel and water · Expand financial partnership with sustainable businesses like environmentTo make sure sustainable management and CSR practices are carried out in the actual field, JB Financial Group will Environment friendly, new & renewable energy and energy efficiency businesses strengthen and expand training on sustainable management and CSR for its executives and employees and, ensure that · Actively carry out environment-friendly social contribution activities for goals related to sustainable management are applied to performance goals in all departments and branches. protecting and conserving natural environment [ Long-Term (2020) ] By benchmarking the sustainable management practices of the world top retail financial corporations, JB Financial Group will strive to realize world-class sustainable management and CSR as quickly as possible. Also, by doing so, JB Financial •E  stablish a system for practicing sustainable management and Sustainable Short-Term (2018) CSR management Group will realize its sustainable management vision of achieving a ‘happy, sustainable growth with the common people.’ Management • Establishment of the foundation for sustainable management Development Plan •P  ractice sustainable management and CSR management Mid-Term (2019) in the field • Realization of field-centered sustainable management practices •R  ealize a level of sustainable management that can be expected Long-Term (2020) from top global retail financial corporations • Realization of retail finance-centered sustainable management 28 29 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Risk Management JB Financial Group earns trust from all of its stakeholders by preemptively determining and preventing Key Resolutions of the Risk Management Committee in 2017 financial and non-financial risks in economy, society and environment, and, managing the risks No. Date Resolutions in terms of internal decision-making and operations through its systems and policies. 1 Feb 21 Comprehensive review and report of the Group’s risk management Report on the Group’s internal capital adequacy assessment in 2016 2 May 12 Inspection of risks factors in issuing convertible preferred shares during JB Woori Capital’s recapitalization and, during the dividend settlement and terminal dividend settlement processes according to the contracts between SPC, JB Financial Group Business Model and Characteristics of Risks and the subsidiaries of JB Financial Group JB Financial Group generates revenue through a variety of transactions with risks and all of its business activities are ex3 Aug 04 Inspection of the state of Group’s risk management: Compliance in terms of maintaining acceptable limit and regulation rate Decisions on resolutions from the risk management committee of Group and its subsidiaries ecuted taking consideration of the predetermined risk appetite and the balance of risks and benefits. JB Financial Group 4 Sep 14 Project on developing Group’s internal credit risk rating system, development of Group’s integrated risk management model manages potential risks in all areas by categorizing them into Credit, Market, Operations, Interest Rate, Credit Concentra5 Nov 03 Establishing a system for preventing risk spreading among Group’s subsidiaries and including the system in the work regulations tion, Liquidity, Strategic, Reputation and Foreign Exchange. Each type of risk is managed by the ratios of internal capital 6 Nov 23 JB Financial Group’s risk management status and improvement plan, global risk management regulations and plans for adoptadequacy (risk-weighted capital) and regulatory capital adequacy required by the financial regulator, making sure that ing global regulations certain risks are not heavily concentrated within the risk appetite. Basic risk management policy, core objectives and strategic tasks for 2018 Risk Management System Risk Management Committee JB has a systemized risk management system for supervision of risk management, assignment of rights, risk segmentation The Risk Management Committee deliberates detailed matters related to risk management to maintain consistent risk by type of risk and by business and decision-making structure (Board of Directors, Management Team, Risk Management management policies and strategies. Its key roles include setting risk limits by department and by business for the Group’s Committee, Risk Management Structure, Compliance, Internal Audit) for risk management procedures. overall risk management, approval for exceeding limits, matters related to measuring and managing risks, matters to related to risk factors such as starting new businesses, developing new products and services and, establishment/revision of risk management guidelines. Board of Directors Risk Management Working Group The Risk Management Working Group reviews and provides opinions on risks of important decisions to make regarding risk Management Team Risk Management Committee Audit Committee capital and limits in order to evaluate the risks for the Group and establish a proper risk management system. Its specific roles include comprehensive management of risks, review of risk management carried out by the subsidiaries, inspection Risk Management Working Group of adequacy of risk measurement models, establishment of the Group’s emergency response system and review of corporate M&A. Risk Management Working Group Risk Management Culture and Communication Channel Report Report Report Subsidiaries Risk Management Headquarters Inspection Department JB Financial Group has a culture of effectively recognizing, measuring, controlling and managing important risk issues it is (Policy/Process Execution) Inspection (Risk Management Department) Inspection (Independent Third-Party) faced with and incorporating the feedbacks in its decision-making process. This culture allows the risk management bodies Inspection Report to communicate and cooperate with each very closely. The Risk Management Group is comprised of the risk management supervisor from the Group and its subsidiaries and, risk management managers from the Group and its banks. Whenever Subsidiaries risk issues occur, they are submitted for discussion and are resolved reflecting the opinions of the subsidiaries. Risk Management Division Risk Management Process Risk Management ▶ Subsidiaries ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Control Body ▶ Bodies Determine and analyze the location and probability of all types of Risk Recognition risks that can occur in all areas of business management ▶ Risk Management Committee ▶ Risk Measuring and Determine measuring methods by risk type, measure the risks and The Risk Management Committee established under the board of directors is the highest decision-making body of JB Fiassess responses to the risks Assessment nancial Group’s for risk management and is comprised of more than 3 directors. It comprehensively manages and controls Continuous various risks that may occur in management by measuring, monitoring and controlling potential risks. It’s detailed roles ▶ Cycle Determine the limits to risks according to the type and level of risks and include formulation of basic principles and strategies of risk management that are in line with the management strategy Risk Control and carry out daily, monthly, quarterly risk management activities Management of the Group, determining the level of risks the Group can afford, determining the Group’s investment and acceptable loss (risk avoidance, risk reduction, risk level maintenance) limits, setting the Group’s limits to total risk capital and limits by profile, establishment and revision of the Group’s risk ▶ management regulations (risk management standards) as well as establishment and revision of risk management group Risk Monitoring and Continuously monitor the level of risks and establish the channel, Reporting content and cycle of reporting to respond effectively to risk situations regulations. 30 31 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Ethical Management JB Financial Group practices ethical management so that its stakeholders can understand and Regulations and Guidelines Related to Law Compliance and Ethical Management see JB Financial Group’s operations transparently. JB Financial Group operates compliance officers to manage general internal control, law compliance and ethical management of the Group and its subsidiaries. JB Financial Group also has established and applies regulations and guidelines Financial Group’s Principles of Ethical Management that are essential for law compliance and ethical management in everyday business environment. In October 2017, the Act on the Corporate Governance of Financial Companies came into effect and JB Financial Group reviewed all of its releJB Financial Group shares its principles of ethical management through「The Code of Ethics and Conduct for the Execvant regulations and systems so that the Group and its subsidiaries can effectively comply with laws and practice ethical utives and Employees」 . management through consistent policies and methods. JB Financial Group also carried out executives’ and employees’ ethics training and prepared internal ethics guidelines according to the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act which came 1. We shall always think and behave from the clients’ point of view. into effect in November 2016. We shall always think from the clients’ point of view, serve them with a sincere heart and strive to offer them greater happiness. 1 [ Internal Control Regulations ] JB Financial Group has established and is operating ‘Internal Control Regulations’ which provide standards and pro2. We shall contribute to the growth of local economies as a member of the community. cedures all of its executive and employees must comply with to protect the rights and interests of shareholders and stakeholders, ensure sound management and comply with the laws according to the Act on the Corporate Governance As a financial institution playing a pivotal in the local finance industry, we shall strive to offer the best financial services of Financial Companies. to the locals and contribute to the growth of local economies. Also, we shall give back our profits to the communities to improve the quality of social welfare environment and actively carry our social contribution activities to bring a good life to the locals. 2 [ Guidelines for the Prevention of Unsound Business Practices ] The purpose of these guidelines is protect the rights and interests of the clients and stakeholders and improve the reliability of the Group by preventing unsound business practices according to the Act on the Corporate Governance of Financial Companies and Banking Act. 3. We shall respect the opinions of all our shareholders and try our utmost to maximize shareholder value. We shall open our ears to the voices of our shareholders and strive to achieve both asset soundness and maximum 3 [ Guidelines for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in Financial Investment ] profits by practicing rational management that pursues internal stability. These guidelines provide the standards and processes JB Financial Group’s executives and employees must comply with in terms of managing conflicts of interest according to the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act. 4. We shall respect the freedom and creativity of individual executives and employees and strive to improve the 4 [ Guidelines for the Implementation of the Whistleblower Policy ] Aimed at promoting the whistleblower policy, protecting the stakeholders from financial incidents by minimizing the quality of their lives. losses, these guidelines provide guidance on implementing the whistleblower policy and protecting the rights and conUnderstanding that our future depends on how we respect and value our people, we shall provide a workplace that fidentiality of the whistleblowers. allows them to freely demonstrate and expand their abilities. Also, by providing fair treatment, just compensation and the best benefits, we shall create a reliable workplace that can improve the quality of life of the executives and employees’ 5 [ Guidelines for the Financial Transactions of the Executives and Employees ] The purpose of these guidelines is to provide the executives and employees with guidance on practices, laws and interfamilies. nal regulations for the code of conduct and ethics required in carrying out financial transactions and to strengthen the their ethical and law-abiding spirits. 5. We shall establish an exemplary model of financial professionals through diligence and upright life. 6 [ Guidelines for the Inspection of Duties ] JB Financial Group has established and implements these guidelines to collect and inspect information about the exBeing aware that we, financial professionals, are expected to follow the highest ethical and professional standards by the ecutives’ and employees’ performance in carrying out their duties, financial corruption and incidents for the purpose society, we shall behave as sensible financial professionals and abide the laws conducting all businesses. of improving corporate ethics and productivity. 7 [ Guidelines for the Prevention of Sexual Harassment ] JB Financial Group implements these guidelines to effectively prevent sexual harassment in workplaces among all Executives’ and Employees’ Ethical Management Training & Ethical Compliance Pledge stakeholders including the executives, employees and clients according to the Act on Equal Employment and Support JB Financial Group carries out mandatory legal compliance and ethical management training programs for all positions for Work-Family Reconciliation and laws related to sexual harassment. 8 and ranks including new employees, promoted employees and department supervisors and positions and ranks and, [ Guidelines for the Prevention of Financial Incidents ] requires the executives and employees to sign the ethical compliance pledge every year. JB Financial Group also sends The purpose of these guidelines is to protect the stakeholders including the clients, executive and employees and prea self-assessment checklist on law compliance and ethical management to all the executive and employees via email to vent the Group’s losses from financial incident that may occur from various internal and external factors. allows them the opportunity to look back on their compliance to the laws and ethical management practices. Also, by designating an ethical management supervisor in all the departments and branches, we carry out ethical management training and consultations so that the members of JB Financial Group can become well aware of recent issues/topics Customer and Internal Complaints (Whistleblower) Policy regarding law compliance and ethical management. JB Financial Group also promotes the importance of law compliance and ethical management by mandatorily requires all employees to take online training on law compliance and ethical Across all of its subsidiaries, JB Financial Group has set up a variety of onand offline channels through which the clients, management once a year. executives and employees can anonymously report when they become aware of illegal or unethical conduct by the Group, its subsidiaries, executive and employees. The complaints are received 24/7 via phone, email, mail and online. 32 33 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Governance JB Financial Group strives to ensure continuous growth and investors’ rights, satisfy the clients Board of Directors and its Committees with transparent governance structure and system and, to realize socially responsible management. Category Major Roles Composition (Outside Chairman Regulations The governance structure we have enhances our expertise, soundness, ethics and transparency. Directors/Total) Checks and balances among the members maintain a stable governance structure and the members’ Board of Directors Important decision-making for corporate 5/9 Kim, Han Steering Committee management (Executive Director) Regulations expertise brings an efficient governance for our operations. Also, public disclosure of the standard Steering Committee Deliberation and decision-making on matters 4/5 Kim, Han Steering Committee work processes and results helps us to maintain a transparent governance structure. related to corporate governance (Executive Director) Regulations Management Selection and recommendation of executive 4/7 Choi, Jeong-soo Management RecommendaRecommendation Committee candidates (Outside Director) tion Committee Regulations Governance Structure and Status Audit Committee Oversight of accounting & operations 3/3 Kang, Hyo-seok Audit Committee Regulations With the Shareholders’ General Meeting at the top, there is the board of directors and 5 committees under the board. Our (Outside Director) board of directors is comprised of a total of 9 directors including 1 CEO, 4 non-executive directors and 5 outside directors. Risk Management Committee Formulation and approval of Formulation of 3/5 Lee, Yong-shin Risk Management Committee basic policies and strategies for risk management (Outside Director) Regulations To prevent and manage conflicts of interests, the CEO serves as the chairman of the board. Also, we require that outside Compensation Committee Formulation and evaluation of performance 3/5 Lee, Yong-shin Compensation Committee directors comprise a majority of the board to ensure the independence, soundness and transparency of the board. Outside goals for the management (Outside Director) Regulations directors are appointed at the Shareholders’ General Meeting after the Management Recommendation Committee carries out verification and recommendation according to the Act on the Corporate Governance of Financial Companies. The canMajor Resolutions in 2017 didates recommended for outside directors must meet the eligibility criteria set by the Act on the Corporate Governance of Session Date No. of Attendees Resolution Financial Companies and have sufficient professional knowledge and experience in their fields such as banking, economy, 1 Jan 25 9 Plan for succession of management of the Group’s manager business administration, law, finance, accounting, consumer protection and information technology. 2 Feb 10 9 Comprehensive evaluation of management performance in 2016, purchasing of treasury stock, etc. (6 resolutions) 3 Feb 24 9 Evaluation report on executive performance in 2016, Shareholders’ General Meeting, agenda brought up, etc. (7 resolutions) 4 Mar 24 9 Internal standards for the governance structure, revisions to important regulations, etc. (4 resolutions) Shareholders’ General Meeting 5 May 12 9 Exercising preemptive rights to convertible preferred shares of JB Woori Capital (2 resolutions) Board주주총회 of Directors 6 Aug 4 8 Changes to brand use agreement, etc. (3 resolutions) CEO 주주총회 7 Nov 3 9 Plan for implementing an internal credit risk grading system for the group, etc. (2 resolutions) 8 Dec 12 8 Comprehensive operations plan and mid-to-long term management plan for 2018, etc. (7 resolutions) Steering Management Risk Management Compensation Committee Recommendation Audit Committee Committee Committee 5 Directors Committee 5 Directors 5 Directors 5 Directors Evaluation and Compensation of the Board of Directors 7 Directors Board evaluation is conducted periodically. It also ensures that appropriately as the primary body making important decisions and proAudit Division Risk Management Strategy & Planning Executive Board Secretariat Division Department viding checks and balances to the top management. Board evaluation is conducted annually in February for the period from the point 4 Persons 2 Persons 2 Persons 2 Persons the board of directors is formulated to January of the following year, on areas including composition and operations of the board, rights and responsibilities of the board, board convening procedures and method for exercising voting rights. The Steering Committee carries out the evaluation and reports the results to the board of directors and at the Shareholders’ General Meeting. Also, individual outside Composition of the Board of Directors directors are evaluated every year with qualitative evaluations which include self-evaluation, board’s evaluation and executives’ and emJB Financial Group’s board of directors holds general and extraordinary meetings. The resolutions are passed by a majorployees’ evaluation as well as a quantitative evaluation on the rate of outside directors’ attendance at the board and committee meetings. ity of votes. To ensure sound and objective decision-making, the board is also guided by independently operating Board Compensation for the directors is reviewed and approved by the Compensation Committee within the amount approved at the ShareOperations Committee, Management Recommendation Committee, Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee and holders’ General Meeting and the compensation system is designed to be operated for the Group’s sustainable growth. At the second Compensation Committee. meeting of the Compensation Committee held in February, 2016, the ‘2016 Executive Performance Evaluation Results’ was deliberated. Also, at this meeting, the feasibility of the percentage of variable compensation in the total compensation of the top management, avClassification Name Position Note. erage deferral period of variable compensation and methods for the payment of variable compensation was deliberated in depth based Kim, Han CEO & Chairman of the Board CEO & Chairman of JB Financial Group / Former President of Kwangju of Directors Bank & Jeongbuk Bank on the Act on the Corporate Governance of Financial Companies and, it was decided that the ratio between variable mid-to-long-term Kim, Dae-gon Former Chairman of Donghak Peasant Revolution Foundation / Former performance-based incentives and fixed base pay for the top management be 50 to 50. The shortand long-term incentives are paid Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister, Former Governor for Political Affairs according to the performance evaluation results with 50%-62.5% of the short-term incentives in cash and 37.5%-50% in shares over a of Jeollabuk-do Outside Director Choi, Jeong-soo Chairman of Management Senior Partner at Sejul / Former Attorney at Kim & Chang 3-year deferral period, taking into account of the stock price. The long-term incentives shall be 20% of the fixed base pay and paid in Recommendation Committee shares after 3 years, taking into account of the stock price. In 2017, the amount of compensation for the highest paid was 3.9 times the Outside Director Lee, Yong-shin Chairman of Risk Former Compliance Officer & Director of Risk Management Division at Management Committee Korea Investment Corporation / Former Director of Foreign Currency median pay of the executives and employees and, the annual pay increased 2.3% year on year. The average term of the directors of the Bureau at Bank of Korea board was 3.6 years. Outside Director Lee, Jong-hwa Chairman of Compensation Professor of International Management at Korea Nazarene University / Vice Committee Director of Korea Foreign Exchange Research Institute Outside Director Kang, Hyo-seok Chairman of Audit Committee Professor of Business Administration at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies Ownership Structure Non-Executive Director Yun, Jae-yeop Vice President of Samyang Holdings As of the end of 2017, the total number of shares issued by JB Financial Group was 155,439,423 shares. Samyang Corporation was the Non-Executive Director Ahn, Sang-gyun Managing Partner at Anchor Equity Partners (Asia) Non-Executive Director Yim, Yong-taick President of Jeonbuk Bank President of Jeonbuk Bank / Former CEO & President of JB Woori Capital largest shareholder holding 9.01% of the shares and the largest foreign shareholder was JUBILEE ASIA B.V holding 8.72% of the shares. 34 35 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Communication with Stakeholders JB Financial Group endeavors to communicate effectively and sincerely with the stakeholders and Stakeholder Survey incorporate their feedback into corporate management. JB Financial Group will continue to develop the To assess the importance of the ‘Trend Issues’ that influence JB Financial Group, ‘Impact Issues’ that influence outside virtuous cycle of communication using a variety of channels including this sustainability report. and the core and internal ‘R&C (Resources & Capabilities) Issues’ JB Financial Group must strengthen, we conducted a stakeholder’s survey and 1,006 people have responded to the survey. Recognition of Stakeholders According to the processes and standards for the ‘recognition and engagement of stakeholders’ set in the AA1000, GRI StanClassification Stakeholders Number of Respondents Response rate (%) dard and ISO 26000, JB Financial Group has defined the scope stakeholders and organized them into groups by the degree Internal Executives & Employees 825 82.01 of their responsibility, influence, proximity, dependability and representativeness. Also, to communicate with stakeholder Stakeholders Temporary Employees & Intern 124 12.33 more systematically, JB Financial Group has selected material issues with the stakeholders. External Individual Clients 22 2.19 Stakeholders Corporate Clients 7 0.70 Mapping Grouping 3 0.30 Communities Partner Companies 16 1.59 Environmental Public Sector 4 0.40 When JB Financial Group Strategic is legally, financially or Media 2 0.20 Government, Core operationally responsible local autonomous bodies, subsidiaries ▶ Stakeholders that Labor Partners Stakeholders influenced by JB Stakeholders’ Expectations unions Core Stakeholders influence JB Financial Clients Shareholders Financial Group’s We received valuable feedback on what JB Financial Group should do to improve its sustainable management by asking Group’s performance operations – Essential for survival Employees the stakeholders to freely give their opinions in the survey’s comment box. JB Financial Group will continue to hear its Strategic Stakeholders communities – Essential for solving specific problems stakeholders’ opinions and expectations and incorporate them its overall corporate management. Research Disadvantaged institutes groups, NPOs, Environmental Stakeholders (business-related), temporary media employees, interns – Stakeholders Other Than Core and Strategic Stakeholders Classification Opinions Investors · I believe that JB Financial Group will continue to provide sound financial services and carry out social contribution activities and make the locals believe that the Group will always be by their side. Communication Channels between Key Stakeholders Executives & · I hope to see JB Financial Group collaborate with the public sector, local governments and organization in Employees developing financial products for the socially vulnerable groups. JB Financial Group operates communication channels its can use to discuss economic, environmental and overall social · Our love for the Group will greatly motivate us to fulfill our responsibilities. Issues with its key stakeholders and is working hard to develop more diverse communication channels such as online · I hope we can quickly development and adopt advanced systems and environment that allow the employees -based channels. to do business more conveniently. Interns · I hope to see more new opportunities for the temporary employees. · I hope to see more ads and promotions for those future clients who do not know what kind of company Executives & Employees Shareholders & Investors JB Financial Group is. Communication programs, intranet, Websites, boards of directors, sharelabor-management councils, collective holders’ general meeting, international Clients · I feel like JB Financial Group needs to increase sustainable access to community and social contribution bargaining, briefings and meetings conferences, IR programs. with subsidiaries · I feel like JB Financial Group needs to take a new approach to improving customer convenience and financial security instead of sticking with conventional methods of financial transactions. Financial supervisory authority Business Partners IR Report, disclosure, homepage Communities · JB Financial Group needs to benchmark global financial institutions that are growing locally and practice CSR Communication more systematically as a group. Websites (online contact office) periodical meetings with partners Channels · JB Financial Group’s executives and employees need to take initiative and expand the diversity of channels to promote the important roles and contribution of JB Financial Group and its local banks in providing financial Customers support for the communities’ development. Communities Websites, customer support centers, · I hope to see JB Financial Group continues to share and contribute to the communities. Websites, executives’ and employees’ customer satisfaction surveys, customer local volunteer groups, social contribution experience groups, social media, financial activity reports, university student consumer protection education, leaders’ ambassadors, social media forums (VIP customers) 36 37 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Material Issues We have selected important topics related to the sustainable management context based on the Results on the Selected Material Issues materiality test standards specified in the GRI Standards and we have used them as our base data for our We developed an matrix with the ‘IMPACT ISSUES’ JB Financial Group’s business activities make externally and set up sustainability report. reporting boundaries. We the based on stakeholders’’ interest and the importance to business. Procedure for Selecting Important Topics We have selected material issues related to the sustainable management context by comprehensively reviewing GRI StanMateriality Test Results (Unit: Score) dard, ISO 26000, media analysis, benchmarking and environmental analysis and, assessed the materiality of those Issues 4.7 ● ❶ by incorporating them into our online survey. Importance to Stakeholders ▶ ● ❷ ❸ ● ● ❺ ❹ ● Identification Prioritization (Materiality Test) Reporting ❽ ● ❼ ● ❻ ● ● ⓫ ● ● ⓭ 4.2 ●●● ⓬ · GRI Standard, ISO 26000 ▶ ▶ Formulate ⓮ ●● ●● ● ❾ ● · Media analysis Select relevant Assess ● ● ● ❿ ● ● · Benchmarking advanced topics importance material issues ● companies 3.6 ● ● ● ● ● Material Issues Formulated by Sector 28 important sustainable management issues have been selected by testing the adequacy of Trend Issues, Impact Issues 3.1 and R&C Issues. Importance to Business ▶ CSR Trend | Issues related to external economic, social and environmental trends CSR Trend that JB Financial Group is influenced by 2.5 3.1 3.6 4.2 4.7 ▶ JB Financial Group Resources & Capability | Issues related to JB Financial Group’s internal resources and ▶ capabilities for financial and non-financial performance Sustainability Management Material Issues Resources & Capability Rank Material Issues Category Impact on Reporting Page Business Boundary ▶ CSR Impact | Issues related to economic, social and environmental impact JB Financial CSR Impact 1 Protection of personal information of the customers, Economy Sales, Cost, Internal & External 46~47 Group makes externally executive and employees Risks 2 Law compliance and prohibition of anti-competitive Economy Sales, Cost, Internal & External 32~33 practices (sound marketing) Risks Trend Issues (7) Impact Issues (14) R&C Issues (7) 3 Communication with stakeholders Society Costs, Risks Internal & External 36~37 4 Improvement of executives’ and employees’ job Society Costs, Risks Internal 54~55 ❶ Increase in demand for ❶ Protection of personal information of the customers, ❶ Reputation and brand management satisfaction corporate transparency and executive and employees capabilities 5 Minimization of negative impacts to the communities Environment Costs, Risks External 61~63 ethical management ❷ Law compliance and prohibition of anti-competitive ❷ Love for the organization and 6 Equal opportunities and diversity among executives and Society Costs, Risks Internal 51~53 ❷ Responses to changes in practices (sound marketing) motivation for improved performance employees financial regulations ❸ Communication with stakeholders ❸ Building trust and relationships ❸ Increase in demand for (communication) with stakeholders 7 Social and community contribution activities Society Costs, Risks External 59~61 ❹ Improvement of executives’ and employees’ job improved accessibility to satisfaction ❹ Funds available for development 8 Value, principles, standards and code of conduct of Economy Sales, Cost, Internal 32~33 financial services and providing financial products and organizations Risks ❺ Minimization of negative impacts to the communities ❹ Increase in demand for services 9 Disclosure of information on financial services Economy Sales, Cost, Internal & External 45,47~48 ❻ Equal opportunities and diversity among executives and strengthened IT security ❺ Capabilities for managing and Risks employees and prevention of financial responding to changes in internal and ❼ Social and community contribution activities 10 Economic performance (revenue, tax, dividends Economy Sales, Cost, Internal & External 8~9, 68 incidents & crimes external environment distributed among the stakeholders) Risks ❺ Strengthened responsibility in ❽ Value, principles, standards and code of conduct of ❻ Capabilities related to ethical 11 Governance (decision-making structure) Economy Sales, Cost, Internal 34~35 financial products and services organizations management, risk management and Risks ❻ The increasing importance of ❾ Disclosure of information on financial services governance ❿ Economic performance (revenue, tax, dividends 12 Training and education of executives and employees Society Costs, Risks Internal 53~54, 57 ❼ strengthened capabilities and ❼ Internal capabilities to share human resources management distributed among the stakeholders) standards, values and attitudes with 13 Contributions to the development of communities’ Sales, Cost, Internal & External 40,43,49,51,56, The diversifying customer ⓫ Governance (decision-making structure) the society economy, education and culture Integrated Risks 59~60,64 demands ⓬ Training and education of executives and employees 14 Training and education of executives and employees Integrated Sales, Cost, Internal 30~31 ⓭ Contributions to the development of communities’ Risks economy, education and culture ⓮ Integrated management of economic, social and * 14 issues that scored higher than 4.0 in the stakeholder survey environmental risks 38 39 JB Financial Group JB Financial Group & UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) JB Financial Group deeply understands the meaning and importance of achieving the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as a global financial corporation and it strives to combine and integrate them into its business value chain, everyday operations and social contribution activities. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals and 169 targets, JB Financial Group is committed to ① Ending poverty in all its forms everywhere, ③ Ensuring healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages, ④ Ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all and, ⑧ Promoting sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Providing Scholarships and Safe, Inclusive and Effective Learning Environment Computer Center for Cambodia’s JB Financial Group has been carrying out learning enviPhnom Srouch Middle and High School ronment improvement project called ‘The Study Room of Hope’ for the children and youth of local children’s centers, Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in the world and social welfare facilities and low-income households. By 2017, for the country to end poverty and bring economic growth, Jeonbuk Bank has supported 66 study rooms and Kwangju its generations for the future urgently need IT education. In Bank has supported 34 study rooms. Also, Jeonbuk Bank November 2016, Jeonbuk Bank and PPCBank donated 26 Scholarship Foundation and Kwangju Bank Scholarship computers and supported teachers’ salary for a computer Committee together have been providing financial support course to Phnom Srouch Middle and High School in Kamto disadvantaged local students, offering a total of 5,142 midpong Speu, a farming region located 60km from Cambodle school, high school and university students' scholarships dia’s capital, Phnom Penh. that amounted to KRW 3.46 billion by 2017. Medical Volunteer Activities Providing People-Centered Banks that Promote Cataract Surgical Care in Cambodia Local Cultures and Generate Sustainable Jobs JB Financial Group signed a partnership agreement with As the organizers of local cultural festivals like Jeonju Inmedical volunteer group, ‘Hope Tree’ and has been carryternational Sori Festival and Hwaru, Jeonbuk Bank and ing out medical volunteer activities in medically disadvanKwangju Bank are taking initiative in promoting the proud taged regions in Cambodia since 2016. Outside the capital, Sustainable Management and beautiful local cultures of Jeollabuk-do, Gwangju and Phnom Penh, there are no hospitals and very few medical Jeollanam-do. They are also contributing to the growth of professionals and therefore, most Cambodian citizens have local tourism industries by sponsoring various local folk fesno access to even the most basic medical care. Many people Performance tivals. Moreover, Jeonju Bank and Kwangju Bank offer intern are suffering from cataract due to very strong sunlight and training programs for academically outstanding students exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light so JB Financial Group has through their partnerships with local universities and Meister been supporting free cataract surgical care for the patients. vocational high schools and are continuously creating sustainable jobs for youth. They also provide financial services specially designed for the middle class and small-to-medium enterprises. Easy and Safe finance 42 ZOOM IN : JB Financial Group’s Contributions to Local Festivals 49 JB Happy Management 50 ZOOM IN : Responding and Adapting to the 4th Industrial 57 JB Financial Group is participating in「SDG 5: gender equality」through gender equality recruitment and childcare support and participates Revolution through Training and Production of in「SDG 7: affordable and clean energy」 「SDG , 13: climate action」 , and「SDG 15: life on land」through support for environmentally friendly Digitally Talented Individuals energy projects such as solar power generation and environmental protection activities.「SDG 9: industry, innovation and infrastructure」 , Reliable Corporation 58 「SDG 11: sustainable cities and communities」 , and「SDG 17: partnership for the goals」establishing a partnership with social welfare ZOOM IN : Contributing to the Improvement of Community 64 groups, promoting financial consumer protection and privacy policies, and implementing「SDG 12: responsible consumption and producWelfare through Continued Partnerships tion」「SDG , 16: peace, justice and strong institutions」and other UN SDGs. 40 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Easy and Safe finance We will lower the threshold of finance and Easy Finance raise customer information security. Closer to the Common People Jeonbuk Bank’s opened a new form of financial service center called ‘Heartwarming Financial Clinic’ which helps the clients who are on a loan with a high interest rate to convert to loan programs like 'JB Heartwarming Credit Loan', 'New Client Information Security Hope Seed Loan', 'Saitdol (A Stone in Between) Loan', 'JB Dream Loan' and 'JB Dream Loan for the Self-Employed' that have medium interest rates. Jeonbuk Bank also provides debt management consulting services so that middle-class A+ Management Grade Number of Branches in Seoul & clients with low credit points can quickly recover their credit points. Kwangju Bank branches also started providing Capital Area (Branches) ‘recharging service for pre-paid transit cards’ so that the clients can use public transportation more conveniently. 57 [ Loan for low-incomes ] (Unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2015 2016 2017 Jeonbuk Bank 515 696 1,006 Kwangju Bank 79 542 805 Total 594 1,238 1,811 Client Information 0 Increase in Microcredit: YoY (%) Leakage (Cases) 46.3↑ Finance that Provides Substantial Benefits to Local Companies JB Financial Group offers a variety of benefits so that local companies which make up the foundation of local economy can conveniently access financial products and services. Kwangju Bank operates a system called ‘Corporate VIP System’ which automatically exempts VIP companies from transaction fees. Currently, with this system, more than 1,000 companies are receiving transaction fee exemptions. Finance that Contributes to Communities Management Approach Connected Material Issues JB Financial Group has found a way to contribute to communities with To become the 'Best Retail-Oriented Financial Group for the • Generating and distributing economic values its clients by combining social contribution with its financial products Middle Class and Small-to-Medium Enterprises’, JB Financial • Contributing to communities’ economic, educational and and services. Kwangju Bank launched 'Love for Gwangju-Jeonnam Group is striving to develop new future growth engines and cultural development Card' in which 0.5% of every purchase made with the card is donated expand its business and sales areas. By doing so, JB Financial • Protecting personal information of clients, executives and to the Community Chest of Korea for developing social welfare projects Group is evolving into a key player in the retail, microfinance employees industry and securing a stable position in the market even that help the disadvantaged and low-income groups in Gwangju and • Law compliance and prohibition of anti-competitive during nationally and globally difficult economic times. practices Jeollanam-do. Love for Gwangju-Jeonnam Card • Improving communication with clients and client Management Focus satisfaction to financial services More Branches for the Common People in Seoul and Capital Area • Provide financial services specially tailored to the To expand its market area and provide more access and convenience to the clients in the capital area, JB Financial common people Connected SDGs Group is strategically increasing the number of branches in Seoul and capital area. The branches established in Seoul • Increase the number of branches for the common people and capital area not only attracts the clients love their hometown in Gwangju, Jeollanam-do and Jeollabuk-do but they in Seoul and capital area offer more convenient and safer financial products and services other major banks have been able to offer to citizens • Provide financial services that help the communities of Seoul and capital area. We are focusing on launching quality loan programs with medium interest rates and offering • Improve client information protection activities individually tailored debt management consulting services that can fully satisfy the clients. • SDG 7 : affordable and clean energy Management Performance • SDG 8 : decent work and economic growth Protection of Financial Consumers • Expansion of microcredit: 46.3% YoY increase • SDG 9 : industry, innovation and infrastructure • 'Heartwarming Financial Clinic' opened • SDG 12 : responsible consumption and production • 57 branches operating in Seoul and capital area • SDG 16 : peace, justice and strong institutions JB Financial Group thinks and conducts businesses in consumers’ perspective. We have established 'JB Financial Group • Hometown Love Fund: 0.5% contribution from credit card use Consumer Protection Charter’, have been carrying out a cyber training program on ‘protecting financial consumers’ for • Zero cases of client information leakage all the executives and employees, designated the ‘Financial Consumer Protection Day’ and is promoting the meaning • Client Information Security Management Grade: 98.9 points (A+) and importance of and, implementation plans for protecting financial consumers. 42 43 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report [ JB Financial Group Consumer Protection Charter ] the personnel in charge of crime control at each branch immediately reports to the police to prevent client’s losses. We also share those incident cases so that similar incident does not happen again. This Charter sets the behavioral values and standards that JB Financial Group shall uphold in providing clientcentered financial services and protecting the rights and interests of financial consumers. Product Development Procedure for Consumer Protection 1. We shall provide accurate financial information keeping the rights and interest of financial consumers as our first priorities. JB Financial Group believes that the first step to protecting financial consumers is to approach product development 2. We shall protect and use financial consumers’ information in the most legal, safe and appropriate manner. in clients’ perspective. So, we look carefully into clients’ opinions and complaints made in the past by the clients before 3. We shall make sure to protect financial consumers from unreasonable discrimination and unsound business practices. developing new financial products and services and, make sure to eliminate any factor that could lead to unreasonable 4. We shall process financial consumers’ complaints and damages as quickly as possible and try to resolve them in the discrimination or unsound business practices through multiple steps. Also, we carry out extensive employee training sincerest manner. 5. We shall reach out to the financially disadvantaged groups and fulfill our responsibilities as a member of the community. on products so our employees can thoroughly provide information about the products to the clients. We also analyze clients’ response and satisfaction to the products launched through the procedure explained above and make sure to prevent clients’ losses or complaints from our products or services. Bodies for Financial Consumer Protection Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank have designated their vice presidents as the chief of financial consumer protection STEP 01 ▶ STEP 02 ▶ STEP 03 ▶ STEP 04 ▶ and hold financial consumer protection committee meetings regularly and whenever necessary. JB Financial Group’s Information Collection and Registration & Notification Fact Check Processing bodies for financial consumer protection such as bank branches, departments and consultation officers who meet the Analysis Review checklist for product Compliance to Product review and clients in person try to solve the problems as quickly as possible and when the problems can’t be resolved on site, the Detection of changes in the development standards on preventing feedback financial market Prevent unreasonable mis-selling Consumer satisfaction Financial Consumer Protection Team and Financial Consumer Protection Committee intervene to resolve the issues Financial consumers’ needs discrimination Development and analysis and complaints the clients might have. Complaint analysis Prevent mis-selling distribution of Release of product promotional materials information Improvements made Preliminary discussion on based on feedback and new products Training of sales Client complaint analysis employees Financial Consumer Protection Committee Branches, Departments, Consultation Officers · Highest Decision-Making Body for Financial Financial Consumer Protection Team Consumer Protection [ Training and Monitoring on Financial Consumer Protection ] · Chairman: Officer in Charge of CCO Financial Consumer Protection (Chief Consumer Officer, CCO) Category Content Implementation Presidents of Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank Prevention of Financial Preventing and responding to financial frauds Standard manual, training and practice in Frauds against vulnerable groups branches, sharing cases of fraud cases Prevention of Mis-Selling Perfect delivery of product information and Standard manual, training and practice in [ Client & Consumer Complaints Handling Procedure ] precautions branches, sharing cases of problems Training on Friendly Service Human rights, manners, client reception and Standard manual, training and practice in STEP 01 ▶ STEP 02 ▶ STEP 03 ▶ STEP 04 ▶ STEP 05 ▶ responding to complaints branches, sharing excellent cases Receipt of Registration Fact Check Complaint Processing Closing Training of Security Guards Training of new security guards on human right, Standard manual, group training, training and Complaints and Notification of manners and friendly service practice in branches Fact check Notification of Identify where Online website, Complaints Cause investigation complaint processing improvement * Training of security guards: Jeonbuk Bank, Kwangju Bank phone, in person, Registration of comSolution analysis status to clients & can be made / mail, outside plaints on the internal consumers apply feedback to institutions complaint system Notification of product and service Designation of complaint handling personnel complaint processing results to clients & improvement Improving Client Satisfaction and notification of consumers complaints Activities to Improve Client Satisfaction JB Financial Group greatly values customer satisfaction. We are working on integrating the guidelines and manuals for subsidiaries’ response to clients, handling client complaints and for client satisfaction in general. Also, to upward-stanJB Financial Group listens to the voices of its clients. We try to communicate as openly as possible using a variety of dardize our client services, we are continuously training our employees and upgrading our systems. Moreover, for the channels including our website, phone, in-person visits, mail and outside institutions. The complaints we receive from safety and convenience of our clients, we are constantly improving the interior and facilities of all the branches. our clients are registered on our complaint system and we designate complaint handling personnel for each complaint. Then, after timely fact check and case investigation, we develop solutions and notify our clients of the complaint pro[ Remodeled Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank Branches to Improve Client Satisfaction ] (Unit: Branches) cessing status and results. We also analyze the complaints and issues and apply the lessons learned to our product and service development so that problems don’t occur again. Category 2015 2016 2017 Jeonbuk Bank 12 7 8 Financial losses from voice scams and voice phishing have grown significant in the past few years and we are training our branch employees on preventing and responding to those financial crimes. When any sign of crime is discovered, Kwangju Bank 27 4 12 44 45 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report To improve client’s satisfaction level, Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank operate what’s called ‘Talk-Talk Advisory Group’ (SIEM) system of JB Financial Group is a hybrid security control system that offers all the benefits of virtual and field comprised of clients. The Talk-Talk Advisory Group finds out what complaints clients have by visiting the branches and security management systems. It constantly monitors against hacking and cyber terrorism and has an automated reactually using the banks’ online and mobile banking services, evaluates employees’ level of kindness or service skills sponse system. Using this system, JB Financial Group scored ‘98.9 (Level A+)’, the highest ever score given to banking and use the information and data found to improve customer satisfaction. institutions, on a financial supervisory agency’s assessment on the Group’s cyber terrorism response ability and electronic financial infrastructure. Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank timely notify the clients of dormant accounts and also automatically convert inactive accounts into active accounts to improve clients’ satisfaction level and asset use. Activities to Improve Awareness on Client Information Breach To improve the executives’ and employees’ awareness of and abilities in client information protection, Jeonbuk Bank Client Satisfaction Assessment and Kwangju Bank have designated the second Tuesday of every month as the ‘Personal Information Protection Day’ To give real happiness and satisfaction to the clients, JB Financial Group regularly carries out client satisfaction assessand have been distributing training materials on personal information protection and carrying out training for all the ments using an outside assessment agency. More than once a year, the outside agency conducting the client satisfaction branches and relevant departments using ‘personal information protection officers’. Every year, our executives and assessment carries out surveys on clients’ satisfaction level to our products and services by phone and using an email suremployees also participate in an online training program on the protection of financial clients’ information among many vey and a smartphone (mobile) survey application. The outside assessment agency then reports the survey results to relonline training programs provided by the Financial Security Institute. JB Financial Group has made much effort and imevant departments and branches of JB Financial Group so that the Group can make improvements and satisfies the clients. plemented various measures over the years and has not experienced a single client information breach in the past 3 years. Safe Finance Increasing Financial Security and Convenience Client Information Protection Management System Efforts Being Made to Ensure Security Clients’ personal information is part of clients’ important assets that the Group must protect. Thus, protecting client JB Financial Group strives to make the clients visiting its branches to use the financial products and services in the information is a priority management concern for JB Financial Group. To ensure clients’ safe financial transactions, safest and the most convenience way possible. JB Financial Group regularly carries out facility safety, security and fire we, as a group, try our utmost to determine and eliminate potential financial risks in advance by strengthening our inspections on its subsidiaries’ headquarters and branches and is continuously trying to improve their security abilities information protection system. replacing existing security cameras with HD-quality security cameras, increasing the number of security cameras and introducing other advanced security equipment. Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank also regularly carry out human [ Establishing an Information Protection System for Safe Financial Transactions ] rights, friendly client service and emergency response training on the receptionists and security guards at their branches 1 2 3 so that their clients can safely and conveniently use the financial services without experiencing any difficulties or issues. Advancing ITEstablishing an Protection of Personal Moreover, the banks have installed an emergency hotline connected to local police and fire departments, designated the Integrated IT-Integrated Internal (Credit) Information ‘Security Diagnosis Day’ and ‘Fire Prevention and Evacuation Training Day’ for every month and are regularly training Information Protection Control System and Prevention of Electronic Financial Frauds their employees on burglary response and fire prevention. · Standardizing IT-integrated · Strengthening IT-related accident · Strengthening protection throughout information protection areas prevention and information all the information processes Providing Financial Information and Education · Establishing an advanced protection activities · Strengthening employee training JB Financial Group offers accurate information about its financial products and services information protection · Testing areas managed by an on personal (credit) information to protect financial consumers and satisfy its clients. Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank management system IT-integrated internal control system protection · Advancing an Information · Improving IT-integrated internal · Upgrading activities for detecting regularly publish ‘Financial Consumer Report’, frequently release financial information and protection system control methods abnormal financial transactions important information about economic situations, financial products and services on their websites and social media. The banks also provide economic and financial education to the financially vulnerable groups as part of its social contribution activities. They also opWe are in full compliance with the Act on Personal Information Protection, Act on the Use and Protection of Credit Inerate what’s called ‘Mobile Financial Class’ by actually delivering the class to the financially formation and other laws relevant to information protection and, we inspect our client information management status vulnerable elders, foreign women married to Koreans, foreign workers and international and compliance to laws regularly using inspection manuals and checklists. We also make sure our partners involved in students to protect them against financial frauds. information and computer system/data management to continuously strengthen their inspection activities on personal information management processes and results. To safely protect our clients’ information, we also use atypical data Providing Security and Convenience to Elderly Financial Consumers encryption, strengthen security of data transmission devices, block malware on automation devices and use security In response to the rapidly aging Korean society, JB Financial Group has established the ‘Elsolutions for our disaster recovery center. derly Financial Consumer Protection Standards’ and is striving to provide financial security and convenience to elderly clients. JB Financial Group understands that elders are becoming Establishment of Next-Generated, Integrated Security Management System, Security Information the financially neglected group in today’s society filled with contactless financial services & Event Management (SIEM) Kwangju Bank Financial Consumer Report and that they need individually tailored services. Kwangju Bank has branches and banking In November 2017, JB Financial Group established an integrated security control system for Jeonbuk Bank, Kwangju counters exclusively for providing convenient services to the elderly. Also, ‘Bitgoeul Health Bank and JB Woori Capital and has since been operating the system. This security information & event management Town Branch', 'Ochi-dong Branch' and 'Hakdong Branch' in Gwangju City are located in ar46 47 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report ZOOM IN : JB Financial Group’s Contributions to Local Festivals [ JB Financial Group Elderly Financial Consumer Protection Standards (Summary) ] 1 4 Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank actively support local festivals that help small businesses and invigorate local economies. In Product Sales departments shall have a stricter Product development departments shall product suggestion procedure for the elderly financial check the risks relevant to the elderly financial consumers and make sure to provide them convenient consumer by reviewing checklists during the 2017, Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank sponsored 35 local festivals, promoted them through bank websites and branches and financial services and consultations. product planning and development processes. encouraged the executives and employees to actively participate in those festivals. Also, the banks sell ‘traditional market vouchers’ to promote traditional markets and help the local merchants. Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank also help local small business 2 5 When suggesting financial products to the elderly Consultations and explanation about financial owners who were affected by the fire accident in Yeosu Fish Market. financial consumers, their understanding of the finanproducts shall be conducted with easy-tocial products, purpose for purchasing the products, understand terminology and speed for the purchase experience and financial situation must be elderly financial consumers. Local Festivals Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank Sponsored in 2017 thoroughly determined and the products that do not fit any of those factors shall not be suggested to the elderly financial consumers. Jeonbuk Bank 3 6 In order to provide consultations and financial services Marketing activities targeted primarily at elderly ❶ Jinan Red Ginseng ⓬ Jeongeup Talent Sharing that meet the needs and characteristics of the elderly financial consumers shall be conducted with 5 Festival Festival financial consumers, each branch and customer center meticulous care so that false, exaggerated shall have designated counters and consultants for information and sales ads that can mislead or 11 7 ❷ Sunchang Fermented ⓭ Jeonju Lotus Flower providing services to the elderly consumers. exploit elderly financial consumers. Sauce Festival Festival 10 13 15 16 1 ❸ Jeongeupsa Cultural ⓮ Hwangtohyeon Donghak Festival Peasant Revolution 17 19 ❹ Gochang Moyang Commemorative Festival Fortress Festival ⓯ Jeonju Hanji Culture eas where elderly population is high. These branches provide convenient and safe client services taking into account of 8 Jeollabuk-do ❺ Iksan Seodong Festival Festival the elderly clients’ physical, psychological and cognitive abilities. ⓰ Jeonju Dano Festival ❻ Namwon Chunhyang 3 9 12 14 18 Festival ⓱ Jeonju Gamaek Festival ❼ Muju Firefly Festival ⓲ Imsil Sochung and Saseon Increasing Clients’ Access to Financial Products and Services 4 2 6 ❽ Buan Masil Festival Culture Festival ❾ Jeongeup Cherry ⓳ Jeonju Makgeolli Festival Increasing Access to Financial Services Blossom Festival Jeonju Kimchi Festival Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank are continuously increasing the benefits of contactless financial products through 12 13 ❿ Gimje Horizon Festival 8 9 internet banking and mobile banking services and improving the convenience and stability of digital mobile banking ⓫ Wanju Wild Food Festival services. Kwangju Bank has launched TMON Installment Savings Product that offers various benefits to younger generations whose primary shopping channel is online shopping. Also, banks offer sign language consultations using a 10 11 3 4 5 video communication system. The employees at the branches receive sign language training and offer video sign lan15 guage consultations to the hearing-impaired clients. Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank are also continuously carrying Kwangju Bank out surveys to relocate their ‘365 Open ATMs’ to better locations and improve clients’ access to financial services and 1 products. The banks are constantly relocating and newly installing ATMs by examining the appropriateness of ATM lo1 ❶ Yeongam Motor and ❿ Hampyeong Butterfly cations according to the changes in commercial areas, clients’ movements, population and development of new cities. Rock Festival Festival The banks are also trying to provide more convenience in and access to ATM services like utility bill payment, cash 16 Jeollanam-do ❷ Yeosu Geobukseon Ship ⓫ Hampyeong Grand Festival (Jinnamjae) Chrysanthemum Festival management service (CMS) and transaction checks by forming partnerships with other banks and government offices. 14 ❸ Chosun University Rose ⓬ Jangseong Honggildong Festival Festival Suwon International Financial Center and Financial Products for Foreign Workers ❹ Gwangju Design ⓭ Chuknyeongsan Mountain To increase foreign workers’ and international students’ financial convenience and access, Jeonbuk Bank has opened Biennale Cypress Festival an International Financial Center in Suwon which has a relatively high foreign population and, is offering financial ❺ 7080 Chungjang ⓮ Goheung Aero-Space services and products like ‘JB Bravo Korea E-9’ specially tailored to foreign workers and international students. Also, 6 7 Recollection Festival Festival Jeonbuk Bank distributes product catalogues in Chinse, Cambodian, Filipino and Vietnamese and, offers financial ser❻ Wando International ⓯ Seochang Mandeuri Festival Seaweed Expo ⓰ Sunflower Healing Farm vices exclusively to foreign workers on Tuesday evenings and Sundays. Jeongbuk Bank also provides financial services ❼ Jangbogo Fishery Festival to Cambodian workers through consultants who are Cambodian women married to Koreans and, holds special events Festival inviting the families of Cambodian workers to Korea. Moreover, PPCBank provides Cambodian industrial trainees who ❽ Gogu Sari Gulbi (Dried are coming to Korea training on Korean language, Korean culture, labor practices, Labor Standards Act, general lifestyle Yellow Croaker) Festival in Korea and available financial services by sendin Korean instructors to Cambodia. ❾ Bupseongpo Dano Festival 48 49 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report JB Happy Management We Train Individuals to Become More Daring Anyone can become proficient at something if they learn and work hard. We want to see confidence and momentum in young individuals. JB Financial Group’s idea of a talented individual is someone who can dedicate themselves in finance with their passion and creativity. Kim Han / CEO of Financial Group Rate of Businesses Carried Out Increase in New Employment (%) 60 with Local Companies Out of Total Businesses (%) JB Financial Group’s Idea of a Talented Individual 62.5 JB Financial Group seeks creative individuals, individuals with great communication skills, individuals who enjoy collaboration and ethical individuals, all with a vision for and vocation in finance. Creative individuals are those who can continuously move forward toward innovation with insights and creativity and individuals who can communicate with others are those who understand and share respect. Individuals who can collaborate with others are those who maintain balance of leadership and fellowship with their expertise and teamwork skills. [ JB Financial Group’s Idea of a Talented Individual ] Creativity Ethics Insights, creative Integrity, skills, ability to take responsibility, Training Hours per Person (hr) on new challenges ethical and 62 and practice moral practices innovation Vision Vocation Communication Collaboration Respect, Expertise, consideration, teamwork skills, Management Approach Connected Material Issues understanding, sharing leadership, fellowship, balance To improve corporate sustainability in this rapidly changing fi• Communication with stakeholders nancial environment, JB Financial Group recruits creative and • Improving executives’ and employees’ job satisfaction skilled individuals who are need in this digital era of ours. JB • Respecting diversity among executives and employees & Financial Group strives to create a healthy corporate environproviding equal opportunities ment where the executive and employees can strengthen their • Training and education for executives and employees digital financial expertise and skills and, to provide them the • Generation and distribution of economic values Creating Jobs for the Youth best welfare services. Youth unemployment is a serious issue in Gwangju, Jeollabuk-do and Jeollanam-do regions. According to a survey by a Connected SDGs Management Focus government research institution, the number of jobs for the youth in Gwangju, Jeollabuk-do and Jeollanam-do regions • Continuously hiring new employees is the lowest in the nation. JB Financial Group is working hard to train and employ many talent individuals from these • Providing the best training in the financial industry regions and solve the problems in the communities. Jeonbuk Bank is collaborating with Meister high schools related • Cooperating and mutually growing with local, small-toto the financial information industry and is actively employing skilled high school graduates. Also, the bank employs medium enterprises and small business owners talented individuals from local universities as well. • SDG 3 : good health and well-being Management Performance • SDG 4 : quality education Protection of Children’s Rights and Fair Employment • New Employees Hired: 109, 60% increase YoY • SDG 5 : gender equality To protect children’s rights, all of JB Financial Group’s subsidiaries prohibit employment and labor of children and • SDG 7 : affordable and clean energy • Training Hours Per Person: 62 hours youths under the legal working age of the country the business operating places are located in. The subsidiaries also • SDG 11 : sustainable cities and communities • Rate of Businesses Carried Out with Local Companies Out prohibit employment discrimination on the bases of race and color, as well as national origin, sex, political opinion, and of Total Businesses: 62%, 5% increase YoY • SDG 16 : peace, justice and strong institutions religion according to the Labor Standards Act and ILO’s International Labour Standards. JB Financial Group will strive to make sufficient amount of quality jobs for the youth by continuously hiring new employees. 50 51 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report [ New Employees Hired ] (Unit: people) in union activities. In accordance with ILO’s International Labour Standards and Korea’s Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act, the members of JB Financial Group who are eligible to join labor unions can freely form labor unions, Category 2015 2016 2017 join existing labor unions and participate in union activities. As of 2017, 99.8% of all member of JB Financial Group have Jeonbuk Bank 31 29 31 joined labor unions and are participating in union activities. Kwangju Bank 30 36 68 JB Woori Capital 3 3 10 Gender Equality Total 64 68 109 JB Financial Group does not discriminate employees based on gender or disability in terms of hiring, promotions and treatment. All employees newly hired receive equal pay regardless of their gender. Female population is 44% in Jeonbuk Bank and 47% in Kwangju Bank. JB Financial Group does not allow unfair disadvantages or to female members’ Fair & Impartial Human Resources Policy promotions and the proportion of female middle managers are continuously rising in JB Financial Group. JB Financial Group employs individuals fairly and operates an impartial employee evaluation policy that is based on employees’ performance and achievements. JB Financial Group tries to achieve its annual goal every year and evalu[ Female Managers (department chief and higher positions) in JB Financial Group ] (Unit: %) ates its executives’ and employees’ MBO and KPI taking into account of their branches and department. The individual executives, employees, departments and branches receive fair evaluation and compensation for their performance and Category 2015 2016 2017 achievement of objectives. Jeonbuk Bank 24 26 29 Kwangju Bank 23 26 27 Evaluation of Executives’ and Employees’ Performance JB Financial Group uses a fair and balanced, multifaceted evaluation system to evaluate the performance of its exJB Financial Group does not pay male and female members differently. For Jeonbuk Bank, the average wage rate of ecutives and employees. Evaluation of individuals is integrated with their supervisor’s evaluation and self-evaluation females to the average wage rate of males increased 6% from 65% in 2015 to 71% in 2017. For Kwangju Bank, the rate and, the performance of individuals and the department the individuals are affiliated with are also evaluated comincreased 1% from 57% in 2015 to 58% in 2017. This difference in average wage is due to larger number of males in prehensively as well. senior positions and larger number of females in lower positions. [ Average wages of female workers compared to men ] (Unit: %) Self-Evaluation + Personal Performance + Supervisor’s Evaluation Category 2015 2016 2017 Jeonbuk Bank 65 68 71 Kwangju Bank 57 56 58 + Organizational Evaluation Strengthening Executives’ and Employees’ Competencies The Best Professionals in Digital Finance and Personal Asset Management Management with Respect for the Human Rights of JB Financial Group continuously offers employee training and development programs so that all of its executive and employees can have the highest level of expertise in financial industry. The Group offers an individually tailored compeExecutives and Employees tency management program that take into account of the job and position of each executive and employee so that they can develop their competencies and experience independently. Since finance requires the highest level of expertise and Joining Labor Unions and Participating in Union Activities trust, the Group offers its executives and employees the opportunities to acquire professional knowledge and certificate JB Financial Group ensures its members’ freedom to form, join and participate in the activities of labor unions and, related to finance from outside training institutions, online courses, graduate schools and foreign training programs. prohibits all forms of restrictions and unfavorable actions toward the forming and joining labor unions and participating [ Basic Training by Position at Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank ] [ Labor Union & Trade-Management Council ] (Unit: %) Training Programs Trainees Content Category 2015 2016 2017 Rookie Academy Employees who have served Basic job training, manners, communication, accident JB Financial Group 100 100 100 for 2 years or less prevention, financial consumer protection Jeonbuk Bank 100 100 99.2 Loan & Savings Academy Level 4 employees or higher savings, beneficiary certificates, bancassurance, retireKwangju Bank 100 100 100 ment pension, loan and loan products Pre-Manager Academy Level 4 employees with 8th pay Middle management, leadership, client management, * Labor Unions: Kwangju Bank, Jeonbuk Bank / Labor-Management Councils: JB Financial Group grade or higher sales techniques * Membership ratio is the proportion of all the executives and employees who have membership to labor unions to all the executives and employees eligible for membership. 52 53 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report [ Average Training Hours Per Person ] (Unit: hr) Category 2015 2016 2017 JB Financial Group 18 36 41 Jeonbuk Bank 71 78 77 Kwangju Bank 52 50 46 JB Woori Capital 67 74 84 Training of Personal Asset Management Specialists In today’s society, personal asset management is one of the most important financial services along with digital finance. The clients need different management methods depending on the size, type and investment period of their personal assets. JB Financial Group works and collaborates closely with its subsidiaries like Jeonbuk Bank, Kwangju Bank, JB Woori Capital and JB Asset Management to offer the best asset management products and solutions that can satisfy the clients and, continuously trains the best private banking professionals with the highest level of competencies. [ Private Banker Training Programs at Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank ] Employees’ Lounge ‘Gyeok’ on the 2nd floor of JB Financial Group’s Yeouido Office Category PRE-PB PB MASTER PB Trainees Those who can provide basic Those who can provide professionThose who can work at a consultation al consultation PB Center Those who can work at VIP counters Those who can work in VIP ROOM Culture Refinement, Stress Relief and Language Skills Development for Executives and Employees Level 6 employees and lower Level 5 employees and lower Fund and bancassurance masters For executives’ and employees’ cultural refinement, stress relief and language skills development, JB Financial Group provides books, cultural performances, yoga class, gym class and English and Chinese language classes. When the Content Necessary licenses AFPK CFP executives and employees purchase books to refine themselves and to improve their job skills, JB Financial Group PRE-PB Program PB Specialist Program Master PB Program provides the necessary expenses for purchasing the books. Classic concerts and art exhibitions are held in the spring · Beneficiary certificates, · Advanced beneficiary certificates · Training from outside professionbancassurance · Advanced bancassurance al programs and fall to relieve their stresses as well. Weekly yoga and gym programs are also provided for their health and Chinese · Basic marketing practices, client · Advanced marketing and English classes are offered to those who wish to improve their language skills. acquisition techniques · Computer work Win Win Management for JB Financial Group and its Partners Pleasant Work Environment Reliable Corporation JB Financial Group strives to improve its expertise, stability and transparency as a financial corporation and to Support and Care for Employees Handling High-Stress Jobs enhance it efficiency in managing business and clients’ assets. JB Financial Group has win win partnerships with Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank operate a special support program for employees handling high-stress jobs such as companies in various areas including IT security, credit assessment, auditing, computer equipment, staffing, archithose handling customer supports by phone at the Customer Center. The banks operate a benefit policy for outstanding tecture, interior design and general office supplies. customer service operators, promote outstanding operators, recommend promotions and offer them opportunities for education and training abroad. Also, the banks offer emotional healing programs such as movieand show-watching, [ JB Financial Group’s Win Win Management for the Group and its Partners ] meditation, physical activities and yoga program and, operate ‘Human Right Protection Program’ to protect customer service operators and their rights against the mentally-damaging, malicious calls. Moreover, the banks collaborate with outside institutions to help employees regularly participate in mental health and psychological counseling programs. Fair and Law-Abiding Faithful Trade Win Win Cooperation for Trade Communities The banks include stress and psychological assessment items in executives’ and employees’ medical checkups so that · Fair competition, fair trade · Contracts that require mutual · Priority purchasing of general they can prevent and get treatment for their mental, psychological and physical issues and illnesses. + + and compliance to laws agreement supplies from local, small-to· Internal regulations and · Payment of according to medium enterprises Improving Work Environment & Expanding Executives’ and Employees’ Lounge Area standards for fair purchasing procedures and schedules · Cooperation projects with and contract practices set by contracts local, social enterprises To make its executives and employees to work in a safe and comfortable environment that allows them to focus on their · Review Committee for Fair · Security partners’ field · Promotion of trades in local, jobs, JB Financial Group is working hard to improve its work environment and expand lounge areas for the executives and Purchasing and Contracts monitoring traditional markets and employees. Café ‘The Blue’ was opened on the 1st floor of the headquarters of Jeonbuk Bank, Kwangju Bank and JB Woori · Compliance review of · Trades based on mutual among small-to-medium contracts by the Legal Affairs respect and not on power business owners Capital and, they remodeled their gyms and cafeterias as well. On the 2nd floor of JB Financial Group’s office building in Department relations Yeouido, a culture complex space called ‘Gyeok (Class)’ has been established for the employees to relieve their work stresses. 54 55 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report ZOOM IN : Responding and Adapting to the 4th Industrial Revolution through Training and Production of Digitally Talented Individuals Fair Trade JB Financial Group is in full compliance with the laws relevant to fair competition and fair trade and ensures fair and transparent purchasing and contracts by implementing ‘International Regulations on Purchasing and Contracts’. Also, to prevent illegal solicitations during major purchases or contracts, JB Financial Group operates a review committee on JB Financial Group’s ‘Direction for Financial Digitalization as a Response to the 4th Industrial Revolution’ include developing digital purchasing and contracts that is comprised of personnel from relevant departments and outside experts. JB Financial financial services, setting up digital financial platforms, upgrading credit rating system, increasing contactless financial transacGroup also operates an internal law-compliance monitoring office and legal affairs department to always monitor and tions, simplification and diversification of payment methods. We will operate a training program on ‘4th industrial revolution and make sure all business practices and processes are conducted lawfully. digital financial revolution’ for the executives and employees to produce digitally talented individuals, innovate our financial business model and generate new growth engines for the future. Faithful Trade JB Financial Group makes sure that all of its businesses, trades and relationships with the partners are based on mutual respect and not on power relations. In terms of signing contracts, we sign them with our partners through discussion JB Financial Group’s Direction for Financial Digitalization as a Response and mutual agreement and, make sure that the contracts are not unfair or one-sided. Also, we make payment accurately to the 4th Industrial Revolution and according to the procedures and schedules set by the contracts. We carry out internal training so that unlawful and inappropriate requests, solicitations, actions or remarks are not made to the executives and employees of our partners. And most importantly, we carry out regular and random monitoring activities on our security and computer-related partners to prevent client information breach. ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Technologies of Paradigm of Financial Establishment of ‘Win Win Principles for JB Financial Group and its Partners’ & Satisfaction Surveys the 4th Industrial Industry In 2018, JB Financial Group will improve its ‘Win Win Principles for JB Financial Group and its Partners’ and formulate Revolution specific implementation guidelines as well. We will carry out satisfaction surveys with our partners and hold regular meetings to find out whether JB Financial Group’s Win Win Principles are making difference. Also, when selecting partners, we will make sure to include human rights, social, ethics, law compliance and environmental criteria in the evaluation so that we can stop trade and partnerships with companies that have caused issues in those criteria. In contracts, Use of customized products, services ❶ Big Data ❶ Individually tailored financial we will add terms and conditions related to human rights, society, ethics, law compliance and environment as well and and marketing services also continue to share information and conduct training sessions about ethical management, CSR management and Financial consulting services, reduction ❷ Artificial Intelligence ❷ Growing competition in financial sustainable management during our meetings with our partners. in costs, increase in productivity platform development Win Win Cooperation Among Small Local Enterprises, Small Business Owners and social enterprise Authentication methods, payments ❸ Blockchain ❸ Improved credit rating systems and transfers, smart contracts JB Financial Group strongly believes that local economy is bound by a common destiny and that JB Financial Group exists because of the small-to-medium local enterprises and small business owners. We purchase preferentially from them as Authentication method with no risk of ❹B  iometric Recognition ❹ Increase in contactless financial much as possible while being in full compliance with the principles of fair trade and fair competition. By developing partlosing or forgery Technologies transactions nerships with local social enterprises related to culture and arts, Jeonbuk Bank regularly holds ‘Culture Day’ event to offer Credit rating, individually tailored ❺ Internet of Things (IoT) ❺S  implification and diversification the locals the opportunity to watch various different shows and also to offer locals, local social contribution institutions assessment of loan applications of payment methods and social enterprises the foundation for stable and sustainable growth. Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank are also active in promoting and invigorating traditional markets in their regions. The banks actively participate in local governments’ market support projects, purchase vouchers from traditional markets and encourage people to use traditional markets. [ JB Financial Group’s Curriculum for its Training Program on Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence ] Session No. Content Session No. Content 1 Philosophy and structure of Blockchain Technology & 8 Practical exercises for developing an altcoin prototype understanding blockchain-based financial ecosystem 9 AI-based financial industry: Intelligent asset management, easy 2 Understanding shared authentication platform of payment, client and product analysis, authentication blockchain-based financial ecosystem 10 AI, machine learning and customer service chatbots 3 Developing a blockchain network using P2P networks 11 Theories on AI development platforms and practical exercises 4 Theories on the cryptology behind Bitcoin and Ethereum and, 12 Comparative analysis of blockchain-based financial practical exercises platforms 5 Blockchain’s digital signature and consensual decision13 Financial blockchain designs making algorithm 14 Theories on big data and practical exercises 6 Understanding blockchain blocks and nodes and, practical 15 Group presentation on plans for innovating JB Financial Group’s exercises blockchain-based financial services & awards 7 Practical exercises for developing creative, distributed ledger Jeonbuk Bank regularly holds ‘Culture Day’ event. 56 57 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Reliable Corporation JB’s roots are in the community “Even if our income declines, we will never reduce our social contributions. We think about how our actions can make the world a better place before thinking about our interests.” Kim Han / CEO of Financial Group Social Contributions Reliable Neighbor and Partner, JB Financial Group (% of Net Income) 11 Over the past 50 years, JB Financial Group has shared the ups and downs, the joys and sorrows alongside the locals of Gwangju, Jeollabuk-do and Jeollanam-do. Our unwavering principle is to give back what we have received from the communities so we contribute more than 10% of net income to our communities. Sharing and service are not just thought or talk but they need to be put into actions. To make the lives better for the locals, our executives and employees actively participate in volunteer activities. Support for Environment-Friendly Businesses [ JB Financial Group’s Contributions to Communities from 2015 to 2017 ] Work Vehicles Converted (Unit: KRW 100 million) (KRW 100 million) 3,433 to LPG (%) 70 Year 2015 2016 2017 Bank Jeonbuk Bank Kwangju Bank Jeonbuk Bank Kwangju Bank Jeonbuk Bank Kwangju Bank Net Income 513 578 568 1,033 801 1,342 Contribution 95 91 93 100 82 140 Rate (% of Net Income) 18.6% 15.7% 17.8% 9.8% 12.6% 10.4% * From consolidated financial statements and data provided by the Korea Federation of Banks Cultivating Children’s and Youths’ Dreams For the children and youth who do not have the opportunities to experience education and cultures due to their environment and circumstances, JB Financial Group carries out scholarship programs, programs for improving learning Management Approach Connected Material Issues environment and programs that offer educational and cultural opportunities. JB Financial Group makes contributions to welfare projects for • Minimizing negative impact on communities JB Dream School | JB Dream School is a children’s job experience and education program that helps the children to the low-income groups, educational programs for the children • Community and social contribution activities experience various jobs in the world and find what they like or what they are good at. Every Friday evening, children at and youth and cultural & art activities. Our executives and em• Generating and distributing economic values local children centers get to experience various jobs like chef, stylist, magician, dentist and physician. ployees also have an active volunteer team that works with • Contributing to communities’ economic, educational local social welfare organizations on cooperation programs. JB Youth Humanities Concert | This is a youth cultural and educational program that offers youths a motivation to and cultural development We also work hard to minimize the environmental impact of learn and an opportunity to dream about their own future. In 2017, approximately 2,600 youths came to 9 concerts. our products and services and to generate a variety of values with our products and services. Connected SDGs JB Mentorship Experience | This is an educational program where the executives and employees of Jeonbuk Bank and the children at local children’s centers get to participate in various cultural experiences such as going to sports Management Focus matches, baking class, pottery class, job experience at Job World, making traditional local dishes and local festivals. • Contributing more than 10% of the Group’s net income JB Study Room of Hope | JB Financial Group makes improvements to the living and learning environment of low-income • Expanding investment to financial services and households, local children’s centers and social welfare center so that children and youth can study in a safer and more pleastechnologies for environment friendly businesses • SDG 3 : good health and well-being ant environment. In 2017, JB Financial Group rehabilitated a total of 26 study rooms; 12 in Jeollabuk-do and 14 in Gwangju. • Using high-efficient, environment-friendly facilities and vehicles • SDG 4 : quality education • Digitalization of banking counters to reduce environmental • SDG 13 : climate action impact • SDG 15 : life on land • SDG 17 : partnership for the goals Management Performance • Social Contributions (% of Net Income): 11% • Support for Environment-Friendly Businesses: KRW 343.3 billion • More than 70% of All Work Vehicles Converted to LPG Vehicles • PPR (Paperless Process Re-engineering) System Established JB Youth Humanities Concert JB Study Room of Hope 58 59 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Scholarship Program | In 2017, Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank offered scholarships to 300 middle school, high school and university students who are trying their best to achieve their goals despite their difficult financial situation, through Jeonbuk Bank Scholarship Foundation and Kwangju Bank Scholarship Committee to give them hope and the opportunity to focus on learning. Education on Finance and Economy Using its knowledge and expertise, JB Financial Group offers a variety of practical education to children, youth, university students and international students. Bank Field Trip and Finance Camp for Children and Teenager | Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank offers a banking job experience program, inviting children and youth to the banks, offering a tour and allowing them to experience various jobs in the financial industry. Also, the banks hold a children’s finance and economy camp during summer vacations so that children can learn about finance and economy and develop healthy money-management habits. Financial Education Visits | The employees of Jeonbuk Bank’s and Kwangju Bank’s branches visit nearby elementary, middle and high schools as financial instructors to talk about the basics of finance and finance as well as the important JB Wonderland of planned spending and saving to young students. Inviting Families of Foreign Workers to Korea & Opportunity for the Foreign Women Who Have Settled in South Sharing Culture and Arts Korea through Marriage to Visit Their Native Countries | Jeonbuk Bank invites the families of Cambodian workers JB Financial Group wishes to see the lives of local citizens improve through culture and arts. Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju who haven’t seen their families for a long time from working in Korea. Also, Kwangju Bank offers the foreign women Bank hold various free cultural and art shows for the local people. who have settled in South Korea through marriage, to visit their native countries by offering financial support. Children’s Musical | During summer vacations, JB Financial Group holds children’s musical concerts in major cities Culture Class for Multicultural Families | Kwangju Bank and Jeonbuk Bank offers a cultural education program to like Jeonju, Gwangju, Suncheon in Jeollabuk-do and Jeollanam-do regions. The Group invites the children’s musical allow the foreign women who have settled in South Korea through marriage, experience various Korean cultures and team of theater company Hakchon and offers exciting and fun performances children and families can enjoy. also to reduce any misunderstanding and conflict that may occur in multicultural families due to cultural differences. The banks also help them organize and participate in communities as well. JB Wonderland | The headquarters of Kwangju Bank and Jeonbuk Bank have an amusement park that children can enjoy during winter vacations. JB Financial Group’s Volunteer Activities in Cambodia | The international volunteers of JB Financial Group and its subsidiaries visit Cambodia every year and participate in medical and educational volunteer activities with the employJB Culture Day | Jeonbuk Bank holds a Culture Day Concert every term at its headquarters. It offers various cultural ees of PPCBank in Cambodia. The volunteers offer free meals, clothing and medical treatment at a children’s welfare content like music, dance and plays to the clients and locals to contribute to the development of culture and arts in center in Cambodia’s capital Phnom Penh and at medical centers and middle and high schools in a rural province the communities. called Kampong Speu. International Contributions JB Financial Group is continuously expanding its businesses into greater Asian regions including Cambodia, Myanmar JB Financial Group Caring For the Earth and China and, as a global financial corporation, the Group is expanding its social contribution activities overseas as well. The Earth’s beautiful natural environment is our most precious asset we must look after and preserve for our future generations. JB Financial Group minimizes its environmental impact and makes investment in new & renewable energy businesses for the future. The Group will actively participate in solving environmental pollutions and destruction of nature and, strive to become an environment-friendly company that cares for the Earth. [ JB Financial Group’s 3 Environment-Friendly Policies ] Minimization of Expansion of Investment Environmental Protection Environmental Impact to Environment-Friendly Activities Technologies + + · Reducing energy consumption · Environmental social · Minimizing greenhouse gas · Expanding investment contribution activities emissions to development of · Rehabilitation of urban parks · Reducing resource environment-friendly, consumption renewable energy sources like solar energy and wind · Minimizing waste energy Children’s Finance and Economy Class 60 61 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Minimizing Environmental Impact [ Fuels Used for Work Vehicles ] (Unit: number of vehicles) JB Financial Group is minimizing its environmental impact by digitalizing banking counter services, using high-efficient, Category LPG Petrol Diesel environment-friendly electronics as well as LPG work vehicles. Jeonbuk Bank 115 24 11 Kwangju Bank 122 37 23 Digitalizing Banking Counter Services (PPR) Total (Ratio) 237(71.3%) 61(18.3%) 34(10.2%) To reduce paper usage, JB Financial Group is expansively digitalizing its banking counter services. In September 2017, Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank stopped issuing paper bankbooks, started charging an extra fee when the clients apply for a paper bankbook and started offering transaction fee exemptions and other benefits to clients choosing to not Expanding Financial Support for Environment-Friendly & Sustainable Industries use paper bankbooks. Also, the banks changed all types of banking forms the clients have to fill in at the counters into JB Financial Group plans to develop financial support products and services and provide funds for operating and facilelectronics form that can be accessed on tablet PCs. As a result, the work load on the banks’ employees dropped signifiities costs of industries and businesses in sustainable & environment-friendly fields such as solar energy development, cantly, the banks’ productivity increased, the costs for making, storing and disposing of paper documents decreased and eco-friendly IT, housing and cars, new & renewable energy, new environment-friendly materials, environment-friendly consequently, environmental pollution was reduced. Digitalization of banking counter services increased employees’ work production and manufacturing, development and preservation of water resources and, support these industries to efficiency, reduced employees’ work processing time and clients’ waiting time and significantly increased clients’ satisfaccontinue their sustainable, environment-friendly businesses. After the government announced its policy is to increase tion level. By making these changes, the usage of A4-size papers was reduced by 21% (2,112,500 sheets) from 2015 to 2017. the share of energy generated by new & renewable sources up to 20% by 2030, the number of solar energy power plants Gwangju and Jeollanam-do regions increased 4.8 times from 1,063 plants in 2013 to 5,118 plants in 2017. In 2017, [ PPR : Paperless Process Re-engineering ] Jeonbuk Bank lend KRW 35.5 billion and Kwangju Bank lend KRW 178.2 billion to solar energy industries and the banks are planning to expand their loans programs continuously in the years to come. JB Asset Management is also making AS IS TO BE asset investment to various environment-friendly businesses as well. ❶ Paper forms filled in by hand ❶ Forms are filled in using Tablet PCs [ Financial Support for Environment-Friendly Industries ] (Unit: KRW 100 million) ❷ Operators check and fill in the forms ❷ Operators check the forms Category 2015 2016 2017 ▶▶ PPR System ▶▶ ❸ Forms are categorized into BPR Establishment Jeonbuk Bank 689 988 1,651 ▶ standards and categories Forms are converted into original PDF files and image format Kwangju Bank 1,782 ❹ Paper documents are sent out ▶ Total 689 988 3,433 ❺ Paper documents are categorized, ❸ Electronic forms and documents are stored * Relevant data for Kwangju Bank couldn’t been acquired due to computer system replacements scanned and stored manually by hand and can be searched on the BPR system Protection of Beautiful Natural Sites Use of High-Efficient, Environment-Friendly Lighting Systems and Computer Equipment JB Financial Group’s ‘Community Love Volunteer Group’ visits the mountains and seas in Gwangju, Jeollanam-do and Jeollabuk-do regions every month and collects trash and participate in various environmental activities to preserve the To reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution (thermal power plants) by saving energy consumption, JB Fibeautiful natural landscapes of Korea. nancial Group uses high-efficient, environment-friendly lighting systems and electronics for its facilities. JB Financial Group has replaced all of its lights in its head office building to LED lamps and is saving more than 50% of electricity than before when it used fluorescent lamps. The lifespan of lighting systems has increased by 4 times and this helps Rehabilitating Urban Forests and Parks the Group to further save its energy consumption. Financial industry naturally requires the use of a lot of computers, JB Financial Group also carries out urban forest and park rehabilitation projects. The Group plants trees and flower to computer servers and equipment but by replacing old computers and servers with high-efficient, environment-friendly develop forests in the cities, improve the quality of air and reduce the urban heat island effect. products, JB Financial Groups and its subsidiaries are able to save more than 10% of the electricity they use to consume. Using high-efficient, environment-friendly products not only saves energy and protects the environment but it helps the Group to save a lot of operating costs. Converting Work Vehicles to LPG Vehicles More than 70% of work vehicles Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank currently use are LPG vehicles which cause less damage to the air environment because of their relatively low exhaust emissions compared to dieselor petro-fueled vehicles. LPG vehicles were considered more environment-friendly with an environment pollution rating at 1.86 compared to petro-fueled vehicles which scored 2.51 and diesel-fueled vehicles which scored 2.77 on the report, ‘Exhaust Emissions Rating by Fuel Type’ published by the Ministry of Health. The amount of nitrous oxide which is the root cause of fine dusts in air and acid rain, LPG cars emit was found to be only one-third of the amount emitted by petro-fueled cars and 1/93 of the amount emitted by diesel cars. And, it was found that using LPG vehicles as work vehicles is the most efficient and environment-friendly way for Gwangju, Jeollabuk-do and Jeollanam-do regions which do not have many electric car charging stations. 62 63 ZOOM IN : Contributing to the Improvement of Community Welfare through Continued Partnerships JB Financial Group grows with its communities. To fulfill its responsibilities and roles as a financial corporation by solving communities’ problems and improving the welfare of the locals, JB Financial Group works closely with Communities’ problems resolved / major welfare institutions and private organizations. Improved community welfare Community Chest of Korea (‘Fruit of Love’) ▶ Community Chest of Korea (‘Fruit of Love’) established in 1998 is a major charity and welfare institution in Korea. As major local banks, Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank have maintained a firm partnership with the Community Chest of Korea and the banks + are participating in various local welfare projects such as community donation campaigns, holiday community donation projects and supporting social welfare facilities. For the past 3 years, Jeonbuk Bank and Jeonbuk Community Chest together have been carrying out ‘Holiday Gift Sharing Project’, offering food and household supplies to 4,800 single elderly low-income households and households with disabilities and, supporting 39 study rooms for youth. Kwangju Bank, Gwangju Community Chest and Jeonnam Community Chest also operated a program that helps the foreign women who haven’t seen their families for a long time from settling in South Korea through marriage to visit their native countries by offering financial support and, have supported 32 households and 127 people over the past 3 years. + ChildFund Korea (‘Green Umbrella’) ChildFund Korea founded in 1948 is a global child welfare institution that has carried out a relief project for Korean War orphans, projects for child-headed households, sisterhood children projects for low-income households and projects for preventing child abuse as well as for protecting abused children. Together with the ChildFund Korea, Kwangju Bank carried out ‘Hope Study Room Project’ and built 38 ‘Hope Study Rooms’ for low-income households, local children’s centers and social welfare center so that children and youth can study in a safer and more pleasant environment. Also, Kwangju Bank offers cultural experience to the local children by organizing children’s musicals + in May which is the Family Month and during the summer vacation period. Jeonbuk Bank also works with the ChildFund Korea on a school program that helps the children to explore various career paths and jobs in the world. Korean Red Cross (KRC) Korean Red Cross (KRC) was founded in 1905 under the imperial order of Emperor Gojong of Korea. It is the first modern and humanitarian civil relief organization established in Korea. Working with the Korean Red Cross, Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank have Statement carried out various emergency disaster and crisis relief projects, welfare projects for the destitute and vulnerable groups and community charity bazaars. Jeonbuk Bank and + Jeonbuk Red Cross co-organized ‘Beautiful Companion, Hope Windmill Charity Walk’ to promote communities’ participation in charity activities. Over the past 3 years, Jeonbuk Bank also financially supported 40 foreign women who haven’t seen their families for a long time from settling in South Korea through marriage, to visit their native countries. Kwangju Bank, working with Gwangju Community Chest and Jeonnam Community Summary of Financial and Non-Financial Performance 66 Chest, provided holiday gifts to 3,200 single elderly low-income households and houseIndependent Auditors’ Report 77 holds with disabilities during the lunar New Year’s holiday season. ISO 26000 Performance Assessment Report 79 Third Party Assurance 80 Apart from these activities, the executives and employees of JB Financial Group and ▶ its subsidiaries actively carry out volunteer activities with over 200 local welfare instiCommunities’ problems & needs tutions and welfare facilities every month. 64 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Summary of Financial and Non-Financial Performance Summary of Financial Performance Consolidated Statements of Financial position (Unit: KRW 1 million) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Consolidated (Unit: KRW 1 million) Description 2015 2016 2017 Description 2015 2016 2017 Assets I. Operating income 347,997 252,735 196,435 I. Cash Due from Bank 1,469,444 2,218,635 2,244,941 (1) Net Interest Income 1,162,458 1,019,065 977,040 II. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss 220,196 18,341 8,237 1. Interest Income 1,774,126 1,626,031 1,603,608 III. Available-for-sale Financial Assets 2,019,000 2,507,957 2,296,682 2. Interest expenses -611,668 -606,966 -626,568 (2) Net Fee and Commission Income 13,472 16,649 19,428 IV. Held-to-maturity Financial Assets 2,976,091 2,419,404 2,586,662 1. Fee and Commission Income 122,781 111,593 104,315 V. Investment in Associates 994 3,065 4,911 2. Fee and Commission Expenses -109,309 -94,944 -84,887 VI. Loans 31,096,989 36,309,413 38,121,865 (3) Net Lease Income 41,703 37,120 30,901 VII. Lease assets 744,422 1,002,077 1,134,969 1. Lease Income 337,908 281,395 202,612 VIII. Tangible Assets 357,462 368,270 367,689 2. Lease Expenses -296,205 -244,275 -171,711 IX. Intangible Assets 104,457 167,554 186,481 (4) Net Income on Financial Instruments at Fair Value -4,413 6,646 9,404 X. Investment property 105,600 103,571 96,227 Through Profit and Loss XI. Deferred Income Tax Debits 25,975 32,361 34,749 (5) Net Income on Available-for-Sale Financial Assets 20,753 29,575 24,698 XII. Current Income Tax Assets 798 (6) Net Income on Held-to-Maturity Financial Assets 482 36 XIII. Other Assets 689,748 648,277 510,247 (7) Net Income on Derivative Instruments -1,939 161 Total Assets 39,811,176 45,798,925 47,593,660 (8) Net Income on Foreign Currency Transaction 14,157 3,399 1,892 Liabilities (9) Net Impairment Loss on Financial Assets -176,273 -194,132 -237,068 (10) General and Administrative Expenses -626,365 -589,550 -560,495 I. Depository liabilities 26,882,174 31,797,685 34,539,369 1. Employee Benefits -333,313 -331,599 -319,641 II. Financial Liability at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 679 541 1,286 2. Depreciation -76,243 -66,568 -57,822 III. Derivative Liabilities Carried at Amortised Cost 9,983 1,659 2,545 3. Other Administrative Expenses -216,809 -191,383 -183,032 IV. Borrowings 2,675,234 2,326,974 2,093,363 (11) Other Operating Income -96,038 -76,234 -69,365 V. Bonds Payable 6,414,087 7,551,105 6,659,929 1. Loss on Provisions -704 -3,008 -6,785 VI. Provisions 30,668 32,565 31,824 2. Others -95,334 -73,226 -62,580 VII. Income Tax Payable 8,910 42,595 51,068 II. Non-operation Income and Expenses -2,816 9,261 2,833 VIII. Deferred Income tax Credits 34,933 38,390 38,287 (1) Non-operation Income 11,589 16,994 14,349 IX. Defined Benefit Liability 49,410 16,617 2,781 (2) Non-operation Expenses -14,405 -7,733 -11,516 X. Other Liabilities 1,026,359 1,026,981 1,086,823 III. Income Before Income Tax Expense 345,181 261,996 199,268 Total Liabilities 37,132,437 42,835,112 44,507,275 IV. Income Tax Expense -80,740 -60,146 -48,361 Equity V. Net Income 264,441 201,850 150,907 I. Eauity attributable to owners of the group 2,139,866 2,279,215 2,429,470 VI. Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Income Tax -16,837 5,291 2,188 1. Capital Stock 777,197 777,197 777,197 1. Actuarial Gains (Losses) 17,976 -3,015 -1,434 2. Hybrid Bond 200,000 200,000 200,000 2. Net Change in Fair Value of Available-for-Sale Financial -14,933 2,203 -2,089 Assets 3. Capital Surplus 523,819 523,491 523,479 3. Gain(Loss) on valuation of derivatives instruments for 802 -2,491 5,711 4. Capital Adjustment -6,251 -6,251 -16,068 cash flow hedge 5. Accumulated Other Inclusive Gain(Loss) -10,470 -6,241 -10,690 4. Gain/Loss on Overseas Operations Translation -20,682 8,594 6. Retained Earnings 655,571 791,019 955,552 VII. Net Comprehensive Income 247,604 207,141 153,095 II. Non-controlling interests 538,873 684,598 656,915 (1) Attribution of Consolidated Net Profit 264,441 201,850 150,907 Total Stockholders' Equity 2,678,739 2,963,813 3,086,385 1. Controlling Interests 185,064 142,650 114,682 Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity 39,811,176 45,798,925 47,593,660 2. Non-controlling Interests 79,377 59,200 36,225 (2) Bond of Total Consolidated Income 247,604 207,141 153,095 1. Controlling Interests 180,643 146,879 115,763 2. Non-controlling Interests 66,961 60,262 37,332 VIII. Earnings per Share Earnings per Share and Diluted Earnings per Share 1,207 918 881 66 67 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Summary of Non-Financial Performance Main Economic Performance Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Assets by Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 14,118,308 16,292,823 18,059,489 Based on Consolidated Audit Risk AntiJB Financial Group Session(s) 29 30 26 Training on law compliance Subsidiary Report Management Corruption/ Jeonbuk Bank Session(s) 12 12 12 and ethics including Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 19,776,321 22,619,275 23,419,058 Law training on human rights JB Woori Capital KRW 1 mil 5,844,684 6,832,951 6,067,388 Compliance/ Kwangju Bank Session(s) 11 24 15 and sexual harassment JB Asset Management KRW 1 mil 16,731 18,080 17,586 Ethics Training JB Woori Capital Session(s) 29 37 40 prevention Per Person JB Asset Management Session(s) 2 2 2 Return On Assets (ROA) % 0.4 0.5 0.6 Based on Operating Reports and Return on Equity (ROE) % 6.3 7.2 8.6 Consolidated Financial Reports Total Session(s) 17 21 19 Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) % 12.5 12.1 12.2 Internal JB Financial Group Session(s) 221 241 253 Internal control system Control System Jeonbuk Bank Session(s) 760 817 817 is operated differently Securities-Based Lending (SBL) Ratio % 1.3 1.2 1.0 Operation depending on subsidiaries’ Kwangju Bank Session(s) 974 859 708 business areas Delinquency Ratio % 1.2 1.0 0.9 JB Woori Capital Session(s) 2,336 1,780 1,709 Net Income Attributable to Controlling KRW 100 mil 1,147 1,427 1,851 Shareholders JB Asset Management Session(s) 278 312 372 Market Share in Jeonbuk Region (Loan) % 28.0 26.5 25.6 Total Session(s) 4,569 4,009 3,859 Market Share in Jeonbuk Region (Savings) % 35.3 34.1 33.1 Risk JB Financial Group Session(s) 8 6 6 Risk Management Management Jeonbuk Bank Session(s) 6 7 6 Committee meetings are Market Share in Gwangju & Jeonnam % 24.8 24.9 22.6 Committee held differently depending Regions (Loan) Meetings Kwangju Bank Session(s) 6 7 8 on subsidiaries’ business Market Share in Gwangju & Jeonnam % 28.4 29.0 27.8 JB Woori Capital Session(s) 2 6 6 areas Regions (Savings) JB Asset Management Session(s) 13 59 47 Total Session(s) 35 85 73 Corruption & JB Financial Group Case(s) 0 0 0 Economic Performance Distributed to Stakeholders Violation of Jeonbuk Bank Case(s) 0 0 0 Law 단위 2015 2016 2017 Note. Kwangju Bank Case(s) 0 0 0 Economic Performance Net Income Ratio KRW 1 mil 150,907 201,850 264,441 Based on Consolidated JB Woori Capital Case(s) 0 1 0 Created to Stakeholders Audit Report JB Asset Management Case(s) 0 0 0 Economic Performance Shareholders and Dividend KRW 1 mil 12,565 7,730 7,730 Based on Consolidated Total Case(s) 0 1 0 Distributed Investors Audit Report to Stakeholders Executives and Wage KRW 1 mil 319,641 331,599 333,313 Based on Consolidated Employees Audit Report Clients Interest Paid KRW 1 mil 626,568 606,965 611,668 Based on Consolidated Audit Report Sustainable Finance & Generation of Client Value Communities Contributions KRW 1 mil 18,648 19,426 22,178 Based on Reports to Korea Federation of Banks Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Government Corporate Tax KRW 1 mil 48,361 60,146 80,740 Based on Consolidated Sustainable Total Amount of Jeonbuk Bank KRW 100 mil 515 696 1,006 Loan/Balance Audit Report Finance loan for low-incomes Kwangju Bank KRW 100 mil 79 542 805 Total KRW 100 mil 594 1,238 1,811 Sustainable Management System Technology Financing Jeonbuk Bank KRW 100 mil 351 354 355 Financing for Local Jeonbuk Bank KRW 100 mil 415 302 264 Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Companies Governance Board of Number of Meetings Session(s) 11 9 8 Environment-Friendly Jeonbuk Bank KRW 100 mil 689 988 1,651 Directors Percentage of Outside % 57 56 56 Financing Kwangju Bank KRW 100 mil 1,782 Operating Directors Performance Total KRW 100 mil 689 988 3,433 Attendance Rate % 90 97 99 Client Value VOC Complaints Jeonbuk Bank Case(s) 60 27 36 Official Client Complaints Total Registered Directors KRW 1 mil 133 171 311 Excluding the members Creation Handling Kwangju Bank Case(s) 1,929 3,498 Based on the complaints reCompensation of the Audit Committee ceived by the Call Center, through for the Board of Outside Directors KRW 1 mil 115 85 97 Members of the Audit website, client postcards. Directors Committee JB Woori Capital Case(s) 864 784 623 Outside Directors KRW 1 mil 117 124 148 Client Satisfaction Score Kwangju Bank Points 90 91 92 Share Foreign Ownership % 29.5 37.7 41.9 Evaluation on Financial Jeonbuk Bank N/A N/A N/A Carried out self-evaluations; Ratio % Consumer Protection Excluded from the Largest Shareholder JUBILEE ASIA B.V. JUBILEE ASIA B.V. JUBILEE ASIA B.V. comprehensive evaluation : 8.4 : 8.4 : 8.4 Kwangju Bank 4 Average/ 2 Average/ Evaluation in % 6 Satisfactory 8 Satisfactory Progress Domestic Ownership % 70.49 62.3 58.14 Ratio Personal Information Jeonbuk Bank Case(s) 0 0 0 Breach Kwangju Bank Case(s) 0 0 0 Largest Shareholder Samyang Samyang Samyang Biopharm : 9.0 Biopharm : 9.0 Corporation : 9.0 JB Woori Capital Case(s) 0 0 0 68 69 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Human Resources Management & Diversity Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Total Number of Executives and Employees People 3,415 3,371 3,422 Supervisors JB Financial Group People 49 55 69 Managers and Above New Employment Jeonbuk Bank People 31 29 31 Newly Hired High School Jeonbuk Bank People 491 507 509 Kwangju Bank People 30 36 68 and University Graduates Kwangju Bank People 803 729 684 JB Woori Capital People 3 3 10 JB Woori Capital People 184 206 203 Total People 64 68 109 JB Asset Management People 17 26 24 New Employment Rate JB Financial Group % 1.9 2.0 3.2 Based on Total Number of Total People 1,544 1,523 1,489 Executives and Employees Executives JB Financial Group People 13 14 14 Including Outside Employment JB Financial Group People 38 37 41 Total New Employees, Jeonbuk Bank People 12 14 16 Directors Jeonbuk Bank People 87 66 74 Experienced Employees Kwangju Bank People 18 17 15 and Contract Kwangju Bank People 66 72 114 JB Woori Capital People 13 14 11 Employees Hired JB Woori Capital People 110 113 88 JB Asset Management People 6 9 9 JB Asset Management People 19 26 23 Total People 62 68 65 Total People 320 314 340 Age 18 and Below JB Asset Management People 1 High School Graduates Hired Employment Rate JB Financial Group % 9.4 9.3 9.9 20 to 30 JB Financial Group People 8 7 11 Retirees JB Financial Group People 17 18 18 Total New Employees, Jeonbuk Bank People 169 148 214 Jeonbuk Bank People 53 59 62 Experienced Employees Kwangju Bank People 93 100 154 and Contract Employees Kwangju Bank People 148 194 95 JB Woori Capital People 95 104 84 Retired JB Woori Capital People 95 85 137 JB Asset Management People 2 7 3 JB Asset Management People 12 7 20 Total People 367 366 466 Total People 325 363 332 30 to 50 JB Financial Group People 54 70 78 Retirement Rate JB Financial Group % 9.5 10.8 9.7 Jeonbuk Bank People 729 750 740 Executives from the JB Financial Group % 16.7 26.7 26.7 Jeonbuk Kwangju Bank People 1,178 1,152 1,139 Area: Directors including Jeonbuk Bank % 30.8 33.3 35.3 Jeonbuk JB Woori Capital People 409 420 382 Managing Directors, Assistant Managing Kwangju Bank % 50.0 66.7 75.0 Gwangju & Jeonnam JB Asset Management People 24 37 44 Directors, Non-Executive JB Woori Capital % 9.1 6.7 0.0 Jeonbuk Total People 2,394 2,429 2,383 Directors, Outside Directors, JB Asset Management % 11.1 16.7 15.4 Jeonbuk 50 and Older JB Financial Group People 18 17 24 Executive Directors Total (Average) % 26.2 29.6 28.6 Jeonbuk Bank People 211 232 243 Contract Full-Time JB Financial Group People 47 56 68 Kwangju Bank People 400 297 275 Type Jeonbuk Bank People 1,007 1,025 1,054 JB Woori Capital People 47 55 57 Kwangju Bank People 1,518 1,397 1,388 JB Asset Management People 3 3 3 JB Woori Capital People 400 421 415 Total People 679 604 602 JB Asset Management People 21 10 12 Sex Male JB Financial Group % 61 71 89 Total People 2,993 2,909 2,937 Jeonbuk Bank % 57 57 56 Contract JB Financial Group People 20 24 31 Kwangju Bank % 54 51 53 Jeonbuk Bank People 90 91 127 JB Woori Capital % 71 71 68 Kwangju Bank People 153 152 180 JB Asset Management % 93 87 85 JB Woori Capital People 151 158 108 Female JB Financial Group % 39 29 11 JB Asset Management People 8 37 39 Jeonbuk Bank % 44 43 44 Total People 422 462 485 Kwangju Bank % 46 49 47 Position General JB Financial Group People 18 25 30 Assistant Manager and JB Woori Capital % 29 29 32 Employees Jeonbuk Bank People 606 609 672 Positions Below JB Asset Management % 7 13 15 Kwangju Bank People 850 803 869 Foreigner Jeonbuk Bank People 1 JB Woori Capital People 358 361 312 JB Woori Capital People 1 1 JB Asset Management People 6 12 18 JB Asset Management People 2 Total People 1,838 1,810 1,901 Total People 1 4 70 71 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Human Resources Development and Welfare Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Labor Membership Rate JB Financial Group % 100 100 100 Training Costs Per JB Financial Group KRW 1,000 555 547 367 Union/Labor of All Employees Person Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1,000 1101 885 789 Jeonbuk Bank % 60.8 67.0 63.0 Committee/ Kwangju Bank KRW 1,000 464 671 1265 Kwangju Bank % 64.1 69.2 68.3 Labor-ManJB Woori Capital % 98.9 99.0 98.8 JB Woori Capital KRW 1,000 242 437 996 agement Council JB Asset Management KRW 1,000 297 181 226 Membership Rate JB Financial Group % 100 100 100 Membership of All Employees Total (Average) KRW 1,000 532 544 729 Jeonbuk Bank % 100 100 99.2 Eligible for Training Hours Per JB Financial Group hr 18 36 41 Kwangju Bank % 100 100 100 Membership Person Jeonbuk Bank hr 71 78 77 JB Woori Capital % 100 100 100 Kwangju Bank hr 52 50 46 Female Ratio of Female JB Financial Group % 23.8 24.5 21.2 JB Woori Capital hr 67 74 84 Employees Workers to the Jeonbuk Bank % 44.0 43.0 44.0 Total (Average) hr 52 59 62 by Position Total Number of Kwangju Bank % 46.0 49.0 47.0 Employees Number of Employees JB Financial Group People 0 0 0 None JB Woori Capital % 29.0 29.0 32.0 on Childcare Leave Jeonbuk Bank People 40 35 30 JB Asset Management % 7.0 13.0 15.0 Kwangju Bank People 84 82 71 Percentage of JB Financial Group % 18.8 26.3 13.0 Senior Manager JB Woori Capital People 8 14 7 Women in Senior Jeonbuk Bank % 4.0 4.0 6.0 and Above JB Asset Management People 1 0 0 None in 2016 & 2017 Management Kwangju Bank % 3.0 6.0 7.0 Total People 133 131 108 Positions JB Woori Capital % 1 .0 1.0 1.0 Number of Employees JB Financial Group People 0 0 0 None Returned from Childcare Jeonbuk Bank People 40 35 Returning day has JB Asset Management % 4.0 7.0 6.0 Leave not arrived yet Female Percentage of JB Financial Group % 19.0 17.5 17.6 Employees Regular Female Kwangju Bank People 80 78 69 Jeonbuk Bank % 46.0 45.0 46.0 Hired by Employees JB Woori Capital People 5 7 6 Kwangju Bank % 44.0 42.0 41.0 Contract JB Asset Management People 1 0 0 None in 2016 & 2017 Type JB Woori Capital % 21 .0 22.0 23.0 Total People 126 120 75 JB Asset Management % 29.0 50.0 67.0 Number of Employees JB Financial Group % 0 0 0 None Percentage of JB Financial Group % 40.0 52.2 35.5 Returned from Childcare Jeonbuk Bank % 100 100 Returning day has Contract Female Jeonbuk Bank % 27.0 26.0 29.0 Leave (Ratio) not arrived yet Employees Kwangju Bank % 62.0 66.0 61.0 Kwangju Bank % 95.2 95.1 97.1 JB Woori Capital % 51 .0 49.0 66.0 JB Woori Capital % 63.0 50.0 86.0 JB Asset Management % 13.0 22.0 18.0 JB Asset Management % 100 0 0 None in 2016 & 2017 Percentage of Female JB Financial Group % 18.4 20.0 13.0 Manager and Number of Employees JB Financial Group People 0 0 0 Retired after Childcare Jeonbuk Bank People 0 0 1 Supervisors Jeonbuk Bank % 24.0 26.0 29.0 Above Leave Kwangju Bank People 4 4 2 Kwangju Bank % 23 .0 26.0 27.0 JB Woori Capital People 3 1 4 JB Woori Capital % 4.0 4.0 4.0 JB Asset Management People 0 0 0 JB Asset Management % 24.0 27.0 25.0 Total People 7 5 7 Child Care Number of JB Financial Group People 15 18 21 Benefit Children Jeonbuk Bank People 294 308 309 Supported Kwangju Bank People 239 255 274 Total People 548 581 604 Amount JB Financial Group KRW 1 mil 6 9 13 Supported Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 315 329 329 Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 57 61 65 Total KRW 1 mil 378 399 407 Female-to-Male Wage JB Financial Group % 27 43 37 Based on the Wages Ratio Jeonbuk Bank % 65 68 71 of All Executives/ Regular/IndefiniteKwangju Bank % 57 56 58 Term Employees/ JB Woori Capital % 53 54 52 Contract Employees JB Asset Management % 13 17 16 72 73 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Retirement Subscription Rate JB Financial Group % 46 64 66 Labor Union/Labor Committee/LaborJeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 43 32 34 Pension Jeonbuk Bank % 87 93 86 Management Council Kwangju Bank % 99 99 99 Scholarships Middle Number of Beneficiaries Jeonbuk Bank People 100 100 100 JB Woori Capital % 100 100 100 School Contributions Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 30 30 30 JB Asset Management % 0 0 100 Started in 2017 High Number of Beneficiaries Jeonbuk Bank People 110 90 110 Defined-Benefit JB Financial Group People 20 37 44 School Kwangju Bank People 50 50 50 Plan (DB) Jeonbuk Bank People 745 805 805 Total People 160 140 160 (Subscribers) Kwangju Bank People 1,666 1,544 1,564 Contributions Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 55 54 75 JB Woori Capital People 335 346 335 Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 100 100 100 JB Asset Management People 0 0 22 Started in 2017 Total KRW 1 mil 155 154 175 Total People 2,766 2,732 2,770 People 0 2 10 University Number of Beneficiaries Jeonbuk Bank DefinedJB Financial Group People 14 20 27 Kwangju Bank People 50 50 50 Contribution Plan Jeonbuk Bank People 219 241 227 (DC)(Subscribers) Total People 50 52 60 Kwangju Bank People 0 0 0 100% on the DefinedContributions Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 0 6 5 Benefit Plan Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 25 25 25 JB Woori Capital People 112 124 116 JB Asset Management People 0 0 29 Started in 2017 Total KRW 1 mil 25 31 30 Total People 345 385 399 Safety & Number of JB Financial Group People 0 0 0 Health Employees with Jeonbuk Bank People 0 1 4 Work-Related Contributions by Area Injuries & Kwangju Bank People 0 0 0 Illnesses JB Woori Capital People 0 0 0 Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. JB Asset Management People 0 0 0 Community and Public Volunteers Jeonbuk Bank People 3,350 3,850 3,870 Total People 0 1 4 Welfare Kwangju Bank People 4,535 3,801 4,209 Number of JB Financial Group Day(s) 0 0 0 Total People 7,885 7,651 8,079 Absences from Jeonbuk Bank Day(s) 0 105 162 Work-Related Contribution Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 4,974 2,851 3,107 Kwangju Bank Day(s) 0 0 0 Injuries & Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 5,628 5,550 3,656 Illnesses JB Woori Capital Day(s) 0 0 0 Total KRW 1 mil 10,602 8,401 6,763 JB Asset Management Day(s) 0 0 0 Culture, Arts, Sports Volunteers Jeonbuk Bank People 708 803 840 Total Day(s) 0 105 162 Kwangju Bank People 2,032 2,100 800 Total People 2,740 2,903 1,640 Contribution Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 1,628 2,117 2,231 Win Win Management for Partners Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 929 1,249 1,516 Total KRW 1 mil 2,557 3,366 3,747 Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Education & Scholarships Volunteers Jeonbuk Bank People 580 640 670 Percentage of Purchases from Jeonbuk Bank % 90.5 79.0 85.7 Percentage of General Kwangju Bank People 2,776 1,706 1,706 Local Companies Supplies Purchased from Kwangju Bank % 39.8 45.2 38.6 Partners in Business Total People 3,356 2,346 2,376 Total (Average) % 65.2 62.1 62.2 Regions Contribution Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 2,440 4,232 2,143 Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 2,000 3,159 3,936 Total KRW 1 mil 4,440 7,391 6,079 Participation in and Contributions to Communities Microcredit, Banks Contribution Jeonbuk Bank KRW 1 mil 477 58 685 Foundation For Young Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 531 48 4,868 Entrepreneurs, Credit Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Recovery Committee Total KRW 1 mil 1,008 106 5,553 Contributions/Net Income Jeonbuk Bank % 18.6 17.8 12.6 Environment & Global Volunteers People 2,513 2,811 2,880 Jeonbuk Bank Ratio Kwangju Bank % 15.7 10.4 9.8 Kwangju Bank People 3,430 3,364 2,771 Average % 17.2 13.8 11.5 People 5,943 6,175 5,651 Total Number of Volunteer Jeonbuk Bank People 7,151 8,104 8,536 Contribution KRW 1 mil 18 115 69 Jeonbuk Bank Participants Kwangju Bank People 12,773 9,486 10,971 Kwangju Bank KRW 1 mil 23 47 26 Total People 19,924 19,075 18,022 Total KRW 1 mil 41 162 95 74 75 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Independent Auditors’ Report Environment-Friendly Management and Finance Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note. Environment-Related Volunteer Jeonbuk Bank Times 124 136 138 English Translation of Independent Auditors‘ Report Originally Deloitte Anjin LLC Activities Kwangju Bank Times 228 224 184 Issued in Korean on March 15, 2018. 9F., One IFC, Total Times 352 360 322 10, Gukjegeumyung-ro, Paper Usage Jeonbuk Bank A4 Box/2,500 sheets 4,680 5,346 4,932 Usage Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul by Branches 07326, Korea Kwangju Bank A4 Box/2,500 sheets 8,600 6,000 6,000 Total A4 Box/2,500 sheets 4,159 4,416 3,314 Tel: +82 (2) 6676 1000 The board of directors and Shareholders Fax: +82 (2) 6674 2114 Credit Card Total Statements Jeonbuk Bank Cases 1,535,149 1,631,231 1,783,761 Paper, Email and Email Sent JB Financial Group Co., Ltd.: www.deloitteanjin.co.kr Kwangju Bank Cases 2,070,893 2,297,549 2,536,950 Statement Total Cases 3,606,042 3,928,780 4,320,711 Usage Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements Email Statements Jeonbuk Bank Cases 374,941 411,370 480,769 Sent We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of JB Financial Group Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the Group ), Kwangju Bank Cases 915,835 958,814 1,017,304 which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and the related consoliTotal Cases 1,290,776 1,370,184 1,498,073 dated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of changes in equity and consolidated statements of cash flows, all Email Statement Jeonbuk Bank % 24.4 25.2 27.0 expressed in Korean won, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and notes, comprising a summary of significant Usage Rate Kwangju Bank % 44.2 41.7 40.1 accounting policies and other explanatory information. Average % 34.3 33.5 33.5 Credit Cards Issued Jeonbuk Bank Cases 145,506 246,642 283,216 Management’s responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Kwangju Bank Cases 378,471 390,763 427,550 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean Average Cases 523,977 637,405 710,766 International Financial Reporting Standards ( K-IFRS ) and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the Jeonbuk Bank % 2.6 1.7 1.7 preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Email Statement Usage Rate to Credit Kwangju Bank % 2.4 2.5 2.4 Cards Issued Auditors’ Responsibility Average % 2.5 2.1 2.1 Our responsibility is to express an audit opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits Energy Usage Water Jeonbuk Bank ton 16,759 18,740 23,304 in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing ( KSAs ). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan Kwangju Bank ton 21,068 19,062 20,791 and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstateJB Woori Capital ton 6,948 6,944 6,783 ment. Total ton 44,775 44,746 50,878 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The Electricity Jeonbuk Bank Kwh 6,032,411 6,343,452 6,253,650 procedures selected depend on the auditor‘s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial Kwangju Bank Kwh 5,972,802 8,543,392 8,767,161 statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity‘s JB Woori Capital Kwh 1,378,056 1,447,992 1,417,844 preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, Total Kwh 13,383,269 16,334,836 16,438,655 but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity‘s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the Gas Jeonbuk Bank MJ 227,384 250,356 260,405 appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating Kwangju Bank MJ 180,431 212,442 259,723 the overall presentation of the financial statements. JB Woori Capital MJ 5,964 6,052 7,663 We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Total MJ 413,779 468,850 527,791 Energy Usage Number of Jeonbuk Bank People 387 404 419 Subsidiaries’ Opinion Per Unit Executives and Head Offices JB Kwangju Bank People 523 461 486 In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group Employees Financial Group JB Woori Capital People 196 198 193 as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years Owns Total People 1,106 1,063 1,098 ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, in accordance with K-IFRS. Electricity Usage Jeonbuk Bank Kwh/person 15,588 15,702 14,925 Subsidiaries’ Per Person Head Offices JB Kwangju Bank Kwh/person 11,420 18,532 18,039 Financial Group JB Woori Capital Kwh/person 7,031 7,313 7,346 Owns Total Kwh/person 12,101 15,367 14,971 EnvironmentEnvironmentJeonbuk Bank % 75 76 77 Friendly Car Friendly Car Kwangju Bank % 66 67 67 Total (Average) % 70.5 71.5 71.8 This report is effective as of March 15, 2018, the auditors‘ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditors‘ report date and the time the auditors‘ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the consolidated financial statements and may result in modifications to the auditors‘ report. 76 77 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report ISO 26000 Performance Assessment Report Assessment Standard Environment ㅣ The Group is working to minimize its environmental impact by introducing high-efficient equipment and making relevant investment and is also providing environment-friendly products but the Group is in urgent need of environmental performance manageAs part of the service provided to the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards, Korea Standard Association (“We”) developed an asment such as establishing a greenhouse gas inventory. We advise the Group to expand the scope of its environmental management to all sessment checklist for the evaluation of JB Financial Group’s performance on social responsibility. This assessment report provides the branches of its subsidiaries at home and abroad and, to provide more environmental-friendly products and services. results and improvements in JB Financial Group’s performance related to social responsibility processes and 7 core subjects of ISO 26000 Fair Operating Practices ㅣ We advise the Group to develop and provide substantial support and programs that could improve and strengthen awareness of social responsibility to all stakeholders within its value chain including the partners and, to strive towards socially Assessment Scope responsible management with others. We assessed JB Financial Group’s processes and performance related to social responsibility. More specifically, we assessed JB Financial Consumer Issues ㅣ JB Financial Group provides education on economy and finance to the financially disadvantaged and vulnerable Group’s long-term strategy and execution thereof, stakeholders’ involvement and the Group’s social responsibility activities, etc. Assessment groups, operates ‘Mobile Finance Class’ and participate in activities that help the financial consumers. We advise the Group to continue to method We performed the following activities to collect appropriate data and information based on the assessment criteria of the ISO 26000. increase the number of beneficiaries of those activities by developing more support channels offand online. • Review of JB Financial Group’s internal data related to activities and performance in corporate social responsibility. Community Involvement and Development ㅣ We advise the Group to apply its principles for purchasing from the local companies and co• Interviews with JB Financial Group’s personnel in charge of each corporate social responsibility subject operating with the local organizations to produce financial professionals in the communities, to the countries where the Group is operating businesses at, develop opportunities to generate more values and expand its impact on the global community. ISO 26000 Performance Assessment Results by Process Publishing its first sustainability report, JB Financial Group selected and prioritized core subjects on sustainable management through Organizational stakeholders’ participation and based on ISO 26000. ISO 26000 Assessment was focused on the performance of JB Financial Group’s key Governance Organizational Practices that comply with the principles of social responsibility subsidiaries, Jeonbuk Bank and Kwangju Bank. We advise JB Financial Group to establish a systematic system so that it can continue to 100.0 Governance principles and incorporate those principles to existing systems, policies, and practices formulate goals and implementation strategies for the Group’s socially responsible management and improve its performance to the level Community 90.0 Involvement and Human Rights Practices that protect and have respect for human rights within the demanded by the international community. Development 93.8 Human Rights 80.0 75.0 organization and the area where its influence reaches 70.0 88.9 Labor Practices Labor policies and practices that have effects on employees’ labor conditions, within JB Financial Group and its partners Awareness of Social 60.0 Responsibility Awareness of Social Examination of the current level of awareness organization Environment Comprehensive approach to minimizing environmental impact of 100.0 Responsibility based on the management’s will 50.0 the decision and practices of the organization Identification of Identification of Stakeholders Examination of stakeholders’ interests and demands, and, Fair Operating Practices that are interested in maintaining transactions among JB Improvement 90.0 96.7 Stakeholders and Their Participation formulation of strategies to promote their participation 97.9 Practices Financial Group, its partners and suppliers ethical. and Their Labor 76.0 80.0 83.3 Participation Analysis of Core Topics and Formulation of a list of core topics through examination of Consumer 67.0 Practices Consumer Issues Activities for protecting consumer rights such as consumer 70.0 Issues at Stake issues and analysis of internal competencies Issues education, disclosure of fair and transparent marketing 70.0 Prioritization and Prioritization of core issues to be improved and information and promotion of sustainable consumption 60.0 Formulation of Strategies formulation of strategies and plans based on the organizational Community Recognizing and having respect for communities’ rights and, Verification 50.0 73.3 Analysis of and Plans capacities 97.3 Involvement and maximizing the support and opportunities towards Core Topics 53.3 and Issues at Practice Implementation of the strategies, vision, goal and Fair Operating Environment Development ensuring those rights. Stake implementation plans, and regular monitoring of social Practices responsibility performance Conclusion 65.0 80.0 80.0 Communication Communication with stakeholders through performance reports Verification Activities and reporting for enhancing the reliability of the Communication Prioritization and performance According to the ISO 26000 Performance Assessment, JB Financial Group was found to be at SR performance level III, scoring 257 out of 360 Formulation of Strategies and Plans Improvement Periodical evaluation of performance for continued for process, 547 out of 640 for performance and a total of 794 points. JB Financial Group with JB Financial Group’s CSR Team taking initiative improvements and stakeholders actively participating, is striving to realize a level of CSR management that the international community demands. We adPractice vise JB Financial Group to continue to be aware of CSR with its core competencies as a global financial corporation and, to expand its scope of management for CSR to include all the stakeholders, subsidiaries and partners within its value chain. ISO 26000 Performance Assessment Results by Seven Core Subjects June 2018 Organizational Governance ㅣ JB Financial Group has improved the principles and organizational structure for corporate social responsibility (CSR) management. We advise the Group to apply those principles throughout the management processes and effectively operate Lee, Sang-jin organizations related to CSR management such as CSR management committee and CSR working group. CEO, Korea Standard Association Human Rights ㅣ We advise the Group to identify the risks and impacts on human rights within the Group’s value chain including all stakeholders and, to use the analysis of those data to formulate human rights policies for the entire Group, establish procedure for inspecting the human rights and select human rights personnel and training appropriate for the Group. Labor Practices ㅣ Customer labor practices are being carried out within the same industry. We advise the Group to develop programs for Korea Standard Association (KSA) is a special public corporation founded in 1962 pursuant to Article 32 of the Industrial Standardization Act and it is a the sustainable lives of the executives and employees such as retirement programs and, to share the effects of CSR management with the knowledge service providing organization that promotes and provides industrial standardization, quality management, sustainable management and KS stakeholders. & ISO certifications to industries. KSA contributes to the sustainable development of our society as the official advisory organization in Korea for ISO 26000, GRI-designated educational institution, AA1000 qualification agency, Korean Sustainability Index (KSI)-operating organization, UN CDM operating organization and the organization for certifying Greenhouse Gas Target Management System. 78 79 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Third Party Assurance Dear JB Financial Group Management and Stakeholders, GRI STANDARDS STANDARD APPLICATION The Assurers have verified that the Report was prepared in accordance with the Core Option of GRI Standards. Based on the data provided by JB INTRODUCTION Financial Group, contents in relation to Universal Standards and Topic-specific Standards are confirmed facts. The Korean Standards Association (“KSA”) was commissioned by JB Financial Group to perform a Third-party Assurance Engagement of ‘JB Financial Group 2017-2018 Integrated Sustainability Report’ (the “Report”). KSA presents independent opinions to the result of feasibility of the data con[ Universal Standards ] tained in this Report. JB Financial Group has sole responsibility for contents and performance contained in this Report. The Assurers have verified that the Report complied with the requirements of Core Option of GRI Standard and the following indices 102-1 to 102-13 (Organizational profile), 102-14 (Strategy), 102-16 (Ethics and integrity), 102-18 to 102-39 (Governance), 102-40 to 102-44 (Stakeholder INDEPENDENCE engagement), 102-45 to 102-56 (Report practice), 103 (Management Approach). As an independent assurance agency, KSA does not have any kind of commercial interest in businesses of JB Financial Group apart from undertaking [ Topic-specific Standards ] a third-party assurance on the Report. We have no other contract with JB Financial Group that may undermine credibility and integrity as an independent assurance agency. The Assurers have verified that specified disclosure list on Material Aspect that was deduced disclosure list determination process, and the following indices. ASSURANCE STANDARDS AND LEVEL • Economic: 201-1~3, 202-2, 203-1~2, 204-1, 205-1~3, 206-1 This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008) assurance standards to provide Moderate Level assurance. We checked the three prin• Environmental: 301-1, 302-1, 302-3~5, 303-1, 304-2, 307-1 ciples of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness in combination with information credibility of the Report. We also verified whether the Report • Social: 401-1~3, 402-1, 403-1~2, 404-1~3, 405-1~2, 406-1, 408-1, 409-1, 410-1, 412-1~2, 413-1~2, 415-1, 417-1~3, 418-1, 419-1 content was created in accordance with the GRI standard. In addition, the Assurers has verified in compliance to the following indices of financial service sector • Financial Accessibility: FS13 ASSURANCE TYPE, SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS We performed a Type 2 Assurance Engagement in accordance with AA1000AS. This implies that we verified the accuracy and quality of the stateOPINIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS [Performance/Issues] ments made by JB Financial Group and the sustainability performance data included in this Report. The scope of verification is a period from Jan 1, The Assurers offer the following proposal to implement strategies in sustainability management in response to the issues with coherence at an 2017 to Dec 31, 2017, and depending on the content, includes some information for the first half of 2018. The scope of this Assurance Engagement organizational level in JB Financial Group. primarily includes the systems and initiatives undertaken by JB Financial Group including its sustainable management policies, goals, projects, standards and performance during the reporting period defined in the Report. While the company’s environmental and social data as well as financial [ Economic performance ] data was verified, the scope of review concerning stakeholder engagement was limited to the materiality test process. JB Financial Group, who takes wise growth, change and innovation as core value, eager to become the best financial group specializing in small business oriented, have achieved steady growth through risk management while the local economy slowed down along with the industry risk. It has METHODOLOGY gain differentiating competitiveness, making its leap to become the best as small business finance specialist. In the future, proactive response to the The Assurers collected data, information, and evidence via following method. financial risk such as domestic financial policy changes and fluctuating financial climate such as changes in oversea interest rate, as well as manag• Written interview with sustainability managers in JB Financial Group ing economic uncertainty such as non-financial risk, will be helpful to inform stakeholders in regards to sustainability in the long term. • Analysis and verification on Report draft data of JB Financial Group [ Environmental performance ] • Crosscheck between financial performance data in the Report and the data in the Assurers’ report on the Company’s financial statements and disclosures It is positive to find thorough management on environmental data such as environmental-friendly investment, energy and water usage response • Track and examine internal documents and basic data to the elevating impact of environmental finance on social, economic and environmental fields in the global setting. Global financial institutes are • JB Financial Group in-person assurance actively involved in environmentally responsible finance as their core issue in response to the growing demand of the stakeholders on environmental improvement. JB Finance Group as comprehensive financial company, would need to expand diversifying investment targets for environmentally responsible finance in realization of sustainable society. In addition, the assurers recommend on establishing standard work guidelines on quantitaASSURANCE RESULTS AND OPINIONS [On an assurance principle/process level] tive indicators and improvement on data recording, storage and management. KSA reviewed the draft version of this Report to present our opinions as an assurance provider. Modifications were made of the Report content if deemed necessary. Assurers were not aware of any significant errors or inappropriate descriptions in this Report during the Assurance Engagement. [ Social performance ] As such, we present our opinions of the 2017-2018 JB Financial Group Integrated Sustainability Report as follows. The Assurers recommend JB Financial Group to establish fair process internally and rebuild trust with stakeholders externally, regarding the social [ Inclusivity ] issues originated from the malpractice from the past. In addition, it is recommended to systematically manage the issues that were found in the process of collecting the management data for the Report to find improved sustainability report writing process in coming year. Have JB financial stakeholders included stakeholders in the process of strategically responding to sustainability? The Assurers confirmed that JB Financial Group strives to establish a participatory process and recognizes the importance of stakeholder participation in promoting sustainable management. In addition, the assurers confirmed that JB Financial Group classify interests into eight groups: individual customers, corporate customers, local communities, partner companies, the public sector, the media, employees and non-regular employees / interns, and JB Financial Group have communication channels by stakeholder groups, confirmed that various opinions are collected through this. June 2018 Sang-Jin Lee, KSA Chairman & CEO. [ Materiality ] Has JB Financial Group included important information for the wise judgment of stakeholders in the report? The Assurers believe that JB Financial Group did not omit or omit important information from stakeholders. We have confirmed that JB Financial Group has conducted a materiality assessment based on business importance and stakeholder interest to derive priority issues. [ Responsiveness ] Korean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, is serving as a knowledge service provider who distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, Has JB Financial Group appropriately responded to the needs and interests of stakeholders? KS certification and ISO certification. KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, certified GRI The Assurers have verified JB Financial Group responded stakeholders’ needs and interests through reflecting stakeholders’ opinions in the Report. training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI (Korea Sustainability Index) operator, UN CDM DOE (development operational entity), and assurance proWe are not aware of any evidence that JB Financial Group ’s response to significant issues of stakeholders was reported inappropriately. vider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system 80 81 2017 Sustainability Report GRI Standard Cotents Index (Core Option) Universal Standards GRI 102: General Disclosure Category No Contents Index Page and Status Assurance Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 6 ■ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8~10 ■ 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 ■ 102-4 Location of operations 7 ■ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6 ■ 102-6 Markets served 7 ■ 102-7 Scale of the organization 6 ■ 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6, 70~72 ■ 102-9 Supply chain 7 ■ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 4~5 ■ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 30~32 ■ 102-12 External initiatives 86 ■ 102-13 Membership of associations 86 ■ Strategy and Analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2~3 ■ Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 26, 28~29, 32~33 ■ Governance 102-18 Governance structure 34 ■ 102-19 Delegating authority 29 ■ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 27 ■ 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 9, 29, 38~39 ■ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 34~35 ■ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 34~35 ■ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 34 ■ 102-25 Conflicts of interest 34 ■ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 27, 34~35 ■ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 27 ■ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 35 ■ 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 27 ■ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 30~31 ■ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 27, 36~39 ■ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 27 ■ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 27, 31, 35 ■ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 31, 35 ■ 102-35 Remuneration policies 35 Appendices ■ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 35 ■ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 35 ■ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 35 ■ 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 35 ■ Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 36~37 ■ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 52 ■ GRI Standard Cotents Index (Core Option) 83 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 36 ■ UN Global Compact Principles Compliance 86 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 36~37 ■ Membership 86 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 37~39 ■ Major Awards 86 83 JB Financial Group 2017 Sustainability Report Universal Standards Topic-specific Standards GRI 102: General Disclosure GRI 400: Society Category No Contents Index Page and Status Assurance Category No Contents Index Page and Status Assurance Report Profile 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 6 ■ Management Approach 103 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 39, 50, 58 ■ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About This Report, 41 ■ approach and its components 102-47 List of material topics 41 ■ Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 70 ■ 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable ■ 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 54~55 ■ 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable ■ temporary or part-time employees 102-50 Reporting period About This Report ■ 401-3 Parental leave 73 ■ 102-51 Date of most recent report First Reporting ■ Labor/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 30 days ■ 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report ■ Relations 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report ■ Occupational Health and 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 72 ■ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report ■ Safety safety committees 102-55 GRI content index 83~85 ■ 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 74 ■ absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 102-56 External assurance About This Report ■ Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 73 ■ 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 53~55 ■ Topic-specific Standards programs GRI 200: Economic 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 100% ■ Category No Contents Index Page and Status Assurance development reviews Management 103 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 39, 42 ■ Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 70~72 ■ Approach approach and its components Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 73 ■ Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6, 8~9, 68 ■ Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No Cases ■ 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 61, 63 ■ Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Not applicable ■ 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 74 ■ Forced or Compulsory 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Not applicable ■ Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 70 ■ Labor compulsory labor Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 69 ■ Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 69 ■ Assessment assessments 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 8~9 ■ 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 32~33 ■ Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 74 ■ Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 74~75 ■ Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 69 ■ and development programs 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 32~33 ■ 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on Not applicable ■ 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 69 ■ local communities Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices No Cases ■ Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Not applicable ■ Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 44~48 ■ 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service No Cases ■ Topic-specific Standards information and labeling GRI 300: Environmental 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No Cases ■ Category No 내용 Page and Status Assurance Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and No Cases ■ Management Approach 103 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, The management 39, 58 ■ losses of customer data approach and its components Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and No Cases ■ Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 76 ■ Compliance economic area Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 76 ■ 302-3 Energy intensity 76 ■ 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 76 ■ Financial Services Sector Supplemnet 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 76 ■ Category No Contents Index Page and Status Assurance Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 76 ■ Financial Assesibility FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas 48 ■ Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Not applicable ■ by type Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No Cases ■ 84 85 JB Financial Group UN Global Compact Principles Compliance Category 10 principles Page Human right principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 26 rights; and principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 51~53 Labour Standards principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 26 right to collective bargaining; principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 26 principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 51 principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 51~53 Environment principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 26, 28~29 principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 61~63 principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 63 Anti-Corruption principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 32~33 Membership Financial Security Institute Jeonju Chamber of Commerce & Industry UN Global Compact Korea Listed Companies Association Korea Association for Chief Financial Officers Carbon Discloser Project Korea Investor Relations Service Korea Fintech Industry Association *JB Financial Group’s Memership Major Awards Jeonbuk Bank 2017 Minister of Education’s Korea Educational Kwangju Bank 2017 Korean Red Cross Highest Honorary Award Contribution Award JB Woori Capital 2017 Korea Management Awards _ 2017 President’s Award for Job Creation Grand Prize in the Auto Installment Category 2017 Korea Financial Award _ 2017 Consumers’ Choice Best Brand Award _ Grand Prize in the Bank Category Grand Prize in the Auto Installment Category Date of Publication July 31, 2018 Publisher Kim, Han Publishing Body JB Financial Group Published at CSR Team, JB Financial Group, 4F, JB Bldg., 77, Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 86 This report was printed with soybean oil ink on paper certified by the international environmental NGO, FSC, using elemental chorine free bleaching pulp.
