Communication on Progress for the period July 2018 to July 2019 In line with the thinking, “Development of Country through the Development of Village and School” which Aspira ons Educa on Founda on espouses, the founda on has always striven to expand and develop the exis ng projects and was able to introduce the Mango Planta on Project to three more schools in September 2018, at the rate of 50 plants per school backed by necessary technical and other support. The schools are located in below men oned rural villages. Gamini Maha Vidyalaya Vavuniya in Northern Province Ri gaharawa Primary school in Badulla District/ UVA Province Pethiyagoda Maha Vidyalaya in Badulla District/Uva Province The very ambi ous Mango Project that was ini ated in 2013 in several schools and religious places and was totally supported and funded by the Aspira ons Educa on Founda on for a period of 6 years, has now begun to generate a substan al income for those schools who have managed the planta on well. Out of a total of 2700 mango plants located in 31 schools and 7 temples, approximately 500 trees have been destroyed by ﬁre, diseases, the and wild animals. The remainder of approximately 2200 trees will be provided with technical support and maintenance that include fer lizing at regular intervals, pruning, clearing and provision of special carbon coated bags for protec ng fruits, un l such mes the schools are capable of handling the planta on independently by themselves. Purchase of new equipment for the maintenance work in Mango Planta on in schools, has been one of many suppor ng eﬀorts carried out by the Aspira ons Founda on. ● Padavi Jayanth Maha Vidyalaya Padaviya-Trincomalee District A two day Basic First-Aid Training Programme was held in February 2019, in conjunc on with St. John Ambulance Brigade at Padavi Jayanthi School for 60 students, twelve teachers and the Principals of the two schools, Padavi Jayanthi and Yaya 11/12, with the aim of establishing the ﬁrst two St. John Ambulance School Brigades, in the area. ❖ In July 2019, contributed towards a seminar conducted in conjunc on with St. John Ambulance Brigade, by providing logis cal and other forms of support for the event. This seminar was conducted for the beneﬁt of students as well as the parents in two separate sessions. During the seminar, two St. John Ambulance Brigade units were ini ated in Padavi Jayanthi and Yaya 11/12 schools, and uniforms and badges for all new members were distributed, courtesy the funds raised by students of the Health Faculty of Deakin University. ❖ 500 carbonized, special bags were provided for the protec on of Padavi Jayanthi School Mango crops. ❖ Gi s for the winners of “Home Gardening” compe on held at Padavi Yaya 11/12 Main school in March 2019 was donated by the Aspira ons Founda on. ● Kulamangal School Malakam in Jaffna District ❖ In January 2019, donated a Computer to Kulamangal School in Jaﬀna District, Nothern Province. Fi een Scholarships were granted for deserving students and employed a Volunteer Teacher whose salary is paid by the Aspira ons Founda on. Addi onally, ten Mango Trees were also planted in the school premises. . ● A children’s Playground Project was completed, equipped and handed over to Ritigaharawa Primary School together with play equipment in June 2019. ● Inginiyagala Divisional HospitalMonaragala District During the period June 2019 a Children’s Playground was established at the Divisional Hospital premises of Inginiyagala and complete with children’s play equipment was handed over to hospital authori es. ● Illukkeputhenna Primary School Bibile, Monaragala District In June 2019, Aspira ons Educa on Founda on decided to work towards developing Illukkeputhenna Primary School further, in the following manner. ❖ A children’s playground was developed and equipped with a variety of play items for them ❖ Granted 5 scholarships from grades 1-5 for deserving students. Arranged to provide free lunch, three days a week for all students numbering 47. ❖ As suggested by the academic staﬀ, Provided 20 sarees to 5 teachers to wear for school during the week.(As a uniform for staﬀ) ❖ Commenced paying an allowance for a volunteer teacher to ease the acute staﬀ shortage problem. ● Senagama Maha VidyalayaAmpara District ❖ During February 2019 period, gi s for the winners of all island “ Drama & Singing” Compe on which was held at Senagama School was donated by the Founda on. ❖ 500 special bags for the protec on of school’s Mango Planta on was given to school authori es. ❖ An oven was donated for the Home Science Lab at Senagama School. ❖ Ini ated development of a Children’s Playground completed with play equipment at Senagama School. ● An Electro Cardiogram Machine (E.C.G) was donated to Primary Medical Care Unit (PMCU) at Athakada in Madawachchiya Anuradhapura District ● Divisional Hospital at Lunawa, Moratuwa, Colombo District ❖ A Multipara Monitor was donated to the Divisional Hospital at Lunawa, by courtesy Edith Cowan University in Perth, Australia. ❖ In the month of July 2019, Aspirations Education Foundation established a Wound Clinic and handed it over to Lunawa Divisional Hospital. ❖ Aspirations Education Foundation & Edith Cowan University of Perth, Australia funded the renovation work of the Chest Clinic of the Lunawa Hospital During the period June-July 2019, following community development work was carried out by the Aspira ons Founda on. ● Con nua on of the Scholarships Programme that is being oﬀered to deserving students from underprivileged families, who live in remote and diﬃcult areas, has been ongoing and also being expanded to include more students. At this point of me 35 School children and a total of ﬁve students from Universi es and Technical Colleges are the recipients of such aid. ● Another ongoing project is the deployment of volunteer teachers to work with children in some rural schools where there is a serious shortage of teachers. Twelve such teachers are being paid a monthly allowance by the Aspira ons Founda on and they teach the children, subjects such as IT, Math, Performing Arts, Sports and Languages including Primary Studies. ● Pethiyagoda Main School that did not have a Commerce stream due to the lack of teachers was given the opportunity to start the programme in August 2018 with the arrival of 2 Volunteer Teachers paid by the Founda on, to conduct all 3 subjects in Commerce Stream for the Advanced Level. The ﬁrst batch of students will sit their Advance Level Examina on in August 2020. ● An awareness seminar on “Human & Material Resources Management” was conducted in Digana, Kandy, for the beneﬁt of Principals of 3 schools from Padaviya, Senagama & Okkampi ya. ● In January 2019, a dona on was provided to Padagoda Main School in Pahalalanda, Ampara District to help Print Cer ﬁcates for the award winners at their inter house sports meet. ● Donated funds to Kurulubedda School in Welikanda area in Polannaruwa District, North Central Province, for the Development and Maintenance work for their school premises in February 2019. ● Atlas Hall is a well reputed ins tu on that prints tutorials and other helpful study material for students, publishes books and Q & A papers to help them in examia ons. In September 2018, the Aspira ons Founda on provided Q & A papers designed by Atlas Hall, targe ng Advanced Level examina ons, among underprivileged students from 15 schools in remote areas. Aspira ons Educa on ventured out to provide support and assistance to the marginalised rural community by extending through our core business of educa on by forming the Aspira ons Educa on Founda on for Community Development. Being connected to the educa on industry in more than one way, it was quite logical for the management to think of contribu ng towards educa on through the ac vi es of the founda on and towards achieving these goals, Aspira ons Educa on Founda on formulated and implemented ac on plans, eleven years ago. Up holding of Basic Human Rights by continued work towards upgrading educational facilities At the outset, the Founda on only oﬀered Scholarships for the needy students in order to help them with the con nua on of their educa on and at the same me iden ﬁed the need for teachers in several schools where there existed an acute shortage of teaching staﬀ for certain subjects. Aspira ons Founda on worked to remedy this problem to some extent by engaging the services of volunteer teachers and paying allowances to them for past several years and con nue to do so ll date. Once the Founda on started to work closely with the rural schools, the management soon realised the issues that were being addressed by the Founda on was just the p of the iceberg. There were many other pressing needs the schools were desperately trying to ﬁnd solu ons for. Some of these issues were brought to the no ce of the Aspira ons Management and as a result many other ini a ves as described below were ini ated. Over the years the Founda on has heavily contributed to help some of the rural schools of the country by helping them build addi onal structures to house more classes, restora on of dilapidated buildings, construc on and development of children’s play areas equipped with play items, bearing the cost to establish electricity supply to a school and provision of drinking water facili es for children in another school. Further, the Founda on con nues to provide free lunch for children in a poverty stricken area where parents are not able to even oﬀer proper meals to their children. We discovered that due to the poor quality or inability to receive a basic educa on in their youth, most of the parents were lacking in basic awareness skills that are important to any human being. In order to alleviate this problem the Founda on conducted a series of work-shops, seminars and other models to educate the parents and children in ways to improve themselves. Lot of work had been done to empower the women in these under privileged families by training them in several types of co age industries to help them enhance their family income and a community hall has been built for this purpose in one village and a second one is being planned. Several successful First-Aid training programmes have been carried out over the years for teachers and students in several schools in a con nuing eﬀort to impart the necessary knowledge to the student popula on in enabling them to handle a range of medical emergencies. These projects have been augmented by dona ons of hospital beds and First-Aid boxes including medicines to the respec ve school ﬁrst-aid units. Our contribution towards enriching the Environment The most ambi ous of all, known as the “Mango Project” was ini ated 6 years ago by cul va ng a special variety of mangoes known as “Tom JC” which has a very good local and export market, with the inten on of helping schools fund their own expenses through the sale of mango crops. All logis cal, technical and other required support and encouragement was rendered by the Founda on in plan ng approximately 3000 mango plants in many schools and temples, to enrich the environment. The purpose of this project was twofold as students and parents had the opportunity to gain a Scien ﬁcknowledge on Agricultural Methodology, while on the other hand providing nutri on to the users. More importantly, 2 divisional hospitals and a primary medical care unit has been provided with lifesaving medical equipment and a new chest clinic and a wound clinic were developed and commissioned in conjunc on with the funds raised by an Australian University. The main source of funding for the Founda on is basically through channelling of part of the income that is generated by Aspira ons Educa on through their core business of student placements to Foreign Universi es, which is an absolutely free of charge service for the students. Founda on receives dona ons from well-wishers from me to me and a few foreign universi es have conducted fund raising campaigns for pre designated projects in Sri Lanka, which are also facilitated by the Founda on in implementa on. Proper Division of Labour and fair Remuneration which is above the existing market rates Founda on renders their services to all those who need them without reference to their cast, creed, na onality or religious faith. Further, Aspira ons Educa on staﬀ themselves are of many ethnic and religious denomina ons. As detailed above, Aspira ons Educa on, has always done their utmost in adhering and upholding the Main Principles of United Na ons Global Compact, by contribu ng to improve and provide educa on to the needy which is a basic Human Right and through our Mango Planta ons we con nue to help make improvements towards environment and provide nutri on to the consumers and income to the schools as well as those who are engaged in the maintenance and logis cal support of the planta on. Though our core business is not heavily labour oriented, division of labour has been fair and remunera on has generally been considered as above market rate. Aspira ons Educa on has made regular contribu ons towards Employee Provident Fund (EPF) and Employee Trust Fund (ETF) as required by law and many staﬀ welfare ini a ves are in place that helps keep staﬀ turn out to a bare minimum. Anti-Corruption As a business, Aspira ons Educa on is totally against corrupt prac ces and does not subscribe to An -Corrup on as none of the ac vi es of our business model or founda on work create a pla orm that comes under the purview of an -corrup on as we do not engage in areas of opera on that involves any type of funding of students aspiring to travel overseas for educa on, and as all our services to students are provided absolutely Free of Charge.
