SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX CONTENT 3 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR 42 ANNEX 4 Push for Change 43 Reporting principles 6 Value creation model 45 Global Compact content index 7 Materiality analysis 46 GRI content index 9 Management principles 50 Independent practitioner’s limited 16 Ethics and responsible sourcing assurance report 18 CLEANER 20 Energy consumption 23 Flight noise and biodiversity 25 Emissions 27 Waste 28 CARING 29 Caring for our employees 34 Caring for our customers 35 COLLABORATIVE 36 Stakeholders 37 Economic responsibility 39 Tax footprint 2 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR Finnair’s objective is to create sustainable economic added value by producing flight services profitably, cost-competitively and in harmony with the needs of the environment and society. • Push for Change • Management Principles • Value Creation model • Ethics and Responsible • Materiality Analysis sourcing 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX PUSH FOR CHANGE The same journey can generate more or less emissions, depending on a number of factors. By selecting a sensible form of travel, a direct and lower-emission route as well as an airline that uses modern aircraft, everyone can reduce the environmental impact of their journey. In the name of ethics, companies should not compromise on their travel, but on their emissions. Airlines decide whether to invest in modern technology, recycle waste appropriately, reduce energy consumption, and care Does this ring a bell? Climate change and all years around the world, in aviation, and That is why we must act even more decifor the wellbeing of employees. As the our efforts to minimise its impacts keep the particularly at Finnair. sively. We must find new ways of reducing customer, you decide, however, on the kind discussion going. This topic has been part of In 2012, the air transport industry joined jet fuel consumption and rely more on alterof airline you support. practically every evening conversation I’ve the EU-wide Emission Trading Scheme native sources of energy. Many promising had recently. This actually makes sense –solu(ETS). In 2016, the international community projects are already in the pipeline. Tourism is one of the world’s biggest busitions need to come fast. agreed on a global carbon offsetting and For us, at Finnair, responsibility includes nesses. It employs more than eight per cent Already in 2008 the topic of climate reduction scheme for international aviamore than the protection of the environment of the world’s labour force and produces change and its impacts was under the focus tion, which requires reporting from this year from emissions and other negative impacts. more than ten per cent of the world’s gross in Finnair’s first report on social responsionwards. Finnair, for its part, has signifiWe take all areas of responsible business domestic product. Tourism’s impact on the bility, which followed the guidelines of GRI. cantly renewed its fleet and improved its seriously. We also see importance in working world – whether it be good or bad – is huge. Even if the quotes above come directly from operations so that the level of emissions for together with our partners to ensure sustainthat report, they would still be relevant as 2009–2017 has decreased by 20 per cent able development. part of this report for 2018, against the back/ revenue tonne kilometre. The aviation Over the past ten years, the number of partground of changes that took place over ten industry, including Finnair, keeps growing. ners has grown. Finnair has remarkable part4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX ”OUR RESEARCH RESULTS SHOW THAT THE MAJORITY OF THE FINNISH PUBLIC WOULD BE WILLING TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS IF THE FUNDS WOULD DIRECTLY OFFSET CARBON EMISSIONS OR SUPPORT FLYING WITH BIOFUEL.” ners that cooperate with us on the advanceChange, which helps customers offset and ment of sustainability in the societies where reduce the emissions of their flights. We we operate. The most prominent themes of introduced this service based on research this year included well-being and education results from summer 2018, which show that for children and youth, women empowerthe majority of the Finnish public would be ment around the globe, equality and non-diswilling to make contributions, if the funds crimination, development of accessible would directly offset carbon emissions or services, prevention of human trafficking, and support flying with biofuel. supporting the fight against cancer. Standing Our new initiative, Push for Change, offers by our commitment to responsible business is customers both opportunities. A customer crucial in today’s changing world. can purchase biofuel to be used in our flight Already in 2008, our customers, both operations or support the use of low emisindividual passengers and organisasion cooking stoves in Mozambique. tions, wished they would be able to reduce Let us keep working together towards emissions related to flying. Yet then, our flying and tourism that are more responsible. customers did not show readiness to participate in an offsetting programme. Now the time is right. In January 2019, Kati Ihamäki Finnair launched a service called Push for Director, Corporate Sustainability 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Value creation INPUTS / RESOURCES VALUE CREATED / IMPACTS OUR VISION, PURPOSE AND Value for society Human capital MISSION Personnel of 6,360, Flight connections for business and training hours 50.3/person, expertise OUR VALUES AND leisure travellers, GDP contribution, CODE OF CONDUCT taxes, innovative and sustainable Financial products Adjusted interest-bearing debt PRODUCTS / OUTPUTS Value for shareholders €675.2 million, equity capital €1,021.7 million Market cap €907.8 million, Network return on capital employed (ROCE) 11.9% Immaterial Over 130 destinations in Traffic rights, overflight rights Value for customers Finnair’s network and customer data, quality certifications, The fastest connections between Europe over 1,000 in oneworld route network, brand and customer base and Asia, customer satisfaction NPS 48, network safe and reliable operations Social and partnerships Passenger Supplier and partners, joint businesses transportation Value for personnel (AJB/SJB) and alliance cooperation, 13.3 million passengers, Salaries and benefits €428.6 million, distribution channels, public affairs STRATEGIC ancillary services people experience 3.77/5 FOCUS AREAS Fleet and infrastructure Cargo transportation Environmental impacts Growth Greenhouse gas emissions Modern and efficient fleet of 81 aircraft, 158,140 tonnes COOL Nordic Cargo Terminal, Helsinki hub 3,243,538 (jet fuel), noise and waste Customer experience Travel services Natural resources People experience Package tours, Jet fuel use 1,031,123 tonnes, dynamic travel products energy consumption of facilities 259,479 GJ, Transformation use of renewable fuels SUSTAINABILITY EFFICIENCY 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Finnair updated its materiality analysis for corporate responsibility in 2018 in The identified corporate responsibility aspects were assigned priorities based accordance with the reporting principles on their business impact and stakeholder of GRI 101 Foundation Standard. The mateinterest. The results of the prioritisation riality analysis was used to identify the were reviewed with the representatives of key economic, environmental and social key stakeholders. Finnair’s Executive Board impacts in Finnair’s value chain as well as and Board of Directors approved the results impacts on business and stakeholder deciof the materiality analysis. sion making. The material aspects defined as a result of The materiality analysis was based on the materiality analysis were grouped under identifying corporate responsibility issues four themes. This analysis was also used as emerging from Finnair’s business envithe basis for reporting for 2018. Finnair’s ronment through an analysis of industry sustainability themes, focus areas, matetrends, legislation, corporate responsirial aspects, and related GRI standards and bility reporting guidelines, the reporting of boundaries can be found in the table below. peer companies and issues highlighted by Specific GRI disclosures for the material various stakeholders. topics can be found in the GRI content index. 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX FOCUS AREA MATERIAL TOPICS GRI TOPICS TOPIC BOUNDARIES ETHICAL BUSINESS AND RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Ethical business and responsible sourcing • Code of Conduct • Ethics and integrity Finnair’s own operations, partners and • Environmental compliance supply chain • Socioeconomic compliance • Anti-corruption and bribery • Anti-corruption • Compliance with anti-competition regulations • Anti-competitive behavior • Supply chain sustainability • Supplier social assessment • Human rights assessment CLEANER Energy • Fuel efficiency • Energy Finnair’s own operations and indirect impacts on greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) and Noise and biodiversity • Biodiversity • Biodiversity biodiversity Emissions • Climate change mitigation • Emissions • Renewable fuels Waste • Eliminating plastics • Effluents and waste • Recycling of materials CARING Caring for our employees • Employee experience • Employment Finnair's own operations • Employee brand image • Labour/management relations • Working conditions • Occupational health and safety • Equality • Training and education • Diversity and equal opportunity • Human rights assessment Respecting our customers • Flight safety • Stakeholder engagement Finnair's own operations and customers • Customer experience • Customer health and safety • Equality • Marketing and labelling • Responsible use of customer data • Customer privacy • Human rights assessment COLLABORATIVE Stakeholders • Stakeholder engagement Finnair’s own operations, society and local • Public policy communities Economic impact • Economic responsibility • Economic performance • Indirect economic impacts 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX In financial reporting, Finnair applies the tion is headed by the Senior Vice President MANAGEMENT rules relating to listed companies as well as for Communications and Corporate ResponPRINCIPLES The company’s operations are guided by principles, international financial reporting standards. sibility, who is also a Member of the Finnair policies and guidelines defined by the company, Most of Finnair’s operational activities are Executive Board. Reports and all key prinFinnair’s management system including the following: based on official regulations and are subject ciples and policies will be discussed by is aimed at achieving strategic to official supervision. Within the group, the Finnair Board of Directors. The develgoals, creating added value for • Code of Conduct the legality and acceptability of operations opment, coordination and reporting is • Risk Appetite Statement is monitored as part of Finnair’s general managed by the corporate responsibility the company’s owners and other • Risk Management Policy control and audit processes. The responfunction with the support of the steering stakeholders, managing operational • Treasury Policy sibility for regulatory compliance in flight groups for other key functions. risks and improving the company’s • Disclosure Policy operations lies with the persons defined and performance. • Compensation Policy approved by the authorities. Finnair is also Responsible Finnair • Insider rules subject to supervision relating to finances Finnair’s corporate responsibility is • Board Diversity Principles and safety and security. reflected in its purpose “Enriching life by • Approvals Policy Internal control and audit roles and bridging the world”, strategy, vision and • Insurance Policy responsibilities are compliant with the values of commitment to care, simplicity • Staff Travel Policy Finnish Companies Act, the Finnish Corpoand courage. Responsibility is integral to • Occupational Health & Safety Policy rate Governance Code for Listed Compaall Finnair operations. The purpose of the • Competition Policy nies and the regulations governing the responsibility strategy is to reduce the envi• Information Security Policy aviation industry. Finnair’s governance ronmental impact and increase the financial • Data Protection Policy model, control environment and activities, and social return for society. • Corporate Responsibility Policy internal audit and the roles and responThe key areas of corporate responsibility • Business Continuity Management Policy sibilities related to these are described in and sustainability strategy fall under the • Environmental and Energy Efficiency Policy detail in Finnair’s Corporate Governance following themes: cleaner, caring, collaboraStatement. tive. Finnair is committed to complying with Corporate Responsibility at Finnair international and national legislation in its concerns everyone and our aim is to incoroperations, as well as the ethical business porate the corporate responsibility aspects principles laid out in the Code of Conduct. equally in all our processes and product Anti-corruption policies are outlined in design. The Corporate Responsibility funcFinnair’s Code of Conduct and Supplier 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Code of Conduct as well as in the Rules for Public affairs and lobbying Finnair is an active member of various aviato their own work community and create Anti-Bribery, Corporate Hospitality and Aviation is a strictly regulated industry. tion industry organisations, such as A4E a work environment that enables genuine Hosting of Public Officials. Finnair’s Code Therefore, it is important for Finnair and IATA, but also in the Confederation of constructive discussion. The company of Conduct includes an anti-corruption to participate in discussions and deciFinnish Industries (EK), and its sub-associasystematically develops its communication section, and the receiving and giving of sion-making regarding its operating conditions and in several chambers of commerce. channels to enable more efficient commubribes is strictly prohibited. During 2018, tions. It is part of the company’s growth nications and to facilitate constructive Finnair continued to train its employees strategy to aim towards securing adequate Communications ­discussion. on Finnair’s Code of Conduct in interactive traffic rights. Finnair aims at open, honest and timely workshops, and all new employees receive Finnair pursues its interests in an ethicommunications. In line with these princiEconomic responsibility the mandatory e-learning module on the cally sustainable manner by appropriately ples, Finnair’s communications are also in Finnair as a whole has substantial direct Code of Conduct. Finnair decided to renew introducing its views, perspectives and compliance with regulations governing listed and indirect financial implications on its Finnair Ethics Helpline to increase expertise. The company does not pressurise companies and limited liability companies, Finland’s national and local economies. transparency and effectiveness of incior support political decision-makers in any as well as the obligations of the Finnish Act Aviation is a significant industry for dent reporting. The new Whistleblowing way in pursuing its interests. The legality on Cooperation within Undertakings and Finnish society and the national economy. system will be launched in Q1 2019 and will and ethicality of lobbying activities is the communications guidelines of the State The accessibility created by airline traffic be opened to both internal and external controlled as part of the company’s general Ownership Steering Department. is a necessity for Finland’s global competistakeholders. supervision and audit processes. Finnair takes different perspectives into tiveness and its economic impact is considThe corporate responsibility aspects The aim of Finnair’s lobbying activities is consideration and respects all stakeholders’ erable; aviation is estimated to account for that are defined as material for Finnair are to maintain relationships concerning releviews of its operations. Finnair’s internal 3–5 per cent of GDP, employment and tax provided in the Materiality Assessment and vant policy and to participate in relevant communications are based on reciprocity. revenue. Finnair’s effective Asian strategy the GRI content index. Finnair’s operations negotiations and the operations of advocacy Every employee has the duty to communiis a key element of the GDP contribution of and services involve a number of financial, organisations. When lobbying on various cate matters related to their area of responaviation and its impact is estimated at 1–2 social and environmental considerations. civil aviation and industry regulation issues, sibility to the relevant target groups. Those billion euros. These have been described in more detail in Finnair typically cooperates with various in supervisory roles have a further duty to Finnair’s objective is to create sustainable the following sections. organisations and chambers of commerce. communicate goals, operations and results economic added value by producing flight 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX services profitably, cost-competitively and disqualified due to bias whenever they are service providers to an increasing degree. aircraft are always more efficient than FINNAIR’S MOST in harmony with the needs of the environrequired to make a decision pertaining to a Conforming with the UN’s Universal Declaprevious-generation aircraft, and hence SIGNIFICANT ment and society. Responsible operations contract or business relationship involving ration of Human Rights and all applicable Finnair’s most significant environmental ENVIRONMENTAL are the cornerstone of profitable business family relationships, ownership in the laws and statutes is a minimum requireaction is to invest in a modern fleet. ACTION IS TO INVEST activity, and Finnair takes into account the company concerned (with the exception of ment. Finnair requires that its suppliers Aircraft noise also has an impact on effects of its operations on society. These a reasonable share of ownership in a listed comply with essentially similar ethical the areas surrounding airports and under IN A MODERN FLEET. effects are identified and assessed by the company) or any other business or debt standards as the company in its own opertakeoff and approach flight paths. Advances company’s corporate responsibility and risk relationship external to Finnair. Finnair ations. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct in aerodynamics and engine technology management organisations, which work does not accept corruption in any form provides clear principles to ensure ethical help mitigate aircraft noise. The noise under the delegated authority of the CEO. and requires that its personnel and partpurchasing. Finnair’s Responsible Sourcing level of the Finnair fleet has been signifFinnair’s Board of Directors has set the ners comply with the principles of the UN’s Manual complements the Supplier Code of icantly reduced thanks to the on-going company’s financial targets, which are Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Conduct as internal instructions for implefleet modernisation and noise attenuaprovided in information material for invesFinnair’s procurement steering group is mentation. tion systems installed in older-generation tors. As a public limited company, Finnair is responsible for the steering of the group’s Responsibility aspects are considered in aircraft. committed to earning a profit for its shareprocurement activity. The management of cooperation with the corporate responsiIn addition, other normal operations, holders. The company’s profit distribution the Procurement unit has the duty to ensure bility unit. Finnair launched human rights including running business and office principles are expressed in Finnair’s divithat the personnel carrying out purchasing assessments in autumn 2015, which were premises and the fuel of ground vehicles, dend policy. Finnair’s financial reporting has access to valid purchasing guideextended to the supply chain in spring 2016. produce their share of emissions and enviaims to transparently provide information lines and that the guidelines are observed. Finnair has a process and guidelines for ronmental impact. These are all managed about Finnair’s financial position and develAudits are performed in certain product and continuous improvement in supply chain under Finnair’s IEnvA environmental opment. service groups and especially among straresponsibility and for handling non-comsystem. tegic and key suppliers. Auditing focuses on pliances. Finnair aspires to continuously Finnair’s goal is to be a leading airline in Purchasing practices quality and safety factors. develop practices that ensure that negathe field of environmental responsibility. As provided in Finnair’s Code of Conduct, its Many of the company’s procurement catetive impacts, including human rights violaThe company is committed to the common procurement operations are entirely based gories are subject to regulation, requiring tions, can be mitigated and that responsible goal of the aviation industry to achieve on the fair treatment of suppliers. The that the suppliers are approved by the sourcing is favoured when possible. carbon neutral growth by 2020 and to persons who make procurement decisions authorities. This includes all procurement cut the emissions of our flight operations at Finnair must always be independent of relating to flight safety. The sustainability Environmental responsibility by half by 2050 from the 2005 level. We the business partners concerned. A Finnair of the supply chain is of major importance The biggest environmental impact of an comply with current environmental legisemployee must declare himself/herself for airlines, which are using partners and airline is its engine emissions. Modern lation, but our environmental work aims 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX at exceeding statutory requirements and mental management system developed by Social responsibility being a pioneer in evaluating, reporting and IATA for airlines, which we apply to make Finnair is a company in a complex, highly reducing environmental impacts. use of the best practices in the industry. technical business. The company has operFinnair participates actively in civil aviaOur environmental management system ations and supply chain partners in dozens tion environmental committees as well as has been assessed by third-party auditors of different countries, each with varying in industry workgroups in Finland and the authorised by IATA who are qualified to laws and practices. The most important Nordic countries, promoting the reducperform audits of environmental managesocial responsibility areas concern safety, tion of the aviation sector’s environmental ment systems. To improve its performance, personnel, the supply chain and customers. load. An open dialogue with different stakeFinnair has identified the most significant holders and continuous development of environmental factors relevant to its operaHuman rights operations according to the latest availtions and defined targets for them. Finnair’s own operations involve no signifable information are prerequisites for enviFinnair takes into account environmental icant human rights risks or impacts. ronmental responsibility. We report on our considerations in all its flight and ground However, indirect risks and implications environmental impacts regularly in annual operations. Besides energy solutions that may exist in relation to the supply chains reports and as a part of the Carbon Discloreduce the environmental load, Finnair’s and outsourced operations. sure Project (CDP). In addition, we commuenvironmental strategy also includes the In order to improve the monitoring of nicate directly with various parties about preservation and promotion of natural its own operations and those of its entire our operations and gladly answer any quesdiversity, known as biodiversity thinking. In supply chain, Finnair continued to develop tions from our stakeholders or private addition, among other things, Finnair has assessment of the realisation of social customers. actively supported a rain forest reforestaresponsibility and human rights in 2017. In Environmental responsibility is managed tion and biodiversity project in Madagascar order to improve supply chain risk manageas part of Finnair’s environmental policy in collaboration with the Finnish Association ment, traceability and the assessment of and environmental management system. for Nature Conservation for several years. social impact, Finnair relies on the SEDEX Finnair Environment and Energy Policy Finnair signed the United for Wildlife system. described the goals of the company’s envi(UFW) Buckingham Palace declaration of Finnair’s human rights management is ronmental management. In 2014, Finnair the Duke of Cambridge to prevent the illegal described in the Finnair Code of Conduct, became the first European airline to receive smuggling of wild animals. As a signatory, The Supplier Code of Conduct and the IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) the company has undertaken to promote company’s personnel management prinStage 2 certification for its environmental the awareness of different stakeholders ciples. Finnair respects the UN Universal management systems. IEnvA is an environabout this topic. Declaration on Human Rights and the core 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX conventions of the International Labour tion or other personal attributes or circum­ complies with the model recommended by work community through various annuOrganization (ILO). stances. the Finnish Ministry of Social Affairs and ally launched projects and to ensure the In 2013 Finnair signed the United Nation’s Finnair does not condone harassment in Health. wellbeing of personnel through all career Global Compact initiative and undertook the work community. Reporting infractions Leadership and competencies are develstages. The programme also contributes to comply with the Global Compact’s ten is every employee’s right and the company oped on an individual, team, unit and to employee productivity, the company’s principles of corporate responsibility. As is determined to take steps to intervene in organisation level. Learning and developcompetitiveness and attractiveness as an required by the Global Compact principles all cases brought to its knowledge. It is the ment solutions are typically either adopted employer as well as the implementation of endorsed by Finnair, the company aims to duty of every group employee to act so that by the entire personnel or tailored for the social component of corporate responsiprevent any violations of human rights and no one is accorded unequal status. specific development needs within a unit. bility. the use of forced labour both within its own Finnair offers equal opportunities to They may also be aimed at developing In 2018, Finnair continued building the operations and its supply chain. everyone with regard to recruitment, work professional skills, based on official requiremanagement system for occupational performance, career progression and develments or in support of personal develophealth and safety, whereby the best pracPersonnel opment. Finnair implements the equal pay ment. Finnair’s key focus areas for 2018 tices of each unit are brought together A major aspect of social responsibility is to principle based on the Finnish Equality included leadership development and a new within Finnair’s unified ERP system. The do with personnel and their working condiAct and gives both men and women equal exchange programme, where, for six weeks, system is based on the Dupont’s 12 element tions at Finnair. Personnel management opportunities for balancing work and family an employee familiarises him-/herself with model and covers all Finnair’s operapolicies cover all aspects of social responsilife. In 2011, Finnair signed the United the market and culture in another country. tions, premises and workplace principles. bility that have been identified as material. Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles, Development needs in teams and the organThe management system for occupational The impacts affecting the personnel and the which give guidance on the empowerment isation are identified and the wellbeing and health and safety also strengthens more working conditions are managed as based of women in the workplace, marketplace commitment of the personnel are regularly than before the integration of occupational on the HR guidelines and the Finnair HR and community. monitored through a personnel survey. health care as part of a unified managepolicy. Finnair complies with procedures jointly ment system for wellbeing at work. The agreed by the employer and employees Occupational health and wellbeing results of the work on the management Management, development, for the prevention of harassment, inapat work system can already be seen by the improvetraining and employee wellbeing propriate conduct, and conflicts. Finnair The target group for the wellbeing at work ment in safety and sickness absence figures Finnair does not discriminate based on has also promoted the prevention culture programme, which Finnair launched in in 2018. gender, age, ethnic or national origin, and processes of easily accessible services. 2011, is aimed at the entire personnel. At Finnair, the Finnair Health Services unit nationality, language, religion, conviction, The procedures are based on the Finnish The aim of the programme is to promote is responsible for occupational health care opinion, health, disability, sexual orientaAct on Occupational Safety and Health and the effect­iveness and functionality of the services. Finnair Health Services focus on 13 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX preventive care. The model of early caring tion of workers and collective negotiations PARTNERS ARE REQUIRED it are part of all decision-making at every and the occupational ability risk managebetween the company and employee groups TO COMPLY stage. Finnair maintains and develops ment system are examples of the guidelines are part of normal practice. All Finnair the principles of ongoing development by governing preventive health care. WITH FINNAIR’S QUALITY employees have the right and opportunity adhering to its Safety Management System Finnair Health Services and the Finnair to agree on terms of employment collecASSURANCE POLICIES AND (SMS). It covers all aspects of flight safety: Aeromedical Centre FAeMC coordinate and tively. The terms of employment of manageETHICAL GUIDELINES. safety policy, flight safety risk manageare responsible for the implementation ment employees are agreed on locally. ment, safety training and communications of occupational health care in the entire Personnel and management remunerafor the entire personnel and subcontractor Finnair group. The operational and service tion principles are described Remuneration At Finnair, situations that deviate from chain, continual auditing of operations and quality of Finnair Health Services is based statement. the norm are prepared for in advance. the assessment of the potential impact of on the European Foundation for Quality The group has developed processes for new factors in the operating environment. Management’s EFQM Excellence Model. The Management of customer various unexpected situations and these Official regulations and standards set the quality system is used to ensure that Finnair experience are continually updated and maintained. minimum standards for Finnair’s safety Health Services meets the requirements for The aviation industry consists of a strictly Customers must be able to trust in the fact management, which the company aims to good occupational health care practice in regulated value chain comprised of multiple that they will be cared for throughout the exceed in all areas. both aviation health care and aviation medisuppliers of products and services. As an entire service chain. Finnair has responsiOne of the central elements in Finnair’s cine services. The occupational health care airline and service company at the top of bility towards its customers for the overall safety system is the safety reporting and aviation medical services are described this value chain, Finnair creates added quality of their experience, regardless of concerning the entire staff. The company in a quality manual. value for its customers by providing them the fact that some services are produced by encourages its personnel and subconwith a comprehensive and high-quality Finnair’s partners rather than the company tractors to actively report any processes Freedom of association and service product in collaboration with its itself. Therefore, Finnair pays increased or elements they come across that could collective negotiation partners. Finnair is responsible for trans­ attention to the selection of its partners potentially compromise safety. Each report Freedom of association and the collective porting customers and their baggage to and the partners are required to comply is analysed and assessed for risk, followed right to negotiate on occupational issues their destinations safely, smoothly and with Finnair’s quality assurance policies and by necessary corrective actions based on are recognised as fundamental rights in punctually. The most significant product ethical guidelines. this, and the person submitting the report Finland. There is a long tradition of trade responsibility aspects in the Finnair Group’s will be notified of the outcome of the invesunion activity in the company. Labour operations are flight safety, food safety, Flight safety tigation. Alongside subjective observations, market culture in the company has been responsibility for individual customers, and Safety is at the core of all Finnair’s operFinnair extensively monitors and analyses constructed in such a way that the organisaresponsibility for the cargo carried. ations. Flight safety and giving priority to objective indicators, such as flight data. 14 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Ongoing monitoring and analysis enable a larities are handled centrally from Helsinki, The company processes personal details at To deliver on their service promises, both transparent risk level in all areas, which in thereby gathering the necessary inforall stages of travel in compliance with the Finnair Cargo and the Ground Operations turn enables prompt action on any indicamation into one place. In this way, a more legislation on personal data and regulations unit apply a systematic evaluation process tion of altered safety level. detailed overall picture of the multiplier issued by the authorities in the countries in when selecting subcontractors and partEvents that seriously jeopardise safety effects and costs of the irregularities is which we operate. ners. Partners are required, for example, to are extremely rare and almost without obtained, and efforts are made to minimise ensure and maintain the expertise of their exception an impartial safety investigation inconvenience to the customer. Cargo and ground handling personnel, and also to ensure that vehicles, is launched on each event. Safety invesMonitoring and supervision of customer In cargo transport, Finnair and its subsidequipment and premises are appropriate. tigations are coordinated by public offiservice activity is based on regular auditing, iary Finnair Cargo are responsible for transIn addition to quality audits at airports, cials (Safety Investigation Authority) or, if customer feedback and customer satisfacporting customers’ cargo in the condition Finnair also regularly performs quality the authorities elect not to investigate the tion surveys, as well as external measurein which it has been entrusted to us, and inspections that continually monitor both event, Finnair will conduct its own internal ments. Our partners’ operations are also in compliance with Finnair Cargo’s General its own and subcontractors’ work. Finnair safety investigation. The safety investigacontinually evaluated. Monitoring is systemConditions of Carriage as well as internaCargo and Ground Operations are respontors always carry out the investigation indeatic and is used to set targets and check tional and national regulations. The aim is sible for maintaining and updating their pendently and the company’s management that they are being met. Staff expertise is to offer cargo customers efficient logistics own quality systems and ensuring that has no opportunity to influence the investiensured through training. services. This means, among other things, operations comply with requirements. gation. that cargo entrusted to Finnair Cargo for Ground Operations also has an area A strong safety culture, objective moniCustomer data transport is delivered to its destination manager, responsible for airport operatoring of the company’s own operaFinnair respects the privacy of its customers exactly as agreed with the customer. tions, who has a significant role in monitions, ongoing development and carrying and is committed to ensuring that personal Finnair’s Ground Operations unit is toring the compliance of operations with out corrective measures as well as open details and other customer informaresponsible for the acquisition, quality regulations. If some activity does not to dialogue with the authorities governing tion are processed appropriately. In 2018, criteria and quality control of ground some extent comply with the operations Finnair’s operations guarantee safe and Finnair worked extensively to prepare for handling services required at airports. The manual or prevailing legislation, the devihigh-quality airline operations. the implementation of a EU’s General Data unit’s task is to ensure that the ground ation is documented and corrective measProtection Regulation (GDPR) and to ensure services used by Finnair fulfill the requireures effected immediately. Customer care compliance. We do our best to guarantee ments set for them, both in terms of For exceptional situations, Finnair has its the confidentiality, security and accuracy quality and in respect of safety and official More information about safety and quality own separate unit. All flight traffic irreguof customer data under all circumstances. regulations. audits on IATA website. 15 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Finnair’s ethical business principles are GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice ETHICS AND RESPONSIBLE outlined in its Code of Conduct. The Code Finnair’s Actions for ethics and responsible and concerns about ethics SOURCING applies to all Finnair personnel and all locasourcing in 2018: Finnair has a Whistleblowing line called tions. Finnair requires that its suppliers Finnair Ethics Helpline, through which comply with ethical standards essentially • In 2018, Finnair continued cooperation with the SEDEX system concerns for ethical business conduct can similar to those which Finnair complies with and over 80 key suppliers are already using SEDEX self-assessbe raised. During 2018 no material inciin its own operations. Finnair’s Supplier ment. Best practices and development items in responsible dents of material misconduct were notified Code of Conduct provides clear principles sourcing were identified in a project with students in the Haagathrough the Finnair Ethics Helpline nor were to ensure ethical purchasing, including Helia Aviation Business programme, and work in responsible there any investigations on-going in the zero tolerance for corruption. Finnair is sourcing will continue based on this. company. working to further integrate sustainability • During 2018, no incidents of corruption were notified through and ethical business conduct to an overall Finnair Ethics Helpline nor were there any material investigations GRI 205-2 Communication and responsibility strategy. on-going in the company. Finnair decided to renew its Whistletraining about anti-corruption blowing line called Finnair Ethics Helpline to increase transparpolicies and procedures ency and effectiveness of incident reporting. The new WhistleFinnair’s Code of Conduct includes an FINNAIR’S ETHICAL BUSINESS blowing system will be launched in 2019 and will be opened to anti-corruption section, and the receiving PRINCIPLES ARE OUTLINED IN both internal and external stakeholders. and giving of bribes is strictly prohibited. ITS CODE OF CONDUCT. THE • In June 2018, Finnair signed the IATA Resolution against modern Preventing corruption is the responsibility CODE APPLIES TO ALL slavery and human trafficking as well as publishing the Finnair of everyone at Finnair, including the heads FINNAIR PERSONNEL AND modern slavery and trafficking statement. of business operations, compliance function and the internal audit. AT ALL LOCATIONS. 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Certain job descriptions at Finnair are such ment. The current policies and procedures Finnair continues to rely on the SEDEX perspective of operations and customer that they are considered to have a higher were reviewed against the UN Declarasystem to improve supply chain risk experience. The need to audit the implethan normal risk of corruption associated tion of Human Rights as well as guidemanagement, traceability and the assessmentation of responsibility of suppliers with them. All those handling such tasks lines and best practices for businesses. ment of human rights impacts. is evaluated among other things by the are offered the opportunity to participate Risks related to human rights violations in system’s risk assessment tools, adjusted to in anti-corruption training in business units Finnair’s own operations, the operations GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts each of the operational fields. and subsidiaries. Finnair’s Code of Conduct of Aurinkomatkat Suntours and the supply in the supply chain and actions Finnair is aware of the risks related to and Guidelines for Anti-Bribery, Corporate chain were also assessed. taken environment and human rights in geographHospitality and Hosting of Public Officials Finnair implements the SEDEX system to The sustainability of the supply chain is of ical and industry-specific areas and aims are also communicated to the employees improve risk management, the evaluation of major importance for the airline as Finnair at continuous improvement of preventive handling such tasks. The Group’s Guidesocial impacts and traceability in the supply uses partners and service providers to an actions. The dialogue with the suppliers is lines for Anti-Bribery, Corporate Hospitality chain. Assessment of the direct geographincreasing degree as it expands its internacontinuous via themed supplier events. and Hosting of Public Officials specify more ical and industry-specific social responsitional route network. Conforming with the detailed guidelines concerning bribery bility risk of all suppliers that are significant UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and hospitality, and the group’s Conflict of regarding customer experience are made and all applicable laws and statutes is a Interest Guidelines cover the identification using a risk assessment tool. Finnair aims minimum requirement for suppliers. Finnair and avoidance of conflicts of interest and at including all new suppliers in the SEDEX requires that its suppliers comply with related conduct. system starting from the bidding phase. similar ethical standards as the company Finnair has its own ethical guidelines does in its own operations. Finnair’s GRI 412-1 Operations that have for suppliers (Supplier Code of Conduct) Supplier Code of Conduct was updated in been subject to human rights and subcontractors, and all suppliers are 2017 and it provides clear principles to reviews or impact assessments required to comply with them. All partners ensure ethical purchasing. Responsibility Finnair continued the project it began and subcontractors, moreover, are obliged aspects are considered in cooperation with in the previous year to develop the realto comply with the principles of the UN the social responsibility unit. isation of social responsibility, human Universal Declaration of Human Rights as SEDEX system was used to evaluate all rights reviews, and related risk assesswell as local legislation. suppliers that are significant from the 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX CLEANER Finnair’s environmental responsibility management is based on the principle of continuous improvement. Environmental responsibility is managed as part of Finnair’s Environmental Management System. On top of that, the Finnair Environment and Energy Policy describes the aspirations for environmental management. • Energy consumption • Emissions • Noise and • Waste biodiversity 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX In 2014, Finnair became the first EuroFINNAIR’S KEY ENVIRONMENTAL Finnair’s environmental responsibility in 2018 pean airline to receive IATA Environmental ASPECTS ARE: Assessment (IEnvA) Stage 2 certification • Finnair continued the renewal of its fleet with next-generation Airbus A350 XWB aircraft that are on average for its environmental management system. 20–25 per cent more fuel-efficient than their predecessors. At the end of 2018, Finnair’s fleet included twelve IEnvA is an environmental management Airbus A350XWB aircraft. system developed by IATA for airlines, which • CO emissions from flight operations increased by 11.7 per cent from the previous year, while available tonne 2 is consistent with ISO 14001:2005 standard. kilometres (ATK) increased by 13.0 per cent over the same period. In this, Finnair makes use of the best prac• Measured by the unit-specific CO emissions of revenue tonne kilometres (RTK), emissions increased by 2.0 EMISSIONS FROM THE USE 2 tices in its industry. Finnair has integrated per cent from the previous year. OF JET FUEL the Energy Efficiency System (EES+) as part • The volume of waste increased by approximately 9.1 per cent from the previous year. of the management system. • Finnair’s energy usage in facilities decreased by 5.6 per cent. To improve its environmental perforFLIGHT NOISE • As a part of Finnair’s fuel efficiency programme, a new vertical flight optimisation software (PACE) was mance, Finnair has identified the key envibrought into use in the A350 fleet in May 2018. It is located in the cockpit computers and provides the pilot ronmental aspects of its operations, their THE ENERGY with a tool to make operations as efficient as possible. In addition to fuel and cost savings, the software also impacts, risks and opportunities involved, CONSUMPTION OF offers environmental benefits as CO emissions drop in the same proportion. 2 and set targets related to them. PROPERTIES • During the summer Finnair conducted a consumer research study to find out what Finns think of the different ways to reduce or compensate emissions resulting from aviation. According to the study’s results, the majority of Finns are ready to pay to reduce the emissions caused by air travel but want the proceeds from CABIN WASTE possible additional charges to go directly to environmental work. Consequently, Finnair decided to introduce to its clients a new tool to make flying more environmentally responsible. As of early 2019, customers can choose to support either the use of biofuels or carbon capture initiatives when they fly with Finnair. • Finnair Kitchen defined new targets for sustainable catering. First visible actions of this programme were the replacement of milk jiggers with carton packed Finnish milk on European and domestic flights in November 2018 and removing plastic wrapping around renewed amenity kits (from spring 2019). These small actions reduce generated waste by 5.0 tonnes and generated plastic waste by 10.0 tonnes annually. Finnair is also the first airline implementing the IATA environmental assessment catering module. The implementation has started and will be completed in 2019. 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GRI 302-1 Energy consumption Fuel consumption and training flights as well as test runs ENERGY within the organisation (Scopes 1 Finnair’s total consumption of jet fuel by technical services. Finnair flights fuel consumption CONSUMPTION and 2) comprises flights operated by Finnair itself, In 2018, Finnair’s jet fuel consumption tonnes Finnair’s primary energy consumption flights operated by Norra on Finnair’s increased by 109,6 million kilogrammes consists of the use of transport fuels. Aviabehalf, as well as so-called wet lease flights or approximately 11.9 per cent compared tion is very energy-intensive, and Finnair’s leased on a short-term basis from other to the previous year. The higher total largest environmental load arises from operators due to lack of fleet or crew. In consumption of fuel was primarily due flying and particularly from the use of fossil addition, jet fuel is consumed on transfer to traffic growth and operational chaljet fuel. lenges. The breakdown of total consumption in 2018 is presented in the adjacent Energy Consumption chart. 2018 2017 2016 2015 Energy and heating consumption of Finnair 930,783 tonnes Scope 1 non-renewable renewable Jet Fuel, kg 1,031,125,265 0 921,519,796 874,148,241 834,512,184 properties NoRRa 89,090 tonnes Wet Lease 11,252 tonnes Jet Fuel, GJ 44,132,161 0 39,441,047 37,413,545 35,717,121 In 2018, the energy consumption of Ground vehicles, kg 233,427 33,108 232,351 71,164 53,318 Finnair’s properties amounted to Ground vehicles, GJ 8,403 1,192 8,365 2,562 1,919 72,078 MWh. Of this amount, electricity Solar Power, GJ 1,033 Solar Power, MWh 287 consumption accounted for 37,932 MWh, Total, GJ 44,140,565 2,224 39,449,412 37,416,107 35,719,041 while heating energy accounted for 11.9% 5.4% 4.8% 13.2% 34,146 MWh. 2018 was the first full year Scope 2 when solar panels installed on the Cool Faclities, electricity, GJ 136,555 0 113,814 119,711 123,459 Cargo terminal generated electricity MWh 37,932 0 31,394 33,253 34,294 for the terminal use. The panels generFaclities, heat, GJ 122,924 0 151,700 129,204 94,257 ated 287 MWh electricity (included in the MWh 34,146 0 42,139 35,890 26,182 Total, GJ 259,479 0 265,514 248,915 217,716 Scope 1 consumption figure). -2.3% 6.7% 14.3% -33.4% Grand total, GJ 44,402,268 39,714,926 37,665,022 35,936,757 11.8% 5.4% 4.8% 20 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Development in Finnair's GRI 302-3 Energy intensity NoRRA and other cooperation partners are GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy company’s pursuit of the target of reducing fuel efficiency mainly limited to route planning, fleet utiliconsumption CO emissions by 17 per cent per RTK flown 2 fuel g/RTK Fuel efficiency of Finnair fleet sation and load factor optimisation. The average age of the fleet operated by by the end of 2020, using 2013 as the base300 Owing to the energy-intensive nature of its Finnair was approximately 9.5 years at line. By the end of 2018, Finnair had twelve 264 operations and the resulting costs, Finnair Energy efficiency of Finnair’s properties the end of 2018. Next-generation aircraft next-generation Airbus A350 XWB wide250 naturally has a strong aspiration to make its The properties owned and leased by Finnair consume approximately 20–25 per cent less body aircraft. In addition to providing a five200 operations more energy efficient, particuare mainly located in the Helsinki Airport fuel than their predecessors. The CO emis2 star travel experience, the new Airbus A350 150 larly by striving to reduce jet fuel consumparea. The combined size in cubic metres of sions of the aircraft also decline by a correXWB aircraft offer 20 per cent more cargo 100 tion. Airlines with an environmentally these properties was about 2.8 million m3 sponding amount. In addition to one new and passenger capacity than their predefriendly mindset, such as Finnair, strive in 2018, and the energy efficiency was 25.6 Airbus A35 XWB aircraft, Finnair added one cessors. 50 to operate a modern fleet to reduce the KWh/m3. new Airbus A321 to its fleet in 2018. Finnair strives to improve fuel efficiency 0 15 16 17 18 required fuel and emissions. Energy consumption figures are not availThe fleet investment, which has been the also by other means, not just modernFinnair’s measures to improve its fuel able for Finnair’s offices (sales etc.) abroad, most significant in the company’s history, ising its fleet. The ongoing fuel conservaRTK = revenue tonne kilometres, i.e. capacity use according to payload weight efficiency focus primarily on flights operas their energy consumption is typically will see Finnair take delivery of a total of 19 tion programme has achieved a reduction Flights operated by Finnair and NoRRA ated by the company itself. Finnair monitors invoiced as a fixed part of rent. Airbus A350 XWB aircraft. They support the of several per cent in jet fuel consumption (Norra as of 4/2015) the fuel efficiency of its flights primarily by the payload indicator (RTK), which accounts for the passenger load factor, the volume of cargo transported and the distance between the origin and destination. The Finnairs Fuel efficiency following chart and table illustrate the fuel efficiency of all Finnair flights in 2015–2018 2018 2017 2016 2015 (including Norra flights starting as of 4/2015 g/RPK 29.7 30 32.3 32.6 g/ASK 24.3 25 25.8 26.2 and all wet lease flights). Finnair’s opporg/RTK 251.3 247.6 271.2 271.2 tunities to have an impact on the fuel effig/ATK 165.4 167 174.1 180.1 ciency of flight operations leased from 21 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX in recent years. A 1 per cent increase in fuel regular basis, as well as the efficiency of noticeable weight savings. On average, GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy IN 2018 FINNAIR efficiency in Finnair’s traffic corresponds to water uplift and refuelling of the aircraft. In weight decrease has been about 150 kg per requirements of products and IMPLEMENTED A NEW approximately 10 million kilogrammes of 2018 Finnair adjusted the standard water aircraft, decreasing fuel consumption by services SOFTWARE (PACE) IN ITS fuel, which in turn corresponds to a reducuplift volume, gaining annual fuel savings 450 tonnes annually. Long-term work done to improve flights fuel A350 FLEET TO OPTIMISE tion of over 30 million kilogrammes of CO . 2 of 100 tonnes. By implementing new techIn 2016, Finnair Facilities Management efficiency has resulted in the continuous Finnair’s initiatives to improve the effinologies and materials aircrafts’ empty joined a nation-wide energy efficiency reduction of fuel used per passenger seat. FLIGHT PROFILES. ciency of fuel cover all activities within weight has successfully been reduced in agreement in the service sector, which is The fuel used per revenue tonne kilometres operations, from flight planning to taxi in to recent years. Weight is always considered as part of the implementation of Finland’s increased in year 2018 as the full cargo the gates. Operational punctuality and fuel an important factor whenever new aircraft long-term energy and climate strategy and capacity of the aircrafts was not successefficiency are the main focus areas in flight materials are being purchased. In addithe framework decision of the Council of fully utilised. planning. Due to the flexible deployment tion to empty weight, having the correct State on energy efficiency measures. The of our Airbus fleet, it is possible to allocate take-off weight is crucial in fuel efficiency, agreement obliges Finnair to reduce its an optimal aircraft type to each particular as it means that unnecessary fuel is not properties’ energy consumption by 7 per route on any given day of the year. During carried in the tanks. In 2018 Finnair started cent from the 2016 level by 2025. the operation stage, every flight is provided to improve and measure the efficiency of Finnair participates annually in the interwith an optimal flight path based on loading ULDs’, saving fuel about 200 tonnes national Earth Hour by switching off its payload, weather forecast, and capacity of annually when unnecessary ULDs’ are not advertising lights at the airport and in airspace. carried onboard. various properties for a whole weekend and In 2018 Finnair implemented a new During 2018, Finnair introduced digital informing personnel of ways to conserve software (PACE) in its A350 fleet to optinewspapers and magazines on its flights. energy when at work as well as when on mise flight profiles and trained pilots to do This enables Finnair to offer breaking duty. one engine taxi-out. The taxi-out procenews for the passengers and less fuel Finnair is an active member of the Nordic dure itself saves about 120 tonnes of fuel consumption for each operated flight Initiative for Sustainable Aviation working ­annually. when paper magazines are not carried group comprised of Nordic airlines, airport Besides weather factors and air traffic onboard. A re-configuration process for operators and government ministries who control, fuel consumption is affected by Finnair’s narrow-body fleet started on are working together with aircraft manuthe weight of the aircraft and its load. The 2017 continued into 2018. The modififacturers to expedite the development of weight of the aircraft is followed up on a cation of cabin interiors has resulted in biofuel in the aviation industry. 22 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Flight noise per cent of Finnair’s fleet is compliant with air quality and climate, disease control, FLIGHT NOISE AND One typical adverse environmental effect of the specifications for Chapter 4, which is the pest control and pollination. Finnair’s core BIODIVERSITY air transport is noise. The noise produced newest and quietest ICAO noise category. The business and key product areas benefit by aircraft is mainly engine noise and aeroremaining below five per cent of Finnair’s ecosystem services in various ways. Cultural dynamic noise. The level of engine noise is aircraft are categorised in Chapter 3. services are particularly important for greater in take-offs, while the level of aerotravel services. Accordingly, Finnair’s travel dynamic noise grows during approaches. GRI 304-1 Operational sites agency, Aurinkomatkat-Suntours, has Finnair has reduced noise by modernowned, leased, managed in, or participated in various local projects to ising its fleet and by scheduling take-offs adjacent to, protected areas and maintain biodiversity at various destinaNEXT-GENERATION and landings at less undesirable times areas of high biodiversity value tions for several years. AIRCRAFT CONSUME from a noise perspective. However, Finnair outside protected areas In planning its destination programmes, APPROXIMATELY also operates flights in the evenings and at night, at which times noise is perceived to be more disruptive. The use of the continFinnair takes environmental aspects into consideration on the ground and in the air. Besides energy solutions that reduce Aurinkomatkat-Suntours carefully evaluates their potential effects on the environment and biodiversity. The operations aim to 25% LESS FUEL THAN THEIR uous descent approach (CDA) also helps the environmental load, Finnair’s environavoid excursions to sites where visits could PREDECESSORS. reduce flight noise within ten kilometres mental strategy also includes the preserpose a threat to biodiversity. The customers of the airport. However, the use of CDA vation and promotion of natural diversity, are informed at destinations on appropriate requires uncongested airspace and good known as biodiversity thinking. Finnair has conduct to preserve biodiversity. weather conditions. During the busiest assessed the ecosystem services, or beneFor several years, Finnair has also actively afternoon hours at Helsinki Airport, for fits provided to people by nature, that are supported a rain forest reforestation and example, when there are a lot of parallel most relevant to its business, as well as its biodiversity project in Madagascar in collabapproaches, using the CDA is not possible. most significant impacts on them. oration with the Finnish Association for Finnair aims at increasing the annual Of the different categories of ecosystem Nature Conservation, although the company amount of CDA landings in Helsinki by one services, cultural services and regulating does not operate any flights to the area. per cent during 2018–2020. services are the most relevant to Finnair’s In the airline business, Finnair supported The International Civil Aviation Organisabusiness. Cultural services include tourism, both cultural and regulating services by tion (ICAO) has specified noise certification spiritual value and aesthetic value. Reguprohibiting the transportation of hunting limits for aircraft and their engines. Over 95 lating services include the regulation of trophies or memorabilia originating from 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX endangered species or their parts in its of biofuel, measures must be taken not to cargo network. Furthermore, Finnair indirectly lead to changes in land use (ILUC). signed the United for Wildlife (UFW) BuckThe objective is to ensure that arable land ingham Palace declaration of the Duke of used for growing food crops is not used to Cambridge to prevent the illegal smuggling produce raw material for biofuel, which of wild animals. As a signatory, the company would result in either the clearing of forests has undertaken to promote the awareness or wetlands to create space for food producof different stakeholders about this topic. tion or a decline in food production. The significance of biodiversity in Regulating services have a significant Finnair’s airline business will be highimpact on both the airline business and lighted further in the coming years through travel services. The local decline of biodiclimate change mitigation measures. When versity erodes the operating conditions of biofuels replace fossil fuels in the future, the tourism industry and increases the risk the company wants to ensure that the of infectious diseases. primary production of raw materials for Climate change can lead to an increase renewable energy sources is used in line or exacerbation of extreme weather with the principles of sustainable developphenomena, which in turn could restrict ment and does not compromise ecosystem aviation or, in the worst case, prevent it services. For example, in the manufacturing entirely in some regions. 24 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) mainly the result of natural evaporation. emission factor reported by the heating Significant material flows are generated EMISSIONS greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Air transport is in a special position in this energy supplier (265 kg CO /kWh). The loca2 by Finnair Kitchen, which provides catering Nearly all of Finnair Group’s greenhouse respect because the water vapour genertion-based emissions of heat consumption for the flights that depart from Helsinki. gas emissions arise from flight operaated by the engines is released high in the amounted to 6,917 tCO , calculated based 2 The emissions arising from these matetions. Flying primarily causes two kinds of atmosphere, which increases the atmoson the average emission factor for Finnish rials, such as food and beverages served direct greenhouse gas emissions: carbon phere’s H2O content above the cloud layer. district heating joint generation areas (176 g on flights, were not reported in 2018. The dioxide and water vapour. Water vapour However, not much is yet known about the CO /kWh). 2 greenhouse impacts of the material flows is the most important greenhouse gas potential impacts of water vapour emisThe CO emissions attributable to the 2 could not be estimated. in the atmosphere, but it is not genersions from aviation. production of electrical energy in 2018 were Information on truck transport by Finnair ally examined directly as a human-deIn 2018, the greenhouse gas emissions of 10,102 tCO , according to the supplier-spe2 Cargo is absent from this report. Finnair rived greenhouse gas emission, because Finnair’s traffic amounted to approximately cific emission factors (265 g and 198 g CO /2 Cargo purchases transport services from the water vapour in the atmosphere is 3,248,045 tonnes of CO equivalent. This 2 kWh). truck companies, and the statistical pracfigure covers 82 per cent of Finnair’s total tices of these companies do not allow actual Emissions greenhouse gas emissions. GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) emissions to be calculated at present. Finnair 2018 2017 2016 2015 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Cargo’s main partners in truck traffic use Scope 1 Jet Fuel, t CO2 3,248,045 2,902,787 2,753,567 2,628,713 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope The greenhouse gas emissions arising from vehicles classified as EURO 4 at a minimum. Ground vehicles, t CO2 751 747 227 170 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions the production of jet fuel constitute a signifWhen there is humidity in the air and the Total, t CO2 3,248,795 2,903,534 2,753,794 2,628,883 In Finland, the energy consumption of icant proportion of Finnair’s indirect greentemperature is close to or below freezing, 11.9% 5.4% 4.8% buildings accounts for more than a third house gas emissions balance. More than 55 airlines use de-icing and anti-icing to ensure Scope 2 of total greenhouse gas emissions. Finnair per cent of the jet fuel used by Finnair and the safety of their operations. De-icing Faclities, electricity, t CO2 10,102 9,48 8,843 7,544 uses means such as repairs, alterations, Norra is produced at the Neste refinery in involves cleaning impurities on the exteFaclities, heat, t CO2 9,049 11,167 9,583 6,415 preventive maintenance as well as user Porvoo’s Kilpilahti district. The greenhouse rior of the aircraft, while anti-icing involves Total, t CO2 19,151 20,647 18,426 13,959 training, to ensure the energy efficiency gas emissions arising from the producspraying the exterior with a protective -7.3% 12.1% 32.0% -33.4% of its business premises to mitigate the tion and transport of jet fuel amounted substance, propylene glycol (hereafter Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions arising from the to an estimated 701,701 tonnes of CO in2 referred to as glycol), to prevent ice from Fuel transportation & production, t CO2 701,701 627,113 594,875 567,902 energy consumption of its buildings. 2018 Business travel by Finnair employees accumulating on it. Business travel 1,700 In 2018, the CO emissions arising from 2 primarily involves the company’s own The greenhouse impact of glycol could Grand total 3,971,347 3,551,294 3,367,095 3,210,744 the production of heating energy amounted flights, the emissions of which are reported not be estimated, since no emission factor 11.8% 5.5% 4.9% to 9,049 tCO , calculated according to the 2 under Scope 1. is available for it. 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GRI 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) This offsetting will bind 1,700 tCO from the 2 emissions intensity atmosphere back to the ground. In autumn The emissions intensity of an aircraft goes 2018 Finnair started to provide biodiesel in hand in hand with its energy intensity. ground equipment refuelling reducing 2018 In other words, as the energy consumpCO emissions already by 103,3 tonnes. As a 2 FINNAIR’S LONG TERM tion of the aircraft increases, its emiscontinuum, Finnair has provided customers TARGET IS TO REDUCE THE sions increase. The ratios for jet fuel and at the beginning of the 2019 with an easy CARBON EMISSIONS OF the energy consumption of properties are way to offset or reduce the CO emissions of 2 ITS FLIGHT OPERATIONS reported under GRI 302-1 Energy intentheir flights. Customers can choose between RELATIVE TO THE REVENUE sity. Finnair uses RTK (revenue tonne kilooffsetting their CO emissions through an 2 TONNE KILOMETRES (RTK) BY metres) to divide its carbon emissions, emissions reduction project, and/or through 17% FROM THE LEVEL since it measures emissions in relation to the distance travelled and the volume of passengers and cargo. the support of biofuels. GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozoneOF 2013 BY 2020. depleting substances (ODS) GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG Halons are found to be major contributors emissions to ozone depletion. Airline operators are Finnair’s long-term target is to reduce the bound to use aircraft manufacturer certified carbon emissions in its flight operations and safe fire extinguishers. The manufacrelative to the revenue tonne kilometres turers are constantly working on replacing (RTK) by 17 per cent from the level of 2013 halons from aircrafts but currently there by 2020. The ongoing fleet renewal plays are locations where decent replacements the most significant role in achieving this are not yet found. Finnair has reported target. Work done in reducing the energy six events where halon 1211 or 1301 was intensity of the flights contributes directly emitted to the air. The amount of halon to reduced emissions. Description of the 1211 emission was 0.48 kg (used in portable progress in that field is reported under GRI extinguishers) and halon 1301 12.8 kg (used 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption. in engines). Finnair will offset all business travel flights its personnel made during 2018. 26 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GRI 306-2 Waste by type and The combination of mixed waste and energy improving waste material recycling. Specific WASTE disposal method waste is made possible by the thermic actions will include reducing the use of Amounts of waste and utilisation percentage The total amount of waste generated by processing of waste at Fortum’s power single use plastics, improving plastic recytonnes % Finnair increased by approximately 9.4 plants in Riihimäki. Following a change in cling and implementing responsible deci6,000 100 100% per cent, or over 396.5 tonnes, from the applicable regulations, food waste origision making in our inflight services by 2022. 4,500 75 previous year, total mass being 4,601.9 nating from outside of the EU that is subject Some of the first concrete changes were tonnes. The increase in the total weight to the EU by-products regulation can now replacing milk jiggers with carton packed 3,000 50 of waste is primarily attributable to traffic be directed to thermic processing, allowing Finnish milk on European and domestic growth. it to be utilised with other waste in generflights in November 2018 and removing 1,500 25 The company placed even more focus on ating district heating and electricity. plastic wrapping around renewed amenity waste recovery and sorting. Finnair has set Finnair has set long-term targets aiming kits (renewed amenity kits on flights in early 0 0 waste management objectives of increasing for sustainability in inflight catering. Actions spring 2019). These actions reduce gener15 16 17 18 waste recovery, cost efficiency and safety, towards these goals are ongoing and Finnair ated waste by 5.0 tonnes and generated Energy use Other as well as reducing the volume of waste. aims to reduce the environmental impact of plastic waste by 10.0 tonnes annually. Recycling Landfill Composting Utilisation, % In practice, this means that waste will be inflight catering provided by reducing CO 2 utilised as either energy or material. emissions, reducing generated waste and Total weight of waste 2018 2017 2016 2015 Hazardous Non-hazardous Hazardous Non-hazardous Hazardous Non-hazardous Hazardous Non-hazardous Incineration 81,743 3,587,845 85,160 3,111,214 164,143 2,940,074 63,076 2,742,482 Recycling 11,326 850,869 11,748 915,810 16,975 834,432 8,757 794,915 Composting 0 65,626 0 73,068 0 77,519 0 67,636 Other 3,039 1,201 0 8,410 2,447 10,201 2,206 10,200 Landfill 0 300 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 96,108 4,505,841 96,908 4,108,502 183,565 3,862,226 74,039 3,615,234 27 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX CARING Finnair’s operations are by nature very diverse and in a certain way highly technical. Our organisation and partners are present in dozens of countries around the globe and are subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. The core areas of our social responsibility include safety, care for our employees and customers, and supply chain management. • Caring for our employees • Respecting our customers 28 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX CARING FOR OUR Finnair’s responsibility for personnel during 2018 EMPLOYEES • Finnair introduced ePassi Sport benefit to all employees in Finland to encourage employees to exercise. • Finnair published its own occupational safety policy that steers the OHS management, decision making and everyday actions. Finnair also introduced a new mobile application for Finnair personnel for reporting occupational safety observations and e-learning in physical occupational safety for managers and employees. • Finnair implemented a Workability Management System (Aino Health Manager) first modules during 2018. • A programme of internal conciliators was launched to enhance interaction and problem-solving skills and improve the working atmosphere and understanding between the different parties. Finnair also introA core part of Finnair’s social responsibility ations according to Finnair’s personnel. duced e-learning Harmoniously at the workplace to all employees. involves taking care of its employees and The survey We Together@Finnair helps • In order to support work-life balance, a new summer camp concept their working conditions. In this respect, the company determine what areas it has was introduced for summer day care of employees’ children. Finnair is a notable employer. The policies been successful in and what areas need • Finnair’s Equality and Non-discrimination plan was renewed. of personnel management cover all aspects improvement. The employee survey covers • Finnair participated in the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) of social responsibility that have been identhe following key themes: My Job, Managecampaign against discrimination at work (Työ ei syrji campaign). tified as material. rial and Supervisory Work, Teamwork, and • In 2018 Finnair executed an extensive internal safety campaign. ”Their Finnair’s strategic HR guidelines and My Employer. safety. Our priority”. HR policy cover all factors that may Leadership development continues to be • According to the survey We Together@Finnair, the level of job satisfacimpact personnel and working conditions. one of Finnair’s key HR focus areas. Finnair tion was 3.77/5.0, which is almost the same as in 2017 (3.78). Finnair’s values – Commitment to Care, identifies regularly the needs for team and • Finnair’s employer brand image remained very high in 2018. According Simplicity and Courage – which serve as organisational development, and monito the survey by Universum, business students considered Finnair a guideline for everyone at Finnair are tors the welfare and commitment of the again as the most attractive employer of the year. increasingly reflected in day-to-day operpersonnel by an employee survey. 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GRI 102-8 Total number of an exception to this, as its terms of employFinnair does not limit its employees’ rights example considered #17 and #5 attractive employees by employment type, ment are agreed on locally or individually. to participate in trade union activities. employer among IT students and profesemployment contract, region and Finnair currently has employees abroad sionals respectively. gender in 27 countries. The employment contracts GRI 401-1 New employee hires and FINNAIR PERSONNEL In 2018 Finnair’s total number of employees and terms of employment are based on employee turnover GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates GREW BY increased significantly. At the end of 2018, local legislation. Employees have the opporDuring 2018 Finnair hired 1055 new of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 544 the number of Finnair employees in active tunity to agree on their terms of employemployees, of which 337 were flight employment relationships was 6,462, which ment through collective bargaining in counpersonnel. At the same time, about 80 number of work-related fatalities is 544 more than during the previous year. tries in which that is the local practice. employees retired from Finnair. The Work-related accidents comprise workplace NEW EMPLOYEES A large majority of the personnel works employee turnover has been rather low accidents and business trip accidents. The IN 2018 in Finland, mostly at the Helsinki-Vantaa Employees by group (4 per cent) in Finnair. table below shows all work related or busiairport or in the neighbouring area. Finnair’s employer brand image has ness trip accidents that resulted in at least % On 31 December 2018, there were 530 developed positively. According to the one day of sick leave. Finnair employees in active employment survey by Universum, business students LTIF= Loss time injury frequency refers relationships working outside Finland. considered Finnair the most attractive to the number of workplace accidents per Of these, 188 worked in business service employer in 2018. Students and profesmillion of working hours. center operations in the Baltic countries. sionals in other fields also consider Finnair Airline’s ground personnel include group Full-time staff accounted for 91 per cent an interesting employer, Finnair was for management, support services, ground of Finnair employees in 2018, and 96 per crew, and operative ground personnel. cent of staff were employed on a permanent basis. The average age of employees was 42 GRI 403-2 years. Cabin Crew 32% Work-related Workplace Loss time injury Business trip Pilots 15% accidens accidents frequency accidens GRI 102-41 Percentage of total White Collar Employees 15% 2018 Abroad 8% employees covered by collective Finnair Kitchen 8% Airline’s flight personnel 87 71 22 16 bargaining agreements Technical Services 7% Airline’s ground personnel 27 16 5 11 Finnair Technical Service Oy 8 3 3 5 All Finnair employees in Finland have the Ground Service 6% Finnair Cargo Oy 1 0 0 1 Technical Employees 3% right and opportunity to agree on their Finnair Flight Academy Oy 1 0 0 1 Aviation Employees 3% Aurinkomatkat Oy 2 0 0 2 terms of employment through collective Travel Guides 1% Total 126 90 12 36 bargaining. Senior management constitutes Management 1% During 2018 no suspected Travel Agency Staff 1% occupational diseases 30 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GRI 403-3 Workers with high GRI 403-3 GRI 404-2 Programmes for Finnair maintains an appropriate level of incidence or high risk of diseases upgrading employee skills and aviation-specific competencies. related to their occupation Medical check-ups at transition assistance programmes The strategic development of compeFinnair in 2018 Medical examinations pertaining to expoFinnair Group 1,550/5,300 Maintaining employee competence has a tencies requires cooperation with various sure at work include examinations concenCustomer Experience significant effect on the implementation of parties. Learning and development solutrating on the effects of carcinogenic Helsinki Airport Customer Service 134 /300 strategy. Competence development needs tions are built at the company, unit, team substances, solvents and other chemicals, Cabin crew 840/2,104 are surveyed by unit and by individual in and individual levels. In addition to tradiOperations noise, vibration and working night shifts. conjunction with performance reviews. tional classroom teaching, competence Cockpit 257/980 To prevent/minimise exposure to such Cargo 20/120 Thanks to the renewal of the My Journey is developed by a variety of methods, work-related health hazards, the primary Finnair Flight Academy 9/32 development discussions, learning and including learning on the job, online focus is on implementing working methods Technics 290/736 development is more emphasised in the learning, workshops, coaching, shadowing, and procedures that involve minimal expodiscussions. As the largest airline company and mentoring. On-the-job learning is an sure to hazards. in Finland, it is particularly critical that exemplary method of professional developCosmic radiation assessments were ment, especially in the context of digitaliconducted for a total of 26 pregnant sation and continuously changing working members of flight personnel in 2018. tools and practices that require self-guided Finnair Health Services has monitored the learning. Mapping competence develradiation exposure of all flight personnel GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee opment areas is an integral part of straon a quarterly basis. Radiation expotegic workforce planning processes and My sure levels have not exceeded the annual Average hours of training (1.1.2018–31.12.2018) Employees 31.12.2018 (only active employees) Training hours per employee Journey development discussions. Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total maximum level (6 mSv). All flight personnel The professional training for flight Employees 17,884 28,328 46,212 Employees 918 850 1,768 Employees 20 33 26 can check their cumulative radiation expopersonnel is conducted in cooperation with Office staff 7,027 23,112 30,139 Office staff 594 753 1,347 Office staff 12 31 22 sure by accessing a browser-based system Finnair Flight Academy, while Finnair’s techCabin 119,168 23,211 142,379 Cabin 1,841 218 2,059 Cabin 65 107 69 that provides information on actual hours of nical services unit handles its own profesPilots 96,090 Pilots 25 864 889 Pilots 108 flight duty performed and a mathematical sional technical training. The People DevelManagement 487 1,367 1,853 Management 24 48 72 Management 20 29 26 calculation of cosmic radiation exposure opment unit is responsible for strategic Total 143,004 166,073 314,820 Total 3,402 2,733 6,135 Total 51 based on the routes flown. competence development. 31 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Development areas in 2018 included the following: A. Development of managerial and B. Customised personnel development C. Team development and coaching supervisory work solutions (examples) • Individual coaching programmes for key indiTRAINING HOURS • Leading our Daily Operations – development • IT Development Managers Learn to Grow viduals continued PER EMPLOYEE programme for leading operative work development programme • Group coaching programmes for different 51 HOURS • • My Leadership Lab – the programme to support individual development of managers Two new Talent programmes: Finnair Trans• • Renewed Cabin crew -basic training course started in Dec 2018 Ground operations Experience Day, aiming at target groups continued D. Professional competence development formers and Customer Service Future Leaders improving customer service quality and induction training • Global Exchange – programme to support • Training towards the transformation of • #JoinFinnair induction training for all new understanding of markets and cultures cargo operations and the implementation of employees • MOVE onboard a coaching programme for Skychain • Safety training for all employees, with new supervisors • Professional technical training for pilots targeted training for special groups • Continuing with project management trainin connection to growth strategy and new • General competence development, including ings education for pilots the development of competencies related • Programs and events across units to support • Training to support the integration of new to systems, languages and purchasing. New TRAINING HOURS IN TOTAL development of supervisors working tools: Office 365 and various applicaprogrammes included Harmonious Work 314,820 • Captain & CPU Leadership Day, where captains and chief pursers develop their managerial roles and their cooperation in tions for operative work • Community and GDPR -e-learnings for all employees. Open House sessions (i.e. Cyber-security, HOURS leading customer experience and people self-management, Nordic Business Forum) experience 32 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Permanent themes include the Code of GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance Conduct, occupational safety and health bodies and employees in aviation, work induction, occupational At the end of 2018, 56 per cent of Finnair’s safety and health awareness for superviemployees were women and 44 per cent sors, and occupational safety card training. were men. Three of the eight members of Other professional training organised in Finnair’s Board of Directors are women. The BY THE END OF 2018 2018 included outstation training, first aid average age of Finnair’s personnel in 2018 56% OF FINNAIR STAFF and emergency training, basic and recurrent training, systems training and cooperawas 42 years. Of the personnel, 27 per cent were over 50 years of age, while 17 per cent tion with various educational institutions. were under 30 years of age. Finnair does WERE WOMEN The Finnair Aviation Academy, founded not maintain statistics based on ethnicity. in 1964, is a special vocational educational establishment maintained by Finnair Plc, which operates as a special educational establishment under the Act on Vocational Adult Education (631/1998). Its task is to arrange further vocational training leading to a vocational or special vocational qualification as well as other further vocational training required for the practice of Finnair Plc’s and its subsidiaries’ operations THE AVERAGE AGE OF (Further Vocational Training Arrangement FINNAIR’S PERSONNEL Permit 551/530/2006, 13 December 2006). IN 2018 WAS 42 As a privately-owned educational establishment, the Aviation Academy funds its operations in accordance with government YEARS aid practices and it is a member of Business Education Establishments ELO (Elinkeinoelämän oppilaitokset Elo ry). 33 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Finnair has responsibility towards its GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health with a comprehensive and high-quality aims to exceed in all areas. CARING FOR OUR customers for the overall quality of their and safety impact of products and service product in collaboration with its Finnair’s Ground Operations unit is CUSTOMERS experience, regardless of the fact that some services partners. We are responsible for transresponsible for the acquisition, quality services are produced by Finnair’s partThe aviation industry consists of a strictly porting customers and their baggage to criteria and quality control of ground ners rather than the company itself. Thereregulated value chain comprised of multiple their destinations safely, smoothly and handling services required at airports. The fore, Finnair pays increased attention to the suppliers of products and services. As an punctually. unit’s task is to ensure that the ground selection of its partners and the partners airline and service company at the top of The most significant product responsiservices used by Finnair fulfill the requireare required to comply with Finnair’s quality this value chain, Finnair creates added bility aspects in the Finnair group’s operaments set for them, both in terms of assurance policies and ethical guidelines. value for its customers by providing them tions are flight safety, food safety, responquality and in respect of safety and official sibility for individual customers, and regulations. responsibility for the cargo carried. To deliver on their service promises, Finnair’s Product responsibility in 2018 Finnair’s Safety Management System Finnair Cargo, Kitchen and the Ground (SMS) covers all aspects of flight safety: Operations unit apply a systematic evalu• According to a research conducted by Sustainable Brand Index to identify the most sustainsafety policy, operational risk management, ation process when selecting subcontracable and responsible Nordic brands, Aurinkomatkat-Suntours (a tour operator within safety training and communications, safety tors and partners. Partners are required, Finnair Group) was perceived by Finnish consumers as Finland’s most responsible tour assurance including continuous auditing for example, to ensure and maintain operator. The survey was based on the ten principles of UN’s Global Compact initiative. of operations and the assessment of the the expertise of their personnel, and • Finnair also took measures to better accommodate different needs of passengers by potential impact of changes in the operating also to ensure that vehicles, equipment changing its booking process and developing the Inflight Entertainment system to make environment. Official regulations and standand premises are appropriate. In addiservices more accessible. Inflight entertainment system has now a special channel ards set the minimum requirements, which tion to quality audits at airports, Finnair devoted to support Responsible Finnair-concept communications. the company aims to exceed in all areas. also regularly performs quality inspec• Finnair performed well in several quality and customer satisfaction surveys conducted Finnair Kitchen is responsible for food tions that continually monitor both its own within the industry or among passengers during 2018. Finnair’s Net Promoter Score measand product safety for all Finnair inflight and subcontractors’ work. Finnair Cargo uring customer satisfaction increased, despite the headwinds experienced, to 48 (47). In services. Quality and safety of catering and Ground Operations are responsible JACDEC’s 2018 Airline Safety Ranking, Finnair was listed as the safest airline in the world operations are covered by Finnair Kitchen for maintaining and updating their own among the 100 largest airlines measured by RPKs. Quality Management System. Official reguquality systems and ensuring that operalations and industry standards set the tions comply with requirements. minimum requirements, which the company 34 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX COLLABORATIVE Finnair’s objective is to create sustainable economic added value by producing flight services profitably, cost-competitively and in harmony with the needs of the environment and society. Responsible operations are the cornerstone of profitable business activity, and Finnair takes into account the effects of its operations on society. • Stakeholders • Economic responsibility 35 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX The responsibility strategy is geared at STAKEHOLDERS preserving the license to operate from key Customers Subjects Travel experience, customer service issues, product quality, on-time Channels Surveys, research, written feedback, Finnair website, social media, performance, emissions and noise reduction, safety, recycling, customer events, customer service encounters at every stage of the stakeholders and contributing to good repuresponsible sourcing, responsible tourism, corporate responsibility journey, messages to Finnair Plus customers, Finnair mobile app, Blue projects via Finnair Plus. Wings inflight magazine. tation and long-term shareholder value of Finnair. It also helps protect Finnair from Personnel Occupational health and wellbeing at work, target setting, Code of Intranet, internal blogs, theme weeks, Yammer, personnel events, We Conduct and ethical issues, safety and security, changes to improve Together @FinnairWellbeing At Work survey, occupational health the downside risk that breaches of environprofitability, values and business practises, increasing trust, reducing services, performance evaluation and development planning, discussions environmental impact on the job, corporate responsibility in with labour organisations, Leadership forum. mental regulations, human rights abuses or partnerships, changes affecting personnel. governance issues, such as corruption, can Shareholders and Market environment and competitive landscape, the company’s Stock exchange bulletins under periodic and ongoing disclosure bring to a company. investors operations, corporate responsibility, goals, reporting, strategy and obligation; interim reports, financial statements, report of the Board of financial position. Directors, Corporate Governance Statement. Annual General Meeting; investor, analyst and media meetings and events; corporate website; Carbon Disclosure Project. Aviation sector Safety, emissions and noise, reduction, emissions reduction schemes, air Membership in IATA and A4E; cooperation forum for sustainable tourism; traffic management, biofuel and supply chain development, sustainable membership in oneworld alliance; Joint Businesses; cooperation with tourism, economic impacts of the sector. Finavia and other airport operators; sector seminars and working groups; manufacturers. Authorities and Competitiveness, market access, safety, emissions trading and reduction Dialogue with local, national, EU-level authorities and governments; government schemes, air traffic management, supply chain responsibility, reporting, dialogue with governments and authorities in destination and overflight economic contribution of aviation, impact of operations on environment countries, events and other cooperation with the Finnish Consumer and noise, disruptions and irregularities, biofuels, employee relations, the Agency, Flight Safety Authority (TraFi), embassies and other relevant Transport Code. Finnish and foreign actors. NGOs Greenhouse gas emissions AND environmental impact reduction, public Cooperation with the Finnish Association for Nature Conservation, health measures, human rights, disaster relief, wildlife protection, UNICEF, Finnish Red Cross, Cancer Society of Finland and other NGOs. common interest projects for sustainability and development Membership in the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Climate Leadership cooperation, supply chain responsibility. coalition, Commitment 2050 -cooperation. Suppliers Cooperation efforts to reduce emissions and other environmental Contractual cooperation, Finnair procurement guidelines and Supplier impacts, monitoring of responsibility and business ethics everywhere in Code of Conduct. the value chain. Media Company strategy and business, Finnair products and network, daily Press releases, press conferences, visits by reporters, press trips, operations irregularities, investments, emissions reduction, personnel interviews, Finnair media desk calls and emails, websites social media, relations, financial sustainability, economic contribution of aviation, Blue Wings magazine. ethics, cooperation projects with NGOs, trends in travel and traffic, biofuels, emissions trading and reduction schemes, noise, impact of aviation on local economy and mobility. General public Customer service, product quality, labour relations, economic Communications via media, websites, email and lectures; social media contribution of aviation, ethics, emissions reduction, presence in local including blogs, Facebook, Twitter and Sina Weibo. economies, cooperation projects with NGOs, corporate citizenship. 36 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Finnair’s Board of Directors has set the GRI 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed ECONOMIC company’s financial targets, which are RESPONSIBILITY provided in information material for invesEUR mill. Direct economic value generated 2018 2017 2016 2015 tors. As a public limited company, Finnair is Revenue 2,834.6 2,568.4 2,316.8 2,254.5 committed to earning a profit for its shareOther operating income 73.7 77.0 75.5 85.2 holders. The company’s profit distribution Sales gains and losses on aircraft and other transactions 42.7 44.1 30.4 121.5 principles are expressed in Finnair’s diviFinancial income -2.9 -0.3 1.0 1.3 dend policy. Finnair’s financial reporting Total 2,948.2 2,689.3 2,423.7 2,426.5 aims to transparently provide information about Finnair’s financial position and develEconomic value distributed opment. Materials, services and other operating expenses 2,155.9 1,909.6 1,834.5 1,864.8 Staff costs 428.6 418.9 356.4 355.6 Payments made to shareholders and loan providers 70.1 41.9 30.7 25.0 Dividend 38.4 12.8 0.0 0.0 Hybrid bond interests and expenses 15.8 15.8 19.1 15.3 Financial expenses 16.0 13.4 11.5 9.7 Payments to governments 8.1 7.2 9.8 11.2 Donations and other charitable payments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2,662.7 2,377.5 2,231.3 2,256.6 Economic value retained for operational development 285.6 311.8 192.4 205.9 Investments in tangible and intangible assets and acquisitions of 331.0 511.5 518.9 329.7 subsidiaries Comparable operating result 169.4 170.4 55.2 23.7 Return on capital employed (ROCE), % 11.9 13.6 8.9 12.2 37 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GRI 201-2: Financial implications the first stage of fleet renewal was accomGRI 203-2: Significant indirect and other risks and opportunities plished. economic impacts due to climate change For several years now, Finnair has Finnair’s current route network and its In combating climate change, the main voiced its support for a global marketfuture expansion ensure that Finland will measures are directed at reducing the based measure for offsetting greenhouse have more direct flight connections to combustion of fossil fuels. The jet fuel used gas emissions that would complement the other parts of the world than domestic by Finnair is fossil fuel and fuel costs are industry’s technological, operational and demand alone could support. This has a Finnair’s single most significant cost item. infrastructural efforts to reduce emissions. significant impact on the travel opporTherefore, all the factors influencing the In 2018, Finnair participated in the Eurotunities of Finns and on the Finnish busiprice of jet fuel similarly influence Finnair’s pean Union’s Emissions Trading Scheme ness sector. In addition, the aviation sector operating costs. The need to reduce fuel (EU-ETS), which concerned only Intra-Euis a major job creator in Finnish society. consumption and the resultant carbon ropean flights. The direct costs incurred by According to a research conducted in dioxide emissions has a significant impact Finnair from emissions trading totalled 11.6 autumn 2017 by ETLA, the Research Instion the company’s business operations. In million euros in 2018. In total Finnair paid tute of the Finnish Economy, Finnair is the 2017, fuel made up approximately one fifth environmental related costs and fees over sixteenth most significant company for the of Finnair’s operational expenses; there45 million euros in 2018. The direct costs of Finnish economy in terms of Gross Domestic fore efficiency has a material impact on the market based emission reduction schemes Product, with a contribution of 587.6 million development of shareholder value. in the coming years are difficult to estieuros. In order to reduce its fuel consumption, mate due to open details of the system and Finnair follows a strategy comprised of accepted carbon credits. four elements: technological development, Finnair is a leading airline in carbon improvement of operational efficiency, dioxide emissions reporting and reducing development of infrastructure and support emissions. The risks, opportunities, finanof a global market-based measure to offset cial effects and management methods CO emissions. Finnair operates a modern 2 related to climate change are described fleet and has invested from 2015 onward in detail in Finnair’s responses in various in fuel-efficient next-generation aircraft to reporting frameworks. maintain its competitive advantage. In 2017 38 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Tax principles Finland. The operations of Finnair’s foreign Profits of sales units are taxed in accordTAX FOOTPRINT Finnair’s principle is to pay, collect, remit subsidiaries in 2018 and 2017 have been ance with regulations and double tax treaand report the indirect and direct taxes it primarily related to travel and back office ties pertaining to the international airline is subject to in each country according to services, and they are very minor in scale business and, hence, revenue, result before local laws and regulations. High-quality relative to the group’s business operations taxes, income tax payable and number of tax returns and reports are very imporas a whole. Finnair has also had minor holdpersonnel in other countries are not sepatant to Finnair and, as a result, we prepare ings (less than 20 per cent) in some insurrately adopted in financial statements. tax returns carefully and submit them on ance captives located in Guernsey for busiSpecification of taxes paid and collected in time. Finnair also discusses openly with tax ness reasons, the results of which are other countries is presented overleaf. authorities. The aim of Finnair’s tax prinsubject to taxation in Finland. ciples is to support business decisions and Finnair’s taxable operations in individual to ensure their appropriate implementacountries outside of Finland are minor in 2018 2017 tion, also from the perspective of taxation. scale. Thus, the below table presents Finland Finnair’s operations in Finland and in Other Other other countries Finland* countries Total Finland* countries Total The Finnair group does not have any strucseparately and all other countries together. Revenue, EUR million 2,824.4 10.2 2,834.6 2,557.7 10.8 2,568.4 tures in place to transfer taxable income Country level information for subsidiaries Result before taxes, EUR million 189.1 -0.5 188.6 210.6 0.5 211.1 from Finland to jurisdictions with lower tax can be found in the second table on this Number of personnel 5,350 502 5,852 5,034 492 5,526 * Figures from 2017 include also an acquired subsidiary during the time it was already part of Finnair group. Internal revenue has rates. page. Country level specification for taxes been eliminated. paid and collected outside Finland is found Taxes related to international business on the next page. operations Finland 2017 figures include Finnair Finnair’s international business operaKitchen Oy for the time it was already part 2018 2017 Finnair’s operations in other countries Estonia Russia Total Estonia Russia Total tions are mainly related to the sales of of the group. Finnair Group’s foreign operRevenue, EUR million 10.2 0.0 10.2 10.8 0.0 10.8 flight tickets and cargo through Finnair ative subsidiaries are located in Estonia, Result before taxes, EUR million -0.5 0.0 -0.5 0.5 0.0 0.5 Plc’s foreign sales units, as well as local where income tax is due in connection with Income tax payable, EUR million 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 sales promotion activities. Sales units are distribution of dividends. The group has Number of personnel 191 0 191 186 0 186 not separate legal entities. The sales units’ also a dormant subsidiary in Russia. Specincome is taxed pursuant to the regulaification for foreign subsidiaries’ external tions and double tax treaties pertaining to revenue, result before taxes, income the international airline business as part tax payable and number of personnel is of the parent company’s taxable income in presented in the adjacent chart. 39 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Other taxes primarily include environmental tive tax rate is presented in Note 5.1 in Total amount of excise taxes outside 2018 2017 and electricity taxes. Due to the nature of Finnair’s consolidated financial statements. Finland in 2018 and 2017 has been less than Other Other Direct taxes payable, EUR million Finland* countries Total Finland* countries Total the international airline business, jet fuel is The most significant indirect taxes collected 0.1 million euros and, hence, this inforEmployer contributions 2.7 2.3 5.0 3.3 2.1 5.3 tax-free. Public subsidies consist of subsiduring the financial year are withholding tax mation is not presented on a country-byProperty taxes 0.9 0.0 0.9 0.4 0.0 0.4 dies received for training and they are liabilities, value added tax and excise taxes. country basis. Other taxes 2.2 0.1 2.2 1.4 0.1 1.4 Public subsidies received -1.7 0.0 -1.7 -2.1 0.0 -2.1 primarily related to the aviation training The passenger tariffs collected from flight Country specific information for 2017 Taxes included in direct services provided by Finnair. The reported passengers are not considered as tax-like is presented in the table on the left only operating expenses and subsidies in total 4.1 2.3 6.4 2.9 2.1 5.1 public subsidies do not include subsidies paid payments remitted to the authorities subject regarding countries where the amount Income taxes payable* 25.9 0.0 25.9 20.1 0.0 20.1 to the airline business by the authorities in to reporting as part of the tax footprint as of taxes paid, collected or deducted is at Total direct taxes payable 30.0 2.3 32.3 23.0 2.1 25.1 various countries, as they are considered these payments are usually remitted to the least 0.05 million euros. Countries where * Income taxes payable are tax expenses recorded based on the taxable result, which has partly been utilised against confirmed tax losses. Figures from 2017 include also taxes of an acquired subsidiary during the time it was already part of Finnair group. business secrets. The reported public subsiprivate or public party responsible for airport this threshold is not met are presented as dies, however, include a subsidy of 0.1 million operations. More detailed specification of two areas below. The figures below include 2018 2017 euros (0.1) relating to Enontekiö region’s taxes collected in other countries can be taxes paid and collected by subsidiaries and Indirect taxes collected for the Other Other tourism promotion received from a Finnish found overleaf. sales units. financial year, EUR million Finland* countries Total Finland countries* Total Value added taxes, sales 107.0 0.9 107.9 90.4 1.0 91.5 authority. Country specific information for 2018 Value added taxes, purchases 136.9 5.1 142.0 118.8 4.9 123.8 Finnair has confirmed losses in taxation is presented in the adjacent chart only Value added taxes, net -29.9 -4.2 -34.1 -28.4 -3.9 -32.3 from previous tax periods amounting to regarding countries where the amount Withholding taxes on wages and salaries and other indirect taxes 100.0 2.8 102.8 92.6 2.5 95.1 approximately 68 million euros. The estiof taxes paid, collected or deducted is at Excise taxes 0.5 0.0 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.5 mated amount of confirmed tax losses after least 0.05 million euros. Countries where Total 70.5 -1.4 69.2 64.6 -1.4 63.2 2018 taxable result is approximately 0.3 this threshold is not met are presented as * Figures from 2017 include also an acquired subsidiary during the time it was already part of Finnair group. million euros. The confirmed tax losses can two areas below. The figures below include be utilised against positive taxable income taxes paid and collected by subsidiaries and over the next ten years. sales units. More detailed specification of employer Employer contributions paid relate to contributions paid in other countries is mandatory employer payments regarding found on the next page. employees located outside of Finland. More information on direct taxes, such Withholding taxes on salary are collected as the taxes pursuant to the consolidated based on local legislation. Value added tax income statement, deferred tax assets and on sales and purchases relate mainly to liabilities and the adjustment of the effecpassenger sales and cargo services. 40 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Withholding Withholding 2018 Value added taxes on 2017 Value added taxes on Country specification, EUR Employer Value added taxes, Value added wages and Country specification, EUR Employer Value added taxes, Value added wages and million contributions taxes, sales purchases taxes, net salaries Total million contributions taxes, sales purchases taxes, net salaries Total Countries Countries Estonia 1.0 0.2 0.2 -0.1 0.5 1.4 Estonia 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.5 1.3 China 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.6 China 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.7 Belgium 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.4 Belgium 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 USA 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 Greece 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.2 Greece 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 USA 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Italy 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Italy 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Germany 0.0 0.1 0.2 -0.1 0.1 0.1 Spain 0.1 0.1 0.2 -0.1 0.1 0.1 Spain 0.1 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Australia 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Sweden 0.2 0.0 0.4 -0.4 0.2 0.0 Sweden 0.2 0.0 0.3 -0.3 0.2 0.0 Singapore 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Singapore 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Australia 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 France 0.0 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 France 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 Denmark 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Denmark 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 South-Korea 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 South-Korea 0.1 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.1 -0.1 Germany 0.0 0.1 0.4 -0.3 0.1 -0.1 Japan 0.3 0.0 1.2 -1.2 0.6 -0.3 Norway 0.0 0.0 0.5 -0.5 0.1 -0.4 Norway 0.0 0.0 0.6 -0.6 0.1 -0.5 Japan 0.2 0.1 1.2 -1.1 0.5 -0.4 Thailand 0.0 0.0 0.6 -0.6 0.0 -0.6 Thailand 0.0 0.0 0.5 -0.5 0.0 -0.4 UK 0.0 0.1 0.7 -0.7 0.1 -0.6 UK 0.0 0.1 0.8 -0.7 0.0 -0.7 Areas Areas Other European countries* 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 Other European countries* 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Rest of the world** 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Rest of the world** 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2.3 0.9 5.1 -4.2 2.8 0.9 Total 2.1 1.0 4.9 -3.9 2.5 0.6 * Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, * Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia and Slovenia Slovakia and Slovenia ** Canada, India and United Arab Emirates ** Canada and India 41 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX ANNEX Finnair was one of the first airlines in the world to communicate on its corporate responsibility issues under the Global Reporting Initiative reporting framework starting from 2008. • Reporting principles • Global Compact content index • GRI content index 42 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Finnair was one of the first airlines in corporate responsibility aspects are converREPORTING the world to communicate on its corpogent at the group level. Hence, they are PRINCIPLES rate responsibility issues under the Global treated in this report as one unit, Finnair Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting frameTechnical Services. work starting from 2008. This GRI-section is integrated to the Annual Report 2018 and Information sources, the Report has been prepared in accordmeasurement and Finnair group ance with the GRI Standards: Core option calculation methods based on the materiality. The information of the report has been The report covers the parent company, collected from the group’s internal statisand all Finnish subsidiaries. tics systems and also from various subconFinnair group does not report on the tractors. In terms of measurement and operations of foreign subsidiaries, because calculation methods, the GRI topic-specific they are deemed not to be of key signifaccounting principles have been adhered icance in terms of the group’s corporate to whenever the available data have so responsibility issues as minor operators. allowed. If some other measurement or Any exceptions to this are mentioned sepacalculation method has been used, this is rately in connection with each indicator. mentioned in connection with the key figure Finnair does not report on outsourced concerned. The figures have been presented operations, either. The business units and in time series when this has been approsubsidiaries covered by the report are listed priate and reliably possible. in the adjacent table. Figures on economic responsibility are Finnair’s maintenance organisation mainly derived from the financial stateconsists of two independent companies: ments. Other information with respect to Finnair Technical Services Oy and Finnair economic responsibility is derived from the Engine Services Oy. This approach is justigroup’s various operators. fied by the fact that the operations of both Indicators on personnel are based on technical services subsidiaries are the active employment relationships as at repair and maintenance of aircraft and 31 December 2018. The figures exclude their components, and for this reason their dormant employees and Aurinko Ou, 43 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Suntours’ Baltic subsidiary (number of aircraft’s auxiliary power unit (APU) on the SFS-EN 16258 standard for JET A-1. EmisInformation relating to human rights Changes pertaining to Finnair’s organisapersonnel on 31 December 2018). ground. sions of Extraction, production and transand local communities are derived from tional structure and the calculation of finanFinnair’s largest single material cost item Where Method A cannot be used, we are portation of the fuels = amount of fuel * procurement agreements, from personnel cial statement data are described in more is jet fuel. In this report, jet fuel is treated, using actual leg consumption (fuel onboard 0,0159 tonnes CO /GJ. 2 responsible for procurement, subcontracdetail in connection with Finnair’s financial however, as energy, because in terms of remaining fuel) adding average APU In relation to material streams, the tors and, in terms of the impact of tourism, key figures. its purpose and environmental effects it is usage. amounts of waste and energy consumption mainly from Aurinkomatkat-Suntours, sensible to understand jet fuel as stored Fuel mass is converted to volume using of properties, data have been obtained which as a tour operator occupies a key Reporting priorities energy. densities provided by fuel vendor. If density from service providers, goods suppliers position in this respect. Operational compliIn 2013, Finnair discontinued the publicaFuels are also reported on the basis of is not available we are using default value and on the basis of invoices paid. With ance with laws and regulations has been tion of a separate corporate responsibility their mass and volumes. 0.80. respect to Finnair Technical Services, confirmed with the group’s Legal Affairs report and financial report. All the data can Fuel consumption and emission figures For wetleased flights fuel burn is environmental data are also obtained department. be found in the Annual Report and this GRI for flight operations (Annex 1 EU ETS Direcrequested from wet-lessor. If not received from monitoring and measuring systems Customer satisfaction data, on the other section. tive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliathen fuel burn is calculated by aircraft required by their environmental permits. hand, are based on customer satisfaction The priorities of the report are based ment and of the Council) are derived from manufacturer specifications or lessor’s In terms of Technical Services’ use of surveys and on feedback received by the on the materiality analysis described on the company’s own monitoring systems and information on aircraft type fuel burn per materials, only chemicals are reported, group. pages 7–8. based on actual fuel consumption (Method block hour. because the statistical practice of raw A EU ETS Monitoring and Reporting RegulaData gaps and erroneous data are materials and spare parts does not allow Effect of any restatements of tion (EU) N:o 601/2012). Emission factor for handled using substitution data as close to a comparable way of presentation. Finnair information provided in earlier jet fuel used in the report is 3.15 kg CO /kg 2 actual values as possible. The electricity and Technical Services is not, however, a signifreports (Default IPCC emission factors, taken from heat data are based on metered consumpicant user of raw materials, and its main In 2018, Finnair updated its materiality analthe 2006 IPCC Inventory Guidelines). tion data, and on estimations based on environmental aspects relate to storage ysis on corporate responsibility in accordance European Union Emissions Trading surface area, where direct metering data and use of chemicals. with the GRI Standard reporting guidelines. System (EU ETS) “Method A” formula: was unavailable. Information on personnel comes from Impacts and indicators related to material Amount of fuel contained in aircraft tanks Finnair has assessed its Scope 3 emissions Finnair’s HR information system and from aspects were redefined in the process. This once fuel uplift for the flight is complete based on GHG Protocol’s Corporate Value parties responsible for the wellbeing of report follows the same principles. – Amount of fuel contained in aircraft Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting employees. Accident statistics are obtained However, there have been no changes tanks once fuel uplift for subsequent flight Standard). Category 3 (Fuel and Energy from the insurance company and they are in the data compared with the previous is complete + Fuel uplift for that subserelated activities not included in Scope 1-2) updated retroactively, as a result of which report. Information on changes in individual quent flight. This method is used in order primary data originates from Finnair’s fuel the 2018 figures may be subject to further indicator data is provided under the section to capture the fuel consumption by the data base. Emission factor source: adjustment. on the indicator in question. 44 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights Location CONTENT INDEX Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and p. 9–15; 16–17; 28–34 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p. 9–15; 16–17; 28–34 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective p. 9–13; 29–30 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; p. 9–13; 16–17; 29–30 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and p. 9–13; 16–17; 29–30 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and p. 9–13; 29–30 occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental p. 9–13; 18–27 challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; p. 9–13; 18–27 and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly p. 9–13; 18–27 technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including p. 9–13; 16–17 extortion and bribery. 45 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX GRI CONTENT INDEX Code General disclosures GRI content Location Further information Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Finnair Plc 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Finacial information p. 6-11; 15-19 102-3 Location of headquarters Tietotie 9, Vantaa, Finland 102-4 Location of operations Financial information p. 6-11 102-5 Ownership and legal form Financial information p. 29-32 102-6 Markets served Financial information p. 6-11 102-7 Scale of the organisation Financial information p. 6-11; 14 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability report p. 30 102-9 Supply chain Sustainability report p. 17 Financial information p. 6-11 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Financial information p. 6-11; 14; 28-32 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Financial information p. 34-37 102-12 External initiatives Sustainability report p. 36 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability report p. 36 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Financial information p. 3-4 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainability report p. 6-8 Financial information p. 3-4; 6-11; 34-36 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Sustainability report p. 9-15 Financial information p. 20-27 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Sustainability report p. 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure CG statement p. 4-6; 11-13 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability report p. 36 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Sustainability report p. 30 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability report p. 36 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability report p. 36 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability report p. 36 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Financial information p. 46-47 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Sustainability report p. 6-8 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability report p. 6-8 102-48 Restatements of information Sustainability report p. 43-44 46 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Code GRI content Location Further information 102-49 Changes in reporting Sustainability report p. 43-44 102-50 Reporting period Sustainability report p. 33 102-51 Date of most recent report February 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Communications, Finnair Plc Tietotie 9, 01053 Finnair. comms(a) finnair.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Sustainability report p. 37 102-55 GRI content index Sustainability report p. 46-48 102-56 External assurance Sustainability report p. 50-51 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sustainability report p. 7-8 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability report p. 9-15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability report p. 9-15 ECONOMIC STANDARDS Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Sustainability report p. 37 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Sustainability report p. 38 201-4 Financial assistance received from government The Finnish Government does not support Finnair’s operations financially. The Finnair Aviation College constitutes an exception. The Finnair Aviation College, founded in 1964, is a special vocational educational establishment maintained by Finnair Plc, which operates as a special educational establishment under the Act on Vocational Adult Education (631/1998). Indirect economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Sustainability report p. 38 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Sustainability report p. 16-17 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, No incidents and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Sustainability report p. 20 302-3 Energy intensity Sustainability report p. 21 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainability report p. 21-22 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Sustainability report p. 22-23 47 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Code GRI content Location Further information Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Sustainability report p. 17 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Sustainability report p. 25 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Sustainability report p. 25 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Sustainability report p. 25 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability report p. 26 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainability report p. 26 305-6 Emissions of ozonedepleting substances (ODS Sustainability report p. 26 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability report p. 17 Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No incidents SOCIAL STANDARDS Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability report p. 30 Labour/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Significant operational changes in Finland are governed by the Finnish Act on Cooperation within undertakings. Depending on the matter in question, the minimum time period applied can range from one day to six weeks. The collective bargaining agreements that concern Finnair do not include provisions that run counter to these legislative provisions. Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Sustainability report p. 30 and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Sustainability report p. 31 Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Sustainability report p. 31 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Sustainability report p. 31-33 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Performance and career development reviews cover reviews all Finnair personnel. The PD process (Performance Dialogue) is a management tool based on biannual discussions that guide the setting and achievement of targets, the evaluation of performance and management, and development. Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainability report p. 33; CG statement p. 7-8 48 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX Code GRI content Location Further information Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Sustainability report p. 17 Supplier social assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Sustainability report p. 17 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Finnair does not support any political parties or persons. Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Sustainability report p. 34 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and No incidents services Marketing and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling No incidents 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No incidents Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of No incidents customer data Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area No incidents 49 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX INDEPENDENT To: the Management of Finnair Plc. The basis for our opinion We conducted our assurance engagement compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal PRACTITIONER’S Assurance report on the annual in accordance with International standard and regulatory requirements. LIMITED ASSURANCE carbon dioxide emissions 2018 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on GreenREPORT Our conclusion house Gas Statements’. This assurance Limitations in our assurance engagement Based on our review, nothing has come to engagement is aimed to provide limited / inherent limitations our attention that causes us to believe that assurance. Our responsibilities under CO quantification is subject to uncertainty 2 the reported annual CO emission data, as 2 this standard are further described in the because the emissions factors are based included in the Sustainability section of section ‘Our responsibilities for the assuron mathematical models to calculate emisFinnair Plc’s Annual Report 2018 are not ance engagement’ of our report. sions. These models are inherently unable prepared in all material respects, in accordWe believe that the assurance informato precisely characterize under all circumance with Finnair Plc reporting criteria. tion we have obtained is sufficient and stances the relationships between various appropriate to provide a basis for our inputs and the resultant emissions because What we have reviewed opinion. of incomplete scientific knowledge. The object of our assurance engagement consists of the following data presented in Independence and quality control Responsibilities for the annual CO 2 the Sustainability section of Finnair Plc’s We have complied with the independemission data and the assurance Annual Report 2018: ence and other ethical requirements of the engagement • CO emissions originating from fuel 2 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Responsibilities of the management of Finnair Plc. consumed by all flights under the Finnair issued by the International Ethics Standards The management of Finnair Plc. is responPlc. callsign (in tonnes) (hereafter CO 2 Board for Accountants, which is founded sible for the preparation of reported CO 2 emission data). on fundamental principles of integrity, emission data in accordance with the methWe have reviewed this indicator in the objectivity, professional competence and odology outlined in the Sustainability accompanying Sustainability section of due care, confidentiality and professional section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2018, Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2018. All other behaviour. including the identification of the intended information in the Sustainability section of PwC Accountants applies the Internausers and the criteria being applicable for Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2018 is not in tional Standard on Quality Control and the for the purposes of the intended users. scope of this engagement. Therefore, we do accordingly maintains a comprehensive The management is also responsible for not report or conclude on this other inforsystem of quality control including docusuitable internal control as it determines mation. mented policies and procedures regarding necessary to enable the preparation of 50 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX CO emission data that is free from mate2 reasonably be expected to influence the tative and qualitative information in the rial misstatement, whether due to fraud or decisions of users taken on the basis of the reported CO emission data; 2 error. CO emission data. The materiality affects 2 • Based on this understanding, assessing the nature, timing and extent of our assurthe risks that the information in the Our responsibilities for the assurance engagement ance procedures and the evaluation of the reported CO emission data contains 2 Our responsibility is to plan and perform effect of identified misstatements on our material misstatements; the assurance engagement in a manner that opinion. • Responding to the assessed risks, allows us to obtain sufficient and approincluding the development of an overall priate audit evidence for our opinion. Procedures performed approach, and determining the nature, Our conclusion aims to provide limited An assurance engagement includes, timing and extent of further procedures; assurance. The procedures performed by amongst others, examining appropriate • Performing analytical procedures on the obtaining a limited level of assurance are evidence on a test basis. We have exercised reported data; aimed at determining the plausibility of professional judgement and have main• Evaluating relevant internal and external information and are less extensive than tained professional scepticism throughout documentation, on a test basis, to deterthose performed in obtaining reasonable the assurance engagement, in accordmine the reliability of the information in assurance in an assurance engagement. ance with the International Standard 3410, the reported CO emission data; 2 The performed procedures in this context ethical requirements and independence • Evaluating the appropriateness of quanconsisted mainly of gathering informarequirements. tification methods and reporting policies tion from officers of the entity and applying Our main procedures included: used; analytical procedures set out in relation to • Reviewing documents to gain an under• Evaluating the overall format and presthe information included in the CO emission 2 standing of the activities and structure entation of the annual CO emission 2 data. The assurance obtained in assurance of Finnair Plc.; data, as presented in the Sustainability engagements aimed at providing limited • Reviewing whether the Finnair reporting section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report assurance is therefore significantly lower methodology is in accordance with the 2018. than the assurance obtained in assurance approved monitoring plan for EU ETS engagements aimed at providing reasonpurposes; Amsterdam able assurance. • Conducting interviews with Finnair Plc. 15 February 2019 Misstatements may arise due to fraud management to understand the data PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. or error and are considered to be material collection process, internal controls and if, individually or in aggregate, they could to evaluate the accuracy of the quantiP. Jongerius RA 51 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 RESPONSIBLE FINNAIR CLEANER CARING C O L L A B O R AT I V E ANNEX CONTACT House of Travel and Transportation Finnair Oyj INFORMATION Tietotie 9 A (Helsinki Airport) 01053 FINNAIR Tel. +358 600 0 81881 (1,25 €/answered call + local charge) www.company.finnair.com www.investors.finnair.com www.facebook.com/finnair www.facebook.com/finnairsuomi www.twitter.com/Finnair www.twitter.com/FinnairSuomi https://blog.finnair.com/en/ https://blog.finnair.com/ www.instagram.com/feelfinnair/ 52 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8
