United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 About NIRAS NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary engineering consultancy company. We cover a broad spectrum both professionally and geographically. We have close to 2,300 employees in 51 offices in 27 countries around Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. And we implement projects in 108 countries. NIRAS works with everything from building, energy, utilities, environment and infrastructure to development projects, process industry and urban planning. Our values are: Listen, learn and deliver. To NIRAS it is crucial to develop a close and trusting relationship to our customers. In everything we do, we strive to create value for our customers and create a positive impact on society through sustainable progress and technologies. NIRAS contracts highly competent professionals within our multiple fields of competence. We strive to create an engaging and exciting work environment with special attention to worklife balance for our employees. Our DNA ties us together across national borders, sectors and professional expertise. Our unique trademark is an interdisciplinary and innovative approach to projects, and we take pride in transforming clients’ visions and challenges into sustainable solutions. We are not affiliated with contractors, manufacturers or suppliers, and we are a member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). 2 Statement of continued support Carsten Toft Boesen At NIRAS we are committed to excellence in improving social and environmental issues for our CEO clients, while we support the sustainable development of the society and balanced life for our employees. We consider the Global Compact a natural part of doing business. In 2017 NIRAS incorporated the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals in our strategies within all our services. In 2018 we took a step further by developing an IT tool to assess and visualise the impact on the Sustainable Development Goals from any of our projects and services. In addition, we conducted seminars and presentations for a large number of clients and organisations on how they can contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals. The issue on human rights and the importance of compliance pervade all NIRAS’ activities, which in 2018 comprised development projects in more than 80 countries. Before entering into contracts and agreements, we screen projects and partners for issues related to human rights. On a continuous basis, NIRAS’ seeks to improve its cooperation with employees on issues such as employment conditions, working climate and employee’s development opportunities. In 2018 NIRAS launched NIRAS Academy which includes all of NIRAS’ employee development activities and secures easy and equal access for all employees to the development activities. In 2018 NIRAS continued the development and expansion of its Integrity Management System training programmes that was launched in 2017. Through these efforts and through our consultancy work with our clients, we strive to make a positive global impact and to contribute to a future where the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals will be fulfilled. Carsten T. Boesen, Chief Executive Officer 3 Human Rights Principles NIRAS’ principles reflect the deeply rooted values and ethics of the company: 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Actions and outcome NIRAS considers the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights as the unequivocal and irrefutable international proclaimed rights of all human beings. NIRAS fully subscribes to international charters and conventions on human rights. This is reflected in the way we conduct our business, both internally throughout our organisation, as well as in our external projects around the world. In 2018 NIRAS continued its sponsorship of the World Prize for Integrated Development that accolade outstanding work in the field of international development. The prize was awarded to the Mozambican humanitarian Mrs Graça Machel for her social justice achievements and work on behalf of women and children. In 2018 NIRAS carried out development projects in more than 80 countries. NIRAS promotes and encourages respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all people regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, language and religion. In cooperation with development partners we design projects and programmes based on a human rights approach. We include a set of intricate rights-based tools as part of our methodology. We mainstream rights issues into the design and implementation of our programmes to promote rights-based outcomes. We have met the performance and targets for 2018 satisfactorily. Reference to policies NIRAS subscribes completely to all charters and international conventions on Human Rights. This encompasses Rights of the Child, Rights of Indigenous People, gender-related issues including Elimination of All Forms of Decimation of Women as well as the Rights of LGBT+. NIRAS promotes a tolerant and inclusive work environment. We ensure all present and future employees equal opportunities, regardless of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual orientation and family status. There is zero tolerance towards harassment or discrimination. At NIRAS we believe that diversity ensures our clients a better quality of service and creates an inspirational environment in-house. The culture and values of NIRAS are based on respect for the individual, which implies acceptance and tolerance of diversity among colleagues and clients. 4 Labour Principles 1. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 2. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 3. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Actions and outcome NIRAS’ employees are crucial to our business and at the core of all our endeavours. Consequently, we strive to secure our employees’ work-life balance, and we prioritise easy access to management support, information and guidelines. NIRAS’ management and labour representatives cooperate on issues such as employment conditions and working climate. In 2018 two additional employee committees were inaugurated in order to improve employees contribution and cooperation with management. In 2018 NIRAS launched a new digital knowledge portal containing a full catalogue of educational courses and other services related to the personal and professional development of our employees. The aim is to secure all employees easy and equal access to our development opportunities. NIRAS gives a special priority to young professionals. Each year we offer international career opportunities for 15-25 international graduates by giving them the chance to work on our projects worldwide. In 2018 we continued to develop our internal Young Professional Programme. We have met the performance and targets for 2018 satisfactorily. Reference to policies NIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach, making space for “the whole person” within a safe and healthy workplace, where employees are satisfied with their jobs and can develop. NIRAS has zero tolerance towards any kind of sexual harassment or bullying. NIRAS’ employees are free to join trade unions and enter into collective bargaining with management. All our employees have individual contracts, and the employment conditions comply fully with current national legislation and requirements. Employees, who travel abroad, will get comprehensive security assistance, and all NIRAS’ activities must be executed in such a manner that we to the highest possible extent secure the health, safety and welfare of all stakeholders or other parties that could come into contact with our activities. 5 Environment Principles 1. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 2. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 3. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Actions and outcome NIRAS develops sustainable solutions for our clients and our organisation. We integrate environmentally friendly technologies into an increasing number of client projects. These sustainable solutions encompass buildings, industry and construction as well as water, energy and wastewater systems. In 2018 NIRAS moved its 12,300 m2 office in Virum, Denmark, to refurbished 8,800 m2 office facilities in Allerød, Denmark, and has thereby reduced its total office space by 3,500 m2. The refurbished office is designed with an improved focus on sorting and recycling waste. In 2018 NIRAS developed an IT-tool to easily assess and visualize the impact on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals from any of NIRAS’ projects and solutions. The purpose of the tool is to help ourselves and our clients to implement solutions that support the implementation of the the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. NIRAS has strengthened its offerings of energy reduction for energy consuming industrial companies by acquisition of 12 specialists within that field. In combination with NIRAS’ consultants within industrial processes, NIRAS now delivers integrated energy optimization solutions for energy consuming clients. Every year, NIRAS prepares a climate account for our activities. We have met the performance and targets for 2018 satisfactorily. Reference to policies In NIRAS we take our responsibility towards climate change, environment and society seriously in our approach to our services and operation of our business. NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with clients and stakeholders and seeks solutions that are compatible with the principles of sustainable development. NIRAS supports the International Federation of Consulting Engineers’ (FIDIC) recommendations on the environment and sustainable development. 6 Anti-corruption Principles 1. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Actions and outcome In September 2018 NIRAS revised and updated its main Integrity Management System (IMS). Our Board level statement now also includes a clear declaration on NIRAS’ zero tolerance to tax evasion. Further, our process when working with new companies has been sharpened and includes an Integrity & Ethics Due Diligence Questionnaire and we request a signed statement on Confirmation of Compliance. In 2018 we continued the development and expansion of the training programs. By the end of 2018 a number of 149 employees have completed the online anti-corruption course and many more project employees have conducted face-to-face training, e.g. in Ukraine, Mali, Colombia and the Philippines. We have met the performance and targets for 2018 satisfactorily. Reference to policies On behalf of all companies in The NIRAS Group we hereby declare that NIRAS has a zerotolerance policy to corruption, tax evasion and fraud as well as to any form of modern slavery, discrimination and harassment. NIRAS has developed an Integrity Management System, including Business Integrity and Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct. The system and policies are in compliance with the international anti-corruption instruments, defined by OECD, FIDIC, Transparency International and United Nations. 7 Sustainable Development Goals NIRAS’ mission is to secure sustainable progress. We have integrated the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in our strategy within all our services. The 17 SDGs set an ambitious agenda for the whole world. The goals can only be achieved if governments, NGO’s and the private sector work closely together. Consequently, we pursue new services and solutions in cooperation with our clients in order to contribute to the fulfilment of the development goals. In many ways, most of the 7,000 ongoing NIRAS projects reflect one or more of the 17 SDGs set by the UN’s in 2015. A few recent examples are: • SDG 3 Good Health and Well-being Aarhus University Hospital has a build in flexibility in order to continuously maximizing specialized treatment of patients, research, education and development. • SDG 5 – Gender Equality NIRAS manages the support desk, The Gender Advisory Service, that assists the European Commission in successfully implementing its framework for promoting gender equality in its partner countries. • SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation NIRAS is cooperating with local authorities and international experts to secure drinking water in areas heavily affected by drought in Somaliland, by applying geophysical measuring and other techniques. • SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy NIRAS has been working with the Ministry of Energy in Bolivia to secure affordable and clean energy for the population in the Andean country, based on biomass energy, and solar and windpower. • SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities NIRAS works with international training programs on sustainable urban water and sanitation in Southern Africa, East Africa, and South and East Asia. • SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production NIRAS successfully reformed Seoul Dairy Cooperative’s latest large-scale production line into the best, state-of-the-art production factory in South Korea. NIRAS’ advanced technology secured optimal processing, productivity, hygiene, safety, site visits, as well as future expansion. • SDG 13 Climate Action NIRAS has supported climate action in Mozambique, one of the world’s most impoverished countries, and one of the most vulnerable to climate change. NIRAS has assisted local authorities in revising, formulating, and elaborating on environmental strategies and policies, including local adaptation plans, REDD+, and a national counter-erosion plan. • SDG 14 Life below water NIRAS has made Environmental Impact assessments of large offshore wind turbine parks in order to protect maritime life. 8
