Annual review & sustainability report 2018 Contents 03 3 The year in brief 4 Axis in one minute 6 President's statement 8 Axis vision och mission 10 Business model based on innovation and collaboration 12 Customer stories 14 Axis worldwide 16 Innovation is a fundamental part of Axis culture 18 Risk management 22 Sustainability report 2018 23 Significant events during the year 24 Sustainability strategy 26 Long-term responsibility and impact along the entire value chain 28 Smart solutions for a safer and more sustainable world 30 Responsible business conduct 32 Anti-corruption 34 IT security and protection of customer privacy 36 Personal integrity among users of Axis products 38 Customer satisfaction 40 Environmental responsibility 46 Carbon offsets for business trips 48 Responsible supply chain 51 Conflict minerals 52 Social responsibility 58 Leading the way toward increased diversity and inclusion 60 Social responsibility and social initiatives 62 Sustainability notes 74 GRI Content Index 76 76 Financial summary 2018 84 Corporate governance 85 Board of directors 86 Management team The year in brief >> Turnover of SEK 10.3 billion >> Operating margin of 13.1 percent >> Continued growth and global expansion >> New development office in Linköping >> Investments in R&D corresponding to 18 percent of sales >> Several new PVC-free models were developed >> Proactive and systematic work for strong IT security, which is aimed at effectively protecting products, solutions and systems >> Initiatives for greater equality and diversity such as an increased awareness in the recruitment process, and the launch of a comprehensive program for diversity and inclusion in North America >> Launch of many new products and solutions, for example: -Award-winning AXIS P3717-PLE with four camera heads in one camera, which results in 360 degree panoramic view combined with zoomed image details -Extension of AXIS Q17 Series that meets the market's increased demand for powerful zoom -Complementing AXIS Q35 Series for challenging lighting conditions in outdoor environments -New models of thermal cameras and advanced cameras for harsh environments -AXIS Audio Manager for handling large and advanced audio systems 4 Annual review Axis in one minute Axis enables a smarter and safer world by creating networked solutions that provide insights for improving security and optimizing business performance. As the industry leader in network video, Axis offers products and services for video surveillance, access control and audio systems, as well as video analytics, distributed throughout the world in a global partner network. Founded 1984 in Sweden APAC 12% Total sales USD 1.2 Bio* EMEA Revenue per Americas Axis Group companies: 34% region 2018 54% Citilog and 2N Part of Canon Group EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa APAC: Asia Pacific * Full year 2018 SEK 10.3 Bio, EUR 1.0 Bio 3,253 employees** in 50 countries Local presence around the world via an extensive partner network 82% highly satisfied partners*** 15years of steady growth ** Q4 2018 *** Partner satisfaction survey 6 Annual review Increased demands relating to responsibility and trust The market for the Internet of Things is developing at a fast pace, where Axis is today a leading global player with millions of network cameras installed. Meanwhile, the interest in matters relating to privacy, IT security and sustainability is growing. For us at Axis, it has been crucial that we have taken our responsibility. With the trust of employees, end customers, partners and society, we have been able to conduct a successful business, built on innovation and technological know-how. And this is the way it will continue to be. Innovation drives growth We are developing well within the Canon Group 2018 was another good year for Axis. Growth exceeded the goal of 15 Axis is continuing to develop within the Canon Group, which during percent while we continued to show good profitability. The successes the year initiated a compulsory acquisition procedure to acquire are due to stable growth in our base offering within network cameras, all the remaining shares, which meant that Axis was delisted from which is growing faster than the global market growth of 5-10 Nasdaq Stockholm. In terms of ownership, this represents a milestone percent. In addition to this, our innovative new camera concepts that marks a new phase. When I look back on the 18 years that Axis and New Business initiatives are growing much faster. Overall, Axis was listed, I can state that it has been an amazing journey. Since through a high innovation rate, has succeeded in taking a new step in 2004, when Axis focused fully on network cameras, we have changed line with the gradual maturing of the market for our base products. an entire industry and gone from being a new challenger to being one of the leading players that is continuing to drive the global Examples of successful offerings include our multisensor fixed camera development. Our growth rate has averaged 21 percent per year over a featuring four varifocal camera heads, which can provide a 360° 14-year period. All of us at Axis should be very proud of this. panoramic overview without image-distorting “fisheye” effects. Within network audio, audio for security has proved to be an offering Focus on responsibility and trust that delivers significant gains in efficiency to our customers. The position as global market leader is associated with great responsibility since the development within public security is complex. Skilled employees While our products protect and create security in public environments, Naturally, our skilled employees are crucial to this success. And we they are also subject to the debate on personal integrity. Privacy and are quickly growing in terms of numbers. During 2018, we passed IT security are currently central issues in the public debate and in the 3,000-employee mark and at year-end we had 3,253 employees. our industry. The introduction of GDPR is one example of regulatory Axis is growing today by approximately one employee per day. The measures that safeguard the individual’s privacy. For me, legislation expanding organization is the result of a proactive recruitment like this is only a hygiene factor, however. We must look beyond this strategy. The more employees we have within both sales and R&D, in every part of our business. This includes financial principles, our use the more long-term customer relationships and the more solutions and storage of data, codes of conduct and other sustainability-related we can develop. This is a strategy that has worked well to date and issues. If some link in the value chain does not meet the standard we that is based on the fact that Axis is an attractive workplace, which have set, it will damage the trust we have built up since the start. offers exciting opportunities in a labor market where there is intense competition for the best talent. Technological development gives rise to new ethical issues Naturally, Axis’ offering shall never be perceived as a security risk. Axis’ base for product development is in Lund, but during the year we Several global companies are competing to take control of large established an R&D center in Linköping where we expect to employ quantities of data and over the infrastructure between devices and about 100 people in a few years. Product development also occurs data storage. For Axis, it is of the utmost importance that we protect within our subsidiaries 2N in Prague and Citilog in Paris. In addition our customers’ data in a world where criminality on the Internet to this, we also have a development office in Shanghai. Our strong is well-organized and where even nation states are suspected of global presence with employees in 50 countries also strengthens our cyber attacks. In addition, the rapid developments within artificial attractiveness as an employer. intelligence and machine learning give rise to many ethical questions. We consider these issues on a daily basis and place a strong focus on privacy and ethical questions in our expanding organization. We work continuously to take sustainability into account in our business. Sustainability in the entire value chain During the year, Axis landed safely in terms of ownership in the Sustainability is an integrated part of our operations and is critical Canon Group, which gives us great opportunities and support for our continued growth and successful development. We want for further independent development. Protectionism in the world to act as a model and as a leading market player we have good is increasing which is creating challenges, but also commercial opportunities to influence those around us. opportunities depending on which countries’ products receive preferential treatment in different contexts. Here, Axis has an We work in a systematic and focused way to handle sustainability advantage from the independence and trust we have built up in risks, and on increasing awareness of them, not just in our own combination with our innovative capability. operations but also among other players in the value chain: at suppliers, distributors, partners, and end customers. Axis takes Our agenda is long-term and ambitious. We are working continuously long-term economic, social and environmental responsibility for how to take sustainability into account in our business, in order to create our operations impact our stakeholders and we act according to our innovative and long-term sustainable and safe products and solutions values, in an ethical, responsible and transparent way in our business for a smarter and safer world. relationships. Axis strives to be a good corporate citizen and to make a positive contibution through social initiatives. Our proactive approach is appreciated and positively received by our stakeholders. During the year, we initiated work to draw up a new environmental strategy, among other things. The aim of the new environmental strategy is to clarify Axis’ environmental work and connect it to the change the company wants to achieve. There is a genuine commitment to drive the operations in a sustainable way in all parts of the organization. We are continuing to advance our positions for improved equality and increased diversity, both internally and through external initiatives. It is gratifying that our employee surveys once again indicated a very good result, where Axis was ranked as an excellent workplace and received high marks in areas such as comradeship, pride and satisfaction. Making a difference Our sustainability work and our sustainability strategy are based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, which we signed in 2007. Since then, the principles have provided guidance for how we conduct our sustainability work. Through our work, we are contributing to Agenda 2030 and the UN’s Global Sustainable Development Goals. In 2018, I signed The Copenhagen Letter, a manifesto where representatives of European and American technology and design companies undertake to work for a sustainable world. A smarter and safer world In summary, I look forward to changing, but simultaneously very exciting world, full of technological possibilities, where we continue Ray Mauritsson to take our responsibility. President 8 Årsredovisning Annual review Vision Innovating for a smarter, safer world. Mission Together, we pioneer intelligent network technology creating unique possibilities for partners, end users and employees. A smarter, safer world Axis challenges conventions and re-imagines security and business optimization. This is a natural part of the company’s DNA. With curiosity and open minds, Axis develops connected solutions based on sight, sound and analytics to unlock hidden potential. As the industry leader in network video, Axis’ portfolio of today extends far beyond cameras, covering a whole new world of application areas, and there is much more to come. By combining intelligent technology and human imagination, Axis adds new dimensions of insight, empowering people to interpret, predict and respond. Together with partners, Axis strives to shape the future, making it smarter and safer than it was before and is today. 10 Annual review Business model based on innovation and collaboration Axis is driving the development of network security solutions. The basis for this is a global market presence with a local base, long-term collaboration and continual development of innovative products, services and solutions. Thanks to Axis market knowledge, worldleading products can find the right customer and the right use. A broad partner network and the company’s own local presence make it possible for end users all over the world to take advantage of solutions for increased security and new business opportunities. Axis strategy is based on three key cornerstones Axis has built up a market presence with its own New customer segments, trends and business – a global presence, sales via partners that are representatives in 50 countries and resellers in opportunities are rapidly identified through open experts in their local markets as well as continual 179 countries. As a global market player, Axis and close dialogue in the partner network. renewal and broadening of the offering in the shall have a strong position in each market Axis’ ambition as a market leader and innovative form of products and solutions. Axis identifies where the company operates. There is a strong force is to drive the rapid global development needs and requests through dialogue with focus on strengthening the company’s presence of network security solutions. The offering partners and end customers and turns this into in emerging markets. Meanwhile, continued is continually broadened with new products, new innovation. In this way, the overall offering investments are being made in order to get closer accessories and overall solutions for customer can meet the needs of both large and small to end customers in more mature markets with needs. As the market grows and matures, customers that can have different preferences the aim of creating innovative products and investments are continually being made to depending on local variations in different solutions that meet changing customer needs. strengthen the overall offering and to assume markets. Long-term and loyal partnerships enable mutual greater responsibility for IT security. The development of the software that runs and exchange of competencies and combined connects the security products is an important development of the market while creating a part of Axis innovation strategy. For Axis, it is strong market presence. This collaboration is of great importance that its software is robust growing stronger in line with Axis’ expanding against hacking and a lot of effort goes into offering, while new partners are being added. training partners and customers so that Axis solutions are used safely. Customers System integrators Resellers Distributors Axis Communications 12 Annual review Customer stories New opportunities in Since we partnered with Axis retail Communications, we have definitely increased the quality From network cameras of our cameras, their capabilities to IP speakers to video and offsite viewing quite a bit. analytics, Kappy’s Fine The entire Axis security solution Wine & Spirits embraces is very intuitive and is an an IoT world for stronger instrumental business tool. security and new Scott Moore, Owner, opportunities. Kappys Fine Wine & Spirits Integrated cameras make Using the Axis cameras to corroborate and validate what New Orleans the calls for service are, allows a safer city the police department to be more efficient and more effective. This The New Orleans Real gives them more time to interact Time Crime Center with the community, build a better rapport, which ultimately will have integrates Axis cameras, a positive impact on crime. playing a critical role Ross Bourgeois, Office of Homeland in providing immediate Security and Emergency incident awareness. Preparedness, New Orleans. Ringing the bell at Thorndon The Axis system gives us Primary School so much flexibility. Instead of using the same sound How Axis network throughout the day, I was able audio helped improve to pick appropriate samples communication between for different times. I edited pupils and staff. 20-second samples, for each of our three daily bells. Tim Kong, Deputy Principal, Thorndon Primary School 13 Mission Solution Result As a prominent beverage retailer with 12 stores After consulting RGBS/ALSI, an Axis partner, One of the most notable advantages of the throughout Massachusetts, Kappy’s Fine Wine & Kappy’s was advised to use an Axis surveillance installation is the feeling of security it has Spirits takes pride in its pristine stores in upscale system. With high-resolution Axis network created. The system provides crystal-clear video environments. To monitor inventory and reduce cameras, AXIS Camera Station video management quality to answer a wide range of business shrink, Kappy’s needed a modern surveillance software and a custom-built network video questions: How was a product display knocked system. Dedicated to expanding the business, recorder (NVR) ─ Kappy’s can efficiently view, down overnight? What customers are coming in? Kappy’s sought a scalable solution that would record, store and manage video across multiple When are customers coming in? Where are the provide safety and security for its customers, locations. RGBS/ALSI also selected Axis network high traffic areas in the store? The list is endless, employees and the company’s assets while speakers for easy management of background but the answers are there for Kappy’s with its gathering critical business data. music with less hardware than a traditional audio 24/7 intelligent surveillance solution. solution. Kappy’s is currently integrating AXIS People Counter and AXIS Queue Monitor with specific cameras in order to explore the business opportunities with video analytics. Mission of panoramic, fixed and pan/tilt/zoom (PTZ) Axis Result When New Orleans announced its Citywide cameras deployed throughout the city. The 24/7 Since its launch, the Crime Center has proven Public Safety Project, city officials planned for operation uses Motorola’s Command Central to be a powerful tool, helping law enforcement video cameras to play a key role in helping its Aware software to integrate the geolocation monitor the size of crowds, track motor vehicle police department and partner agencies prevent, data, provided through the city’s computer-aided and pedestrian traffic, as well as focus on any detect and investigate crimes. They proposed 911 dispatch center, with the GPS coordinates incidents that might occur along parade routes. the solution that would coordinate 911 dispatch of the Axis cameras managed by Security Center During the 2018 Mardi Gras season, the Real Time center calls with video cameras in the vicinity of and Stratocast, video management systems from Crime Center helped expedite more than 50 cases, incidents and transmit real-time information to Genetec. When the dispatch center receives a including several violent crimes and a suspected appropriate responders. call, the appropriate camera views appear on drunk driving situation. Civilian staff use the Axis the monitors at the Crime Center. Crime Center cameras to effectively corroborate and validate Solution Technicians are then able to track activity in the hundreds of calls for service, saving police and New Orleans built a Real Time Crime Center vicinity and share that situational awareness with other agencies valuable time in chasing false where staff monitor video streams from a mix police and other responders. alarms or tracking down witnesses. Mission Solution Result As part of its renovations, Thorndon Primary The school engaged Pure Tech, which suggested a The network audio system, which was installed School had the opportunity to modernize its network audio system from Axis Communications, has changed the way Thorndon Primary School existing communication system by installing consisting of internal speakers flush-mounted in communicates with its students, allowing for a network audio system with increased the ceiling, an external horn speaker, providing tailored messages and sounds that have created functionalities and flexibility. It needed a futurecoverage of the whole outdoor play area, a a more positive environment for students and proof solution that would meet the needs of the programmable microphone system at reception teachers. school today and for many years to come. and a centralized console with easy-to-use, browser-based, Axis audio management software. 14 Annual review Axis worldwide Americas Americas – USA, Canada and Latin America – is Axis’ largest market. 2018 was a strong year generally with good demand from many customers that impose strict requirements in terms of reliability and security. Customers are found in all parts of society – retail, schools, transportation, public authorities, banking, finance and large commercial companies. Axis has a market-leading position in the Americas. USA and Canada displayed good growth during the year. Video surveillance is still a growing and attractive market, of which Axis captured an increased market share during the year. There are clear growth trends in new product areas such as Audio Solutions and Door Solutions where the latter also includes Intercom and Access Control. There is interest from players within retail, education, smart city and commercial, among other segments. Within the commercial segment, several Fortune 500 companies carried out large global implementations during the year, and they see the value in Axis’ offering in the form of quality, security and power of innovation. Otherwise, Axis continued to focus on developing solutions in cybersecurity, where the company’s long-term investments in the area are becoming increasingly important and are starting to deliver results. The Latin American market, which extends from Mexico to Argentina, has been challenging with weaker growth generally compared with recent years and a noticeable downward pressure on prices. During the year, there was a change of government in many countries, including in Mexico, Colombia, Brazil and Argentina, which itself contributes to uncertainty and a wait-and-see approach to new technology investments. Despite this market situation, Axis showed reasonable growth in the region. Axis completed an extensive expansion plan during the year, which involved getting closer to customers and continuing to improve sales activities through a number of newly constructed experience centers. During the year, new centers were opened in Washington DC and Buenos Aires. 15 Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Axis has a leading position in the EMEA region, a China is the world’s largest market for sales of network fragmented market with considerable differences in cameras and has great potential along with the rest demand between Central Europe and the Middle East of Asia. A clear trend in the region is strong interest as well as parts of Eastern Europe. Overall, 2018 was a in intelligent city surveillance solutions. Due to the positive year with strong demand across segments and region’s dynamic climate, it is a competitive market. customer groups. Digital conversion and cybersecurity Axis is continuing to create new business opportunities are very high on customers' agendas, which is favorable by investing in a greater local presence, further for Axis considering its strong position in these areas. strengthening its partner network and is continuing to Axis is expanding its sales teams across the region as a increase focus on end-to-end solutions. foundation for continued growth. In Southeast Asia, government is the largest customer group and an During the year, Axis maintained its market position from the previous area where demand is constantly increasing, mainly from Oceania. year and overall conditions in the region were favorable. From an Axis During the year, Axis took the strategic decision to merge the two perspective, growth has been very evident in the focus areas Retail, previous Southeast Asian sub regions into one, in order to further Critical Infrastructure and Transportation. strengthen local ownership of the established sales team in the region. Axis is now working actively to get closer to end customers and to A number of product releases had a positive impact on sales, which meet demand in the local markets. Australia stood out during the year combined with the Axis end-to-end offering for small and mediumby showing very strong growth and new market opportunities. sized customers, proved to be a successful strategy. The strongest foothold is in the enterprise segment, where Axis introduced a new In the northern part of Asia there is intensive price-based competition Audio offering for retail customers. In the critical infrastructure from several well-established local competitors. Despite this, Axis segment, growth was fueled by a solution for perimeter protection, performed strongly. During the year, Axis won several major customer often bundled with thermal cameras. Axis’ goal is to further develop projects by pursuing a solution-oriented strategy in the enterprise its portfolio beyond camera products to offer more and more end-tosegment with strong support from key partners. end solutions. Axis continued to invest strongly in its regional sales teams during the year to expand the base for future growth. Axis Experience Centers, which are established in a number of countries provide important support with sales activities, in order to demonstrate the potential of the Axis offering to both existing and potential customers. 16 Annual review Innovation is a fundamental part of Axis culture More than 1,000 people work at Axis headquarters in Lund – about one third of the total number of employees – with development of new products and solutions in areas such as network video, access control systems, audio systems and video analytics. Innovation is an important and fundamental part Axis must naturally understand the company’s The overview image enables overall monitoring of of Axis culture – employees should want to develop markets, how customers think and act, and what the surroundings, while the PTZ camera can zoom and should be curious. This mainly involves curiosity value various types of technologies, products or in on the object to show details. about what Axis can offer the market in the form services create for the customers. Not just here and of new products and offerings, but also about being now, but first and foremost how needs will change A large part of the product development occurs in innovative in other areas, ranging from internal in the future. dialogue with customers and partners. Internally processes to how the products are distributed and at Axis, a lot has happened to streamline this type delivered to customers. Meanwhile, innovation and renewal must come of development. When designing a new type of from the inside in order to develop completely product, a dialogue takes places with customers. Continual development is a challenge and in new products and services that distinguish Axis It is important for Axis to understand the basic recent years, Axis has encouraged internal working from its competitors. Axis shall develop unique challenges, how the product will be used and in methods in order to create more flexible and ideas that the market needs to become even more what environment it will be installed in order to innovative work approaches. A lot of inspiration efficient – a need that can be hard for customers develop a relevant solution. comes from the world around us. Axis takes an to see since they do not have the deep insights into active part in various collaborative initiatives technological possibilies that Axis has. Axis innovations also aim to make the products to develop and change the company’s working easier to use, install and integrate, which in the methods, and even looks at how companies in other New and unexpected ideas are noticed most end should deliver lower costs for customers industries work to reinvent themselves. The innovations that attract the most attention are and partners. One innovation that continued to those that involve something new and unexpected. be improved during the year is Axis Zipstream Innovation based on market needs One example is the AXIS Q6000-E network camera, technology – which compresses video data, Innovation occurs both from the outside in and an integrated device featuring both a PTZ camera lowering bandwidth and storage requirements from the inside out. Market needs and demands and a camera that provides a 360° field of view without compromising important image details. are the basis for Axis innovation and product over an area. This generates large cost savings and means lower development. energy consumption for customers. 17 Clearer visions streamline development Cybersecurity is, to a great extent, about training The program was formally completed in 2018, Axis innovation and development is based on Another area that remained in focus is but some funds remained and therefore a new visions and objectives that the company shall strive cybersecurity. Technological development is a very agreement was signed for 2019 in order to take towards. In the past year, Axis has worked with important part of this area, but to a large degree, advantage of new results. Axis is represented on the these objectives in order to more clearly focus its it is also about making existing products safer board and provides support with membership fees energy on selected areas. Meanwhile, it is important and educating the market in how to build secure and in-kind contributions. A third collaboration is not to stifle the power of innovation, but to systems. Additionally, Axis works with tools that Software Center, a research center together with maintain a broad approach to stimulate continual make it possible to administer and handle systems several different companies at Chalmers University and bold development. “We have already tested effectively. This is not a guarantee to create a totally of Technology in Gothenburg. Axis provides support that” is not an expression that should be heard in secure system, but by working diligently in these with membership fees and in-kind contributions. Axis corridors. areas Axis strives to make it as secure as possible. In large parts of its development operations, Axis Continued development in the camera field A concrete example that shows how Axis is making works together with different partners, in order to Creating completely new products and advancing it easier for customers is LTS, Long term Support, for supplement Axis offerings and make them better existing ones is a balancing act. For instance, updates of different devices’ software. The updates and more attractive. Axis has many solutions there is really a lot going on in the camera field ‒ now occur in two parts – one for security and one that the company develops entirely by itself, but seemingly small adjustments or changes can mean for functionality. This means that customers do not the solutions created with partners are just as a lot for users. Axis believes that it is possible to run the risk of having new functionality they do important and are advanced just as actively. continue to develop the camera itself significantly, not recognise just because they perform security in order to use it as an intelligent node in the updates. This reduces the risk that customers use New office in Linköping provides right system. The hardware is important and there is still the products in the wrong way. competencies a lot to improve within image quality, security and To continually develop, Axis must constantly coding standards. Collaboration contributes to new ideas employ new people with innovation in focus. It is a Axis supports a variety of research collaboration challenge every year to find the right competencies The camera is also excellent for intelligent video projects, both to support different types of and with the right quality to help Axis grow and be management. Axis is continuing to work on making development and to be involved in and identify new creative. To maintain its growth rate, Axis opened the cameras smarter, which also does not stop ideas and concepts. One of these collaborations is an office in Linköping in 2018 with software making systems or parts of systems smarter. WASP, a major research program financed by the development in focus. In a few years, the company Wallenberg Foundation. Axis has an PhD candidate expects the office to have about 100 employees. For several years, Axis has worked a lot with AI in the program and provides support with defining (Artificial Intelligence), an area that made a huge the WARA-PS research arena focused on public Linköping offers a good combination of a wellimpact in the industry during the year. AI will give safety. reputed university and a well-functioning Axis the possibility of solving customer needs in a business community. This provides a good base for more effective and better way. Another collaboration is EASE, a ten-year research finding the right competencies and for successful program in software quality and development of development operations. The first employees at the embedded software financed by Vinnova. Linköping office started in late May 2018. 18 Annual review Risk management Axis is an international group with operations and customers all over the world and is thus exposed to many different risks. The group’s risk management aims to minimize the risks but also to ensure that opportunities are utilized in the best way, in order to facilitate continued strong growth and business expansion. Axis continued to formalize its risk management work during 2018, where the risk framework’s connection with the internal control and follow up was clarified. Axis has an internal control framework based on COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission) with well-documented controls, which are tested annually. During 2019, a risk assessment will continue to be performed in relevant parts of the organization. Axis risk management framework Risks The company's legal risks are handled by Legal in Axis’ risk management framework based on its Risks are identified based on Axis’ overriding cooperation with external lawyers. The exposure corporate strategy, aims to identify, evaluate strategy, and this process incorporates both a to intellectual property risk in the patents area is and prioritize risks related to Axis reaching business and a sustainability perspective. managed by Axis specialists, in collaboration with its commercial goals. Both a top-down and a external lawyers and advisors. bottom-up approach are employed. The owners The work on identifying, handling, following of the various risks are identified in this process. up and evaluating the risk exposure that the The list on the following pages shows identified Axis’ department for governance and internal group is subject to is continually ongoing, at a risks, in no particular order of importance. The list control compiles, follows up and evaluates the group-, regionaland local level. Management does not claim to be exhaustive. risks, in consultation with other departments and and coordination of financial and insurable risks functions. Annual follow-up and risk updates are is mainly carried out by the group’s finance performed by group management, which takes department. Function-specific risks in the decisions regarding measures and actions. Annual company-wide functions, Finance, IT, HR and reporting occurs to the board. Operations are handled and coordinated within each function. 19 Board Axis process for risk management Management Business strategy Monitoring Risk assessment Risk management Risk Description of risk Management of the risk Natural disasters Natural disasters or accidents, which affect Axis, Axis suppliers, distributors or Axis is well-insured and has effective processes in place and agreements with and accidents partners can impact Axis negatively. suppliers in different regions for diversification of risks. Market Market development Market development development and As a leading player in the network camera market, Axis is benefiting from Axis is broadening its customer offering through acquisitions and innovative competitive continued global market growth. A global market downturn would impact Axis product development and is strengthening its presence in already established situation negatively. markets and establishing a presence in new geographical markets. Axis carefully monitors global trends in order to take necessary measures when conditions change. Competitive situation Competitive situation Greater competition due to the market attracting additional players increases the Market shares and market leadership can be maintained through careful risk that Axis will lose market shares. competitive intelligence, a capable global sales force, close collaboration with partners as well as vigorous and rapid product development. Political risks Political instability Political instability Political instability in countries where Axis operates can impact Axis’ global Axis follows developments closely in the countries where the company operates. expansion negatively. Acceptance of camera surveillance Acceptance of camera surveillance Less acceptance of camera surveillance and more privacy questions linked to this There are currently no known plans to Axis for significant changes with regard to can have a negative impact on Axis. laws or restrictions in the markets where Axis operates. Axis continually strives to monitor legislation in the area and to communicate the benefits of camera surveillance for a safer and more secure world. Customer Axis’ continued success depends on customers being satisfied with Axis products, Axis regularly conducts satisfaction surveys among distributors, partners and end satisfaction risk solutions and support. If customer satisfaction falls, it would impact Axis customers in order to listen to customers and implement improvements in negatively. accordance with customer expectations and needs. Reputation risk If Axis is not perceived as a reliable business partner or employer due to the fact Axis works actively with business ethics, IT security and compliance. Axis that Axis as a company, the company’s employees, suppliers or partners do not evaluates and continually updates internal processes and controls, performs act ethically and sustainably in all respects, it could impact Axis and its stakesupplier audits and informs and trains its employees and partners. holders negatively. Risks in the Environmental impact, working conditions, human rights and corruption Environmental impact, working conditions, human rights and corruption supply chain Environmental impacts occur in all manufacturing processes, including energy All Axis suppliers shall comply with laws, regulations and Axis’ Supplier Code of related to consumption, hazardous waste and carbon emissions. Risks for the employees Conduct. This includes having control of environmental impacts, fighting bribery, environmental include the working environment and working conditions. Overtime implies a risk other types of corruption and fraud and ensuring ethical conduct in every respect. impacts, to employee health and a product risk in respect of quality. Risks in the supply The Supplier Code of Conduct shall also ensure good working conditions and that working chain also include the occurrence of bribes and other types of corruption and of no form of child or compulsory labor occurs. Suppliers should be ISO 14001 certified conditions, unlawful or unethical behavior. In addition, if human rights are violated, this may or have a management system in accordance with ISO 14001. Suppliers are initially human rights and also impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. evaluated using a self-assessment form and Axis conducts regular audits to ensure corruption that suppliers meet the requirements in the Supplier Code of Conduct. In Axis Supplier Academy, suppliers are trained in relation to sustainability matters. Conflict minerals Conflict minerals If conflict minerals, in other words gold, tantalum, tin or tungsten, which finance Axis has a structured process for ensuring that the minerals used by suppliers and armed conflicts, are found in components for Axis products, it can impact Axis subcontractors are not conflict minerals. All suppliers have undertaken to have a and its stakeholders negatively. process in place for ensuring that conflict minerals are not used. Suppliers shall also control their own supply chains and inform Axis if conflict minerals are found. 20 Annual review Risk Description of risk Management of the risk Environmental The operations’ environmental impact The operations’ environmental impact risks Transports, energy consumption in the operations and business trips give rise to Axis’ environmental policy prescribes that Axis shall minimize environmental environmental impacts and emissions run the risk of damaging water, air and impacts in its product lifecycles and throughout the entire value chain. Awareness land. Unless Axis helps to reduce the operations’ environmental impact it can is raised among employees through environmental training. Axis is streamlining impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. logistics flows and has clear goals for reducing carbon emissions from transports and reducing energy consumption from the operations. Axis uses carbon offsets for business trips by air and encourages less travel. Product environmental impact Product environmental impact The risk of overutilization of finite resources is affected by the design and choice Axis strives to increase the proportion of recycled material in its products. Design of materials. Unless Axis helps to reduce the products’ environmental impact, it regulations encourage environmentally friendly design. can impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. Hazardous material Hazardous material If Axis products contain substances, which are hazardous to health and the Axis lists hazardous substances, which are not permitted and substances where environment or Axis’ environmental performance is poorer than the competitors use shall be restricted. Axis checks the material content in its products in order to or Axis does not meet customer requirements concerning materials, it would ensure that requirements are met. Axis is working proactively on phasing out impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. hazardous materials from its products. Axis also has a goal of offering products free from brominated and chlorinated flame retardants (BFR and CFR). Energy consumption Energy consumption Product use implies energy consumption that gives rise to environmental impacts Axis is working to develop more energy-efficient products and solutions, while and emissions that run the risk of damaging water, air and land. Unless Axis maintaining functionality. helps to reduce energy consumption, it can impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. Material Shortages of component and input materials can have a negative impact on Axis. In order to minimize risks in the supply chain, Axis works with several subcontractors that are equally important from a capability and capacity perspective. Through agreements, Axis works with production partners and subcontractors in order to ensure safety stocks of critical components. Axis also works close to large end customers and partners in order to obtain an early insight into their product needs. Quality and Product quality helps to ensure continued satisfied customers and safe handling Axis works to ensure the highest possible quality in its products and has a wellproduct safety and use of the products. Defective product quality, which can cause injuries to developed process for handling product defects. people, the environment or property, can impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. Technical risks Defects in Axis IT and business systems could impact Axis operations negatively. Axis has a proactive and systematic approach for a strong IT security, which aims to effectively protect products, solutions and systems. This includes good and rapid incident preparedness and to reduce the risks through increased knowledge in vulnerability management and measures at incidents. IT security Ensuring good IT security in products and solutions is crucial in protecting In Axis research and development operations, great importance is attached to customer privacy during incidents. If Axis products are not perceived as safe, producing very safe products and solutions. In addition, Axis works continually it can impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. with training of partners and end customers in relation to how products, solutions and services should be installed and used safely. When defects are discovered, Axis has an organization and routines in place to immediately take corrective measures. Personal integrity If Axis cameras are used in a way that violates personal integrity and human End users are responsible for how surveillance cameras are utilized and for how rights, it can impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. video material is stored. Axis is careful with its choice of partners and informs its partners to ensure as far as possible that network cameras and solutions are installed and used correctly, that video material is protected and stored securely, and that personal integrity is safeguarded. Technological functions enable anonymization and functionality restrictions. 21 Risk Description of risk Management of the risk Legislation During international trade and exports, mandatory export control rules may be According to Axis’ Export Control Compliance Policy, Axis shall follow all connected to applicable and can impose requirements to hold permits for exports of some applicable export control laws that apply to the company’s operations. Axis has export control products to specific countries. In addition, there are economic sanctions and an internal Export Control Compliance program, which sets the framework for embargos in relation to some parties and countries. Failure to comply with Axis’ internal work with export control. The program is updated and adapted applicable export control legislation can in addition to sanctions such as an regularly. Some of the program concerns training within export control for Axis export ban, penalties and financial restrictions also affect Axis negatively by employees. Axis has internal resources with competencies within export control giving the company a poor reputation in the market. and also engages external advice when needed. Intellectual Axis is party to various disputes as part of its day-to-day business operations, The exposure to intellectual property risk in the patents area is managed by Axis property risks including in the patent field. Costly and protracted disputes can impact Axis specialists, in collaboration with external lawyers and advisors. Axis conducts an negatively. active patent strategy in order to safeguard investments in core technology and intellectual capital. Business ethics Corruption Corruption If Axis personnel, suppliers, distributors and partners involve themselves with All employees and the board shall comply with Axis Code of Conduct and bribes or another type of corruption, or in another way act unethically, as well anti-corruption policy. Employees shall sign the anti-corruption policy and as potentially constituting a violation of the law, it may impact Axis and the participate in anti-corruption training. Axis also has a whistleblower and inquiry company’s stakeholders negatively. function, an e-mail address which employees can write to and address questions relating to corruption and report suspected cases of irregularities. Through training, information campaigns and sharing of knowledge, Axis collaborates with its suppliers, distributors and partners. Unethical context Unethical context If Axis cameras are used in an unethical context, it may impact Axis and the Axis personnel participate in training. Axis informs its partners, in order to ensure company’s stakeholders negatively. as far as possible that its products and solutions are installed and used properly. Risks connected Corporate culture Corporate culture to the workplace, The corporate culture is an important factor behind Axis’ successful performance. Axis works systematically on strengthening its corporate culture and on reinforcemployees and If Axis does not succeed in retaining its unique corporate culture, it can adversely ing its core values, for example through training, during kickoffs, meetings, supply of talent affect the company’s future success. recruitments, etc. Talent supply Talent supply Axis is growing strongly. If Axis does not manage to attract and retain talented Axis has a very careful recruitment process, including recruitment training for personnel to reach its goals, it would impact Axis negatively. all managers. Axis offers good career and training opportunities and competitive working conditions. Lack of diversity, equality and discrimination Lack of diversity, equality and discrimination A lack of diversity and a too homogenous workforce can mean that personnel are Axis conducts activities and initiatives in order to promote increased diversity and not quite as innovative or dynamic as they could be. If employees or jobseekers equality and to fight discrimination. The grandparent principle applies during cannot be afforded the same opportunities due to gender, ethnicity, religion, recruitment and in the salary process. An equality analysis of salaries in Sweden is sexual orientation, age or other factor, apart from possibly constituting a violation performed. All employees and the board shall follow the company’s diversity of the law, it may impact Axis and the company’s stakeholders negatively. policy and Code of Conduct. Occupational If occupational accidents or other types of ill health occur at the workplace, Axis works systematically on creating a safe and pleasant working environment. health and safety besides being negative for the individuals concerned and potentially constituting There are safety committees in Sweden and regular safety committee meetings a violation of the law, it may affect Axis negatively. are held. Axis carries out safety and fire prevention training, work environment training for managers and offers occupational healthcare. All employees follow policies such as Axis’ global work environment policy, etc. 22 Sustainability report Sustainability report 2018 23 Significant events during the year > Proactive and systematic work for strong IT security, which is aimed at effectively protecting products, solutions and systems. This includes good and rapid incident preparedness and reducing risks through increased knowledge about handling vulnerabilities and measures in the event of incidents. > GDPR Awareness training for all employees, with the aim of increasing understanding of and compliance with the new data protection regulation. > Continual work on fighting corruption in the company’s own operations and in the relationships with suppliers, distributors and other partners, by identifying, describing and handling risks relating to conflicts of interest, bribes and other forms of corruption. > Completed a project to develop products, which are BFRand CFR-free, in other words, that do not contain brominated or chlorinated flame retardants. > Several new PVC-free models were developed. > Initiated a new carbon offset project for tree planting, aimed at building a resilient ecosystem in northern Nicaragua. > Follow up of suppliers’ compliance with the updated and stricter Supplier Code of Conduct. > A number of initiatives for an improved working environment such as stress management training for employees in Sweden, a stress management course for employees in Japan, a new working hours policy with increased flexibility in Middle Europe and health initiatives in the Middle East and Africa. > Initiatives for greater equality and diversity such as an increased awareness in the recruitment process in a number of countries, in order to fight discrimination. > Launch of a comprehensive program for diversity and inclusion in North America, which includes a committee for diversity and inclusion, employee training, Women in Security conference and collaboration with the Security Industry Association (SIA). 24 Sustainability report Sustainability strategy Sustainability is an important and natural part of Axis operations, where the company’s innovative solutions contribute to a smarter and safer world. Axis takes long-term economic, environmental and social responsibility and works to promote responsible business conduct. Taking long-term responsibility means that Axis Economic responsibility Axis continually works with and invests in takes responsibility in a broader perspective and Reaching financial goals and strong and enduring different measures to ensure the best possible IT looks beyond the direct impact. Axis creates value profitability are of central importance for Axis security in its products, solutions and IT systems, for suppliers, distributors, partners, end customers, and for the company’s stakeholder groups in order to be a credible business partner and to employees, and owners and works proactively and and constitute the basis for the long-term protect partners and end customer privacy. participates in social initiatives in order to make a sustainability efforts. positive contribution to society. Environmental responsibility Enduring profitability and financial stability Axis strives to minimize the environmental Axis strives to be the driving force in the industry ensure that Axis can continue to be a long-term impacts from its own operations and in the when it comes to technological innovations and and stable business partner for its distributors, company’s products and solutions. acting sustainably, which contributes to increased partners and suppliers and that the company can competitiveness and good long-term growth. As a pay salaries to employees, materials and services Most of Axis’ environmental impacts occur leading market player, Axis acts from a position of to suppliers and tax to society. Read more on indirectly and are related to manufacturing, strength and has good opportunities to influence page 76. transport and energy consumption when those around it in sustainability matters. the products and solutions are used. Axis’ Responsible business conduct environmental responsibility means that Axis Axis’ goal is to promote sustainable conduct in All business relationships should be handled in a strives for improvements along the entire value the entire value chain and to take sustainability responsible, transparent, credible and consistent chain and throughout the entire lifecycle of the into consideration in all business processes, where way. Axis works close to its suppliers, distributors products and solutions. sustainability should be an integrated and natural and other partners. Continual and long-term part of the strategy, business model and business. cooperation helps to ensure transparency and Social responsibility responsible business conduct along the entire Axis has a great impact on many people’s lives The company takes long-term environmental, value chain. and wellbeing, creates job opportunities and is an social and economic responsibility and acts in important employer in local markets. Axis’ social an ethical, transparent and responsible way in Axis has a policy of zero tolerance against all responsibility means good working conditions, relation to its stakeholders. This work is conducted types of bribery and other forms of corruption a safe and secure workplace characterized by through sound corporate governance. and works preventively and systematically to fight equality and diversity, and human rights for this problem both in its own operations and in its employees in the company’s own operations and Axis’ sustainability work is divided into the relationships with suppliers, distributors and other at suppliers. Axis’ long-term responsibility means focus areas: economic responsibility, responsible partners. making a positive contribution to society and business conduct, environmental responsibility investing in social initiatives. and social responsibility. 25 ONG -TERM RE S L SPO KE NS TA s Di I yee strib Y AX pl o & pa ut LIT IS Em l responsib rtn o e BI nta ility me rs s on r vir ic En Axis on om S u p p li e r s E Ec core values: custon ders Respo responsibility Act as one. c ess m Always open. sin Think big. n sible b u on du it bil y ct si spon So S ocial re cie r s ty ne Ow UN Sustainable Development Goals Axis supports Agenda 2030 and the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals and is striving to contribute to these goals. Axis has analyzed these goals and has identified the following goals that the company is actively contributing to most through its sustainability work: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. For more information, see pages 64-65. 26 Sustainability report Long-term responsibility and impact along the entire value chain Axis is actively engaged in all parts of the value chain. The value chain extends from suppliers of components, and contract manufacturers and sales through distributors and partners, such as resellers and system integrators, to end users of the company’s products. Axis has seven contract manufacturers, a large including working for responsible business The topics, which are most important from a number of strategic component suppliers all conduct. Axis strives to create a positive impact sustainability perspective impact all or parts of over the world and about 90,000 partners in while minimizing negative impacts. the value chain. 179 countries. Axis’ indirect business model constitutes a core part of the company’s Risks shall be handled at all stages in the value The adjacent illustration shows where the impacts strategy and is – and has been – very important chain. For a description of how sustainability risks occur in the value chain. for the company’s successful growth. Sales are managed, see pages 18-21. of Axis products and solutions take place via distributors that sell on to resellers and system Though supplier audits, training, information integrators, which in turn sell to end customers. campaigns and sharing of knowledge, Axis This indirect business model means that the collaborates with its suppliers, distributors and direct responsibility for manufacturing, sales, partners in order to ensure that manufacturing, distribution and installation largely rests with distribution, installation, processing and use of suppliers, distributors and partners. the company’s products and solutions occur in as responsible a way as possible. In this way, Axis has long-lasting and close relationships with risks can be minimized and Axis can focus on its partners and is actively engaged in all parts of taking advantage of opportunities, for continued the value chain. Axis works actively to ensure that innovation and development, global expansion suppliers, distributors and partners shall take an and long-term sustainable growth. environmental, economic and social responsibility 27 Resellers/ SubContract End suppliers manufacturers CLCs Axis Distributors System customers integrators Anti-corruption IT security Customer privacy Personal integrity among users of Axis products Customer satisfaction Materials Materials Energy consumption Energy consumption in the products in the products Carbon footprint Occupational health and safety Equality and diversity Non-discrimination of employees Human rights, working conditions and environmental impact in the supply chain The image illustrates where the impacts occur in the value chain for the topics, which are most important from a sustainability perspective. For more information about the materiality analysis, see page 68. 28 Sustainability report Customer stories Smart solutions for a safer and more sustainable world Working together to increase authority), Atlanta Public School System, as well CNR (Compagnie Nationale du Rhône) is France’s citywide security as the departments of Public Works contributed number-one producer of certified 100 percent another 4,000 cameras to the surveillance renewable electricity. Part of its production comes network. A combination of wireless mesh, fiber from photovoltaic parks whose production may be and 4G connections were used. The APD uses two randomly interrupted by cloud cover. different systems to connect and integrate image However, by law each photovoltaic park must material from the different camera networks. provide the most accurate possible production estimates. CNR wanted to anticipate cloud cover APD now has access to 24/7 surveillance and meet this legal obligation. throughout the city without the cost of owning and maintaining all the cameras. Private Tenevia is a specialist in developing innovative businesses, shopping malls and housing complexes environmental measurement solutions through that share their live video with the police image analysis and it developed a solution department get the benefit of a more rapid, equipped with an Axis network camera featuring better-prepared emergency response. a 360° fisheye lens and image analysis software — The Atlanta Police Department (APD) which can predict approaching clouds. draws on private and public cameras to Smart solution improves traffic flows combat crime and improve emergency Atlanta has also introduced an intelligent video Intelligent solution preparedness. solution in order to handle the city’s traffic flows It allows CNR to intelligently manage its storage better. More than 29,000 vehicles per day pass resources and additional production. The Police Department in Atlanta, which is the through a traffic corridor in the middle of Atlanta. capital and largest city in the state of Georgia, Atlanta wanted to understand, optimize and USA, needed a way to augment its citywide improve traffic flows, in order to reduce emissions surveillance efforts to better protect its citizens, and pollution and thereby raise the quality of life “This solution helps fine tune shortcompanies and visiting tourists. The APD launched for the city’s residents. term production forecasting for Operation Shield, a video integration initiative our photovoltaic parks. It delivers that combines video resources from private and A solution with 360ns and Citilog’s intelligent management of storage public entities into a single command center, to SmartTraffic-td application was installed on resources and ensures additional provide law enforcement with a more holistic existing network cameras. The application production to compensate for real-time view of situations across the entire city. provides traffic information and statistics and irregularities in photovoltaic enables adjustments of traffic lights in realproduction. This means that we can time. Traffic flows are optimized, which results in provide a smoother energy supply shorter travel times and reduced waiting times at over time and improve our forecasts. From our perspective, the more It will help balance out the electrical cameras we have in an area the intersections. distribution network.” Guillaume better,” said Major Neil Klotzer, Bontron, manager of CNR’s Atlanta Police Department Optimization of photovoltaic Management Center for Intermittent “Operation Shield demonstrates that energy production Production. working together we can build a safer, more secure city for everyone. And we can do it while respecting the right to individual privacy The challenge was to devise a robust platform that could potentially scale to 10,000+ cameras employing a mix of camera brands, networks and video management systems. The APD initially deployed 17 surveillance cameras across the downtown area. That number has since grown to over 400 of which nearly 90 Axis network cameras help visualize percent are network cameras from Axis. Other city local cloud cover in real-time and predict Note: Photovoltaic energy means that solar cells generate organizations like MARTA (Atlanta’s rapid transit drops in photovoltaic energy production. electricity from the sunlight. 29 Better fuel efficiency and and if people need to be evacuated from nearby increased security thanks to “No more sketches, no more chasing buildings. network solution in vehicles people for written accounts. We Fitting cameras to vehicles that move quickly and know what happened, can prove that are exposed to difficult weather conditions what happened, can close the case places great demands on the cameras, such as and move on,” says Peter Kelly, withstanding vibrations, and large temperature Group Transport Compliance and variations between cold and heat. The cameras are Optimization Manager, Elis. very sensitive to light, which is necessary when filming fires at night. This has improved fuel efficiency and safety, resulting in an almost 13 percent increase in “Using video images has made a fuel efficiency and a decrease in driving related fantastic difference. The solution incidents of 58 percent. has provided huge benefits and has given us completely new Innovative use of video surveillance from Drivers, meanwhile, welcome the new system opportunities to streamline our Axis increases safety and reduces the because they can rely on the intelligence it work so that we can save more environmental impact of Elis' fleet. provides to prove who was at fault in the case of lives,” says Magnus Mattsson, accidents or if items are stolen during the loading Operation Commander, Emergency Elis is one of the largest operators of leasing and or unloading of their vehicle. Both drivers and Elis Services in Copenhagen. maintenance of linen, textiles and sanitation are positive. products in Europe. Unique streaming solution Elis' vehicle fleet managers wanted to reduce the The solution has streamlined the emergency company’s environmental footprint while also saves lives services’ work. The internal operations improving its road safety record, which it hoped management can communicate with the rapid would result in a lower number of false insurance intervention team more rapidly and efficiently. claims against its employees. It planned to achieve In addition, the emergency services can this by utilizing intelligent video and telematics communicate externally more rapidly with the data to enhance driver training, providing people affected and provide better public service personalized feedback on driver behavior such as information by quickly alerting via social media in excessive acceleration and braking, as well as road the event of fire. incidents. “When it comes to helping improve driver behavior, managers can Network camera solution from Axis has review footage with drivers to discuss streamlined the work of Copenhagen’s exactly what caused the need emergency services and therefore for hard braking or acceleration, contributes to saving lives. helping to address issues in a positive manner,” says Gavin Urtel, The emergency services in Copenhagen, Denmark, Managing Director at ICanProve.IT. wanted to be more efficient and improve their rescue operations to ensure victims get a better and faster response. A streaming solution using Working with Axis partner ICanProve.IT, Elis Axis network cameras together with a loudspeaker combined an award-winning telematics system and microphone were installed in selected fire with Axis network cameras, providing a full 360 engines, where images are streamed in real-time degree view of the exterior and interior of vehicles to the internal operations center of the emergency at all times. services. This solution has enabled Elis to give feedbank The operations center can then assess whether to drivers around braking and acceleration, to reinforcements need to be sent to the fire or to increase safety and enhance the fuel efficiency of the scene of the accident, can call in experts when its fleet. needed, and analyze the risk of the fire spreading 30 Sustainability report Responsible business conduct All business relationships should be handled in a responsible, transparent, credible and consistent way. Axis works close to its suppliers, distributors and other partners and this cooperation helps to ensure transparency and ethical business conduct in the entire value chain. Axis works in a systematic and focused way Dialogues, information campaigns, training discussions. The strong corporate culture and to handle sustainability risks, to prioritize initiatives and surveys are regularly conducted in values contribute to openness, honesty and sustainability issues and to increase awareness order to ensure responsible and ethical conduct in transparency. of them, not just in its own operations but also all business relationships. among the other players in the value chain: Suppliers, distributors and other partners at suppliers, distributors and partners such as Code of Conduct Axis’ purchasing organization follows careful resellers and system integrators. Axis’ proactive Axis’ Code of Conduct establishes the values and routines and strictly imposed requirements. All approach in sustainability matters is appreciated guidelines on which Axis conducts its business and Axis suppliers shall sign an undertaking that and positively received by the company’s how the employees should act in business-related they will follow Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, stakeholders. situations, internally and externally. The Code of which is based on Axis’ Code of Conduct and Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact’s the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. This Responsible enterprise ten principles, the UN's Universal Declaration includes requirements prohibiting any form of All business transactions involving Axis shall be of Human Rights and the International Labor child or compulsory labor, ensuring good working conducted in a responsible way. Axis shall meet Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental conditions, keeping tabs on environmental all requirements under applicable legislation such Principles and Rights at Work. impacts and fighting corruption. In those cases as anti-corruption laws and sanctions-related where suppliers do not sign Axis’ Code of Conduct, legislation, and also comply with other rules and Employees but instead refer to their own Code of Conduct, regulations, which are followed by the company. All employees, as well as board members, are Axis reviews it to verify that the requirements are Axis also has its own ethical guidelines such expected to follow the Code of Conduct and met. Compliance is ensured through information, as the Code of Conduct and an anti-corruption work on the basis of ethical business methods training, self-assessment and inspections. Axis policy. Axis continually follows up changes in laws and according to Axis values. Information about distributors and partners shall comply with and regulations and regularly reviews its policies, what is implied by our Code of Conduct is part applicable anti-corruption legislation. to ensure that they are up-to-date and reflect of the introduction program for new employees. developments in the sustainability field in the Compliance is ensured through internal controls, global market where Axis operates. policies and guidelines, employee surveys and 31 Special export restrictions, sanctions and embargoes Special export restrictions apply to products, which are intended for civilian use but that have such properties that they may also be used for non-civilian purposes. In addition to this, there may also be restrictions on trading with certain countries through special sanctions and embargoes. Axis is covered by the rules on special export restrictions, sanctions and embargoes and monitors the development and application of these rules. 32 Sustainability report Anti-corruption Axis has a policy of zero tolerance against all types of bribery and other forms of corruption and works preventively and systematically to fight this problem. Axis should be a standard-bearer and continually strive to advance its positions in its work on fighting corruption, both in its own operations and in its relationships with suppliers, distributors and other partners. All employees shall maintain the very highest Donations to charity and sponsorship shall be Employees can also get support and ask questions standards when it comes to correct ethical and documented carefully and be in line with the relating to corruption, ethical dilemmas and moral conduct, in all business relationships. The company’s sponsorship policy. The anti-corruption challenges and also share information about how board, as well as consultants and other persons policy helps to clarify Axis’ standpoint. The policy they solved problems. who work on behalf of Axis are included in the covers all employees and board members, as well policy of zero tolerance against bribes and other as consultants and other persons who work on The whistleblower and inquiry function is part of forms of corruption. As Axis is a leading market behalf of Axis. how Axis works systematically for transparency, player, the company’s stakeholders also expect openness and good business practice. It also Axis to lead the fight against corruption. Recurring anti-corruption training is compulsory helps to identify irregularities, obtain information for all employees. All new employees participate if something happens that can contravene the In the business environment where Axis operates, in training about what is implied by Axis’ antiCode of Conduct and to improve the exchange of it is not possible to rule out that Axis employees corruption policy and sign a document where knowledge and provide further training in ethical can come into contact with corruption, both in they undertake not to accept bribes or participate issues. A description of the function and how it the company’s own operations and in relationships in any other form of corruption. All employees works is available on the Intranet. The e-mail with suppliers, distributors and partners and and other persons who work on behalf of Axis address goes to representatives from Human with their customers. Axis has an anti-corruption participate in training and sign the undertaking Resources, Legal and the company management. program and works actively to handle risks again recurrently. The board members have also relating to conflicts of interest, bribes, and other signed this undertaking. HR is responsible for Suppliers, distributors and partners forms of corruption, in order to protect both the ensuring that training is available. Axis informs, trains and follows up its suppliers individual and the company. to ensure that they act in accordance with the Managers are responsible for ensuring that their anti-corruption policy, which is stated in the Code Policy and training respective employees complete the training. of Conduct for suppliers. Axis' anti-corruption policy stipulates that all business relationships shall occur in a responsible, Whisteblower and inquiry function If a supplier should breach the Supplier Code transparent, consistent and credible way and Axis also has an e-mail address that employees of Conduct, the supplier, when considered that employees should not offer, accept or can contact to report suspected cases of appropriate, gets the chance to implement participate in any activity that includes any form irregularities concerning Axis and suspected improvements. If the measures are not taken, of corruption. Nor does the policy allow employees violations of the Code of Conduct. the supplier is phased out and replaced. to make contributions to political campaigns. So far this has not occurred. 33 Goals and target fulfilment Anti-corruption Axis has zero tolerance against all types of bribery and other forms of corruption. All employees, including the company management, shall sign an undertaking that they will comply with Axis’ anticorruption policy and participate in training in these issues recurrently. In 2017, practically all employees received training in the anti-corruption policy and signed an undertaking that they are following the anticorruption policy. New employees undergo training and sign the undertaking in connection with commencing their employment. No cases of bribery or other corruption were identified during the year. Nor did the company become aware of any cases of corruption during 2017 or 2016. It is included in the distributor agreement that the distributors shall comply with applicable anti-corruption laws. Almost all distributors have signed the distributor agreement. For a distributor agreement to be renewed, the distributor must have signed the agreement. Other partners are also expected to comply with applicable anti-corruption legislation. All new gold and silver level partners and all new Application Development and Technology partners undertake in an agreement to comply with applicable anticorruption legislation. If a partner should breach the agreement, the partner agreement is not renewed. This has not happened to date. Axis continuously informs its partners, for example, at different partner conferences, through web seminars and in newsletters in order to increase knowledge about anti-corruption and Axis' contribution to the Axis requirements. Axis’ business model, local Sustainable Development Goal market presence and long-term customer relations make it possible to have a continuous dialogue with the company's partners regarding compliance with Axis requirements. 34 Sustainability report IT security and protection of customer privacy Axis continually works with and invests in different measures to ensure the best possible IT security in its products, solutions and IT systems, in order to be a reliable business partner and to safeguard partners and end customer privacy. As a leading market player, Axis should also act solutions against intrusion and harmful impacts. Learning and collaboration as a model when it comes to IT security, and be a Issues relating to IT security are taken extremely Through training, cooperation and knowledge reliable and credible business partner. Protecting seriously and any incidents are dealt with transfer, Axis works to reduce the risks. Axis users’ privacy is also an important part of Axis’ immediately, in a transparent way. During the informs and trains its distributors and partners responsibility as a corporate citizen. In addition, year, Axis initiated work on becoming certified in identifying threats, making risk assessments high IT security in products and solutions is a according to the ISO 27001 information security and shares knowledge about specific protective competitive advantage, and is crucial for Axis’ standard. The certification is expected to be measures to best reduce the identified risks, in long-term competitiveness. completed in 2019. order to promote good IT security. IT security Axis has very high product quality as well as Axis communicates regularly and conducts a IT security is becoming an ever more important good and rapid incident preparedness when it dialogue with end customers, in order to prevent matter as devices are increasingly becoming comes to the application of security in different and stop intrusions. Knowledge sharing and interconnected and are collecting and transferring applications, products, solutions and systems. Axis training occur as online training and in webinars, data via the Internet, all our lives are becoming strives to be transparent and works to reduce the among other ways. Information sharing also more digital. This is creating many benefits and risk through protective measures, vulnerability occurs through workshops and communication via business opportunities but also implies increased management as well as training and cooperation. the Axis website, and Axis provides information security risks. This is imposing ever stricter material such as guides and tests, and articles. demands to maintain and safeguard the integrity Security management of IT systems, processes, products, solutions Axis works continually to strengthen the All employees shall follow Axis policies such as and the information created, while the risk for protection of products and solutions, so that the Axis IT security policy, Axis Vulnerability Policy, undesirable attacks is increasing. the products are protected against existing which governs how Axis handles and responds to threats and risks in the environments where security issues and the Axis Responsive Support Matters relating to IT security have also gained the products are installed and used, and are policy, which is Axis’ commitment to offer security an increasingly prominent role in the dialogue protected during their respective life cycles. Axis patches as soon as possible. Axis’ Software with distributors and partners. Axis customers are has processes and systems in place for secure Security Group is responsible for ensuring that the also imposing stricter demands on IT security and password management, updates of software policy for IT security in the products is continually solutions that information is well protected, in and configurations. Axis keeps itself continually updated and followed. particular to ensure continuity in their operations. updated with external developments in order to It is of the utmost importance for Axis to ensure maintain the highest possible preparedness. Customer privacy that its products and solutions are not vulnerable. It is extremely important for Axis and the A successful security strategy means that even if Vulnerability management company’s partners to respect and protect attacks occur, that Axis has a strategy to minimize Axis works to reduce the risk that the products customer information and customer privacy. the vulnerability of cameras, software and the and solutions have vulnerabilities that may be Information and customer data shall be information created. exploited. Axis has well-developed, thorough protected technically and managed and stored systems and comprehensive processes in place to securely and in an ethically correct manner. Axis works proactively and systematically with detect vulnerabilities and resolve incidents, if a Axis works proactively and preventively to IT security and has a focused strategy with a vulnerability is discovered or an incident should protect information and counteract all types of structured approach to protect products and occur. vulnerabilities. 35 Security to protect customer data has the very GDPR (The General Data Protection Regulation) highest priority and Axis continually works to and training ensure that software and interfaces are robust and Axis has conducted activities in order to meet the maintain a high level of security. Axis products requirements in the EU’s General Data Protection and solutions support encryption, IP address Regulation, GDPR, which entered into force on filtering and also enable user authorization May 25, 2018, which means stricter requirements protection and multi-stage logins. regarding the processing of personal data. Axis has performed a comprehensive analysis Evaluation, legal requirements and training and mapping of how customer information is Axis conducts regular checks and evaluations to processed and stored, has updated its processes, ensure that customer information is handled and systems and solutions and has informed partners stored securely. and customers to ensure that the company meets the requirements. Axis trains its partners, for example in the form of seminars and workshops, and has produced During the year, Axis initiated GDPR Awareness instructional material. Axis also offers targeted training for all employees, with the aim of training to its installers to ensure that increasing understanding of and compliance with installations of video surveillance systems are the new data protection regulation. performed as safely as possible. At Axis partner Apart from compliance with GDPR, Axis follows meetings, questions relating to customer privacy other applicable international and local laws and and IT security in the company’s products and guidelines. In addition, the ISO 27001 information solutions are continually discussed. security standard governs protection, processing and secure storage of customer data. Goals and target fulfilment Customer privacy Axis' contribution to the Sustainable Development Goal Axis shall handle customer privacy in a correct and soon as it was discovered, Axis immediately corrected the secure manner. Incidents are dealt with immediately by problem. Axis supplied updates and promptly informed the company and are taken extremely seriously. During all distributors, partners and customers that could have 2018, one incident occurred that related to a number of been affected, and the incident was resolved and closed. products and that risked impacting customer privacy. During 2017, one product-related incident also occurred, Axis has careful routines and processes in place and as like in 2016. 36 Sustainability report Personal integrity among users of Axis products Axis products and solutions contribute to increased safety and security and enable smart and intelligent solutions, for example traffic monitoring and various types of analytics. Axis works to ensure that its products and solutions are used and handled in a way that always safeguards personal integrity. Use of camera surveillance is increasing, as well For example, so-called privacy masking may be An overview of research from seven different as acceptance of it in society, as safety is highly used, which automatically blurs faces and hides studies shows that monitoring with security valued. Use of cameras for increased safety and some parts of the images and also includes time cameras can reduce the number of crimes by security gives rise to discussions about a potential restrictions for recording. between 24 and 28 percent in public places and impact on personal integrity and personal rights. metro stations in the inner city (Alexandrie, G. Axis is extremely careful about protecting Information and training (2017) Surveillance cameras and crime: a review customer information and about respecting and Axis has guidelines relating to personal integrity of randomized and natural experiments. Journal safeguarding personal integrity and aims to that all employees shall follow. Representatives of Scandinavian in Criminology and Crime prevent improper use that can violate personal from IT Governance and Legal are responsible for Prevention). integrity. ensuring that the guidelines are followed and updated regularly. Axis informs and conducts Smart functionality safeguards personal a dialogue with its distributors and partners integrity and with trade associations about the need End users are responsible for how surveillance to safeguard the protection of personal data cameras are utilized and for how video material and personal integrity when video surveillance is stored, which are the two most important solutions are used. aspects of personal integrity. Axis works close to its distributors and partners and is careful By carefully following national and international with its choice of partners. Axis works actively laws, applying sector-specific best practice to inform its distributors and partners in order and using technical innovations, the least to ensure as far as possible that the company’s possible impact on personal integrity is ensured. network cameras and solutions are installed and Meanwhile, customers can still obtain the security used in a proper way, and that video material is and protection offered by video surveillance protected and stored correctly. When distributors, solutions. partners and end users act in accordance with Axis recommendations and guidelines and with Prevent and solve crime national and international laws, the risk of Use of security cameras can prevent and solve improper camera use and of violating personal crimes, which is viewed as positive by the general integrity is reduced. public. A survey coordinated by LUSAX at Lund University and commissioned by Securitas, showed Axis is developing functions that help to protect a very positive attitude to security cameras: personal integrity when the products are used, 90 percent of the general public in Sweden such as functionality to enable anonymization and are positive about the use of security cameras other forms of personal data protection. Advanced on streets and squares (KANTAR SIFO, August software solutions can be used to protect data 2017). 83 percent of respondents stated that the and ensure that the cameras only record what is presence of security cameras in public places does necessary. not violate their personal integrity. 37 38 Sustainability report Customer satisfaction Axis’ ambition is to continually develop and improve its offering in order to continue having satisfied and loyal customers. Axis maintains a regular dialogue with its customers in order to meet their expectations and needs. Increased interest in sustainability Continued satisfied customers Axis distributors and other partners are showing In 2017, a global survey was conducted in an increasing interest in sustainable products and 51 countries, where about 12,000 partners solutions. responded. 82 percent were highly satisfied with Axis. Among other things, Axis received good Customers are demanding products and solutions, scores for high product quality, efficient solutions, which are environmentally-friendly such as knowledgeable support and honest, skilled and PVC free network cameras with low power customer-focused personnel. Axis is also highly consumption and recycling programs for worn regarded for its leadership within IP technology, out products. Even social and ethical questions, its professionalism and understanding of the for example IT security, customer privacy and market. anti-corruption are of increasing interest to distributors and partners. Users of Axis customer support also have the opportunity to provide feedback after cases are Axis has close cooperation with its distributors closed. Survey responses are compiled every and conducts a regular dialogue in order to be quarter. The questions relate to whether the issue receptive to developments and offer sustainable was resolved, if it was resolved reasonably quickly solutions that meet customer needs. Axis informs and if the customer was satisfied with the service. and trains its distributors, other partners and end If the product, documentation or handling of a customers by means of meetings, seminars and case has not been satisfactory in some respect, the newsletters. information is relayed to the relevant department for further action. Continual contacts between Regular surveys Axis employees and customers help to identify Axis conducts satisfaction surveys at distributors, improvement measures and result in increased partners and end customers in order to understand customer satisfaction. their dynamics and expectations and also to measure their view of the company’s different business areas. These surveys measure how satisfied the stakeholders are with Axis and how they think that Axis can improve its products, solutions and working methods. The results are evaluated and the information is then taken back to the relevant departments in the organization, so that Axis can make improvements. 39 Global survey 2017 82% highly satisfied with Axis 0 -50 50 56NPS* -100 100 * Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a method for measuring customer loyalty. It is calculated as follows: NPS = % Promoters % Detractors. The index ranges from -100 to 100, which means that a figure over 0 is positive and a result over 50 percent is considered excellent. 40 Sustainability report Environmental responsibility Axis strives to minimize the environmental impact from its own operations and in the company’s products and solutions. Most of Axis’ environmental impact occurs indirectly and is related to manufacturing, transports and energy consumption when the products and solutions are used. This means that Axis aims for improvements along the entire value chain and throughout the life cycle of the products. Long-term environmental responsibility New environmental strategy Axis works with suppliers, distributors and other The aim of the new environmental strategy is to partners in order to minimize direct and indirect clarify Axis’ environmental work and connect it environmental impacts. This involves systematic with the change the company wants to achieve. work to ensure that product development, material choice, material origin, components The three focus areas are Beat climate change, and packaging meet quality and functionality Protect natural resources and Protect ecosystems. requirements, while minimizing environmental These three areas incorporate the topics that are impacts. most important to Axis from an environmental perspective, and where the impact is greatest: Axis has performed life cycle analysis on various energy use in products; emissions from transports, products, in order to see where the greatest the company’s own operations and suppliers; environmental impact lies in the products’ use of natural resources; use of water; use life cycle. Measures to reduce environmental of hazardous substances in the products and impacts include using recycled material, emissions of hazardous substances at suppliers. reducing the number of product parts, choosing low-weight components, minimizing material The new strategy will be implemented during waste, optimizing packaging, improving energy 2019. The environmental strategy is based on consumption efficiency in the company’s Axis’ Environmental policy, Axis' significant operations and products, streamlining logistics environmental aspects and the UN Sustainable flows and choosing environmentally friendly Development Goals. transports as far as possible. 41 Environmental initiatives 2018 During the year, Axis carried out a number of measures to reduce its environmental impact. These included: >> continuing to phase out PVC from products >> continuing to work on developing products that are BFR/CFR-free, in other words that do not contain brominated or chlorinated flame retardants >> using a higher proportion of recycled plastics in products >> identifying improvements regarding energy consumption in the product use phase >> conducting environmental training of personnel in the units Operations, Research & Development, Marketing, Sales, Logistics and of other persons who, in their roles, can contribute to reducing the company’s environmental impact >> initiating work on drawing up a new environmental strategy 42 Sustainability report Axis product life cycle from an environmental perspective Manufacturing & assembly Produce Raw materials & Transportation components purchasing Product development & Business operations Recycle Use Production collection Product usage & recycling Smart material choice Material free from brominated and chlorinated Axis has also continued to develop products with Axis products contain different materials flame retardants recycled plastic. In 2018, Axis released such as aluminum, zinc, steel, stainless steel, During the year, Axis carried out a project to AXIS M3015 and AXIS M3016 models, which polycarbonate/acrylonitrile-butadienedevelop two products that are BFR/CFR-free, in contain 70 percent recycled plastic. styrene, polycarbonate, polyamide, other words that do not contain brominated or Axis has also launched its two first outdoor polymethylmethacrylate, polyurethane, silicone, chlorinated flame retardants. cameras containing recycled plastic, thermoplastic elastomer and rubber. AXIS Q1785-LE and AXIS Q1786-LE. PVC Axis works systematically to ensure that its PVC can emit toxic substances, is harmful to both The packaging material for the products is material choice meets quality and functionality human health and the environment and is difficult composed of recycled material to some extent. requirements while minimizing environmental to recycle. PVC is found in outdoor cables for Axis impacts. This includes using recycled instead cameras, among other things. Axis aims to phaseEnergy consumption in products and solutions of newly produced plastic, minimizing waste out PVC from its products and has been successful The cameras’ energy consumption is a significant of materials, ensuring that only conflict-free in these efforts. During the year, several new PVCpart of their total environmental impact. minerals are used, ensuring that products do free camera models were developed, such as Life cycle analyses performed by Axis, show not contain any substances that are hazardous AXIS Q1785-LE, AXIS Q1786-LE, AXIS P3235-LV that between 60 and 80 percent of the total for people or the environment and phasing out and AXIS P32 Series. environmental impact of network cameras is health-impairing material. related to energy consumption by end users. In 2018, 95 percent of network camera and encoder Furthermore, about 95 percent of the material sales were PVC-free. In total, about 80 percent of During the year, Axis continued its efforts in Axis products is recyclable or combustible in Axis network cameras and encoders are PVC-free. to identify improvements for how energy accordance with Swedish recycling standards. consumption can be reduced when the products Recycling can occur either in the form of energy Recycled material are used. or reuse of material. Recycled material conserves natural resources and reduces environmental impacts. Axis works Axis continually works to further improve energy continually to phase in new recycled material into efficiency in surveillance systems, while retaining its material library, in order to increase the use functionality, which can present a challenge. and proportion of recycled material in its products. 43 Some of the technologies developed by Axis, help Total carbon footprint Energy consumption per full time employee to reduce energy consumption in the product use Axis’ carbon emissions increased during the year globally, excluding logistics centers, decreased phase. from 35,068 to 36,704 tons CO2e1, an increase of from 2.6 MWh to 2.5 MWh per full time employee about 5 percent compared to 2017. The increase in 2018. These include Axis Lightfinder technology, which was mainly related to a marginal increase in enables cameras to reproduce sharp color images emissions related to inbound transports and At the Lund headquarters, where 58 percent even when it is dark, at 0.18 lux and even lower. business trips. The company displayed strong of all the employees are based, the goal is to This eliminates the need for external illumination. growth during 2018, with increased sales and reduce electricity consumption by 5 percent per more employees. Updates in calculation tools can employee annually. During the year, the electricity Axis’ carbon footprint occur in the future when new emission factors, for consumption per employee at the headquarters fell Several activities related to Axis operations calculating emissions, are added. from 2.5 MWh to 2.3, in other words a decrease generate carbon dioxide emissions, which have an of 8 percent. This was due to increased awareness impact on the climate. Axis’ ambition is to take Emissions due to third party deliveries accounted among employees and to energy-saving measures. responsibility in these areas, to reduce the overall for 74 percent of total CO2e emissions. carbon footprint and impose clear demands on the Total CO2 emissions from inbound and outbound company’s suppliers, to the same extent as Axis transports decreased by 4.4 percent to 4.09 kg CO2 takes responsibility for the manufacturing and per sold unit (read more under Transports). design of the company’s products. Emissions related to employees, due to energy consumption in the operations, paper use, leased Through annual monitoring and reporting of the vehicles, business travel etc., increased by company’s carbon dioxide emissions, Axis gains 4 percent2. Emissions related to sales decreased an insight into which processes generate the most from 4.1 tons CO2e to 3.6 tons CO2e per SEK 100 M emissions and where Axis needs to focus its efforts (see diagram). to reduce its climate impact. Energy consumption in the operations The 2018 Carbon Footprint report focuses Total energy consumption in the operations on emissions related to transports, energy increased globally due to increased growth both consumption of premises, leased vehicles, business in terms of sales and the number of employees. travel and paper consumption. Energy consumption is the fourth largest source of Axis’ total emissions, accounting for around eleven The carbon footprint report also includes emissions percent of all emissions. from all inbound transports, in other words Scope 1 Scope 1 includes Axis' direct emissions. transports from contract manufacturers to Axis In terms of energy intensity, the energy Business travel Scope 2 Scope 2 includes indirect emissions such as Configuration and Logistics Centers (CLC) and consumption per employee has fallen, thanks to Business trips energy are the third largest source of Axis’ consumption. emissions from all outbound transports, in other our energy saving measures. emissions, total Scope accounting for around 3 Scope 3 includes indirect twelve emissions due to words transports from CLCs to distributors. percent of all sourcing emissions. To address of goods this, or services, Axis transports from suppliers, and business trips. Ton CO2e per sales3 Ton CO2e per employee2,3 Ton CO2e per scope3 40000 5 5 35000 30000 4 4 25000 Ton CO2e per employee 3 3 20000 Ton CO2e per SEK 100 M 2 2 15000 10000 Ton CO2e 1 1 5000 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 3,5 4,1 3,6 Ton CO₂e/FTE4 2,2 2,3 2,4 Ton CO₂e per SEK 100 M 1 Carbon dioxide equivalents or CO2e is a metric for describing how different greenhouse gases, of a given quantity, contribute to the greenhouse effect and impact global warming, measured in the equivalent amount of CO2. 2 Inbound and outbound transports are excluded. 3 2N and Citilog are included in the numbers for 2017 and 2018, but not for 2016. 4 FTE (Full-Time Equivalents) also include employees at Axis CLCs. 44 Sustainability report initiated carbon offsets in 2015 for all business energy-efficient white goods, which also reduces new equipment that requires less electricity and travel by air. In 2018, the offset was 3,779 tons of water use (see below), continual maintenance water. Another completed measure was to replace CO2e from business trips. If this figure is deducted of equipment in order to minimize energy waste dishwashers with more waterand energyfrom Axis’ total CO2e, the emissions per employee and increased employee awareness through efficient machines. would be lower and total 1.4 tons CO2e per environmental training. employee. To read more about carbon offsetting at Axis, please see page 46. Water use Axis has initiated several activities in Lund aimed Axis’ travel policy encourages less travel, at reducing and streamlining water use. Test water whenever possible. During the year, Axis is recycled in Axis’ water lab. When the products conducted tens of thousands of hours of webinars are tested in a water environment large quantity and virtual meetings around the world, which of water are required. Previously, the water used helped to reduce business trips. in testing was released into the public sewage system. Now the water is recycled and is only Green lease replaced once per quarter. This provides a saving Axis has a green lease with one of its property of about 1 m3 of water per day. owners for the headquarters in Lund. The lease means that Axis and the property Additionally, the oldest weather testing unit owner work actively together to reduce the (a unit that generates different types of weather environmental impact of the premises and conditions: snow, rain, wind etc. for testing property. The measures include changing to more cameras) in the climate lab was replaced with 1 All base figures for 2016 and 2017, have been restated as an air freight supplier changed its calculation model. The nominal values have sharply decreased, but this has not changed the percentage outcomes for Axis to any significant extent 45 Transports Axis aims to keep down transport costs and carbon emissions, caused by product transports. Customer needs should be met while reaching environmental targets. Axis continually reviews and streamlines its In addition, inflatable packaging material is logistics chain, including transports from contract increasingly used in packaging and for more manufacturers to the company’s Configuration product families. The inflatable packaging material and Logistics Centers (CLC) and transports from is lighter than other packaging material and takes CLCs to distributors. up less space during transports, and this material is reused when the products are repackaged for Axis uses sea and road transports rather than air transports to customers. freight for inbound transports as far as possible, in other words, transports to CLCs, and road Reduced emissions transports for outbound transports, in order words Overall, CO2 emissions from transports decreased transports from CLCs. by about 4.4 percent to 4.09 kg CO2 per sold unit1. Axis displayed a sharp increase in sales during Manufacturing and configuration of the products the year and the strong growth put pressure on at various CLCs should occur as close to each the logistics chain, which meant that carbon market as possible, in order to ensure good emissions continued to be higher than planned. flexibility as well as short transport times and There was a continued capacity shortage in lead times. Axis’s six CLCs are located in China, the market for certain components, which are Sweden, Czech Republic, Hungary and USA. manufactured in Asia, and demand for camera models, which include these components, was Focus during 2018 strong in Europe and the US. For this reason, During the year, Axis initiated work on starting Axis needed to use air freight in order to meet a CLC in Thailand, for products that are customer demand. manufactured for the Asian market. Axis also started to use rail freight for transports of larger Axis continually invests in order to boost products that are manufactured in Asia to CLCs in production capacity at its existing suppliers Europe. Some logistics changes also occurred in and initiated cooperation with new suppliers the US market. A larger proportion of the products during the year. This meant that Axis was able to sold in South America are now transported from increase sea transports from Asian suppliers to the the CLC in the US instead of CLCs in Europe. American and European markets, which led to a This has been made possible by an increase in decrease in CO2 emissions measured per sold unit. production volumes at manufacturers closer to Read more about Axis cooperation with its the USA. suppliers on page 48. Optimization of packaging Carbon offsetting Cardboard manufacturing machines have been Axis carbon offsets for all courier freight, gradually introduced at Axis CLCs and are now which occurs by air. Carbon offsetting occurs in installed at all CLCs. This means that Axis is accordance with the independent international sourcing less cardboard packaging as transport standard the CarbonNeutral Protocol. For each ton packaging is manufactured locally at each CLC. of CO2 that Axis offsets, the company pays for the Packaging for outbound transports is becoming reduction of a ton of CO2 equivalents in a carbon optimized and leaner when manufactured for offset project. specific transports. 46 Sustainability report Com mun iTree, N da icaragua ga n ,U fits ne Be b al lo f or G Trees Carbon offsets for business trips Axis uses carbon offsets for all business trips by air. In 2018, Axis offset 3,779 tons of CO2 equivalents from business trips in the projects CommuniTree in Nicaragua and Trees for Global Benefits in Uganda. These projects are certified according to Plan Vivo. CommuniTree, Nicaragua Trees for Global Benefits, Uganda In this project, which is run by Taking Root, By developing agroforestry at a local level, the different species of native trees are being planted, families in this project in western Uganda can get using varying methods of cultivation, in order to timber and fuel as well as fruit and vegetables. build a resilient ecosystem in northern Nicaragua. The project is run by EcoTrust. Since 2003, more The local farmers receive money for planting than 1 million tons of carbon sequestration has and taking care of the trees. The trees also offer been documented through improved agricultural protection during extreme weather conditions as techniques, expanded forest areas and reduced they capture water, prevent landslides and provide deforestation. shade for animals, crops and for the families that live in the area. Training is also conducted regarding HIV and AIDS, entrepreneurship and global warming as part of Since 2010, more than 120 unique species have the project. been planted. 47 Goals and target fulfilment Improving the products' environmental performance. Material Launching at least one product which is BFR/CFR-free before July 2019. During the year, Axis carried out a project to develop two products, which are BFR/CFR-free, in other words, that do not contain brominated or chlorinated flame retardants. This work will be completed during 2019. Energy consumption in products and solutions Axis' contribution to Minimizing energy consumption throughout the product’s entire life cycle, from product development to use by end users. the Sustainable Axis continually works to further improve energy efficiency in the products and solutions, while optimizing functionality. Development Goals Reducing CO2 emissions from the operations1 by 20 percent per sold unit from 2016 to 2021, measured in kg CO2 per sold unit. In 2018, CO2 emissions from operations were 2.7 percent higher than the emissions in 2016 (measured per kg CO2 per unit sold). However, this is an improvement compared to 2017, which ended up 6 percent higher than in 20161. Reducing CO2 emissions from transports by 20 percent per sold unit from 2016 to 2021, measured in kg CO2 per sold unit. In 2018, CO₂ emissions from transports decreased by 4.4 percent, measured in kg CO2 per sold unit per sold unit, compared to 2017. In 2017, CO₂ emissions from transports increased by 5.2 percent, measured in kg CO2 per sold unit. 65 percent of inbound transports, in terms of the total weight of the products sold, should consist of sea and road freight. 61 percent of all inbound transports measured in terms of the total weight of the products sold were sea or road transports and 39 percent were air transports in 2018. In 2017, 62 percent of all inbound transports were sea or road transports and 38 percent were air transports. In 2016, 63 percent of all inbound transports were sea or road transports and 37 percent were air transports. Reducing electricity consumption by five percent per employee at the headquarters in Lund per year. In 2018, Axis reduced electricity consumption per employee at the headquarters from 2.5 MWh to 2.3, i.e. a reduction of 8 percent. In 2017, Axis’ electricity consumption per employee at the headquarters decreased by 13.8 percent compared to 2016. Ensuring effective environmental management within Axis. Axis shall work in accordance with ISO 14001. During the year, Axis initiated work on meeting the ISO 14001 standard. Based on a gap analysis performed during 2017, Axis developed new processes and carried out internal reviews to rectify deviations. More than 80 new Axis employees will be trained in Axis’ sustainability work and in environmental issues generally. During the year, 62 people participated in training. The Environmental function will take over responsibility from Research & Development in relation to chemical substances in electronic and mechanical standard components. Work is in progress so that the Environmental function can take over this responsibility. Improving customer communication. Identifying and establishing communication channels within marketing and sales. During the year, the Environmental function initiated cooperation with the Marketing, Communication and Sales departments and developed material and supporting documentation regarding Axis’ sustainability work. This was used in communication with the customers. 1 Operations run by Axis. The acquired companies 2N and Citilog and CLCs that are not owned by Axis have their own emission targets. 48 Sustainability report Responsible supply chain Axis has long-term collaboration with its suppliers. Suppliers are regularly audited to ensure that they meet Axis requirements and that they take social and environmental responsibility in their operations and that they fight corruption. Axis’ ambition is that all product manufacturing should occur in an environmentally, socially and ethically responsible way. The company aims to have long-term collaboration and partnership with its suppliers. Axis customers also impose requirements on how the company works with its suppliers; for instance control by Axis that suppliers work with social and environmental matters and that manufacturing occurs in a responsible way. Axis has a total of 238 suppliers. Seven of these are contract manufacturers, which are located in China, Korea, Mexico, Thailand, Japan as well as two in Poland. Contract manufacturers produce printed circuit boards and assemble the products. Axis’ strategic component suppliers, which cast chassis and manufacture cameras lenses and electronic components, among other things, are found all over the world. 117 of the 238 suppliers are considered to have a major impact on Axis from a sustainability perspective. 91 of these are located in Asia, 20 in Europe and 6 in North America. During the year, Axis initiated cooperation with 13 new suppliers1. Axis carefully selects its suppliers for manufacturing and assembly of the company’s products. This selection is made according to the criteria quality, price, ethics, environmental impact, working environment, flexibility, employee working conditions such as the right to sign collective agreements and freedom to join a trade union, and respect of human rights, in no particular order of importance. When selecting suppliers, selection criteria include closeness to a contract manufacturer, a Configuration and Logistics Center (CLC), or a purchasing office. 1 New suppliers include suppliers that have been phased in and where collaboration began during 2018. 49 Impacts and risks In some cases, suppliers do not sign Axis’ Supplier Of Axis’ total of 13 new suppliers during the Environmental impacts in the supply chain of Code of Conduct, but instead refer to their own year, 6 have a material impact on Axis operations include consumption of energy, water, materials, code of conduct. This is reviewed by Axis in order from a sustainability perspective, and all of them minerals and chemicals. For information about to verify that it corresponds with the requirements were screened locally and/or via self-assessment environmental risks, risks relating to working stated in Axis’ Supplier Conduct of Conduct. questionnaires in respect of environmental conditions, human rights and corruption, see the impacts, labor conditions, human rights and antiseparate text about risks, page 18-21. All Axis Axis introduced its Supplier Code of Conduct corruption. suppliers are expected, besides complying with in 2011 in order to increase and clarify supplier laws and regulations, to follow Axis’ Supplier Code requirements. The introduction has meant that The audits are followed up regularly. This ensures of Conduct. most suppliers collaborating with Axis have that the supplier meets Axis requirements and in improved their sustainability work. those cases where measures are needed that they Focus 2018 are also implemented. During the year, Axis worked intensively on Initial evaluation verifying compliance with the new requirements All new suppliers are initially evaluated using During the actual inspection, environmental and in the Supplier Code of Conduct, which was a self-assessment questionnaire, before quality engineers from Axis visit the factory. The updated in 2017. This tightened the requirements collaboration begins. The questionnaire, which inspections usually take one or two days. Axis for control of overtime. Extensive overtime is a suppliers should fill in, contains information examines the supplier’s entire production process commonly occurring problem among suppliers about the company’s environmental impacts right up to final delivery. The audit covers the in Asia. Axis’ goal is to take care of employees’ including material environmental topics, chemical factory’s environmental impact and employee health and safety, and Axis imposes stricter management, emissions and social responsibility, working conditions. This includes working demands in some countries than required by law. including working conditions such as working hours and routines, if child labor or compulsory Axis’ view is that too much overtime is connected hours and employee health and safety. labor occurs, noise levels, fire safety, waste and with risks to employees’ health and safety and chemical management as well as identifying and with risks related to work performance. The Existing contract manufacturers and strategic measuring different types of emissions. Axis also new requirements are based on the Responsible component suppliers to be audited also need to ensures that only conflict-free minerals are used. Business Alliance’s code of conduct regarding fill in a self-assessment questionnaire regarding For more information about how Axis works to working hours. how they meet Axis requirements relating to the fight the use of conflict minerals, see page 51. environment, quality and employee safety. Verification of compliance occurred through collection and review of action plans, onsite audits Thorough supplier audits of suppliers and training. The supplier audits aim to follow up and ensure that suppliers meet the requirements in the Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct. Both first-tier suppliers Suppliers are expected to sign and comply with and contract manufacturers are screened as well Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based as second-tier component suppliers. Suppliers are on Axis’ Code of Conduct and the UN Global classified based on risk level, taking account of Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human country, credibility and previous evaluations. rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This includes requirements prohibiting any form of child or compulsory labor, ensuring good working conditions, having control of environmental UK Modern Slavery Act impacts such as energy and water consumption, Axis has operations in the UK and is thus subject to the UK Modern Slavery Act. Axis works management of waste, chemicals and emissions actively to counteract all forms of modern slavery, child labor, forced labor and trafficking in its and having a well-functioning water purification business and imposes demands on suppliers that it should not exist in their operations. Suppliers system when required. are expected to demand that modern slavery, child labor, forced labor and trafficking do not exist in their suppliers’ operations. For information regarding how Axis works with these challenges, Other requirements also include good business see www.axis.com. ethics and responsible sourcing of minerals in order to avoid conflict minerals. In addition, suppliers should be either ISO 14001 certified or have a management system in accordance with ISO 14001. 50 Sustainability report Furthermore, Axis reviews that processes and During 2017, it was discovered that a strategic systems are in place to ensure that the operations component supplier in Malaysia seized passports are conducted in an ethical way in every respect “Axis is actively engaged in all parts from foreign workers, which is regarded as forced and that corruption does not occur. Interviews are of the value chain. Axis strives to labor by the UN. The supplier in question took the conducted with the management and employees. ensure that suppliers, distributors necessary measures during 2018. and partners shall take environChecks have been carried out at all suppliers in If it should become apparent that a supplier does mental, economic and social Malaysia except one; the checks showed that the not meet Axis requirements, then the supplier has responsibility, including working employees’ passports had not been seized. three months to implement corrective actions. for good business ethics, and that However, some work remains regarding the If the measures are not carried out after further negative impacts shall be minimized examination of employment contracts. This work discussions with Axis, then the supplier will not and risks handled at all stages in will continue during 2019. get any new business. In the next stage, the the value chain. The long-term supplier is phased out. environmental responsibility is The supplier in Thailand has been reviewed and most important for Axis to work trained during 2018. Random checks showed Positive effects from Axis audits include reduced with, because environmental issues that there was no forced labor. chemical emissions in waste water and better concern all humans. As a leading safety for the employees in their workplaces, with market player, Axis has good No collaboration with suppliers was terminated reduced risk of accidents and an improved working opportunities to influence those during the year due to suppliers failing to meet environment generally. Axis ensures that suppliers around it in sustainability matters. Axis sustainability requirements. Apart from the address and handle the environmental and We are happy to work with Axis audits, Axis conducts supplier training in order working enviroment risks, which are considered because Axis stands for responsible to inform them about the company’s values and to be significant, resulting in lower risks in these business conduct and we want requirements, including within the Axis Supplier areas. to follow and study Axis in order Academy framework. to improve our own sustainability Audits during 2018 awareness. We believe that Axis’ Supplier Academy During an audit of several different Chinese sustainability work can contribute Axis Supplier Academy is a program where Axis suppliers, it was discovered at random inspections to Axis being perceived as a great trains suppliers locally in environmental, working that some employees worked more overtime and respected company throughout environment and other sustainability matters. than permitted under Chinese law (i.e. 36 hours the world.” Yip Stanley, Executive The training program aims to increase awareness of overtime per month). However, the audited Director, Goodway Plastic about and understanding of the requirements Axis suppliers kept within the guidelines established imposes and is particularly addressed towards by the Responsible Business Alliance. Axis has the suppliers that are most critical to Axis from a demanded an action plan from the suppliers where sustainability perspective. Axis therefore performs more frequently supplier breaches of the law have occurred. reviews and training in these countries, to ensure During the year, Axis trained seven component that there are no violations of human rights. Foreign workers in Malaysia and Thailand have suppliers in China and three contract been identified as special risk groups when it manufacturers within the Supplier Academy comes to forced labor. framework. Goals and target fulfilment Axis' contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals At least 95 percent of new suppliers should be screened in respect of the environment, working conditions and human rights. During the year, all new suppliers were screened in respect of these criteria. Six suppliers, which are critical from an environmental and sustainability perspective, were to be trained in 2018. During the year, ten suppliers were trained that are critical from an environmental and sustainability perspective. Ensure that suppliers comply with the Responsible Business Alliance's requirements on working hours. Follow-up has been carried out on site at a number of suppliers in 2018 and will continue in 2019. 51 Conflict minerals Axis works systematically and proactively to ensure that the company’s products do not contain any conflict minerals, in other words gold, tantalum, tin, or tungsten that derives from areas in the world and where the sales contribute to finance armed conflicts. Conflict minerals are a very important social and During the year Axis’ largest shareholder Canon, in ethical question. Their extraction creates disputes collaboration with KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., and trading in the minerals finances armed has perform a third part audit for U.S. Securities conflicts and can result in child and compulsory and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing. The audit labor. focused on conflict mineral management process and the results of 2017. During the audit, no Axis does not accept, tolerate or engage in any non-conformities were identified. One of the sourcing activities, which may finance conflicts or conclusions was that Axis’ management of conflict involve any form of violation of human rights or minerals is very robust. One of the highlights was compulsory labor. that Axis’ conflict mineral survey also includes a periodic follow-up of those suppliers that have Documented process declared that they do not have minerals from Axis has a well-documented process for conflict sources, since suppliers may change the ensuring that the minerals used by suppliers and way they source their materials over time. subcontractors are conflict free. In accordance with Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, all first and Axis did not find any case during 2018 where second tier suppliers have undertaken to have a conflict minerals were used in the components process in place for mapping their supply chain in or the products supplied to the company. If Axis order to ensure that conflict minerals are not used. would discover that conflict minerals are used by any supplier, the supplier should provide details Suppliers must report the origin of the minerals and an action plan to end this practice. If the and describe how they are working to ensure measures are not implemented, Axis will suspend that their components and products only contain collaboration with the supplier in question. conflict-free minerals. This means that suppliers must identify and inform Axis about all smelters Guidelines and policy in the value chain that supply gold, tantalum, tin Axis follows recommendations and guidelines and tungsten. from the Responsible Business Alliance and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative regarding taking Furthermore, Axis expects all suppliers to act in social responsibility in the entire supply chain. accordance with Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, During the year, Axis updated and clarified when applicable, for an increased traceability of its conflict minerals policy and actively minerals. Suppliers must also have policies and communicated the policy to its suppliers: via measures of due diligence in place, enabling Axis training, via the Axis website and in its Supplier to ensure that the products and components Code of Conduct. supplied to Axis only contain conflict-free minerals. Suppliers are expected to report where the minerals in the products and the various components come from and any measures taken, by using the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s (RMI) reporting tool – Conﬂict Minerals Reporting Template. More than 90 percent of Axis suppliers have reported via this reporting tool, or via a corresponding tool. 52 Sustainability report Social responsibility Axis is a leading player in network video and the company’s products and solutions are helping to create a smarter and safer world. Axis should have a positive social impact and aim to be a model for the industry. The employees are found in 50 countries and Axis has a great impact on many people’s lives and wellbeing. Axis creates job opportunities and is an important employer in local markets. Axis should offer an attractive and safe workplace, defined by equality and diversity, where people are happy and feel good. Axis takes long-term social responsibility and invests in social initiatives that positively impact the company’s own operations and surroundings. Employees Axis’ view is that healthy employees do a better During the year, there was a strong focus on Axis should be an attractive workplace and have a job and that a good physical and psychosocial working towards the goal of maintaining a good safe, healthy and sustainable working environment working environment leads to greater creativity, overall psychosocial working environment for all where all employees have good opportunities to more innovation and better results for the employees. These initiatives included: develop. company. >> A 2-year training program in stress Axis offers good career development opportunities, Axis works in a strategic and proactive way on management and inspiration, which 100 competitive terms of employment in each local continually improving its working environment: people in Sweden have applied for market, and attractive job opportunities in an >> A stress management course for employees in industry with a high degree of technical innovation. >> An occupational health service and health Japan checks are offered at many offices The corporate culture is defined by an >> A new working hours policy with greater >> HR managers ensure that all offices respect flexibility in respect of working hours in entrepreneurial spirit, openness and taking of the working hours and that employees Middle Europe, in order to promote a better responsibility. This unique corporate culture with receive marked-related salaries, which work-life balance dedicated and well-qualified employees and strong follow agreements and local legislation at a leadership has contributed to Axis’ success and is >> A health initiative in the Middle East that minimum crucial for continued strong global growth and for addresses physical and mental health ensuring that Axis meets its goals. >> Regular safety and fire prevention trainings are conducted at all offices Employee surveys are conducted regularly in Recruitment occurs regularly in all markets. During >> Annual safety inspections and safety order to gain an insight into and knowledge of the year, Axis’ number of employees increased committee meetings are held in Sweden the employees’ view of the leadership and other by 388 people. The total number of employees workplace-related questions. During the year, >> All employees are offered annual career amounted to 3,253 (2,865) at year-end, of which several local employee surveys were carried development discussions and individual action 28 percent were women and 72 percent men. out, including in Middle Europe and in North plans America. Axis received very good results in the >> All managers in Sweden are offered regular areas of camaraderie, pride and wellbeing. Areas A good and safe workplace working environment training for improvement included activities related to Axis wants to be an employer where people feel happy and remain for a long time, and feel pride in >> Bike rental is offered at the office in Germany, prevent good health. their workplace and performance. to encourage people to cycle to and from the workplace 53 The ambition is to conduct the next employee do. Employees with the same values, means that colleagues and customer needs, working together survey in Sweden in 2019. irrespective of where you meet an Axis employee to reach Axis’ goals, remaining at the leading edge in the world, that you will find competence, and creating the best products and solutions. The Collective agreements and freedom to join a humility and dedication. The employees have company’s policies are also based on the core trade union considerable freedom based on responsibility, values. All employees in Sweden and 63 percent of which helps to promote innovation and creativity. the total number of employees are covered by Good career and development opportunities collective agreements. All employees have the right Axis works systematically to strengthen the Axis offers good career and training opportunities to join trade unions and to negotiate collective corporate culture as it is of critical importance as well as competitive salaries and terms of agreements, in accordance with local legislation that the employees share the company’s values. employment in order to attract and retain and what is applicable in each country. This cultural matching during recruitments is committed and skilled employees. extremely important and the recruitment process The company’s bonus program covers all Engaging corporate culture is very careful and thorough. The corporate culture employees. Salaries for all employees are reviewed Axis corporate culture, with strong values, and values are important parts of the introduction annually. represents the basis for all operations and is program for new employees, and also in other constantly present in the day-to-day work and training and employee programs, during kickThere is a strong focus on internal mobility and leadership. All employees and the board should offs, setting of salaries and career development internal career paths. observe the Code of Conduct and act according discussions. to it and take responsibility for upholding the Training and development company’s values. Clear leadership is extremely important and As a globally expanding company, Axis operates managers contribute to the culture work as a broad range of training and development The corporate culture is defined by an models and by conducting regular training and programs. These include: entrepreneurial spirit, openness and taking of having continual discussions with their teams and >> An introduction program at the headquarters responsibility, and is and has been crucial for departments. in Lund for all new employees, so that they maintaining innovation and dynamism in a rapidly learn about Axis corporate culture, core growing organization like Axis. Core values values, business strategy and gain an insight The core values Always open, Act as one and Think into the various operational areas All employees are expected to be involved, big serve as the foundation for the culture work. engaged and take responsibility for what they These values mean being open to the ideas of 54 Sustainability report >> Axis Axchange programs, various job rotation The company works actively to promote increased Local and regional initiatives programs, which aim to help employees learn diversity and equality and to fight discrimination. During the year, the Council for Social from each other and exchange ideas and At Axis, 57 languages are spoken, which reflects Responsibility worked to implement the new experience to become even more effective, the diversity among the employees’ backgrounds. social goals, which were drawn up in 2017. gain new perspectives, as well as personal and All offices work and set goals based on their local career development, including Axis’ view is that an inclusive working conditions. environment with equality and diversity in respect IP@Axis (International Projects at Axis), of background, competencies and other attributes Several initiatives were implemented during the an international exchange program where fosters innovation and dynamism as well as year in order to promote greater equality and employees get the chance to work in employee wellbeing. An even gender distribution diversity. These included: another Axis office globally during a and teams with mixed backgrounds, experience >> Recruitment training in diversity in a number limited period, as part of a project or to and knowledge contributes to a positive working of regions, including Sweden learn something specific environment and creates commercial benefits. This >> An initiative in the Middle East and Africa to is a competitive advantage, helps the employees Live my day, which means that one person ensure that 50 percent of the final candidates to feel proud about Axis and creates engagement. for a period of up to two weeks in a recruitment process are women and 50 accompanies an employee during his/her percent are men working day to gain an insight into >> Several activities and training efforts in North different kinds of work assignments and/or “We are one of the few America for increased diversity and equality offices companies in the industry (read more on page 58) that has signed the UN Global >> A conscious recruitment process in Southern Jobswap, which means that two people who have similar work but in different Compact. The work on phasing Europe to boost the proportion of women, out PVC from our products and which meant that 66 percent of the positions regions swap with each other during a fixed our culture and values-related filled in France were taken up by women period of time work is going well. This is also a >> A conscious recruitment process in North Further training and initiatives are conducted in strong competitive advantage. Asia, which resulted in a gender distribution all regions and are adapted to the needs of the I expect that we will continue of 45 percent women and 55 percent men and a local management team consisting of 40 various regions and countries. Training adapted to to deliver on our commitment percent women individual needs is also offered to employees, in and that we will be the consultation with their respective managers. first in the industry, e.g. to >> Collaboration and a workshop in Sweden with the diversity network MINE (Mentorship, completely phase out PVC from In addition, Axis operates a number of different Inspiration, Networking and Education), which the cameras. It is important training programs in order to strengthen strives for increased diversity and inclusion that we work to make more in working life, including in the recruitment leadership, such as the International Program for Leaders, a 10-month management training space for sustainability in the process program, leadership training for managers at security industry as we are >> The Axis Q Network, where female employees many offices around the world, Axis Leadership well ahead in this area.” Jens in Sweden meet to network, get inspiration Program and a mentorship program. Strinsjö, Business Development and exchange experience and ideas with other Manager, Northern Europe, Axis women outside their own department, which Non-discrimination, equality and diversity Communications. also aims to facilitate career development Axis’ starting point is that all people have equal value, which is something natural in all Axis ensures that the annual salary reviews are operational areas. Equality and diversity promote carried out in an impartial way. If Axis would All employees should have good career creativity and new thinking and also contribute to detect salary review differentials, this would development opportunities, irrespective of gender a better performance. be adjusted according to Axis processes and or background, and it should be just as easy for women and men to make a career. A work-life policies. For external initiatives and collaboration Axis has zero tolerance towards discrimination in the markets where Axis operates, see Social balance should be facilitated. and harassment. Axis does not tolerate any form responsibility and social initiatives on page 60. of discrimination or harassment whatsoever, Axis aims to ensure that employees with equal based on gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, qualifications should have the same salary for national origins, religious belief, age, civil status identical performance and responsibility. or functional impairment or due to other statutory reasons. 55 Always Act as open one Think big Employees 2018 2017 2016 Number of employees 3,253 2,865 2,646 Proportion women/men, % 28/72 27/73 26/74 Group Management 2 women, 8 men 2 women, 8 men 2 women, 8 men Board of directors 3 women, 7 men, of whom 2 2 women, 8 men, of whom 2 2 women, 8 men, of whom 2 women and 3 men are employee women and 3 men are employee women and 3 men are employee representatives (incl. 2 deputies) representatives (incl. 2 deputies) representatives (incl. 2 deputies) Employee turnover, % 6.5 9.4 8.6 Workplace accidents* 23, of which 0 fatal accidents 17, of which 0 fatal accidents 17, of which 0 fatal accidents Absence due to illness, in 3 2.9 2.5 Sweden, % Number of accidents resulting 3 1 8 in lost workdays Number of lost workdays 74 40 61 Average age 40 39 39 Employees with university n/a 79 79 education, % Note: Including the companies acquired during 2016 Citilog, 2N and Cognimatics. *The main reason for the increase in the number of accidents is accidents during travel, that is, accidents occuring going to and from the workplace, but it is also due to the fact that employees have generally become better at reporting accidents and incidents. The increase has occurred in Sweden. 56 Sustainability Hållbarhetsredovisning report 57 Goals and target fulfilment Health and safety. Maintain good overall psychosocial working environment for all employees. One health-promoting psychosocial measure per country/region during the year. Many regions have reached their goals and have focused heavily on psychosocial issues and taken action during the year to promote this goal. The work of focusing on maintaining the good psychosocial working environment will continue in 2019. Non-discrimination of employees. Zero tolerance against discrimination and harassment. All reported cases shall be handled promptly and in accordance with Axis processes and policies. During the year, two cases of sexual harassment were reported, where Axis employees were subjected to harassment at the workplace, by third parties. These cases are closed. One case of discrimination in the recruitment process was reported. This case is closed. Two further cases of discrimination were reported. The investigations are expected to be completed during 2019. In 2017, one case of sexual harassment was reported, which was handled according to Axis routines and action plans and the investigation was completed. In 2016, there was no such incidents. Ensure that the recruitment process, including advertising, doesn’t discriminate. An educational initiative during the year to raise awareness of discrimination among Axis managers globally. During year, the HR department in Sweden held a workshop on anti-discrimination. All recruitment training at the headquarters in Lund includes how to fight discrimination in the recruitment process. HR departments throughout the world continually review recruitment strategies and adverts to ensure that they are inclusive, encourage diversity and do not discriminate. For example in Middle Europe, training was also conducted to ensure that recruitment adverts do not discriminate, and training to combat prejudice was carried out in the US. Equality and diversity. Aim for a more balanced gender distribution in all teams and functions within Axis. Ensure that the recruitment process, including advertising, contributes to increased diversity. A number of activities were conducted at both a local and regional level, which are described above and in the text. Axis' contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals 58 Sustainability report Leading the way toward increased diversity and inclusion During 2018, Axis North America launched a comprehensive Diversity and Inclusion Program which includes a dedicated committee, employee training, a Women in Security Summit and a collaboration with the Security Industry Association (SIA). In January 2018, Axis North America convened Security Industry Associations' forum for its annual kick-off meeting which included On March 8, 2018, International Women’s Day, a diversity and inclusion workshop. All North the Security Industry Association announced the American employees participated in the workshop. establishment of its Women in Security Forum. The The activities and dialogue generated during the forum’s goal is to encourage the participation of event resulted in the formation of a Diversity and women in the security industry through programs, Inclusion Committee as well as a concrete action professional development and networking events plan that was implemented during the year. and is chaired by a committee, including Ms. Palome. “While the Axis culture is inherently welcoming and inclusive, it’s important for us to always “We are pleased to take part in this joint initiative evaluate and improve upon ourselves. With our with SIA. Their forum creates great opportunity Diversity and Inclusion Program we have increased for women in the security industry and offers awareness and put a solid plan in place,” said everyone a chance for open discussion,” said Elaine Palome, Director of Human Resources, Palome. North America, Axis Communications. Scholarships, leadership programs and other The Women in Security Summit initiatives Axis’ first ever Women in Security Summit Furthermore, Axis North America has established was another initiative inspired by the kickan Axis Communications Academy scholarship off workshop. The goal of the summit was to program for women. The goal is to encourage recognize and support women in the industry, more women to apply for training programs, to put a spotlight on their challenges, spark certifications and advancement in the field. discussions about equality and explore future In addition, Axis North America is in the process opportunities. All Axis employees — women and of developing a leadership program for women men alike — were invited to participate, and more through a partnership with the Security Industry than 100 employees attended. As a result of its Association. Axis North America is also focused success, the event will be held on an annual basis on improving its recruitment efforts — posting and will be open to employees, partners and job openings on diversity-related websites and customers. engaging with professional women’s groups. “We are thrilled with the participation and excitement generated during this summit and look forward to future events,” said Elaine Palome. 59 “Axis has always been at the forefront of innovation in the security industry, so I’m excited that we’re taking the lead when it comes to diversity. It takes continued efforts to move the needle, but I believe we’re taking the right steps to make a difference,” said Elaine Palome. 60 Sustainability report Social responsibility and social initiatives Axis’ social responsibility includes being a good corporate citizen. Axis contributes through training initiatives and United States collaboration with schools, sponsorship of sports associations, Several Axis offices in North America collected funds non-profit environmental initiatives and gives donations to for the cancer association Relay for Life by selling and works for charitable organizations. shirts, and sponsored dresses for girls so that they can go to their senior high school dance, which the girls would otherwise have not been able to afford. Axis also Taking social responsibility and having a social In the UK, Axis participated in the Big Bang Fair contributed to the non-profit organization Mission commitment are an important part of Axis’ South East, with the aim of attracting young 500, which helps poor children. Axis employees also sustainability strategy. Training initiatives, people to work with technology, science and assisted needy families in Puerto Rico, who were charitable initiatives, sponsorship and mathematics. affected by the hurricane Maria. collaboration are usually initiated and conducted at a local level. This contributes to the local Diversity initiative and integration of new community and also benefits Axis and the arrivals in Sweden company’s employees. Axis collaborates with Foo Café, where new arrivals can learn to code, and contributed in Cooperation with schools terms of computers. Axis is also involved in Axis collaborates with schools, colleges and MatchIT, a collaboration between Lund University universities and offers internships for thesis work and the research village Ideon for training and and also contributes to research projects at Lund work experience for new arrivals, and Hackademy, University. Axis employees provide instruction at a development project where new arrivals receive schools in order to inspire and explain how it is to training both in programming and in the “soft work as an engineer and about technology. values” around how the Swedish society operates. Increase interest in technology In addition, Axis participates in Copenhagen Axis is working to increase interest in technology Capacity, an initiative aimed at attracting among girls and is involved in Sweden for personnel outside of the region’s borders, which example in Her tech future, Introducing girls contributes to the diversity of companies in the to engineering, Female Engineering Day, Copenhagen region, including Lund. Datatjej, Female Engineering Network and Pink Programming, which aims to train women in how Social initiatives to code. Some examples follow of Axis’ commitment and social initiatives around the world. 61 Czech Republic Initiatives carried out in the Czech Republic during the year included participation in TeriBear, a sports event where funds were collected for the needy. Through a run, Axis employees collected funds for children so that they have the means to study at university. In Engagement Days, Axis volunteers assisted by working at Mental Institute Bohnice and Axis sponsored a book for blind children. South Africa Axis donated network cameras to the charitable organization Give a Child a Family, which mainly works in KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, but also in several other countries in east and southern Africa. Give a Child a Family works to ensure that children are protected, feel good and develop and they also manage a children’s home in South Africa. The children’s home needed help with monitoring of a playground, nursery room, kitchen, dining area and several other environments, in order to ensure that the children could have a safe environment. Axis network cameras are helping to provide increased security. Tanzania An initiative for improved education for girls is being conducted in Tanzania, where Axis has assisted Hekima school for several years. Axis contributes IT equipment, trains teachers and works to ensure that the IT infrastructure and IT support are working. This improves the quality of the education for the girls in the school. Sweden Axis contributes financially to Musikhjälpen, which collects money for various disasters and for aid and assistance projects, and also supports non-profit organizations such as the Swedish Cancer Society. Axis sponsors sports associations, sporting and cultural events such as the Lundaloppet run and various educational initiatives. Through Svenska Kunskapsförlaget, Axis sponsors educational materials relating to science and the environment for grade 4-6 pupils in Lund. The Netherlands In Nuenen in the southwest of the Netherlands, Axis donated used network cameras to Nuenen kijkjesamen, which works to involve older people in the day-to-day social life. The cameras contribute to increased social participation for older persons, as Axis supplies streamed video from local events to people at home. Thanks to Axis cameras, the elderly and other persons that are not so mobile can watch sporting events, parades and other events that take place in their neighborhood. In this way, they can participate in the local social life even if they cannot see the different events in person and have a sense of social participation which contributes to a higher quality of life. Singapore The charitable organization Foodbank takes care of surplus food, mainly from companies such as hotels and restaurants and donates the food to the needy via other non-profit organizations. Axis employees participated in Foodbanks’ work by helping to pack the Axis' contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals food. 62 Sustainability notes Sustainability notes About Axis' Sustainability report This sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards Core option. The sustainability report also constitutes Axis’ Communication on Progress report to UN Global Compact and describes how Axis works with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles within human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Axis has produced sustainability reports according The sustainability report contains the economic, to GRI’s (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines business ethics, environmental and social topics, since 2010. which are most important for Axis and the company’s stakeholders and where the impacts are The report has been drawn up in accordance greatest, the topics’ boundaries and a description with GRI’s reporting principles about inclusion of of the Management Approach. stakeholders, sustainability context, materiality and to provide a complete view of Axis’ economic, The sustainability report covers the 2018 fiscal environmental and social impacts during the year. The entire group is covered, including wholly period. owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated. The sustainability report is not externally audited. Axis publishes its sustainability report annually. The date of the most recent sustainability report is March 27, 2018. 63 Governance and organization of the sustainability work The sustainability work and strategy are based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Axis signed the UN Global Compact in 2007 and its principles have provided guidance for how Axis conducts its sustainability work ever since. Axis follows all applicable national and The group is composed of representatives from international laws and guidelines such as the the following functions: Human Resources, Sales, Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Axis has Quality and environment and Communication. a number of company-wide policies, including The sustainability project group is led by the a code of conduct, which all employees and the Corporate Communications Manager. board shall follow. Axis’ Code of Conduct defines the values and guidelines upon which Axis Environmental council conducts its business. For more information about Axis’ Environmental Council works with the guidelines and rules upon which Axis conducts environmental questions and initiates projects its operations, see Responsible business conduct aimed at minimizing Axis’ environmental impacts on page 30. and integrating environmental topics into the product development process. The Environmental The group management ensures that business Council is composed of representatives from in the group is conducted according to good the following functions: R&D, Global sales, business practice and in accordance with the Code Communication, Quality and environment, of Conduct, existing policies and management Operations and Product management, and systems. representatives from the group management. The sustainability work between companies and Social responsibility council departments in the group is coordinated by the The social responsibility council drives Environmental Council and the Council for Social sustainability efforts in the social responsibility Responsibility together with the Sustainability area. It sets goals, is responsible for following Project Group. up targets, has an advisory and decision-making role and also promotes cooperation between The steering group for sustainability has overall various departments on questions such as working responsibility for the sustainability strategy and environment, diversity, anti-corruption and the sustainability work, in dialogue with the sponsorship, etc. board. The functions included in the council are The sustainability organization representatives from the group management, Sustainability steering group Global sales, Human Resources, R&D, The sustainability steering group has overall Communication and Legal. responsibility for sustainability matters. This includes monitoring that Axis’ Code of Conduct Health and Safety committees and other policies are implemented in the Axis has two health and safety committees in organization as well as monitoring and follow-up Sweden. One safety committee is composed of of the work and activities conducted. The the managers of each CLC (Configuration and sustainability steering group is mainly composed Logistics Center), a safety representative and a of representatives from Axis group management, representative from Human Resources. The other including the President. safety committee is composed of representatives from Facilities, Human Resources and a safety Sustainability project group representative. The sustainability project group is responsible for the development of sustainability initiatives and activities in various areas and has operational responsibility for the sustainability reporting. 64 Sustainability notes UN Sustainable Development Goals Axis supports Agenda 2030 and the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals and is striving to contribute to these goals. See what goals Axis actively contributes to the most, below. Goal 1: No poverty Axis participates, among other things, in projects to develop local forestry and tree cultivation and contributes to improving living conditions for small farmers. (Targets: 1.1, 1.5) Goal 3: Good health and well-being Axis smart surveillance solutions can handle traffic flows and improve traffic safety, send alarms in emergency situations and detect accidents faster. Axis strives to be a workplace where people feel good and are happy, with a good physical and psychosocial working environment and occupational healthcare at many offices globally. Axis is phasing out hazardous material such as PVC from its products, is working proactively to reduce carbon emissions from the company’s own operations and is imposing equivalent demands on its suppliers. (Targets: 3.6, 3.8, 3.9) Goal 4: Quality education Axis promotes initiatives for access to technical education for young people and to raise the status of women in technology in society and to get more women to work in IT and technology. (Targets: 4.4, 4.5) Goal 5: Gender equality Active work is being carried out to promote increased equality and diversity and Axis does not tolerate any form of discrimination whatsoever. Employees with equal qualifications should have the same salary for identical performance and responsibility and Axis conducts salary surveys in Sweden and the US. Axis has, among other things, a conscious recruitment process to increase the proportion of women, and a network for female employees in Sweden. (Targets: 5.1, 5.5) Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation Activities have been initiated with the aim of reducing and streamlining water use. (Target: 6.4) Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy Axis is working to streamline the energy consumption in its own operations. Some of the technologies developed by Axis, help to reduce the energy consumption in the product use phase. (Target: 7.3) Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth All manufacturing, distribution and sales of the products shall occur in a sustainable way. During manufacturing of products, environmental impacts shall be minimized and working conditions and working environments shall be good. No form of slavery, child and compulsory labor or trafficking shall exist in suppliers’ businesses or at their suppliers. Axis has good working conditions and competitive terms of employment with the freedom to join a trade union and the right to collective bargaining, and works to counteract all types of discrimination in the workplace and during recruitments. (Targets: 8.4, 8.5, 8.7, 8.8) Goal 10: Reduced inequalities As a part of Axis’ work to counter discrimination and promote increased diversity and equality, Axis, among other things, has adopted a targeted program for diversity and inclusion in the US and participates in external initiatives for diversity and inclusion in working life. The non-discrimination requirement is included in both Axis’ Code of Conduct and in the Suppler Code of Conduct. (Targets: 10.2, 10.3) 65 Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities Axis smart solutions contribute to increased security in cities and communities, safer public transport, improved traffic monitoring, prevention of traffic incidents and protection of critical infrastructure. (Target: 11.2) Goal 12: Responsible production and consumption Systematic work is conducted to ensure that product development, material choice, material origin, components and packaging shall meet quality and functionality requirements, while minimizing environmental impacts and use of natural resources. Axis is working, among other ways, to use recycled materials and streamline energy consumption in its own operations and in the products and a precautionary approach is applied. About 95 percent of the material in Axis products is recyclable or combustible. Axis provides information on an annual basis about its sustainability work as part of its annual report and annual review. (Targets: 12.2, 12.4, 12.6) Goal 13: Climate action Reducing the company’s carbon footprint is a priority and Axis also imposes demands on its suppliers to reduce their carbon emissions. Axis reviews and streamlines its logistics chain, implements measures to improve energy efficiency, trains employees, uses carbon offsets for business trips by air, etc. Axis has adopted new environmental goals for clearer control and follow-up. (Target: 13.1) Goal 14: Life below water Axis imposes requirements and follows up that suppliers prevent emissions into land, air and water. (Target: 14.1) Goal 15: Life on land Axis uses carbon offsets for business trips by air, in projects aimed at developing forestry at a local level. This improves farming, increases forested areas, reduces deforestation and improves living conditions for families. Biological diversity is safeguarded, vulnerability to extreme weather conditions and soil erosion is reduced and the land is protected. (Target: 15.2) Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Axis has zero tolerance against all types of bribery and other forms of corruption and works to identify and manage risks and conducts training efforts to fight corruption in its own operations and in its relationships with suppliers, distributors and partners. Employees participate in training recurrently. (Target: 16.5) Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals Axis collaborates with its suppliers, distributors and other partners in order to ensure transparency, responsible business contact and sustainable action in the entire value chain. Axis signed the UN’s Global Compact 2007 and works according to its ten principles in the company’s sustainability work. Axis participates in industry initiatives for collaboration, dialogue and to promote sustainability issues in the industry. (Target: 17.16) 66 Sustainability notes -TERM RE LONG SPO E S NS K TA I s Di ee st Y AX oy & paribut LIT IS pl rtn o BI Em me ntal responsibil ity e rs s on r vir ic En Axis on om S u p p li e r s E Ec core values: custon ders Respo responsibility Act as one. e sin m Always open. n sible b u Think big. ss on it c du bil y ct si spon So S ocial re cie r s ty ne Ow Stakeholder dialogue Axis conducts a continual dialogue with its stakeholders in order to increase understanding of what is important for them, to find out what expectations stakeholders have of the company’s sustainability work and what questions they think are most important for Axis to focus on from a sustainability perspective. These dialogues help Axis to work with the topics that create most value and to continually improve its sustainability efforts and develop in the right way. Axis takes a long-term responsibility for how its The stakeholders have been defined for a long stakeholder groups, and in this way confirmed operations affect employees, distributors and time and are reviewed every year before the what topics are important for the stakeholders. partners, end customers, suppliers and owners stakeholder dialogues take place. Cooperation This provided Axis with valuable input for the as well as trade associations and the local is of the greatest importance. company’s materiality analysis. community in the markets where the company Axis’ impact on its stakeholders occurs Axis is a member of trade associations, operates. Axis aims to conduct a regular and both indirectly and directly; economically, including the Security Industry in Sweden, open dialogue with its stakeholders. environmentally and socially. SIA (Security Industry Association) in the US, The stakeholder dialogues provide Axis BHE Bundesverband Sicherheitstechnik e.V. During 2018, Axis’ Sustainability Project Group with information about what economic, in Germany, ASIS International, the Security held an internal workshop to evaluate and environmental and social topics are most Institute in the UK and ONVIF, which are plan the dialogue with the various stakeholder important for the company’s different good platforms for conducting dialogue, groups. stakeholder groups and what expectations the collaborating and discussing important stakeholders have of Axis. As a basis for the stakeholder dialogues questions for the industry. during the year, Axis drew on the stakeholder Axis is working to implement improvements See the table Stakeholder Dialogue for more dialogues, which were conducted in previous in the areas prioritized by its stakeholders information about the dialogue with each years, including web surveys that Axis carried and where there is the greatest impact, in stakeholder group and the key topics for each out with all stakeholders during 2016-2017. order to create value and meet stakeholder stakeholder group. The web surveys dealt with what expectations expectations, for long-term sustainable the stakeholders have of Axis’ sustainability entrepreneurship. work and what sustainability topics are most Stakeholders are the groups that affect Axis relevant for them. decisions, strategies and the possibility of Axis also conducted in-depth interviews reaching its goals and that impact the company during the year with representatives of the economically, environmentally and socially. 67 Stakeholder dialogue 2018 Stakeholder Dialogue Key topics group Employees Web survey with all employees in 2016-2017, local >> Occupational health and safety employee surveys, personal development reviews, >> Equality and diversity dialogue with trade unions, internal training, in-depth >> Non-discrimination of employees interviews about Axis’ sustainability work, Intranet, >> Child labor and compulsory labor meetings, etc. >> Suppliers’ environmental impact >> IT security >> Products' environmental impact >> Customer satisfaction >> Social responsibility Distributors and Web-based survey with distributors and partners in >> Customer satisfaction partners all regions where Axis has operations (2017), training, >> Market presence webinars, workshops, meetings, trade exhibitions, >> Protection of customer privacy in-depth interview about Axis’ sustainability work, >> IT security social media channels, Axis website, newsletters, etc. >> Anti-corruption >> Child labor and compulsory labor >> Environmental impact from products and production End customers Surveys in connection with support cases, social >> Energy consumption in the products media channels, continuous evaluations, newsletters. >> Non-discrimination of employees >> Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions >> Personal integrity among users of Axis products >> IT security Suppliers In-depth interview about Axis’ sustainability work, >> Environmental impacts, human rights and labor law training, webinars, Axis website, supplier audits. and labor conditions in the supply chain >> Child labor and compulsory labor >> Customer satisfaction >> Anti-corruption >> Compliance with laws and regulations Owners Meetings, board meetings, interim reports, annual >> Customer satisfaction and sustainability report, annual general meeting, >> Compliance with laws and regulations in-depth interviews about Axis’ sustainability work. >> Products' environmental impact >> Energy consumption in products >> Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions >> Energy consumption in own operations >> Social responsibility Society In-depth interview about Axis' sustainability work with >> Anti-corruption and ethics trade association, trade exhibitions, membership of >> Personal integrity and collaboration with local and international trade >> Standards associations, social media channels, Axis website, >> IT security collaboration with universities, exhibitions and other >> Environmental impact from products regarding product activities for students. development and production >> Equality >> Compliance with laws and regulations 68 Sustainability notes Materiality analysis The materiality analysis is validated every year and is based on the outcome of the dialogues with the stakeholders. The materiality analysis shows the most important topics for Axis stakeholders and for the company, and which have the greatest economic, environmental and social impact. The results from the stakeholder dialogues for a long-term sustainable development. Axis The materiality analysis was conducted by have been analyzed and weighed up against also describes other areas in the sustainability the Sustainability Project Group and was then the topics that are most important for Axis report, which are of importance for the discussed in the Sustainability Steering Group, and where Axis’ economic, environmental and operations. For Axis, as a matter of course it which is mainly composed of representatives social impact is greatest. is a minimum requirement to comply with from Axis group management. applicable laws and regulations. Here the focus lies on the company’s The materiality analysis is validated every year. sustainability efforts and forms the basis for The starting point for highlighting important Axis’ sustainability work is divided into the company’s sustainability reporting. topics is based on rules such as GRI Standards, the following the focus areas: economic the UN’s Global Compact, external trends responsibility, responsible business conduct, The materiality analysis also reflects what is and challenges as well as Axis strategy, risks environmental responsibility and social most important in order for Axis to maintain and goals and Axis’ contribution to the UN responsibility. strong competitiveness and profitable growth, Sustainable Development Goals. Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility Strong economic profitability is a requirement for The material topics are: long-term sustainability efforts and is not treated >> Materials as a material topic in the materiality analysis. Tax is >> Energy an important part of Axis taking responsibility and -Energy consumption in own operations contributes to the development of the countries where -Energy consumption in the products Axis has operations. Axis pays tax in accordance with >> Carbon footprint applicable laws and regulations. >> Environmental impact in the supply chain Responsible business conduct Social responsibility The material topics are: The material topics are: >> Anti-corruption >> Equality and diversity >> IT security >> Non-discrimination of employees >> Customer privacy >> Occupational health and safety >> Personal integrity among users of Axis products >> Human rights and working conditions in the >> Customer satisfaction supply chain 69 70 Sustainability notes Environmental data Definitions Material free from brominated and chlorinated flame retardants Halogen-free material is defined as material that does not contain brominated or chlorinated flame retardants (BFR and CFR). Axis has now chosen to use the terminology BFR/CFR-free products, as these substances are in focus. This means that so-called homogeneous material in all parts (excl. printed circuit boards) contains <1,000 ppm of bromine if the bromine source is from brominated flame retardants and <1,000 ppm of chlorine if the chlorine source is from chlorinated flame retardants. All printed circuit boards meet the following threshold values for homogeneous material: bromine <900 ppm and chlorine <900 ppm or in total (bromine and chlorine) <1,500 ppm. Governance Legislation and guidelines Axis complies with applicable legislation and rules, such as the EU’s RoHS directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and the EU’s REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of Chemicals). Axis also applies the precautionary principle, for example when it comes to choice of material. In addition, Axis limits the use of other substances, such as phthalates and beryllium. The list of substances where use should be restricted is updated regularly and was updated during the year. Environmental policy Axis’ environmental policy prescribes that Axis shall minimize environmental impacts throughout its product and solution life cycles and along the entire value chain. Axis shall be an industry leader when it comes to promoting an environmentally sustainable development. Green Design Evaluation Form The Green Design Evaluation Form is Axis’ scorecard for evaluation of the products’ environmental impact. The aim is to establish even clearer goals, requirements and guidelines in Axis’ product specifications. The scorecard makes it easier to evaluate different aspects, for example, use of recycled material, optimization of product weight and volume and reduced material waste. The scorecard is used in all development projects. In this way, environmental considerations are integrated in an even better way into the product development process. Greensoft Greensoft makes it possible for Axis to more systematically collect and validate data relating to product content. Axis thereby gains a better overview of the content in various materials, which helps to increase the use of materials, which have lesser environmental impacts. 71 Ton CO2e per activity 43 Paper 31 30 4,019 Premises 3,854 3,141 951 Leased vehicles 952 688 16,521 Inbound deliveries 15,236 8,947 4,443 Business travel 3,476 2018 2,987 2017 10,717 2016 Outbound deliveries 11,505 10,225 Ton CO2e 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 72 Sustainability notes Social data Definitions Employees Permanent employees and fixed term employees for at least six months. Employees are expressed as head counts as of December 31, 2018. Citilog, 2N and Cognimatics, which were acquired in 2016, are included in the statistics for 2016, 2017 and 2018. Permanent employees Permanent employees are expressed as head counts as of December 31, 2018. Substitutes who replace e.g. persons that are on parental leave or on a leave of absence are not included. Part-time employees Only part-time employees in Sweden are included in the statistics. Summer substitutes, hourly-paid employees and substitutes are excluded. Employees who are not employed by Axis (contracted) These account for a small proportion of the overall workforce and consist of consultants, primarily within research and development, among others. Absence due to illness Permanent employees and fixed term employees for at least six months are included. Injuries Work-related injuries. Minor injuries, which can be remedied solely with first aid are not included. Data collection All data is collected in a global system and is compiled centrally. Governance Policies and Code of Conduct Axis values and view of how employees should act are laid down in the company’s Code of Conduct. Other policies followed by all employees, managers and the board include the anti-corruption policy, the working environment policy, the alcohol and drugs policy, the policy against harassment, the diversity policy and the policy for security during trips, where Axis collaborates with International SOS/Control Risks. There are also local policies. The policies clearly lay down the responsibilities of each person. 73 Employees The total number of employees amounted to 3,253 (2,865) as of December 31, 2018. 2018 2017 Type of employment Men Women Total Men Women Total per region and gender EMEA Full time 73% 25% 98% 74% 24% 98% Part time 0.6% 1.2% 2% 1% 1% 2% APAC Full time 61% 39% 100% 59% 41% 100% Part time 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Americas Full time 72% 28% 100% 72% 28% 100% Part time 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Axis total Full time 72% 27% 99% 73% 26% 99% Part time 0.4% 0.9% 1% 0.6% 0.7% 1% Note: Data for 2016 is not available. Gender and age distribution (%) Board of directors Management Employees Gender Women 30% (3 women, of which 2 are employee representatives) 20% 28% distribution Men 70% (7 men, of which 3 are employee representatives) 80% 72% 2018 Age Under 30 years 0% 0% 14% 30-50 years 30% (including employee representatives) 40% 72% distribution Over 50 years 70% (including employee representatives) 60% 14% Gender Women 20% (2 women, both employee representatives) 20% 27% distribution Men 80% (8 men, of which 3 are employee representatives) 80% 73% 2017 Age Under 30 years 0% 0% 15% 30-50 years 30% (including employee representatives) 40% 70% distribution Over 50 years 70% (including employee representatives) 60% 15% Gender Women 20% (2 women, both employee representatives) 20% 27% distribution Men 80% (8 men, of which 3 are employee representatives) 80% 73% 2016 Age Under 30 years 0% 0% 16% 30-50 years 50% (including employee representatives) 60% 73% distribution Over 50 years 50% (including employee representatives) 40% 11% Note: In 2017 and 2018, two deputies (one woman and one man) for the employee representatives were included in the numbers for the board of directors. In 2016, two deputies (two men) for the employee representatives were included in the numbers for the board of directors. 74 Sustainability notes GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page UN Global Compact Omissions Standard Number Title number(s) Principles GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization Cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4, 16-17 102-3 Location of headquarters Cover 102-4 Location of operations 4-5, 14-15 102-5 Ownership and legal form 84 102-6 Markets served 4-5, 14-15 102-7 Scale of the organization 4-5, 78 102-8 Further data not available. Axis is in the process of implementing a new Information on employees and other workers 55, 72-73 global IT system with the ambition that further information will be available in the future 102-9 Supply chain 26-27, 48-51 10 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply 48-50, 84 chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 65, 70 7 102-12 External initiatives 25, 30, 63 102-13 Membership of associations 66 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-7 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 18-21 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 30, 32-33, 63 1,2 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 63, 84 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 67 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 53 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 66-67 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 66-67 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 66-68 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements www.axis.com/sv-se/about-axis/the-axis-group 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 26-27, 68 102-47 List of material topics 68 102-48 Restatements of information 44 102-49 Changes in reporting 27 102-50 Reporting period 62 102-51 Date of most recent report 62 102-52 Reporting cycle 62 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 89 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Stan62 dards 102-55 GRI content index 74-75 102-56 External assurance 62 The UN Global Compact Ten Principles Principle HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENTAL Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 75 GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page UN Global Compact Omissions Standard Number Title Number(s) Principles Material topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 32-33 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 32-33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32-33 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 32-33 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 33 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series MATERIAL 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 42 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 42, 47, 70 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42, 47, 70 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 42 ENERGY 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 42-43 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 42-43, 47, 70 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42-43, 47, 70 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 43, 47 302-3 Energy intensity 43, 47 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 43, 47 EMISSIONS 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 43-46 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 43-47, 70 103-3 Utvärdering av hållbarhetsstyrning 43-47, 70-71 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 43-45, 47, 71 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 43, 47 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 43, 45-47, 71 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 43, 47, 71 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 43-47, 71 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 48-51 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 48-51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50-51 GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 50 Environmental Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 49-51 2016 GRI 400 Social Standards Series OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 52-53 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 52-53, 57, 72 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55, 57 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 55, 57 Further data not available. Health and Safety 2016 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 1, 2, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 54 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 54-59, 72 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 54-57 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 55, 73 Opportunity 2016 NON-DISCRIMINATION 1, 2, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 54 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 54-57, 72 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 57 GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 57 Non-discrimination 2016 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 48-51 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 48-51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50-51 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 50 Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 49-51 CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 34-35 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 34-35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 35 Privacy 2016 customer data IT SECURITY 1,2 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 34 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 PERSONAL INTEGRITY AMONG USERS OF AXIS PRODUCTS 1, 2 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 36 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 27, 38 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38-39 76 Financial summary Financial summary 2018 2018 was yet another successful year for Axis. Despite many challenges such as trade restrictions and a global component shortage, the currency-adjusted growth amounted to 17 percent combined with continued strong profitability. The core offerings within network video grew faster than the 5-10 percent global market growth estimated by market analysts. On top of that, sales of new innovative camera concepts and complementary products grew even faster and made a significant contribution to the overall growth. All in all, based on its high innovation rate, Axis has managed to take a new step forward as its core product offerings develop gradually. Net sales amounted to SEK 10,278 M (8,603), The group’s operating profit during 2018 During 2018, 17.6 percent (18.2) of sales were which corresponds to growth of 19 percent yearamounted to SEK 1,349 M (1,014), which is invested in R&D within both software and on-year. Foreign currency effects impacted sales equivalent to an operating margin of 13.1 percent hardware. R&D expenditure increased by positively by SEK 225 M. The Video category, (11.8). Gross margin amounted to 52.2 percent SEK 229 M (253) compared to the previous year representing 93 percent of total sales, increased (51.8). Operating expenses rose by SEK 625 M, and amounted to SEK 1,715 M (1,486). by 18 percent from SEK 8,075 M to SEK 9,537 M, corresponding to an increase of 18 percent, The strong EBIT combined with well-managed while Other sales increased to SEK 740 M. due to continued investments in expanding the working capital generated cash flow from business. In 2018, corporate tax amounted to SEK Net sales in the EMEA region amounted to SEK operating activities of SEK 1,124 M (1,364). Due 331 M. 3,518 M (3,087) during 2018, corresponding to to the global component shortage, inventory growth of 14 percent. Growth was 8 percent in Axis’ global team of employees grew by more levels heading into 2018 were relatively low. local currencies. than one person per day. The 3,000-employee During the year, the total inventory increased mark was passed, and at year-end there were Net sales in the Americas region amounted to from SEK 803 M to SEK 1,493 M. Total 3,253 employees. SEK 5,581 M (4,495) during 2018, corresponding investments amounted to SEK 521 M (624), to growth of 24 percent. Growth was 23 percent The expansion of the sales organization of which SEK 64 M (79) were recognized as in local currencies. continued and during 2018, Axis opened a new capitalized product development. The main part R&D center in Linköping, Sweden, complementing of the remainder related to investments in the Net sales in the APAC region amounted to SEK the main R&D hub at Axis headquarters and the new headquarters building in Lund. With liquid 1,178 M (1,020) during 2018, corresponding to smaller R&D facilities in Prague and Shanghai. assets of SEK 2,036 M, Axis is well-equipped for growth of 16 percent. Growth was 14 percent in future investments to drive continued growth. local currencies. 77 The financial information presented in this report is consolidated financial information for the entire group, and has been approved by the Board of Axis AB. 78 Financial summary Consolidated comprehensive income SEK M 2018 2017 Net sales 10,277.7 8,602.6 Cost of goods and services sold -4,916.0 -4,143.8 Gross profit 5,361.7 4,458.8 Other income and changes of value -19.3 -59.7 Selling and marketing expenses -1,832.4 -1,547.1 Administrative expenses -445.4 -351.7 Research and development expenses -1,715.3 -1,486.4 Operating profit 1,349.3 1,013.9 Financial items net -0.5 -2.9 Profit before tax 1,348.8 1,011.0 Income tax -331.2 -275.2 Net profit for the period 1,017.6 735.8 Other comprehensive income Items that later could be transferred to the income statement Exchange differences -34.9 51.3 Other comprehensive income for the period, net after tax -34.9 51.3 Total comprehensive income for the period 982.7 787.1 Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Non-current assets 1,913.1 1,562.1 Inventories 1,492.9 803.3 Trade receivables 561.5 780.7 Other receivables 319.6 239.2 Current investments 89.3 93.2 Cash and cash equivalents 2,035.5 1,533.5 Total 6,411.9 5,012.0 Equity 3,958.1 3,075.5 Non-current liabilities 325.2 357.7 Trade payables 905.3 633.2 Other current liabilities 1,223.3 945.6 Total 6,411.9 5,012.0 79 Consolidated cash flow statement SEK M 2018 2017 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 1,098.3 983.7 Change in working capital 25.5 380.3 Cash flow from operating activities 1,123.8 1,364.0 Cash flow from investing activities -520.5 -623.7 Cash flow from financing activities -101.3 -65.1 Cash flow for the period 502.0 675.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 1,533.5 858.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 2,035.5 1,533.5 Operating profit SEK M % 1 600 20 18 1 400 16 1 200 14 1 000 12 800 10 8 600 6 400 4 200 2 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating profit, SEK M Operating margin, % 80 Financial summary Net sales SEK M % 12000 30 10000 25 8 000 20 6 000 15 4 000 10 2 000 5 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net sales, SEK M Net sales growth, % Cash flow SEK M 1 400 1 200 1 000 800 600 400 200 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Cash flow from operating activities, SEK M 81 Employees SEK M Number of employees 4,0 3 500 3,5 3 000 3,0 2 500 2,5 2 000 2,0 1 500 1,5 1 000 1,0 500 0,5 0,0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sales per employee, SEK M Operating profit per employee, SEK M Number of employees (average for the period) Equity/assets ratio % 80,00 60,00 40,00 20,00 0,00 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 82 Financial summary Equity % 100,0 80,0 60,0 40,0 20,0 0,0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Return on capital employed, % Return on equity, % 83 Multi-year summary INCOME STATEMENT (SEK M) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net sales 5,449.7 6,634.7 7,385.7 8,602.6 10,277.7 Cost of goods and services sold -2,627.7 -3,262.2 -3,678.9 -4,143.8 -4,916.0 Gross profit 2,822.0 3,372.5 3,706.8 4,458.8 5,361.7 Other income and changes in value -1.6 -32.6 63.5 -59.7 -19.3 Selling and marketing expenses -1,019.6 -1,180.8 -1,353.0 -1,547.1 -1,832.4 Administrative expenses -226.7 -292.2 -298.9 -351.7 -445.4 Research and development expenses -858.7 -985.7 -1,233.4 -1,486.4 -1,715.3 Operating profit 715.4 881.2 885.0 1,013.9 1,349.3 Net financial items -1.5 -0.7 -0.8 -2.9 -0.5 Profit after financial items 713.9 880.5 884.2 1,011.0 1,348.8 Tax on net profit -174.6 -228.4 -245.5 -275.2 -331.2 Net profit for the period 539.3 652.1 638.7 735.8 1,017.6 BALANCE SHEET (SEK M) Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Non-current assets 338.3 452.9 1,167.9 1,562.1 1,913.1 Inventories 722.3 1,022.2 1,106.5 803.3 1,492.9 Trade receivables 636.5 423.0 656.5 780.7 561.5 Other receivables 95.0 124.4 220.1 239.2 319.6 Current investments 0.0 0.0 0.0 93.2 89.3 Cash and cash equivalents 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 1,533.5 2,035.5 Total 2,206.7 3,038.3 4,009.4 5,012.0 6,411.9 Equity 1,097.1 1,741.5 2,352.3 3,075.5 3,958.1 Non-current liabilities 187.4 282.2 391.0 357.7 325.2 Current liabilities 922.2 1,014.6 1,266.1 1,578.9 2,128.6 Total 2,206.7 3,038.3 4,009.4 5,012.0 6,411.9 CASH FLOW STATEMENT (SEK M) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 689.2 860.1 772.1 983.7 1,098.3 Change in working capital -88.7 -56.9 -50.7 380.3 25.5 Cash flow from operating activities 600.5 803.2 721.4 1,364.0 1,123.8 Cash flow from investing activities -141.6 -180.5 -831.6 -623.7 -520.5 Cash flow from financing activities -382.0 -21.5 -47.2 -65.1 -101.3 Cash flow for the period 76.9 601.2 -157.4 675.2 502.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 337.7 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 1,533.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 1,533.5 2,035.5 OPERATING CASH FLOW (SEK M) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Profit after financial items 713.9 880.5 884.2 1,011.0 1,348.8 Depriciation 72.1 103.6 135.8 175.9 198.6 Tax -103.8 -191.5 -209.4 -273.0 -410.6 Total 682.2 792.6 810.6 913.9 1,136.8 Change in working capital -88.7 -56.9 -50.7 380.3 25.5 Net investments -141.6 -180.5 -831.6 -623.7 -520.5 Operating cash flow 451.9 555.2 -71.7 670.5 641.8 84 Corporate governance Corporate governance Axis is a Swedish corporation with its registered office in Lund, Sweden. Board of directors Canon Inc. is the majority shareholder. In October 2018, after having During the period between AGMs, the board of directors of Axis received control of more than 90 percent of the shares in Axis AB, constitutes the highest decision-making body in the company. The duties Canon Inc. requested compulsory acquisition of the outstanding shares of the board are governed by the Swedish Companies Act and by the from the remaining shareholders. articles of association. In November 2018, Axis was delisted from Nasdaq Stockholm. Axis will The President & CEO and Group Management continue to operate as an independent company within the Canon Group. Axis group management consists of ten members, and is led by the president and CEO, Ray Mauritsson. The president and CEO manages Annual General Meeting the day-to-day work, is responsible for keeping the board informed of The annual general meeting, AGM, is Axis’ highest decision-making body. the performance of the operations and for ensuring that the business is At the AGM, resolutions are passed on important questions such as the conducted in accordance with the board’s guidelines and instructions. appropriation of the company’s profit or loss, discharge from liability for the members of the board of directors and for the president, election Audit of board members, chairman of the board and auditor, and possible Axis' auditors are elected by the AGM. At the AGM 2018, Ernst & Young amendments of the articles of association. Aktiebolag was elected as auditor with Johan Thuresson as auditor in charge for the period until the end of the next AGM. Governance model The shareholders Proposal Annual General Meeting Election Election Info Board of directors Info Goals External Strategies Reports auditors Control instruments Control The President & CEO Info and Group Management Board of directors 85 Board of directors Biörn Riese Martin Gren Marianne Brismar Toshizo Tanaka Chairman of the Board since 2015 Born: 1962 Born: 1961 Born: 1940 Board member since: 1984 Board member since: 2018 Board member since: 2015 Born: 1953 Chairman of: AB Grenspecialisten, Chairman of: Fam. Knut & Ragnvi Jacobssons Education: Degree in Economics from Keio Board member since: 2015 Grenspecialisten Förvaltning AB Stiftelse and Almi FöretagsPartner Väst University, Japan Board member of: American Chamber of Board member of: Askero Sagoboks Förlag AB, Board member of: Semcon AB, Concentric Work experience: Various executive positions in Commerce, Institutet mot mutor (IMM), Eikos Aktiebolag , H. Lundén Holding AB, Creades AB, Axel Johnson International the Canon group Stiftelsen Mercuri Urval, Stiftelsen Min Stora Aktiebolag, Proact IT Group AB AB, JOAB AB and GreenCarriers AB Principal employment: Representative Director Dag, Jurie Advokat AB and Arvid Nordquist Education: Lund University, Sweden; Education: M.Sc. in Economics, Gothenburg & Executive Vice President, Canon Inc. and H.A.B. Honorary Doctor HC, Lund University University and Master of Science in Pharmacy, Chief Financial Officer, Canon Inc. and several Education: Master of Laws (LLM) and a Work experience: Founder of Axis Uppsala University executive positions in the Canon group Graduate degree in Economic/Business Principal employment: Employed by Axis Work experience: Roussel Nordiska AB, Atlet administration, Stockholm Univeristy, Sweden Communications AB Group, Special Advisor to Vice President for Work experience: Mannheimer Swartling Nissan Motor Advokatbyrå AB, Carl Swartling Advokatbyrå, Principal employment: Senior Partner tingstjänstgöring Intercept AB, various board positions Principal employment: Senior Adviser and lawyer, Jurie Advokat AB Håkan Kirstein Mats Friberg Malte Lennerstedt Eva Svensson Born: 1969 Born: 1967 Born: 1970 Born: 1964 Board member since: 2015 Board member since: 2015 Board member since: 2017 Board member since: 2017 Board member of: Cherrystone AB Employed at Axis since: 2000 Employed at Axis since: 2013 Employed at Axis since: 2012 Education: M.Sc. in Economics, Stockholm Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative University, Sweden Work experience: CEO Eltel Group AB, CEO Niscayah Group, CEO StatoilHydro Sweden Principal employment: Self-employed Deputies Marie Nässlind Farzin Akbar Zadeh Born: 1984 Born: 1961 Employed at Axis since: 2014 Employed at Axis since: 1998 Employee representative Employee representative 86 Management team Management team Ray Mauritsson President and Chief Executive Officer Born: 1962 Employed by Axis since: 1995 Education: Master of Science, Engineering Physics, Lund University, Sweden and Executive MBA from the Institute of Economics, Lund University Previous employment: TAC Directorships: HMS Networks AB Per Ädelroth Fredrik Sjöstrand Verena Rathjen Vice President, Operations Vice President, Finance and Vice President, EMEA, acting VP APAC Born: 1966 Chief Financial Officer Born: 1980 Employed by Axis since: 1994 Born: 1969 Employed by Axis since: 2017 Education: Master of Science, Industrial Employed by Axis since: 1998 Education: Master of Business Administration, Engineering and Management, Chalmers Education: Master of Business Administration, University of Applied Sciences Berlin, Germany Gothenburg, Sweden Lund University, Sweden Previous employment: Siemens Business Services, Previous employment: Accenture AB Previous employment: E.ON, PriceWaterhouseSiemens Management Consulting, OSRAM, LEDVANCE Directorships: Color your life by Elisabet Coopers Ädelroth AB, JLT Mobile Computers AB (publ) and JLT Mobile Computers Sweden AB Jonas Hansson Chief Information Officer Born: 1967 Employed by Axis since: 2000 Education: Master of Science, Chemical Engineering, Lund University, Sweden and Degree in Journalism, Lund University Previous employment: Netch Technologies Directorships: Creofant AB och Ortelius AB Management team 87 Fredrik Nilsson Vice President, Americas Born: 1967 Employed by Axis since: 1996 Education: Master of Science, Electrical Engineering, Lund University, Sweden; Economics studies at Lund Univerity and Uppsala University Previous employment: ABB Malin Svensson Chief People Officer Born: 1968 Employed by Axis since: 2011 Education: BSc Human Resources Development and Labour Relations/Employment Law, Lund University, Sweden Previous employment: Trelleborg, Adecco, Scandlines Johan Paulsson Lars Åberg Chief Technology Officer Vice President, Marketing Born: 1963 Born: 1966 Employed by Axis since: 2008 Employed by Axis since: 2008 Education: Master of Science, Electrical Education: Master of Business Administration, Engineering, Lund University, Sweden Lund University, Sweden; IFL Executive General Previous employment: Ericsson, Anoto Management Program, Stockholm School of Directorships: poLight AS, SaFP and Economics Winplantan AB Previous employment: Unilever, Ericsson Mobile Communications, Bona Kemi Peter Lindström Vice President, New Business Born: 1970 Employed by Axis since: 2003 Education: Technical Engineer, Lund University, Sweden; degree in Electro science, Executive MBA, EFL Lund University School of Economics and Management Previous employment: Sony, BPE Broadcast Professional Europe, GoPoint, Gandalf Data Directorships: Formpipe Software AB 88 Signatures Signatures The Board of directors has approved this Annual review and Sustainability report on March 20, 2019. Biörn Riese Ray Mauritsson Chairman President and CEO Martin Gren Toshizo Tanaka Board member Board member Marianne Brismar Håkan Kirstein Board member Board member Mats Friberg Eva Svensson Board member, employee representative Board member, employee representative Malte Lennerstedt Board member, employee representative 89 Contact for Annual review and Sustainability report: Björn Hallerborn, PR & Corporate Communications Manager Tel: +46 46 272 1800 E-post: pressoffice@axis.com Advisor and copywriter, Sustainability report: Lof Group Sustainability and Communications Copywriter, Annual review: Aspekta Graphic design: Axis Communications Translation: Word of Mouth Communications Photos and illustrations: Axis Communications / Navigator Communications / Lars Owesson / Glenn Strid / Clarity CPH / Pizzuti Photography / Getty Images / iStockphoto / Shutterstock Printing: Exakta Print 90 91 73026/EN/R1/1903 About Axis Communications Axis enables a smarter and safer world by creating network solutions that provide insights for improving security and new ways of doing business. As the industry leader in network video, Axis offers products and services for video surveillance and analytics, access control, and audio systems. Axis has more than 3,000 dedicated employees in over 50 countries and collaborates with partners worldwide to deliver customer solutions. Axis was founded in 1984 and has its headquarters in Lund, Sweden. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB Emdalavägen 14 SE-223 69 Lund www.axis.com ©2019 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice.
