Communication on progress Optima Defence & Security Group Limited and its affiliates (Optima Group) is pleased to present its first Communication on Progress (COP) affirming our continued commitment to supporting the ten UN Global Compact principles. 11 APRIL 2018 to 10 APRIL 2019 1 Statement of support I am pleased to confirm Optima Group reaffirms its support for the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This document sets out our Communication on Progress with the United Nations Global Compact for the period 11 April 2018 to 10 April 2019. In this Communication on Progress, we describe the actions that Optima Group has taken to support the United Nations Global Compact and its principles. We commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Keith Hammond Chief Executive Officer and Founder Optima Defence & Security Group Limited 2 Optima Group As an established leader in explosive threat mitigation, Optima Group has grown steadily to provide world-renowned services not only for governments and public bodies but also for any organisation that may encounter explosive threats. Established in 2009, Optima found initial success developing IED (Improvised Explosive Device) and Search mitigation capabilities in Afghanistan. Since then, Optima Group have successfully carried out contracts in Egypt, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Mali, Pakistan, Somalia, United States of America, and throughout Europe. Comprising of four specialist divisions (Optima, Fellows, Rule of Law and TRITON), each with stand-alone expertise and services that combine to provide unparalleled specialist resources, Optima Group is transforming lives in some of the most challenging locations worldwide. Optima Optima works with military, police, international development agencies and donors, commercial counter-threat and NonGovernmental Organisations (NGOs), as well as supporting governments and organisations to enable stabilisation and reconstruction of former conflict zones through explosive threat mitigation and IED clearance. From advisory services and the training of client and local personnel through to hands-on search and removal operations, Optima helps protect communities from increasingly complex explosive threats. Fellows Fellows (operating as Fellows International Limited) are experts in risk management for unexploded ordnance (UXO), Fellows is playing a vital role in safeguarding commercial projects on land and at sea. For over two decades, it has supported the construction industry with risk assessments, site surveys and clearance as well as providing expert services for the identification and clearance of danger zones utilising either its own skilled clearance team or working closely with military disposal assets. With the growth in marine-based renewable energy solutions, it is working hard to assess and inform the safety of planned development locations worldwide and to assist with threat mitigation where required. Rule of Law The Rule of Law division works in former conflict zones to developing states where millions are affected by the breakdown of Governance and the Rule of Law. This specialist division provides strategic and operational justice assistance to law enforcement, prosecutors, judges and policy makers helping improve justice and protect human rights; increase national security; reduce the threat of transnational crime; and help build prosperity. From strategic criminal justice analysis and consultancy through to advisory guidance on systemic and organisational reform, we can provide access to a network of highly skilled practitioners and justice advisors able to work with you as part of an intelligent and joined-up approach to complex and sensitive issues. TRITON TRITON is the principal critical threat intelligence source for leaders in the commercial human security and government sectors. The TRITON platform uses advanced artificial intelligence to gather open source intelligence and real time social listening to create a narrative of threats as they emerge around the world. Triton provides relevant, timely reporting on explosive hazards worldwide, identifying trends and development in terrorist technologies, along with technical exploitation and analysis, all supported by a comprehensive explosive threat database spanning 15 years. 3 Human rights Principles 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Values We endeavour to ensure: • Compliance with all applicable UK employment legislation, including without limitation the Employment Act 2002, the Employment Rights Act 1996 and the Equality Act 2010. • Good relations with local communities. • Health and safety in the workplace and in overseas operations. • The physical and mental wellbeing of all employees and those that work for us. Assessment, policy and goals We operate in compliance with the following applicable policies: • Due diligence policy • Ethical working policy • Whistleblowing policy All Optima corporate policies are subject to (at least) annual review by the Policy Review Panel. Performance monitoring • All members of staff are required to undertake an induction on joining the company and subsequent refresher training sessions on the values of the organisation and the importance of compliance with internal policies. • We maintain close relationships with key suppliers and have the right in our contracts to do spot checks on them to ensure compliance with our policies and contractual terms. • We are ISO9001:2015 accredited and we evaluate the risks and opportunities of each supplier and monitor customer complaints and investigate thoroughly. In 2019/2020 we will: • Produce a suppliers’ code of conduct and ensure that all our suppliers sign up to the 10 UNGC principles. Failure to do so will lead to us seeking an alternative supplier. • Instigate a process where we can measure the performance of policies, possibly via KPIs, in order to mitigate any potential policy breaches. • Revise our due diligence policy to ensure regular checks on our contracting partners throughout the lifetime of the business relationship (not just at the beginning) particularly for our overseas partners. 4 Labour Principles 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals We operate in compliance with the following applicable policies: • Equality and diversity policy • Health and safety policy • ISO45001:2018 Health and Safety Manual All Optima corporate policies are subject to (at least) annual review by the Policy Review Panel. All health and safety policies and related documents are managed and reviewed by the Health and Safety Panel. Performance monitoring • Fully compliant and aware of the Information and Consultation of Employees Regulations 2004 and the recent amendment to lowering the threshold required to set up employee information and consultation arrangements from 10% to 2% of employees which comes into force in 2020. • Ethical working policy that all our staff and contractors sign-up to when recruited. • In country recruitment checks to ensure that there is no child labour in our workforce. • Adhere to all UK, and local, equality and diversity legislation. • ISO45001:2018 accredited and have a Health and Safety policy that complies with UK legislation. In 2019/2020 we will: • Produce a suppliers’ code of conduct and ensure that all our suppliers sign up to the 10 UNGC principles. Failure to do so will lead to us seeking an alternative supplier. • Increased transparency within our supply chain will remain a focus in 2019/2020 and we will continue to work with our suppliers to achieve and maintain best practice in this area through improvements in our processes and procedures. • Instigate a process where we can measure the performance of policies, possibly via KPIs, in order to mitigate any potential policy breaches. 5 Environment Principles 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals We operate in compliance with the following applicable policies and goals: • Optima Corporate Social Responsibility Policy We recognise the need to protect the natural environment. • Optima facilitates a culture of environmental stewardship and sustainable development, through the recognition of the impacts of its activities and service provisions on environmental conditions. • We ensure the adoption of practices that eliminate or reduce negative environmental impacts and where practicable, generate positive environmental impacts. Optima: • Promotes recycling in all our offices • Conserves energy • Uses environmentally-friendly technologies (where available) • Is committed to the continual improvement of environmental performance Performance monitoring • Optima Supplier Approval Form – We also ensure that any supplier wishing to conduct business with Optima, also have the environment at the forefront of their business. • Optima collates information from our suppliers regarding their Environmental Management Systems and sustainability policies. Any supplier falling below our high standards may be deferred to the approved list rather than the preferred list. We regularly conduct visits to our suppliers to ensure compliance and to share any best practises. • We have moved into the cloud (replacing our local servers), to reduce the power consumption needed to maintain physical servers. In consequence, this has increased efficiency and flexibility in our working environment. In 2019/2020 we will: • Monitor carbon footprint with a view to identifying areas where we can reduce our carbon footprint (e.g. through Skyping instead of holding face-to-face meetings) and monitor performance (Key Performance Indicators). • Increase staff awareness of environmental issues through increased information and training. • Undertake a full environmental audit of all UK operations as well as overseas operations with a view to producing an Environmental Policy and examine whether Optima should seek accreditation to ISO14001:2015 (Environment Management Systems). 6 Anti-corruption Principles 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Values • We have a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. • We continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations with a view to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. Assessment, policy and goals We operate in compliance with the following applicable policies and goals: • Anti-bribery policy • Fraud policy • Whistleblowing policy • We prohibit the offer or receipt of gifts, hospitality or expenses whenever they could affect or be perceived to affect the outcome of business transactions and are not reasonable or bona fide. All Optima corporate policies are subject to (at least) annual review by the Policy Review Panel. Performance monitoring • All staff undertake anti-bribery and corruption training at least annually. • All contracts contract mandatory anti-bribery obligations on all parties. • We monitor and evaluate the gifts and hospitality register. • Whistleblowing policy that promotes a culture of no blame reporting and we actively create an environment where staff and contractors are comfortable to report issues. In 2019/2020 we will: • Continue to monitor the various policies and introduce KPIs, or other measurements, to evidence compliance. • Ensure that all staff attend the required training at least annually. 7
