2018 INTEGRATED REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As the world revolves, we evolve Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 1 A PREMIUM SECURITIES EXCHANGE IN AFRICA VARIETY OF INVESTMENT PRODUCTS. 2 OFFERING INVESTORS ACCESS TO A WIDE Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Company About this Report............................................................................................................................. 1 NSE History....................................................................................................................................... 2-3 NSE Purpose & Values..................................................................................................................... 4 NSE Structure.................................................................................................................................... 5 Corporate Information..................................................................................................................... 6 Board of Directors............................................................................................................................ 7 11 Executive Committee Members..................................................................................................... 12 Chairman’s Statement...................................................................................................................... 13 15 Chief Executive’s Statement........................................................................................................... 16 18 2018 Highlights................................................................................................................................ 19 23 Corporate Governance Statement................................................................................................. 25 34 Enterprise Risk Management Framework..................................................................................... 35 36 Business Review NSE Stakeholders............................................................................................................................. 38 Sustainability Review...................................................................................................................... 39 42 Value Creation Process.................................................................................................................... 43 Material Issues................................................................................................................................... 44 45 NSE Strategy............................................................................................................................. 47 Financial Performance Five Year Financial Review............................................................................................................ 48 Directors’ Report............................................................................................................................. 4950 Directors’ Remuneration Report.................................................................................................... 51 54 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility......................................................................................... 55 Independent Auditor’s Report........................................................................................................ 56 57 Statement of Profit and Loss and other Comprehensive Income.............................................. 58 Statement of Financial Position..................................................................................................... 59 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity............................................................................. 60 Company Statement of Changes in Equity................................................................................... 61 Statement of Cash Flows................................................................................................................ 62 Notes to the Financial Statements................................................................................................ 63 105 Shareholder Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting Proxy Form Nomination & Consent Form Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 The Chairman’s Statement (Continued) ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Approach to Reporting The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is proud to present the integrated report for the period January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. The report aims at providing a holistic overview of how our business has created value to all its stakeholders including shareholders and highlighting the use of different forms of capital and the related outcomes. The report will cover the Exchange’s Strategy, Financial, Operational, Social and Environmental performance as well as highlight the opportunities and challenges presented to the business in the context of its operations which is influenced by local and international macro-economic factors. The report will thus provide our stakeholders relevant information to foster a deeper understanding of our impact to the economy and society at large. Purpose The NSE has made a deliberate choice to communicate its growth story through an Integrated Report; as we appreciate that traditional standards for measuring value and financial growth no longer provide a comprehensive picture of the company. We believe that entrenching such practices into our business will help drive improved governance practices through more inclusive identification and management of current and future opportunities and risks. We use an integrated approach to reporting that examines our operational, financial and sustainability performance. We are always looking for ways of working with our stakeholders to create lasting value, while continuing our journey to deliver on our vision, “To be a leading securities exchange in Africa, with a global reach.” Scope of this Report The NSE is an Investment Services company and reference to the “Group” will denotes NSE and its subsidiary and structured entities. Preparation and Presentation This Integrated Report has been prepared in accordance to the International Integrated Reporting Council Framework. The NSE Board of Directors and Management have considered the fundamental concepts and guiding principles recommended in the Framework and have undertaken to apply these recommendations in the report. This report is also aligned with the specifications of the Kenya Companies Act 2015 and guidelines issued by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). The Group Annual Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Assurance The Group Annual Financial Statements were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). GEOFFREY O. ODUNDO CHIEF EXECUTIVE Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 1 NSE HISTORY The NSE launched the NSE Investment Challenge to promote financial literacy April and stock market investments amongst Kenyan youth. 2008 Dealing in shares commenced with 1920s trading taking place on a gentleman’s agreement. London Stock Exchange (LSE) to officials accepted to recognize the setting up of the Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE) as 1953 an overseas stock exchange in 1953. The NSE marked the first day of automated trading in government bonds through the ATS and uploaded all 2009 government bonds on the System. The NSE was registered as a private company limited by shares. Share trading moved from being conducted over a 1991 cup of tea (at the Exchange Bar at the Stanley Hotel), to the floor based open outcry system. The Nairobi Stock Exchange Limited changed its name to the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited. The change of name was a reflection of the 2010 – 2014 strategic plan of the NSE to evolve into July a full service securities exchange, which supports trading, clearing and settlement 2011 of equities, debt, derivatives and other associated instruments. The NSE implemented live trading on its own Automated Trading System 2006 (ATS) trading equities. The ATS also had the capability of trading immobilized corporate bonds and treasury bonds. The Growth Enterprise Market Segment was launched giving small and medium Jan enterprises a great opportunity to access the capital markets. 2013 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 2 The Chairman’s NSE HISTORY (Continued) Statement (Continued) July The NSE received formal recognition as a Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) by 2016 the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). The NSE received formal approval from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) June to operate as a demutualized entity. The NSE also received formal approval 2014 from the CMA to offer its shares to the public through an Initial Public offer (IPO) and to self list it shares. The NSE became the first Exchange in the East African region to introduce Exchange June Traded Funds (ETFs) and subsequently listed the Barclays New Gold ETF. 2017 The NSE listed its 194,625,000 issued and fully paid up shares on the Main Investment Market Segment under a new Sept sector Investment Services of the Bourse after a successful IPO. Following its self2014 listing, the Exchange became the second African Exchange after the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, to be listed. The NSE became the first Exchange in Jan East and Central Africa to be admitted as a full member of the World Federation of 2018 Exchanges (WFE). The NSE became the fourth African Oct bourse to launch Real Estate Investments Trusts (REITs) market and consequently 2015 listed the first REIT, the Stanlib Fahari I-REIT. The NSE launched its incubation and acceleration program dubbed Ibuka (meaning ‘emerge’ in Swahili) to offer Dec companies the opportunity to grow their businesses and develop scalable and 2018 impactful business models. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 3 NSE PURPOSE AND VALUES The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is the principal bourse in Kenya, offering an automated platform for the listing and trading of multiple securities. The NSE has consistently offered a well-regulated, robust and world class platform for the trading of equities and bonds. The NSE is the market of choice for local and international investors looking to gain exposure to the East African capital markets. The NSE is publicly traded and was the second self-listed exchange in Africa. OUR VISION To be a leading securities exchange in Africa, with a global reach OUR MISSION To provide a world class securities trading facility OUR PURPOSE To help stimulate and support vibrant and growing capital markets in Kenya OUR CORE VALUES Ethics. Integrity. Confidentiality. Excellence. Innovation Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 4 NSE STRUCTURE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NSE Clear Ltd (100% owned) NSE Settlement NSE Investor Protection Guarantee Fund (SGF) Fund (IPF) Central Depository & Settlement Corporation Limited (22.5% owned) *The Board of Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage and administer the funds. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements 5 CORPORATE INFORMATION Directors Mr. Samuel Kimani Chairman Mr. Bob Karina Vice Chairman Ms. Sharon Maviala Mr. Hosea K. Kili Ms. Nasim Devji Mr. Michael Turner Mr. Paul Vollant Mr. Paul Mwai Ms. Risper Alaro Mr. Kiprono Kittony Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo Chief Executive Secretary John Maonga Maonga Ndonye Associates Certified Secretaries P.O. Box 73248 00200 Nairobi, Kenya Registered Office L.R. No 209/18851 The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road P.O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, Kenya Bankers Kenya Commercial Bank Limited Moi Avenue Branch P.O. Box 30081 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited Westlands Branch P.O. Box 48231 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya Auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers PwC Tower Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road P.O. Box 43963 00100 Nairobi, Kenya Legal Advisers Hamilton Harrison & Mathews Mboya Wangong’u & Waiyaki Advocates Walker Kontos Advocates Delta Office Suites, 1st floor Lex Chambers Hakika House Block A, Off Waiyaki Way Maji Mazuri Road, Off James Gichuru Road, Bishops Road P.O. Box 30333 00100 GPO Lavington P.O. Box 60680 – 00200 Nairobi, Kenya P.O. Box 74041 – 00200 Nairobi, Kenya Nairobi, Kenya Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 6 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Paul Vollant Sharon Maviala Michael Turner Geoffrey Odundo Paul Mwai Hosea Kili Risper Alaro Mukoto Nasim Devji Kiprono Kittony Samuel Kimani Bob Karina Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 7 BOARD The Chairman’s OF DIRECTORS Statement (Continued) Samuel Kimani, Chairman Mr. Kimani, 57, holds an MBA in Strategic Management and a BSc. in Civil Engineering, both from the University of Nairobi. He is a certified Public Accountant of Kenya (CPA-K) and a graduate of the Advanced Management Program (AMP 177) from Harvard University. Mr. Kimani was appointed Chairman of the NSE Board on March 21, 2012. He has a wealth of experience in the banking industry having served as the immediate former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Jamii Bora Bank Ltd. He has also served as the Deputy CEO and Finance Director of the Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) Group. Prior to this, he served at the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) as Deputy Chief Banking Manager, Deputy Director Financial Markets, Principle Financial Accountant, and the Chief Internal Auditor. He also headed the Surveillance Division of the Deposit Protection Fund and served as a Senior Auditor at PriceWaterhouseCoopers. He sits on the boards of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC) and is a member of the University of Stellenbosch Executive Education Advisory Board (USB-AB). Bob Karina, Vice Chairman Mr. Karina, 66, holds an MSc in Corporate Finance from the University of Liverpool, in the UK in addition to key technical and professional qualifications. Mr. Karina was appointed Vice Chairman of the NSE Board on March 21, 2012. He is the Founder and Chairman of Faida Investment Bank. He is an accomplished Stockbroker, Corporate Finance Specialist and Research Analyst having served as the Chairman of Association of Kenya Stockbrokers (AKS) Nominees Ltd and Founder Member of the Institute of Certified Investment and Financial Analysts (ICIFA). As the Chair of the Implementation Committee that spearheaded developments in Kenya’s Capital Market, Mr. Karina played a critical role in the establishment of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC), the NSE Automated Trading System (ATS), the Wide Area Network (WAN) and the Broker Back Office (BBO). He serves as the Chairman of Norwich Union Properties Ltd, Vice Chairman of the Rwanda Stock Exchange (RSE), A Board Member of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC) and A Director of Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE). He has served as Director of Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) and Director at the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI). Nasim Devji Mrs. Devji, 65, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, a Fellow of the Kenya Institute of Bankers, a Fellow of the Institute of Directors (Kenya) and an Associate of the Institute of Taxation (United Kingdom). Mrs. Devji was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on March 21, 2012. She is also the Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Trust Bank (DTB). Mrs. Devji is a Director of DTB Tanzania, DTB Uganda, DTB Burundi, Jubilee Insurance Burundi and Diamond Trust Insurance Agency Limited. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 8 BOARD The Chairman’s OF DIRECTORS Statement (Continued) (Continued) Sharon Maviala Ms. Maviala, 44, holds an MBA in Strategic Management from the United States International University Africa and a Bachelor’s Degree in Law from the University of Reading (UK). She is a member of the Law Society of Kenya (LSK), Institute of Certified Public Secretaries, Women on Board Networks, Institute of Directors and a Certified Professional Mediator. Ms. Maviala was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on March 21, 2012. Her executive leadership is marked by over 12 years of senior leadership experience in legal and corporate services. She is the General Manager at Horizons Group Limited, a serviced and managed offices solutions provider with footprints in Kenya, Ghana, and Nigeria, where she provides in-house legal leadership on local business as well as on growth and expansion strategies. Previously, she held numerous leadership roles including Corporate Services Director, Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary in the real estate, insurance and financial services sectors. Hosea Kili Mr. Kili, 56, holds an MBA in Strategic Management from the Management College of Southern Africa (MANCOSA) and a Bachelors of Law (LLB). He is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya, Fellow of the Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya FCPS(K) and Fellow Member of the Kenya Institute of Management. Mr. Kili was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on March 21, 2012. He is the Group Managing Director and CEO of CPF Financial Services Ltd. Mr. Kili is the former Chairperson of the East & Central Social Security Association (ECASSA), a regional social security body. He has extensive training and experience in legal issues, corporate governance, management and investment of pension schemes. He is currently serving as the Chairman, Association of Pension Administrators of Kenya (APAK). In 2011, Mr. Kili was conferred the Order of the Golden Warrior (O.G.W), a Head of State award for his exemplary service by H.E the President of Kenya. Paul Vollant Mr. Vollant, 35, holds an MSc in Business Administration from the ESDES Business School at the Catholic University of Lyon (France) and is a Graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. Mr. Vollant was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on June 02, 2016. He is the General Manager for business development at TNG Limited, an Australian listed company focused on developing the world class Mount Peake project. Paul is responsible for the company’s commercial developments and trading. Prior to joining TNG, Mr. Vollant was the Managing Director of Element Commodities where he spearheaded the company’s European Middle East and African (EMEA) trading and investments in the mining assets in French Speaking Africa. He began his career with the Noble Group in Hong Kong and London. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 9 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued) Michael Turner Mr. Turner, 60, holds a first class degree in Civil Engineering. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales. Mr. Turner was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on March 26, 2015. He is the Managing Director of Actis Limited in East Africa and is responsible for Actis’s USD 300 million Private Equity Fund with investment in Energy and Real Estate in East Africa. He has extensive experience in private equity having served as the Manager of the Actis Africa Agribusiness Fund and the founder manager of the first Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SME) Private Equity fund in East Africa – the Acacia Fund. Mr. Turner has deep understanding of Private Equity investment in agribusiness, financial services, real estate and infrastructure throughout Sub Saharan Africa. Prior to joining Actis, Michael worked in investment banking in London for Lehman Brothers and Kleinwort Benson, having started his career with Price Waterhouse. Paul Mwai Mr. Mwai, 51, holds an MBA from Strathmore University and a Bachelors of Business from the University of Southern Queensland. He holds an Investment Management Certificate from UK Society for Investment Professionals and is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers. He is an Authorized Representative for the Growth Enterprise Market Segment (GEMS) of the NSE. Mr. Mwai was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on May 30, 2018. He is the Chief Executive of AIB Capital and the Chairman of the Kenya Association of Stock Brokers and Investment Banks (KASIB). He has over twenty years’ experience in the financial services industry including fund management and investment banking. He has worked in various departments within the Barclays Group, including Barclays Merchant Finance Ltd (BMFL) and Barclays Dealing Centre, before joining the Barclaytrust Investment Services Group in 1998 as a Fund Manager. He served as a Senior Portfolio Manager at Old Mutual Asset Managers following the acquisition of BarclayTrust by Old Mutual in October 2002 and as an Asset Allocation Strategist. He joined AIB Capital in February 2012 from African Alliance Investment Bank where he was Chief Executive. Risper Alaro-Mukoto Ms. Alaro, 43, holds an MBA in Finance from the United States International University Africa and a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Management from Moi University. She is a fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), a member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK), an International Coach Federation Associate Certified Coach (ACC), and a Certified Executive Leadership Coach. She is a fellow of the Archbishop Desmond Tutu Africa Leadership Fellowship. Ms. Alaro was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on May 30, 2018. She also serves as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of BK Group PLC, and is a practicing Executive Leadership Coach. She previously served Centum Group PLC as Managing Director of one of its subsidiaries; Centum Business Solutions, and as the Group Finance & Operations Director. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 10 10 BOARD The Chairman’s OF DIRECTORS Statement (Continued) (Continued) Mr. Kiprono Kittony Mr. Kittony, 54, holds a Bachelor of Commerce (Bcomm), Bachelor of Law (LL.B) both from the University of Nairobi and a Global Executive MBA from the United States International University (USIU). Mr. Kittony was appointed a Board Director of the NSE on May 30, 2018. He is the current National Chairman of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce & Industry, the premiere business membership organization in Kenya. He is an established entrepreneur and business leader having served in several capacities including being the immediate past Chairman of the Media Owners Association, an influential lobby group of Kenyan media. He has been widely credited with the revival of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce & Industry which has been restored to its past glory through a series of transformative initiatives undertaken during his tenure. He serves as the chair of the Credit Reference Bureau Kenya Limited, AAR Insurance Limited, Mtech Limited and Radio Africa Group (which he co-founded in 2000). He serves on the Business Advocacy Fund amongst others, and also sits on the advisory council of International Fund for Health in Africa (IFHA) an Amsterdam based private equity fund and is one of two representatives in the Global Council in of the World Chambers Federation. Geoffrey Odundo, Chief Executive Mr. Odundo, 50, holds a Master’s degree in Strategic Management and an undergraduate degree in Mathematics and Economics. He is an Advanced Management Program (AMP) graduate from Strathmore Business School. Mr. Odundo was appointed Chief Executive of the NSE on March 3, 2015. He is an accomplished Investment Banker having been in the financial services sector for the last 27 years, 21 of which have been in the Capital Markets. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Odundo was the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Kingdom Securities Limited. He was instrumental in the setting up of Coop Trust Investment Services, Co-op Consultancy Services Limited and Kingdom Securities Limited. Mr. Odundo has advised on a number of corporate finance mandates in both the public and private sectors; he has also managed key mandates in the asset management industry. He has contributed to the growth of the Capital Markets in his previous role as a Director/Board Secretary Kenya Association of Stock Brokers and Investment Banks, Chairman of the Financial Standards Committee Kenya Bureau of Standards as well as the Board Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. Mr. Odundo serves as a Director of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC) Limited, Director of the NSE Clear Limited; and a trustee of the NSE Fidelity Funds. He is a member of the Central Bank Consolidative Forum for Domestic Debt Market (CFDDM) and a Council Member of the Institute of Certified Investment Financial Analysts (ICIFA). Mr. Odundo is also a board member of the Africa Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA), a Director of the East African Securities Exchanges Association and a Member of the Thomson Reuters Africa Customer Advisory Network. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 11 11 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS Geoffrey Odundo Chief Executive Kuria Waithaka Jane Kiarie Terrence Adembesa Paul Ngaragari Legal and Corporate Affairs Finance and Administration Derivatives Market Internal Audit Director Director Director Director Lucy Kamar Caleb Kivuva Bahati Morara Tom Kimaru Head, Human Capital Operations and Technology Business Development and Regulatory Affairs Director Director Commercial Director Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 12 12 THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT The Chairman’s Statement (Continued) Dear Shareholders The year 2018 was significant for the capital markets in Kenya and the world at large. The year had mixed reactions that affected growth and performance of various markets globally. However, driven by strong core values and sharp focus on our strategic objectives and priorities, I am happy to report that we remained resilient to record strong results in the wake of challenging macro-economic factors. The year saw emerging and frontier markets experience immense pressure on account of steady rise in interest rates and bond yields in developing economies, strengthening of the US Dollar and trade disputes which shifted investors’ sentiments and confidence in the year. The aforementioned saw high movement of capital from frontier markets to developed markets. Consequently, price corrections due to capital outflows caused considerable drops in Equities in our market. Despite the macroeconomic headwinds, the NSE continued to show resilience to consolidate its position as leading securities Exchange in the region with a global reach outperforming most African Markets in dollar returns. Our spirited performance despite the aforementioned challenges is a testament of our focus and commitment to effectively execute our strategy in line with our vision whilst maximizing shareholder returns. The Board is committed to ensuring the company remains focused to delivering value to you the shareholder. As a premier Exchange that attracts global and local investors, our operations are drastically affected by significant macro-economic and geo-political developments. As I Apprise you on the growth of the company, we must first appreciate the business environment we operate in to contextualize the company’s performance for the period under review. Samuel Kimani Chairman of the Board Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 13 13 THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (Continued) Global Economic Review According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the global economy Global economic started the year on a high momentum recording a global growth rate growth is projected of 3.8% driven by a pickup in global manufacturing and trade through 2017. to decline to 2.9% in 2019, given the The momentum was however affected by fundamental macro-economic developments such as the implementation of tariffs by major economies slowing growth such as the United States and retaliatory measures taken by others like in developed China. This resulted in high uncertainty in trade policy which negatively economies and affected economic growth. decline in Global economic growth is projected to decline to 2.9% in emerging markets. 2019 according to the World Bank, given the slowing growth in developed economies and decline in emerging markets. Momentous macro-economic and geopolitical changes such United Kingdom Brexit 2.9% move, China-US trade wars and financial crises in Argentina and Turkey will weigh heavily on growth. Kenya’s Economic Review According to the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, Kenya has African Economic Review seen significant political and economic milestones supporting According to the African Development Bank (AFDB), the continent’s economic growth. Kenya’s economy grew by an estimated general economic performance continued to show resilience posting 6.3% against a target of 5.8%. The performance was largely a 3.5% growth on the back of a relatively higher commodity prices, driven by a stable micro-economic environment, rebound in infrastructural investments and improved capital markets access. In the tourism, stable oil prices and government investments in strategic medium term, Africa’s GDP growth is projected to accelerate to 4.0% in infrastructure projects. 2019 and 4.1% in 2020 (AFDB). Kenya was ranked 61 among 190 economies in ease of doing business in Economic growth was broad with non-resource rich countries growing 2018 by the World Bank reflecting a positive change of 23.7%. at a faster rate in comparison to resource rich countries supported by higher agricultural production, rising consumer demand and growing Private sector credit growth remained relatively low below 5% lower investments. Commodity exporting countries such as Nigeria and South than the recommended ideal figure of between 12% and 15%. Africa saw mild economic growth posting an economic growth rate of 1.9% and 0.8% respectively (World Bank). The Kenyan economy is projected to grow at an average rate of 6.01% in 2019 on account of stable economic environment and continued Despite Africa’s economic growth prospects being high, the continent investments in infrastructure. is likely to face daunting challenges on account of economic trade wars, normalization of interest rates in advanced economies and high uncertainty in global commodity prices. Additionally, elections Financial Performance and political transitions as well as security concerns could also have a The NSE’s ability to record strong financial results underscores negative effect on growth. our commitment to generate sustainable returns and maximize shareholder value. The continent’s During the year, the NSE Group recorded topline growth with total general economic income increasing by 4% from Kshs. 753 million in 2017 to Kshs. 782 performance million in 2018. This was driven by a 2% and 29% increase in equity and bonds turnover in 2018. continued to show resilience posting a A revaluation deficit on the valuation of the NSE Building and a salary review alignment in 2018 affected the Group’s profitability with Profit 3.5% growth. after Tax for the year reducing 12% year on year to Kshs. 191 million. 3.5% The NSE continued to maintain a solid balance sheet with total assets increasing by 5% to Kshs. 2.2 billion as at December 31, 2018. A comprehensive review of the 2018 financial performance is highlighted in the Chief Executive’s statement. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 14 14 THE The Chairman’s CHAIRMAN’S Statement STATEMENT (Continued) (Continued) To spur listing, we have developed a premium incubation and acceleration Dividend Policy program for high growth companies. The program will enable grow The Board and Management of the NSE is cognizant of the importance visibility and strengthen company’s structure of select companies as they of dividends to owners of capital. Our dividend policy places special prepare for their next phase of growth Listing on the NSE. focus on growing shareholder returns, maintaining strong capital ratios whilst supporting the company’s future growth and We will focus on enhancing operational efficiencies through optimization expansion strategies. of resources and reduction of costs to ensure shareholder value is maximized within the business. In line with our growth dividend policy and resilient financial performance, the Board of Directors is pleased to propose an ordinary dividend of Kshs. To cushion the Exchange against periodic revenue drops occasioned 0.49 per share (comprising of an ordinary dividend of Kshs. 0.29 per by exits in the market, we have doubled efforts to increase annuity share and a special dividend of Kshs. 0.20 per share) up 63% from the income through the growth of other business segments. Through the dividend of Kshs. 0.30 per ordinary share declared in 2017. year, the NSE will focus on growing revenues from data and training services segments. Strategic Partnerships Appreciation We continued to explore various opportunities of driving growth at an enterprise level at cost. This was spearheaded through seeking Our success in 2018 would not have been possible without the expert partnerships with local and global players in the market. and strategic guidance of the Board. I want to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to my colleagues on the Board for the unwavering In line with the above, the NSE signed a Memorandum of Understanding support accorded to me and the company during the year. (MoU) with ELITE-London Stock Exchange Group’s International Business support and capital raising programme, and Financial Sector I want to sincerely thank the NSE staff and management team for their Deepening (FSD) Africa to facilitate the development of the ELITE tenacity, hard work and dedication in the fulfillment of the company’s programme in Kenya. Once launched the programme will enable select objectives. We will continue to drive a culture of innovation and Kenyan companies to scale up their businesses, access a network excellence among our employees for business growth. of industry experts and a community of international investors hence preparing them for their next phase of growth, listing on I would also like to thank our shareholders for entrusting us with their the NSE. capital. We will endeavor to provide sustainable long term returns on investment through strategic investments, partnerships and prudent As part of our commitment to grow expert knowledge and expertise management of resources. among players in the market, we signed an MoU with Zamara Actuaries and Management Consultants to offer specialized courses on securities Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our issuers, trading and investments. participants, domestic and international investors for supporting the market during the year. We look forward to a great year as we continue In the same spirit, the NSE sought and received accreditation as a to offer a world class platform to investors looking to gain exposure to training partner for the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investments Kenya’s and Africa’s economic growth. (CISI), the largest and most widely respected professional finance and investments examinations body for securities and investments profession in the United Kingdom. The said MoUs and the accreditation will enable us ensure professionals get requisite knowledge and skills that will give them a competitive edge in the capital markets industry. Samuel Kimani Chairman of the Board Future Outlook I am optimistic that our future is bright and our prospects even brighter. Over the course of the last few years, we have made great progress in developing one of the best capital market infrastructures in Africa anchored on strategic investments in our capital products and cutting edge technology. Having built the requisite foundation, this year we will place special focus on growing the uptake of already developed products through deliberate marketing and go to market strategies. We will increase interaction with investors and issuers in order to grow the number of listed Real Estate Investments Trusts and Exchange Traded Funds in our market. We are also keen on launching the Derivatives Market in 2019. The Kenyan economy is projected to grow at a rate of 6.01% supported by positive economic outlook, renewed confidence in the business environment and the Government’s investments in the Big Four Agenda. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 15 15 The Chairman’s Statement (Continued) THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Dear Shareholders In 2018, the NSE outperformed most African markets in dollar returns despite the bear run, helped by the Kenya shilling’s gain on the dollar versus the depreciation seen on most regional currencies. It was a year of resilience, recovery and innovative growth for the Kenyan Economy as well the NSE. The company recorded a strong performance despite the uncertainty caused by macro-economic factors. The year also saw the NSE launch a number of products in line with its strategy to increase the number of products as well as increase the number of listed companies on the Bourse. Geoffrey Odundo Chief Executive Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 16 16 THE The Chairman’s CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Statement STATEMENT (Continued) (Continued) Trading Performance During the year, the company registered an overall good performance across all markets, a sign of our continued leadership among premier markets in Africa. Equity trading accounted for 54% of the Group’s revenue. During the Fixed Income year, equity turnover increased by 2.34% from Kshs. 171 billion in 2017 to Kshs. 175 billion in 2018. Securities Market rose by 29% Foreign investor participation averaged 64.96% in 2017 to 64.51% in 2018, a less than 1% decline. During the same period, secondary from Kshs. 435 trading activity in the Fixed Income Securities Market rose by 29% from billion in 2017 to Kshs. 435 billion in 2017 to Kshs. 562 billion in 2018. Kshs. 562 billion The Exchange’s benchmark index, the NSE 20 recorded a decrease of in 2018. 23.66% from 3,711.94 points at the close of December 2017 to close at 2,833.84 points at the close of trading in December 2018. The NSE All Share Index (NASI) dropped by 17.97% from 171.20 points in 2017 to 29% close at 140.43 points in 2018 while Market capitalization dropped by 16% from Kshs. 2.5 trillion in 2017 to Kshs. 2.1 trillion in 2018. Group Performance Delivering on the Group’s The Group’s profit after tax reduced by 12% from Kshs 216 million Strategy in 2017 to Kshs 191 million in 2018 due to increased administrative The NSE is continuously working with key market stakeholders to grow costs. Operating income increased by 3% from Kshs. 607 million in the existing products. In 2018, the Group achieved key milestones in 2017 to Kshs. 626 million in 2018 mainly due to higher equity turnover. line with it’s mission and corporate strategy. The NSE gained admission Interest income increased by 17% from Kshs. 99 million in 2017 to as a full member of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE). The Kshs. 116 million in 2018 due to prudent management of funds. membership will give the NSE the opportunity to participate in major decision making forums on policy and regulatory matters pertaining to Administrative expenses increased by 13% from Kshs. 496 million in global capital markets. 2017 to Kshs. 560 million in 2018 mainly arising from a salary review alignment that was done in 2018 and a revaluation deficit on the The NSE launched its incubation and acceleration programme dubbed valuation of the NSE building. Ibuka, which means ‘‘emerge’’ in Kiswahili. Ibuka will play a critical role in enabling Kenyan businesses access the capital markets and thus ease Total assets increased nominally by 5% from Kshs. 2.1 billion in 2017 their listing journey and experience. to Kshs. 2.2 billion in 2018. Shareholder funds grew by 4% from Kshs 2.01 billion in 2017 to Kshs 2.09 billion in 2018. The NSE also launched its premium mobile application, the NSE App in an effort to democratize access to the NSE and also deepen the Return on equity decreased to 9.1% in 2018 from 10.8% in 2017 and market. Additionally, the NSE hosted the inaugural National Real Estate return on assets decreased to 8.6% in 2018 from 10.4% in 2017. Cost Investment Trusts (REITs) Conference in partnership with the REITs income ratio increased from 66% in 2017 to 72% in 2018 due mainly Association of Kenya (RAK) to spur activity in the REITs Market. to the salary review alignment and revaluation deficit on the building. Ibuka will play a critical role in enabling Kenyan businesses access the capital markets and thus ease their listing journey and experience. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 17 17 THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (Continued) Our People incubation and accelerator platform for providing companies with visibility, capacity building and networking opportunities on a hosted Our people are the most valuable intangible asset. They contribute basis. From a product development perspective, we envisage to launch majorly to our performance, growth and development as an Exchange. the Derivatives Market this year. The NSE will continue to focus on its In 2018, we continued to invest in our employees to inculcate a highly innovative strategy and in the coming year deliver its products through innovative, diverse and robust culture in line with our strategic needs. more accessible digital channels. During the year, we intend to support We invested Kshs. 9.6 million in training and professional development the issuance of the M-Akiba retail bond program and in addition promote of our people to help deepen skills and knowledge of the market. sustainable financing through issuance of green bonds. We have continued to nature talent by ensuring that a pool of talent In 2019, the NSE will strengthen its operational efficiency through is ready and available to be deployed when need arises. This has been optimisation of its resources and management of costs. enabled through our graduate trainee program which came to place in 2018. We also continue to tap into our internal pool of talent as a priority in Appreciation supporting vacancies where necessary. On leadership, we introduced a I would wish to thank all our stakeholders for their continued support in series of defined leadership training for our top management to propel 2018 as we continue to build the company into a leading Exchange in them to continue creating an empowering working environment for Africa. I would like to thank the NSE team for all the hard work they put their team members. in this year and their dedicated efforts at making the year prosperous. I look forward to our continuous partnership through the next chapter of In 2018, we welcomed six new employees in various cadres.We also our journey. conducted a salary review to align our remuneration package with prevailing market rates. This is in line with our Human Capital strategy I would like to thank all our shareholders for their unwavering support of attracting, recruiting and retaining top talent for current and future and confidence in the management team. I wish to sincerely thank needs. the Chairman and Board of Directors for their continued guidance and resilient leadership. I look forward to your wise counsel in this next chapter of our growth. Future Outlook The NSE has a reputable and successful history behind it and we have Our expectations on the economic activities and the general business so much more in store. We have always maintained high corporate environment in Kenya are positive going into 2019. The Government’s governance standards that have enabled us to give value back to our investment in the Big Four Agenda will create new opportunities for shareholders. I am certain of our aptitude to maintain the growth of the businesses to grow. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), company and continue to create brilliant innovations. Kenya’s GDP is expected to grow to 6.01% due to improved performance in various sectors, including real estate, tourism, manufacturing and agriculture. The NSE will in the coming year focus on enhancing uptake of its various products. With the broadening of our product offering, companies Geoffrey Odundo can now tap into various forms of capital including debt, equity and Real Estate Investment Trusts to raise funds for their businesses. We Chief Executive also embarked on the full roll-out of the Ibuka program which is an According to the IMF, Kenya’s GDP could grow to 6.01% due to improved performance in various sectors, including real estate, tourism, manufacturing and agriculture. 6.01% Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 18 18 2018 HIGHLIGHTS The ceremony was followed by a full day training for business women in 1. NSE Gains Full Admission to the World Kiambu County. The training which was held in partnership with the UN Federation of Exchanges Global Compact, UN Women and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) aimed at economically empowering women on the savings and financial opportunities available within the capital markets. In February 02 2018, the NSE received admission as a full member of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) following a unanimous approval As a member of the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Stock Exchanges of NSE’s application by the Federation’s Board. (SSE) initiative, the NSE is committed to taking strategic steps to realize the UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) five of achieving gender The NSE now joins an elite cadre of global leaders in the capital equality by empowering all women and girls. markets industry such as the New York Stock Exchange, London Stock Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange among others hosted by the Federation. The admission is in line with NSE’s strategy of growing a vibrant capital market in Kenya supported by enhanced local participation which is integrated with global financial markets. The WFE full membership also underscores our commitment to implement the highest standards of global best practices in our operations. As a full member of the WFE, the NSE will be able to participate in major decision making forums on policy and regulatory matters pertaining to the global capital market. The Exchange will also benefit from the rich interactions that the WFE offers with a view to promoting the development of NSE’s business and operations. Women trained during the Ring the Bell for Gender Equality event. 2. Ring the Bell for Gender Equality In commemoration of the 2018 International Women’s Day, the NSE joined over 60 Stock Exchanges across the globe to Ring the Bell for Gender Equality on March 8, 2018 to raise awareness on the importance of gender equality to both businesses and sustainable development. NSE is committed to taking strategic steps to realize the UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) five of achieving gender equality by empowering all women and girls. Dr. Winnie Nyamute, NSE Board Member (now former) rings the bell to promote Gender Equality as Mr. Kuria Waithaka, NSE Legal and Corporate Affairs Director and partners from International Finance Corporation (IFC), UN Global Compact and UN Women look on. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 19 2018 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued) 3. NSE Hosts the Building African Financial 4. NSE Signs Memorandum of Understanding Markets Seminar with ELITE (From Right-Front Row) NSE Chief Executive Geoffrey Odundo, FSD Africa CEO Mark Napier, ELITE CEO Luca Peyrano, sign the MoU as President Uhuru Kenyatta (back right) and UK Secretary of State for International Development, Rt Hon Penny Mordaunt MP look on. The NSE signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on April 17, 2018 with ELITE London Stock Exchange Group’s (LSEG) business support and capital raising programme and Financial Sector Deepening (FSD) Deputy President William Ruto makes his keynote speech during the official Africa to facilitate the development and launch of the ELITE Programme opening ceremony of the 7th BAFM Seminar. in Kenya. The signing of the MoU in London was witnessed by President of the Republic of Kenya, H.E. Uhuru Kenyatta and United Kingdom Secretary The NSE hosted the 7th Building African Financial Markets (BAFM) of State for International Development, Penny Mordaunt MP. Seminar themed Adaptive Innovation as a Lever for Growth and Sustainable Development of African Financial Markets on The MoU commits the three parties to undertake initiatives that will April 19-20, 2018. culminate with the launch of the ELITE Programme in Kenya. The parties will among other things; conduct feasibility work, identify a group of The two day seminar was an initiative by the African Securities eligible small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), select a business Exchanges Association (ASEA) which the NSE is the Secretariat. Attended school partner and develop the Kenya ELITE network of advisors and by over 200 delegates across 28 countries, the BAFM seminar aimed investors. at engaging with delegates on key developments and changes in the African financial markets. The seminar brought together industry Once launched, the ELITE programme will enable select Kenyan leaders and experts to explore opportunities and challenges in Financial companies to scale up their businesses, access a network of industry Technology (FinTech), Regulatory Technology (RegTech), Cyber Security experts and a community of international investors hence preparing and emerging developments such as the use of Blockchain. them for their next phase of growth, listing on the NSE. The seminar was officially opened by the Deputy President of the Republic of Kenya, Hon. William Ruto. He underpinned NSE’s position The MoU commits the three parties to as a leading frontier market in Africa and stated that the Exchange is on course to making Nairobi an International Finance Centre. undertake initiatives that will culminate with the launch of the ELITE Programme in Kenya. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 20 2018 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued) access real time stock prices, market analytics, economic statistics, 5. NSE Co-Hosts the Kenya Petroleum financial news, market snapshots and the NSE Broker Directory. Capital Markets Day Additionally, corporate actions are visible through the analytics module of the application. The launch of the mobile based application comes against a backdrop of increased mobile access and internet penetration in Kenya that will see the NSE meet the growing demand for speed and convenience in receiving market related information among investors. The application will also enable the public to monitor activity in the market easily allowing them take advantage of opportunities in the capitals markets on a real time basis. 7. NSE Signs a Memorandum of Understanding with Zamara Delegates participate in a market open at the London Stock Exchange. The NSE and the London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) co-hosted their maiden conference themed: Kenya Energy and Petroleum Capital Markets Day on October 29, 2018. The event aimed at showcasing Kenya’s Energy and Petroleum sector and providing an insight into investment opportunities in Kenya’s capital market to investors and market participants in London. The inaugural conference brought together Kenya’s capital markets stakeholders, thought leaders in Kenya’s Petroleum and Energy sector as well as leading market participants in London. NSE Chief Executive, Mr. Geoffrey Odundo (left) joins his counterpart Mr. Sundeep Raichura, Chief Executive Officer, Zamara Actuaries and Management Consultants 6. Launch of NSE App (right) in signing the MoU. The NSE signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on July 11, 2018 with Zamara Actuaries and Management Consultants on a training partnership aimed at enhancing financial literacy to improve investors’ knowledge and launch to the Zamara Kenya Equity Index. The MoU will also enable the two parties undertake high quality trainings and education initiatives focused on investment which will enable Kenyans to achieve financial freedom. The partnership will commit the parties to make a meaningful difference and help to create a more financially secure and prosperous society. The Zamara Equity Index will offer investors a fully investible index that can be used as a fair benchmark for institutional investors including pension funds and insurance companies investing in the NSE. NSE Chief executive Mr. Geoffrey Odundo (second from left) is joined by other stakeholders in using the NSE App to view market information. In its effort to reach a larger number of retail investors, the NSE launched its premium mobile application, the NSE App on June 5, 2018. The NSE App enables investors, media, financial advisors and the general public, Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 21 2018 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued) 8. NSE becomes an Accredited Training 9. The NSE Charity Trading Day Partner of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investments Renowned musician Nyamari Ongegu (Nyashinski )poses with Equity Investment Bank broker Mr. Kevin Nginge during the 2018 NSE Charity Trading Day. (From Left) CISI East Africa Regional Representative Mr. Kimacia Gitau hands over the accreditation certificate to NSE Chief Executive, Mr. Geoffrey Odundo, during the accreditation ceremony. As part of NSE’s commitment to enhance financial knowledge among players in the Kenyan capital market, the Exchange sought and received accreditation as a training partner of the Chartered Institute of Securities (From Left) Ms. Nana Gecaga, CEO Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) and Investments (CISI) on October 2018. CISI is the largest and most and Ambassador Amina Mohammed, then Cabinet Secretary, for Education pose for widely respected professional finance and investments examinations a photograph during the Charity Trading Day. body for securities and investments profession in the United Kingdom. The accreditation will enable the NSE offer three main trainings focusing on; International Introduction to Securities and Investments, Kenya The NSE raised over Kshs. 7.5 million in sponsorship in its fourth edition Regulation and Market Practice and Derivatives. of the Charity Trading Day held on November 2, 2018 bringing the total contribution over the past four years to Kshs. 30 million. The accreditation will ensure professionals get requisite knowledge and skills that will give them a competitive edge in today’s capital markets The Charity Trading Day is NSE’s flagship Corporate Social Responsibility industry. initiative that brings together the capital markets’ stakeholders and known personalities in Kenya to make calls to investors on behalf of The accreditation is aligned with NSE’s goal of increasing financial Trading Participants encouraging them to make trades with an aim of literacy and building capacity for the capital markets in Kenya against raising funds to support various charitable causes in Kenya. global standards. Additionally, the accreditation will also enable the NSE increase annuity income by offering premium training services to Over the course of four years, the NSE has made significant contribution capital markets’ players. towards various wildlife and humanitarian initiatives through the Charity Trading Day. The NSE is committed to supporting various charitable causes in Kenya as it seeks to impact the community it operates in and the people who make the Exchange a sustainable business. The 2018 beneficiaries included; We the Change Foundation, Joy Children’s Home, SOS Children’s Home, Association for the Physically Disabled of Kenya (AFDK) and Borana Conservancy. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 22 2018 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued) 10. NSE Investment Challenge Bank of Kigali Group Board and Senior Management join part of NSE’s Board and key guests in ringing the bell to mark the Group’s cross-listing on the NSE. NSE Vice-Chairman, Mr. Bob Karina, hands over a cheque to the 2018 NSE Investment Challenge winner, Ms. Maureen Kibet, during the awards ceremony. 12. Launch of Ibuka The NSE held its 2018 Investment Challenge from April to August 2018. The NSE Investment Challenge is NSE’s flagship public education initiative aimed at enhancing financial literacy amongst the youth while inculcating a savings and investments culture. The NSE Investment Challenge is an online simulation of trading for securities listed on the NSE. During the competition, each participating individual or group receives Kshs. 3 million virtual capital to buy shares, bonds and other securities listed on the NSE using real time stock prices provided by the NSE through the Automated Trading System. The annual competition takes place for three months, following which participating teams are evaluated based on their portfolio returns. The online competition leverages on increased mobile phone and internet penetration in Kenya to spur an investment culture among the youth thus nurturing a new crop of future investors. Since its inception, the competition has attracted over 100,000 youth educating them with fundamental financial and investments skills for The NSE Chief Executive, Mr. Geoffrey Odundo (fourth from left), joins guests and personal development and growth. stakeholders for a photo during the launch of Ibuka. 11. Bank of Kigali Group Cross-Lists on the NSE The NSE launched its incubation and acceleration program dubbed Ibuka (means ‘emerge’ in Swahili) to offer companies the opportunity to grow their businesses and develop scalable and impactful business models. Through Ibuka NSE hosts select Kenyan companies with high Bank of Kigali Group PLC cross-listed on the NSE on November 30, 2018 growth prospects with an aim of enhancing their visibility and brand becoming the first Rwandese company to tap into the Kenyan capital recognition, enhancing capital markets understanding and access, market further entrenching NSE’s position as the leading securities providing access to expert consultancy and advisory services as well as Exchange in the region enabling local and international companies provide a roadmap for long-term corporate sustainability. access cost-effective capital. The program will enable companies unlock their growth potential The cross-listing was part of the Group’s capital raising programme that through a well-structured program that places a special focus on aimed at; strengthening the Group’s investor base, enhancing liquidity improving companies business structures as they prepare for their next of its stock as well as harnessing its growth opportunities in line with phase of growth, listing on the NSE. its corporate vision of becoming the leading provider of the most innovative financial solutions in the region. The Group which is Rwanda’s largest lender in assets enjoys a countrywide footprint with operations across banking, insurance and investments. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 23 The Chairman’s Statement (Continued) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Overview Chief Executive. The Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading the direction of the Group’s corporate and financial strategy and for the Corporate governance refers to the structures and processes guiding overall supervision of the policies, rules and regulations governing the the leadership of the Group. The Group has instituted systems to ensure Group. that high standards of corporate governance are maintained at all levels of the organization and is in compliance with the requirements The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the business of all applicable laws and regulations including but not limited to the of the Group. The Chief Executive enforces the provisions of Capital Markets Authority rules, regulations and guidelines on Corporate the Capital Markets Authority Act (the “Act”) as related to the Governance and the Nairobi Securities Exchange Management and Group and the rules of the Group and immediately reports Membership rules, policies and procedure. any violations to the Board and the Capital Markets Authority (CMA/ the “Authority”) and ensures compliance with the requirements The Role of the Board of the Act, and rules in operations, transactions and all affairs of the The Board is collectively responsible to the Group’s shareholders for the Group including listings and continuous reporting obligations of long-term success of the Group and its strategic direction, its values listed companies. and governance. It provides the leadership, integrity, enterprise and good judgment necessary to meet its business objectives within the The Chief Executive is also responsible for the supervision of the trading framework of its internal controls while also discharging the Group’s activities of the Group and takes all necessary steps to maintain orderly obligations to its shareholders. and efficient trading and functioning of facilities, in accordance with the Group’s rules and as prescribed by the Act. The Key Responsibilities of the Board include: The Chief Executive reports periodically to the Board on all matters a) To define and chart out the Group’s vision and mission. The concerning the operation and affairs of the Group, attends all meetings Board has ultimate responsibility for the attainment of the of the Committees and provides technical input where necessary, Group’s vision; promotes the objectives and functions of the Group and liaises with b) To set the strategy, approve business plans and annual budgets the Authority and its representatives in respect of administrative and and of any subsequent material changes in strategic direction; technical matters of the Group. The Chief Executive is also responsible c) To monitor Management’s implementation of the strategic plans for the stewardship of the Group’s assets and, jointly with the Chairman, and financial objectives as defined by the Board; for representation of the Group externally. d) To define levels of materiality, reserving specific powers to itself and delegating other matters with the necessary written authority to Management; e) To ensure that the Group is managed with a view to ensuring that the Group is ethical in all its dealings and exercises corporate social responsibility; f) To ensure that procedures and processes are in place to protect the Group’s assets and reputation; g) To ensure compliance by the Group with all relevant laws and regulations, audit and accounting principles, and such other principles as may be established by the Board from time to time; h) To approve Terms of Reference of Board Committees and make appointments and changes in the composition of such Committees as are established from time to time; i) To identify key risks, opportunities and strengths relating to the Group; j) To set policies on internal controls and obtain regular assurance that the system is functioning effectively and is effective in managing risks; k) To appoint the Chief Executive, senior staff, the external auditor and other consultants; and l) To exercise such other powers as are necessary to enforce the requirements of the Capital Markets Authority Act, Articles of Association and the Rules governing the Group. Division of Responsibilities The Chairman and the Chief Executive are responsible for the profitable operations of the Group. Their roles are separate, with each having distinct and clearly defined roles and responsibilities. The Chairman directs the Board’s business and acts as it’s facilitator and guide ensuring that the Board is effective in its tasks of setting and implementing the Group’s direction and strategy. The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, for ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and for facilitating the productive contribution of all Directors. The Chairman sets the agenda of the Board meetings in consultation with the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) Board Composition As at the date of this Integrated Report, the Board of the Nairobi Securities Exchange is constituted as follows: a) Five (5) Independent and Non-Executive Directors; b) One (1) Non-Executive Director c) Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Trading Participants; d) Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Listed Companies; and e) One (1) Executive Director. Below is the current composition of the Board: Mr. Samuel Kimani Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Bob Karina Vice Chairman/Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director Ms. Nasim Devji Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director Mr. Michael Turner Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director Mr. Paul Mwai Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director Ms. Sharon Maviala Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Hosea K. Kili Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Kiprono Kittony Independent Non-Executive Director Ms. Risper Alaro Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Paul Vollant Non-Executive Director Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo Chief Executive The Directors’ abridged profiles appear on pages 8-11 of this Integrated report. Board Committees The Board established seven (7) Board Committees with delegated authority to assist the Board to effectively carry out its obligations. These Board Committees are: a) Finance & Strategy Committee b) Trading, Technology & Innovation Committee c) Listing and Admissions Committee d) Derivatives Market Oversight Committee e) Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee f) Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee g) Remuneration, Nominating & Human Capital Committee Other than the Derivatives Market Oversight Committee and Trading, Technology & Innovation Committee which have external resource persons, all other Committees are now composed of Board members only. At each ordinary Board meeting, the chairpersons of the respective Board Committees report to the Board on the highlights of the deliberations of the Committees and to escalate to the Board all matters requiring the Board’s consideration and approval. Below is a summary of the roles, membership and activities of the various committees. a) Finance & Strategy Committee The mandate of the Finance & Strategy Committee is to oversee the strategic and tactical business development opportunities of the Group and to evaluate and advise on potential investment opportunities. The Committee also monitors the Group’s financial performance and treasury management, advises on human capital matters and oversees procurement and administration issues including property investments. b) Trading, Technology & Innovation Committee The Trading, Technology & Innovation Committee is mandated to assist the Board in effective discharge of its responsibilities in aspects of trading of the listed securities, information technology and enhancement of information on the securities exchange to the listed companies and the general public. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) c) Listing and Admissions Committee  The Listing and Admissions Committee is mandated to review and recommend approval of applications for admission to listing of new equity securities in any of the market segments, to recommend approval of applications for admission of new Trading Participants, new listing of securities and /or recommending suspension of listing of securities for a predetermined period as may be necessary and restoration of such securities to listing in line with the laid out procedures. d) Derivatives Market Oversight Committee The Derivatives Market Oversight Committee is mandated to deal with strategic issues and oversight roles relating to the NSE’s Derivatives Market (NEXT). The Committee has key mandate to advise on the NSE Derivatives market, address conflict of interest matters regarding futures brokers, address issues regarding design of derivatives contracts and undertaking Derivatives Market trading and surveillance functions. e) Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee The general mandate of the Self-Regulatory Organization Committee is to protect investors by monitoring and enforcing the NSE Market Participants Business Conduct and Enforcement Rules, the NSE Listing Rules, the Derivatives Rules and any other Rules of the NSE as may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market, and any other laws and the enforcement powers of which have been delegated to the SRO function of the NSE. The committee is also tasked with enforcing compliance of Capital Market Laws, Regulations, Rules, Guidelines and Directives by all Trading Participants and Issuers of Securities. Additionally, the committee reviews compliance with continuing listing obligations by listed companies and to make recommendations to the Board on the necessary action for non-compliance which include imposing penalties and other sanctions. f) Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee The mandate of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is to review the adequacy of internal and external audit programmes for the year and to monitor, review and make recommendations to Management on the adequacy of the Group’s internal control and risk management systems and to monitor, review and make recommendations to Management on the process for monitoring compliance with relevant laws and regulations, and, with the Group’s legal counsel if appropriate, any legal matters that could have a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. g) Remuneration, Nominating & Human Capital Committee The mandate of the Remuneration, Nominating & Human Capital Committee is to advise, implement and assist the Board in effective discharge of its responsibilities in relation to remunerations and the composition of the Board of the NSE and its subsidiary, structured entities and associate company and to establish a plan of continuity for executive officers and other members of senior management including the Chief Executive. Members and attendance of these Committees are provided on pages 28 – 30 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2018 Trading, Audit, Remuneration, Listing & Self-Regulatory Derivatives Membership / Finance & Strategy Technology Risk & Nominating & Director Classification Designation Board Admissions Organization Market Oversight Attendance Committee & Innovation Compliance Human Capital Committee (SRO) Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman -Board Membership S Kimani Non-executive Chairman -Listings & Admission Committee Attendance 7/7 0/0 Vice Chairman – Board Membership B Karina Non-executive Chairman Trading, Attendance 7/7 4/4 4/4 0/0 6/6 Technology & Innovation Committee Membership *** S Maviala Non-executive Attendance 7/7 2/2 0/0 4/4 3/4 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 Membership 28 Chairman Self-Regulatory H Kili Non-executive Organization (SRO) Committee Attendance 7/7 2/4 4/5 0/0 4/4 5/6 Membership *≠ ** ** ** ** Dr. W Non-executive Nyamute* Attendance 4/4 3/3 0/0 2/2 1/2 Membership ** Chairman Finance & M Turner Non-executive Strategy Committee Attendance 7/7 3/4 0/0 1/4 3/4 * Dr. Winnie Nyamute retired as a director on 30th May 2018 ** Stepped down from the Committee on 18th June 2018 *** Appointed to the Committee on 18th June 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2018 Remuneration, Derivatives Membership / Finance & Audit, Risk & Self-Regulatory Market Trading, Technology & Listing & Admissions Nominating & Director Classification Designation Board Strategy Compliance Organization (SRO) Attendance Innovation Committee Committee Human Capital Oversight Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee J Mbaru* Non-executive Membership * *** *** *** Attendance 2/4 0/2 1/2 0/0 J Mworia* Non-executive Membership * *** *** *** *** Attendance 3/4 1/2 1/2 0/0 1/2 Membership Chairperson N Devji Non-executive Remuneration, Nominating & Human Attendance 7/7 5/5 0/0 6/6 Capital Committee P Vollant Non-executive Membership **** Attendance 5/7 4/4 0/0 2/2 Chairperson Audit, Membership ** **** **** **** **** R Alaro** Non-executive Risk & Compliance Committee***** Attendance 3/3 2/2 0/0 2/2 2/2 Non-executive Membership ** **** **** **** Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 P Mwai** 29 Attendance 3/3 2/2 2/2 0/0 Non-executive Membership ** **** **** **** **** K Kittony** Attendance 2/3 1/2 1/2 0/0 1/2 Chief Executive Membership G Odundo Attendance 7/7 4/4 4/4 5/5 0/0 4/4 6/6 4/4 * Mr. Jimnah Mbaru and Mr. James Mworia retired as directors on 30th May 2018 ** Ms. Risper Alaro, Mr. Paul Mwai, Mr. Kiprono Kittony were appointed as directors on 30th May 2018 *** Stepped down from the Committee on 18th June 2018 ****Appointed to the Committee on 18th June 2018 ***** Appointed as Chairperson of the Committee on 18th June 2018 The Chief Executive is not a member of the Board Committees and attends by invitation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN THE YEAR 2018 Name External Resource Committee Members Derivatives Market Oversight Committee S Mwangi Chairperson Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 4/4 E Kigen Membership 4/4 H Muga Membership 2/4 A Mulisa Membership 2/4 J Swai Membership 4/4 Name Trading, Technology & Innovation External Resource Committee Members Committee I Onyango* Membership 1/4 N Kahoya* Membership 1/4 F Moturi * Membership 2/4 F Mwangi* Membership 2/4 Chair Fund Managers Association* Membership 1/4 * Appointed to the Committee on 18th June 2018 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FACT SHEET Number of Board Members 11 Number of Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 Number of Non-Executive Directors 1 Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Trading Participants 2 Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Listed Companies 2 Number of Executive Directors 1 Number of women on the Board 3 Separate Chairman and CEO Yes Terms of Reference for Board Committees Yes Independent Audit Committee Yes Number of financial experts on Audit Committee 3 Number of Board Meetings held in 2018 7 Number of Annual General Meetings in 2018 1 Re-election of Directors in accordance with Articles of Association Yes Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) CAPITAL STRUCTURE a) Share capital The  authorized and issued share capital of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC consists of only ordinary shares as disclosed in note 23 to the financial statements. b) Top 20 Shareholders at 31 December 2018 Number of No Shareholder shares % 1 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited A/C KE002374 41,764,400 16.0940% 2 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited A/C KE22446 25,248,413 9.7300% 3 Stanbic Nominees Limited A/C NR1030823 12,523,399 4.8260% 4 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited A/C KE003414 11,612,856 4.4750% 5 Stanbic Nominees Limited A/C NR1030824 9,236,167 3.5590% 6 The Investor Compensation Fund Board 8,750,000 3.3720% 7 The Permanent Secretary to The Treasury 8,750,000 3.3720% 8 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited A/C KE002382 7,611,967 2.9330% 9 Sterling Capital Limited 7,000,000 2.6975% 10 Nyaga Stock Brokers Limited (Under Statutory Management) 7,000,000 2.6975% 11 Discount Securities Limited (In Liquidation) 7,000,000 2.6975% 12 ABC Capital Limited 7,000,000 2.6975% 13 Kingdom Securities Limited 7,000,000 2.6975% 14 Renaissance Capital (Kenya) Limited 7,000,000 2.6975% 15 Old Mutual Securities Limited 5,415,700 2.0870% 16 Standard Chartered Nominees Non-resident A/C 9661 4,536,800 1.7480% 17 Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Limited 4,300,000 1.6570% 18 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited A/C KE002373 4,000,000 1.5420% 19 NIC Securities Limited 3,500,000 1.3490% 20 Stanbic Nominees Limited A/C NR1031142 3,446,874 1.3280% Top 20 shareholders 192,696,576 74.2570% Others 66,804,215 25.7430% Total issued shares 259,500,791 100.000% c) Distribution of Shareholders at 31 December 2018 Number of Number of % Shareholders shares Less than 500 2,224 412,385 0.159% 501 – 5,000 9,699 12,854,077 4.953% 5,001 – 10,000 619 4,445,658 1.713% 10,001 – 100,000 595 15,541,405 5.989% 100,001 – 1,000,000 54 13,529,315 5.214% Above 1,000,000 32 212,717,951 81.972% Total 13,223 259,500,791 100.000% Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) CAPITAL STRUCTURE (Continued) d) Shareholder Analysis by Domicile at 31 December 2018 Number of Shareholders Number of shares % Individual investors Local 12,363 32,713,262 12.606% East African 87 373,104 0.144% Foreign 106 3,883,703 1.497% 12,556 36,970,069 14.247% Institutional investors Local 639 92,105,219 35.493% East African 9 136,393 0.052% Foreign 19 130,289,110 50.208% 667 222,530,722 85.753% Total 13,223 259,500,791 100.000% e) Directors Holding Shares at 31 December 2018 Number of shares % Mr. Samuel Kimani 8,000 0.003% Mr. Hosea Kili 4,400 0.002% Ms. Nasim Devji 45,600 0.018% Mr. Bob Karina 85,300 0.033% Mr. Geoffrey Odundo 49,000 0.019% Total 192,300 0.075% Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICY Board Diversity STATEMENTS The NSE Board has put in place a policy to ensure the achievement of diversity in its composition. The Remuneration and Nominating Code of Corporate Governance Principles Committee assess the requisite professional mix and expertise for the The Board and Management of the NSE has put in place deliberate effort executive directors as well as Independent and Non-Executive Directors. towards ensuring full compliance with the Capital Markets Code of The Board considers factors such as: qualifications, technical expertise, Corporate Governance Practice for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 relevant industry knowledge, experience, nationality, age, gender and (the “Code”). other demographics with a view to enhancing board performance and effectiveness. In compliance with the Code, NSE sought to conduct a Governance Audit and the Legal & Compliance Audit. This was with a view to NSE promotes diversity by championing Gender Equality, alongside laying the framework for the establishment of an on-going governance other exchanges, investors, private sector and regulators. compliance program in order to ensure the Board’s goals, structure and operations are consistent with the Corporate Governance principles. The Board Profiles on pages 8-11 have more details on age, gender and qualifications among other factors. Strategic Business Solutions International Limited (SBSIL) was appointed to carry out the Governance and Legal & Compliance Audits. Although Board Induction and Training it was the first time for NSE to go through a comprehensive Governance Audit and the Legal & Compliance Audit, the Company scored The NSE Board has established very well. a formal induction program for the Board. All Board members The noted areas of improvement were mainly around the Strategic receive induction on joining planning and implementation process, which NSE is in the process of the Board and are updated addressing as we review, craft and formulate the 2020-2024 Strategic on the various skills and Plan with the help of the PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC). knowledge at regular intervals. Board members are provided In related matters, the NSE, Kenya Commercial Bank and Safaricom tied with necessary orientation in as the Top 3 companies with the best corporate governance practices the areas of the Company’s among listed companies in Kenya in 2018. This was according to the business (the Company’s annual Cytonn Corporate Governance Report – 2018 whose ranking operations, product offerings, is based on 24 metrics that consider different aspects of governance. regulatory framework and The aforementioned include board composition, ethnic and gender the business environment) in diversity, board meeting attendance, board independence, remuneration, order to enhance their effectiveness. They are also introduced to their and overall transparency. fiduciary duties and responsibilities. The Board has also put in place training programs for its members. Board Charter Board Remuneration The Board of Directors of the NSE embrace corporate governance as key to the achievement of NSE’s mission and vision, and is committed The NSE Board has established formal and transparent remuneration to applying the core governance principles. policies to attract and retain both Executive and Non-Executive Board members. These policies clearly state remuneration elements such as The NSE Board Charter outlines the: Directors’ fees and attendance allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry practice. Non-Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting attended. a) Roles, functions, responsibilities and powers of the Board, individual directors and the officials and executives of the NSE; The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share b) Powers delegated to various Board Committees of the NSE; and options or long term incentives to its Non-Executive Directors. c) Policies and practices of the Board in respect of matters such as Neither are the Non-Executive Directors eligible for provident fund. corporate governance, trading by directors, declarations and The Company has taken out insurance covers for the nonexecutive conflicts of interest, Board meeting documentation and Directors covering Directors and Officers liability insurance cover and procedures and the nomination of directors, training and group personal accident covering death, permanent total disability and medical expenses. evaluation of directors and members of Board committees. The Chief Executive is the only Executive Director on the Board and Whilst the Board Charter includes references to minimum acceptable the Company has in place a remuneration policy which is aimed at standards of conduct, the Board embraces global best practices in ensuring compensation is competitive and aligned to the company’s this regard. strategic objectives. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICY Board Evaluation STATEMENTS (Continued) The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance, against the set objectives. The Board does this by engaging the assistance of Code of Ethics and Conduct external consultants to facilitate formal Board evaluation. For the The Company has a Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy. All Board members period under review, Board performance evaluations for the Full Board and NSE employees are required to uphold the highest standards of and the various committees are scheduled to be conducted at the end of integrity, morality, ethical standards and confidentiality in line with NSE’s May 2019. The findings of the evaluation will be presented to the Board core values of ethics, integrity, confidentiality, innovation and excellence. for discussion. The performance on ethics has been good and is monitored periodically with all staff having to sign the Annual Code of Conduct Attestations. Enterprise Risk Management NSE recognizes that ethical practices brings sustainable business. We The objective of the NSE’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework are committed to playing a proactive role in a globally competitive and is to protect shareholders’ value in order to enhance NSE’s competitive prosperous nation operating on ethical business standards as evidenced advantage, improve business performance and optimize risk management by our involvement in various ethical and sustainable initiatives such as and compliance value. The framework is aligned to ISO 31000:2018 Risk the UN Global Compact, being signatory the Code of Ethics for Business Management Guidelines, COSO Enterprise Risk Management 2017 as in Kenya among others. well the applicable laws, regulations and guidelines. (More notes on page35 36) Whistleblowing The NSE Board has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy that recognizes Information and Communication Technology the difficulty its stakeholders may face in raising their concerns with regards to the Company operations. The Policy protects every employee The NSE leverages heavily on and business partner who raises a concern in good faith. The Company technology to deliver its core will treat every concern raised by an employee in good faith seriously and mandate of providing a world in a confidential manner and does not retaliate or allow any retaliation class trading platform. or discrimination by its employees of any kind against any employee who raises a concern in good faith. Stakeholders can raise their concerns with the relevant Company officials and/or through the available reporting channels. Staff and other stakeholders are regularly sensitized on the need to report any suspected unethical business practices and procedure. The summary of this policy is available in our website. Insider Dealing The NSE Board has prioritized cyber security and related Information Technology risks. To ensure confidentiality, integrity and availability of The NSE has an insider trading policy guided by Sections 32A – 33 of the various platforms, the Exchange has adopted the National Institute Part VI of the Capital Markets Act (Cap 485A) which prohibit insider of Standards and Technology Cyber Security Framework as the back trading. The policy provides procedures and guidelines with respect to bone of its Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and transactions in the NSE securities, the protection of Insider Information Cyber Security policies. Being a full member of the World Federation of and the standard of conduct expected of the NSE directors, officers Exchanges (WFE), the NSE is constantly benchmarking with international and employees. Internal stakeholders are made aware that they ought best practices as well and has tailored the policy framework relevant to not to trade in the Company’s shares while in possession of any insider securities trading. information that is not available to the public or during a closed period. NSE’s closed period covers between 1st January until publication of full The Exchange has in place relevant ICT policies, procedures as well year results and 1st July until publication of half year results. as enforcing the practices that are congruent to these policies.The Management and staff are actively driving a cybersecurity conscious Conflict of Interest culture within the organization. There is commensurate investment in setting up controls and monitoring tools to assure the various The Board has put in place a policy to manage conflict of interest. As a stakeholders of security in access and use of the ICT assets of the procedure, Directors declare any real or perceived conflict of interest organization. with the Company and such disclosures are reflected in the Minutes of the Board and Committee’s meeting. The Company Secretary maintains and updates the register of declared conflict of interest. The Board is Procurement appraised on the statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have or We have in place a robust Procurement Policy that ensures appropriate may have interests that conflict with those of the Company. risk assurance, integrity in all procurement activities, consistency across the organizations purchasing practices and openness and transparency All business transactions with Board members or their related of decision making when dealings with suppliers/service providers.The parties are carried out at arms’ length. In practice, there is an policy is based on notable principles: namely, value for money, open and acknowledgement that if it comes to the attention of a Board member fair competition, risk management, accountability and building mutually that a matter concerning the Company may result in a conflict of beneficial relationships with our suppliers. A Management Tender interest, the Board member is obligated to declare and exclude Committee oversees the award of tenders and reports to the Finance himself/herself from any deliberations, voting or decision over the and Strategy Committee of the Board based on the limits as set out in matter in conflict. the Procurement Policy and Procedures. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 34 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK The NSE’s enterprise risk management (ERM) framework and risk aware culture, enables the Company to respond to a dynamic business environment with significant regulatory change, drive business performance, Innovate and grow, and protect and enhance value for our stakeholders: Risk Culture and Key Principles The NSE embeds a risk culture, where strategy, performance management and risk management are linked thus ensuring that risks and opportunities are effectively identified and managed appropriately. The risk culture is actively promoted by the Chief Executive and Executive Committee. The Chief Executive and overall Executive Committee discusses the NSE risk profile on a monthly basis and more regularly as necessary. Focused risk initiatives and awareness programmes are in place to improve operational stability and operational resilience. Risk management is incorporated into performance measurements, with clear risk accountability. Governance of Risk The Board retains the ultimate responsibility for the oversight of risk. The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee (ARCC) assists the Board and: • provides risk management oversight by monitoring the implementation of the NSE ERM framework; • drives corrective actions in instances where risks manifest as incidents; and • is responsible for the review of all risk-related policies, frameworks and roadmaps, to ensure alignment to the Board’s stance on risk management. The Executive Committee is accountable to the Board for implementing the agreed risk management principles and monitoring the process of ongoing risk management. The executive head of each business unit is accountable to ensure adherence to these principles and for integrating effective risk management practices into day-to-day operations, in line with the NSE’s risk management framework and policies The Strategy, Risk and Compliance Department provides coordination and advisory role on strategic, operational, financial and compliance risk management with risks champions drawn from each department responsible for identification, monitoring and reporting of the key risks and incidents facing their functional units. Risk Reporting Oversight Risk disclosure and oversight are fundamental components of risk management. • Ultimate risk management oversight responsibility Board of Directors • Establish risk policies and tolerances • Reviews and reports on significant issues Executive • Control risk function and Committee infrastructure • Engage in risk management at directed frequency • Own management of risks treatments • Avoid, accept, transfer, Departmental Heads mitigate, and or exploit “Risk Owners” • Report on risk exposure/ actions in business area The risk management function enables executive management and risk owners to carry out their respective responsibilities. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 35 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK (Continued) Achieve our strategic business objectives  Comply with all applicable laws and regulations Risk Appetite Policy Statement Risk appetite is a measure and allocation of the amount of risk that the NSE is willing to accept in pursuit of its strategy. The NSE will only tolerate risks that permit us to:  Conduct our business in a safe and sound manner  Protect and/or enhance our value Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 36 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 37 Shareholders Listed Firms and Ibuka Hostee Companies Investors (Individual, Advisors (Nominated Advisors and Corporate, Local, Foreign) Authorised Securities Dealers) The NSE Board of Directors Intermediaries (Fund and Employees Managers, Pension Funds) NSE The Chairman’s Statement (Continued) STAKEHOLDERS Trading Participants and Kenya Association of Stockbrokers and Sustainability Partners 38 Investment Banks Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 38 Trade and Membership Central Depository and Associations (REITs Association of Settlement Corporation Kenya, Kenya Bankers Association, Kenya Private Sector Alliance) Government and Regulatory Bodies (The Strategic Partners (African Securities Exchanges National Treasury, Ministry of Industry, Trade Association, East Africa Securities Exchanges Association, and Cooperatives, Capital Markets Authority, World Federation of Exchanges, Association of Futures Retirement Benefits Authority, Markets, United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges Privatisation Commission) Initiative, United Nations Global Compact) Media SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Our Approach to Sustainability for local and international investors looking to gain exposure to Kenya’s and Africa’s economic growth, and optimize our capital to ensure Since our inception in 1954, the NSE has continued to be part of Kenya’s comprehensive and sustainable business. growth and success story. The NSE is committed to becoming a leading securities Exchange globally by offering investors innovative investment In this regard, we endeavour to engage in initiatives that are not only instruments to mobilize local resources and international capital flow economically progressive, environmentally cautious and socially for growth and development. This growth comes against a backdrop responsible in line with our mission, vision, values and corporate of a rapidly changing business and challenging operating environment strategy. Additionally, our global memberships in the World Federation both locally and internationally. Today more than ever; investors, of Exchanges underpin our commitment to uphold highest standards of institutions and other drivers of capital and economic growth are more international best practices in our operations as we strive to integrate concerned on how business operations are conducted in an economic the Exchange with global financial markets. and sustainable manner. Aligning our Sustainability with Sustainable Our approach to sustainability is enshrined in our core values of Development Goals (SDGs) supporting an ethical business, maintaining highest levels of integrity and confidentiality and embracing a culture of excellence and The NSE is a member of the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges innovation through an enterprise wide approach. As a business, we are (SSE) Initiative, which aims at ensuring that Exchanges are well placed driven by a firm belief that investing in our communities is an essential to impact and foster sustainable development through placing special ingredient to our long term success. focus on four Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to which we have aligned our Sustainability Strategy as below; As an Exchange, we are cognizant of the fundamental role we play in the local and regional market. We offer a world class trading facility SDG TARGET NSE’S COMMITMENT Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities Gender for leadership at all levels of decision making in political, economic and Promote gender diversity among Equality public life. Ensure accessibility of capital markets services to female listed companies. (Goal 5) entrepreneurs and investors. Create and promote investment Climate Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional products that promote awareness Change capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction or mobilize capital earmarked to (Goal 13) and early warning support projects with benefits to the environment. Sustainability Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to Provide guidance and training for Information adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information companies on environmental, social (Goal 12) into their reporting cycle. and governance (ESG) reporting. Enhance Global Partnerships for sustainable development Enhance dialogue by joining the Global complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and UN SSE as a partner Exchange. Partnerships share knowledge, expertise, technologies and financial resources Participating in the SSE Global and (Goal 17) to support the achievement of sustainable development goals in all Regional Dialogues. countries, particularly developing countries. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 39 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued) We run a flagship financial education program dubbed, The NSE 1 Striving for Fair, Transparent Investment Challenge. The challenge, now in its eleventh year is aimed and Efficient Capital Markets at enhancing financial literacy amongst the youth while inculcating a savings and investments culture. The annual online trading competition is a simulation of activities that happen around the trading of various securities listed on the NSE. Capital Markets are a crucial enabler for driving the growth and development of the Kenyan economy. Our role of enabling companies Since its inception, the initiative has so far impacted over 100,000 and government access cost effective capital is crucial to the growth participants, equipping them with fundamental financial and investments of Kenya’s GDP. Transparent and efficient markets are therefore key skills. to attracting and maintaining local and international investors whilst protecting the interest of shareholders. An investment in knowledge To this end, the NSE has put in place effective policies and procedures pays the best interest to grow a fair transparent and efficient capital market. The NSE works closely with the Capital Markets Authority and other regulators to ensure that highest levels of compliance by listed companies and trading The NSE also works with various secondary and tertiary institutions to participants are upheld for the development of a more sustainable enhance financial literacy and knowledge through sensitization visits capital market. to the NSE. The visits are targeted to Secondary school and tertiary institutions of learning and have played a fundamental role in enabling The NSE has fostered disclosure of material information by listed the NSE nurture a new crop of future investors in Kenya. companies and trading participants thus enhancing market confidence and integrity. The NSE continues to uphold its commitment to improve financial knowledge among market players and the investing public through We are committed to streamlining our standards to global standards offering premium training programs that place special focus on of best practice as we strive to integrate the NSE with global growing expert knowledge and skillset among players in our market for financial markets.­­­­­ sustainable growth. 3 Democratizing Access to the Capital 2 Championing Financial Education for All Markets #MAkibaNiYetu Investing in financial literacy yields significant benefits for both the economy and the society. Financial literacy has the potential to reduce poverty, boost economic growth through strengthening of the financial system and enhance quality of living thus building robust communities. Enhancing financial literacy among Kenyans is at the heart of our strategy of growing local retail participation in our market. To this end, the NSE has a dedicated fully fledged Public Education and Training department which champion’s financial education programs in Kenya through strategic initiatives. As we seek to consolidate our position as an attractive market to foreign investors, we are keen in enabling more Kenyans access formal financial systems of savings and investments to grow and develop themselves. Financial Inclusion is a critical part of our strategic initiative of growing Kenyans ability to participate in the capital markets. In view of the above, the NSE in association with other partners developed M-Akiba the world’s first mobile traded Government infrastructure bond. The M-Akiba bond has enabled us leverage on technology i.e. increased mobile phone penetration in providing Capital Markets services to Students participate in a training on the Securities Market at the NSE. Kenyans. The bond has a low entry point of Kshs. 3,000 which is considerably less than the minimum Kshs. 50,000 required to invest in other Treasury Bonds, enabling Kenyans from all walks of life to invest in a Government Infrastructure bond. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 40 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued) 4. Promoting Diversity and Inclusion 5. Laying the Foundation for Financing Environmentally Beneficial Projects Climate change continues to be a leading cause of poverty and has contributed greatly to degradation of standards of quality of life among many Kenyans and other African citizens. Kenya is an agricultural based economy with over 25% of the GDP linked directly to the agricultural sector. With many African counties including Kenya highly dependent on agriculture, extreme climatic changes have highly affected growth and development. In sub-Saharan Africa, economic growth from agriculture is 11 times more effective at reducing extreme poverty than any other sector (source International Fund for Agricultural Development) . To counter the extreme negative effects of environmental impact, the NSE in association with other players launched the Green Bond Programme Kenya. The programme is aimed at developing a vibrant green bonds programme in Kenya. Women participate in the 2018 Financial and Investments training conducted by the NSE. Green Bonds are bonds whose proceeds are earmarked for projects with environmental benefits, mostly related to climate change mitigation or adaptation. The NSE has taken a strategic leadership position in promoting diversity Green Bonds will enable the NSE offer investor’s financial instruments and inclusion among listed companies for sustainable business growth. that balance financial returns with environmental benefits, enable Diversity encompasses various aspects of gender, age, experience and investors hedge against climate policy risk while providing issuers expertise as well as education among Boards and management of additional source of financing whilst diversifying their investors. listed companies. The NSE has spearheaded the adoption of listing rules incorporating Companies that embrace diversity and are more inclusive companies listing of Green Bonds and will work with other market players to have a better understanding of the business environment they establish a vibrant domestic green market that will spur financing of operate in. This enables the companies to identify and seize environmentally beneficial projects. opportunities whilst minimizing risks. These companies are also well placed to react faster to changes in business and operating environment. A diversity based and inclusive corporate climate has been linked to financial success and long-term sustainability of 6. Community Investment every business. In commemoration of the 2018 International Women’s Day, The NSE joined other Exchanges globally to “Ring the Bell for Gender Equality” to raise awareness on the importance of Gender Equality to both business and sustainable development. The annual event was followed by a full day financial and investments training for business women in Kiambu County. The training which was held in partnership with the UN Global Compact, UN Women and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) had the objective of economically empowering women on the savings and financial opportunities available within the capital markets. (From Left) Renowned media personality Pinky Ghelani makes a call to an investor as stockbroker Sheema Shah looks on during the 2018 Charity Trading Day. Women share a light moment during The 2018 Financial and Investments Training. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 41 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued) The NSE has continued to impact communities through its annual flagship The beneficiaries for this year’s Charity Trading Day were aligned community investment initiative, the Charity Trading Day. The initiative to this year’s focus and included; We the Change Foundation, SOS focuses on enriching lives through the support of various strategic Children’s Home, Genevieve Audrey Foundation, Borana Ranch humanitarian and environmental initiatives. Now in its fourth year, the Conservancy, Joy Children’s Home and the Association for the Physically 2018 Charity Trading Day successfully raised over Kshs. 7.5 Million, funds Disabled of Kenya. which have played a significant role in social and environmental initiatives in the country. The 2018 Charity Trading Day placed special focus on United Nations 7. Cyber Security Sustainable Development Goal four of “ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promotion of lifelong learning opportunities for all.” As the principal securities Exchange and the main channel for foreign direct investments in Kenya, the NSE highly considers information security core to its successful business operations. To this end, the NSE has put in place efficient cyber security policies and regulations to ensure investor information is well protected from cyber threats emanating locally and internationally. As cyber security becomes a leading business challenge globally, the NSE has incorporated cutting edge security aspects in its ongoing Automated Trading Systems upgrade which is scheduled to end by the first half of 2019. Our focus is to ensure investor information is highly protected and free from any form of cyber threats. 8. Employee Development (From Left) Media Personalities Jeff Mote, Shaffie Weru and Nyamari Ongegu (Nyashinski) make their way to the 2018 Charity Trading Day. NSE Staff receive a word of motivation from Pastor Angie Murenga during the end of year celebration at the NSE. The NSE is cognizant of the fundamental role our people play in ensuring the group is in a position to achieve its strategic goals and objectives. As a company, we have developed a pool of highly skilled employees through strategic training and development initiatives. Guided by a strong commitment to offer bespoke services to our local and international clients, we have aligned our training and people development programs (From Left) stokebroker Tito Namu and Media Personality Sheila Mwanyigha pose for to match industry trends and developments. This year, we introduced a photo during the 2018 Charity Trading Day. monthly learning hours aimed at growing our people knowledge of all business segments of the group Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 42 VALUE CREATION PROCESS Context Our Stakeholder Relationships NSE enables value creation by providing a trusted and well-regulated NSE actively engages with its key stakeholder groups. For example, financial market infrastructure to support the economy. Our value the Green Bonds Program Kenya (GBPK) has been a key partner in the creation process is embedded in our vision (To be a leading securities structuring of the first green bond product. NSE also works closely with exchange in Africa, with a global reach.) the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (UN SSE) to encourage sustainable running of stock exchanges. It also sits in several Core focus of value creation working groups of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), influencing global policies affecting world exchanges. The NSE Investment Challenge The ongoing relevance as an exchange and our ability to create and the annual Charity Trading Day are the flagship projects in Social long-term value for stakeholders, are dependent on various forms of Investment. We are able to respond to the needs of our stakeholders capital/areas of values creation in our finances, technologies, brand and reinforce confidence in our brand because we have reliable systems, equity, talent, stakeholder relationships and sustainability. our people are skilled and client-centred, and we apply our financial resources efficiently. Our Finances NSE PLC’s funding is sourced from shareholders and internally generated Our Innovation income. These funds are used to run NSE’s operations with a view to Innovation is a core value of the NSE. The Company’s innovative capacity generate profits. As at December 31, 2018, these stood at Issued Share is demonstrated by the design and launch of M-Akiba, the world’s first Capital of KShs.1,038 million, Share Premium of KShs. 277 million and mobile traded bond. NSE continues to explore other global disruptive Retained Earnings of KShs. 781 million. Financial resources are required technologies in a bid to enhance its offering to investors. The NSE’s to operate the business and support growth, expansion and innovation. brand includes the technologies and systems in place and the intellectual NSE balances the need to distribute value to investors through a balanced know-how we need to facilitate an efficient and world-class market. The return to shareholders, reinvestment and reduced prices to clients. NSE brand relies on technology delivery and positive relations with our stakeholders. Our Technology At the core of NSE’s operations is a robust ICT foundation. This comprises Our Talent (People) two world class trading systems for equities (Automated Trading System NSE takes pride in its talented staff whose aggregated knowledge (ATS)) and bonds (Broker Back Office (BBO)), coupled with comprehensive and experience enable the company to grow and achieve more. The software, hardware and disaster recovery resources. The equities trading NSE is a specialized organization requiring competent, motivated and infrastructure is being upgraded and due for go-live in H1 2019. As a diverse employees with specialist skills in financial markets technology, technology-driven entity, our key capital consists of the IT systems and governance, risk and financial products trading. infrastructure used for securely processing transactions between buyers and sellers, and processing analytical data to support our information We work to attract, develop and retain high caliber employees who services, as well as regulating our Primary and Secondary Markets. are instrumental in the execution of our strategy and delivery of world-class markets. Implementing world-class technology and remaining at the cutting edge of industry advances are core to our business mode. Investment in new systems and related employee skills can maximize our outputs and enhance outcomes for our brand, people and stakeholders. 50 54% 46% Total Number Males Females of Employees Value Creation Schedule 2018 2017 Variance KShs ‘000 KShs ‘000 % Total Income 782,137 752,718 3.9% Stakeholder contribution Taxes paid to Government 57,491 29,789 93.0% Shareholders dividend paid 77,850 70,065 11.1% Payment to suppliers 217,750 198,116 9.9% Human capital 228,170 183,719 24.2% Note: Taxes to Government exclude VAT and withholding tax paid for supplier invoices Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 43 MATERIAL ISSUES Derivatives The NSE was granted an approval to operate a Derivatives Market by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) in October 2015. Subsequently and following receipt of interim no objection for Clearing Members by the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), in May 2018, the CMA granted a provisional approval to the NSE to undertake a pilot testing phase of the Derivatives Market for a period of six months. The participants of the Derivatives Market Pilot Test were: the Co-operative Bank of Kenya and Stanbic Bank Kenya who participated as Clearing Members and AIB Capital, Genghis Capital Investment Bank, Sterling Capital, Standard Investment Bank, Faida Investment Bank, Kingdom Securities Limited and NIC Securities who participated as Trading Members. The overall aim and objective of the Pilot Test was to perform end-to-end tests of the derivatives systems and processes in a live environment. The Pilot Test also offered a valuable opportunity for capacity building across the various participants. The Pilot Test was comprised of two phases (Phase I and Phase II) which were largely similar, with the key distinction being the utilization of dummy cash balances and accounts in Phase I while having real cash balances and accounts in Phase II of testing. The test scenarios and focus areas were: • Setup of the Broker Back Office (BBO) which handles the Trading Members back-office operations such as client cash management and generation of client statements; • Creation and mapping of client and proprietary accounts; • Loading of cash into Trust Accounts in Phase II and virtual cash in Phase I; • Execution of trades; and • Completion of End-of-Day (EOD) processes. Further exceptional tests undertaken were: • Monthly margin interest reconciliation and distribution; • Custodial process flow; and • Portfolio transfers/porting. The Exchange was satisfied with the outcomes of the overall Pilot Tests and expressed confidence in the abilities of the market participants and itself in being able to undertake the risk management, trading, clearing and settlement responsibilities required of them. The Exchange has also been satisfied with the appropriateness of the currently approved futures contracts and believes they can serve as a basis for new equity futures in the live market. The Exchange is in the final preparatory stages and expects to roll out the Derivatives Market by the end of the first half of 2019. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 44 MATERIAL ISSUES (Continued) Cash Market The first pillar of the NSE Strategic Plan seeks to drive revenue growth and diversification. The Cash Markets Section of the NSE is tasked with the responsibility of driving revenue growth of the Exchange through the cash markets products. Some of the responsibilities of the division include: a) Enhancing and developing new cash products and markets in a sustainable and profitable way. b) Developing strategies that enhance the growth in Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), Green Bonds, and Asset Backed Securities. c) Growing a pipeline of potential issuers and selling benefits of listing on the Exchange and implementing new strategic initiatives targeting business growth including new acquisitions, establishment of new trading platforms and products and increased number of listed companies. d) Continuous research in order to identify present and future infrastructure and market challenges as well as develop strategies to address the challenges. e) Formulation, production, and distribution of all information on products. f)  Exploring, developing and maintaining strategic linkages with funding agencies as well as maintaining and improving strategic relationships with other Securities Exchanges. The NSE Targets more listings on the Main Market and Alternative Market Segments and renewing this year’s maturing bonds and facilitating issuance of new corporate bonds. We launched Ibuka on December 17, 2018; a Non-Listed Platform for hosting aspirational entities driven by a firm commitment to embrace impactful changes that would make them investor ready. Ibuka, which is a Swahili word for emerge, is an incubator and accelerator for companies seeking to grow their potential as they leverage on intellectual capital, financial capital as well as visibility from the NSE. Through Ibuka, we are also building a pipeline of companies that eventually raise capital at the NSE hence increasing listings and uptake of NSE products. Stanlib Fahari I-REIT was listed in November 2015 and over the three year duration the REIT has performed well. Fahari I-REIT net earnings grew by 13% to Kshs. 193.5 million in 2018 compared to Kshs. 171 million in 2017. REITs remain an attractive channel for capital rising in real estate and the NSE is engaging potential developers to explore REITs. The NSE together with The REITs Association of Kenya (RAK) is also lobbying for tax exemptions of Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs) fully owned by REITs to encourage REITs issuers which will support the development of the REITs Market. Capacity building initiatives are going on through forums and conferences aimed at increasing awareness on REITs. The New Gold ETF listed in March 2017 and NSE is looking into partnering with market players to increase activity in trading of New Gold ETF. The NSE is working on initiatives to reach out to potential issuers in the market and cross listings from other markets. ETFS are attractive alternative investment asset class for investors with limited risk profile and low volatility preferences. The M-Akiba product pilot was carried out between March and April 2017 and launched in July 2017. Improved product awareness and marketing campaign was done over the two years leading to a progressive uptake on M-Akiba. The Product Review Committee (PRC) of the NSE as well as the cross-organizational team assessed the previous performances in a bid to improve future issuances. As part of the strategy of diversifying products in the Kenya capital markets, the framework to issue listed and unlisted green bonds has been set up. A green bond is a fixed income instrument whose proceeds are used to finance or refinance projects which generate climate or other environmental benefits that conform to green guidelines and standards. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 45 The Chairman’s Statement (Continued) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 46 NSE FIVE-YEAR STRATEGY The NSE strategy 2015-2019 is coming to an end in 2019. Therefore, the Company has embarked on the process of reviewing and formulating a new strategy for the years 2020-2024. Our technology A reliable and innovative technology platform that enables and drives growth. Our culture A dynamic organization that attracts and retains top talent. Our Purpose To help stimulate and support vibrant and growing capital markets in Kenya Our Goal To be the leading securities exchange in Africa, with global reach. Our Strategy (2015-2019) Priority areas were to drive market growth and build our reputation as a leading exchange in Africa. Build reputation as a Strengthening Drive revenue growth trusted company and an organizational and diversification investment capabilities and talent destination of choice management •Achieve 40% YoY •Invest in key resource gaps revenue growth. •Successfully list the •Strengthen governance • Achieve 88 equity listings Exchange (60% float by and develop full SRO (69 on MIMS and 19 on 2019). capability by Q3 2016. GEMS). •Transform relationship •Strengthen our people •Launch and scale new with CMA and Treasury. value preposition products including REITs, •Develop and execute including remuneration ETFs, and derivatives (from strategic communications management review. 5% to 12% of total campaign on NSE •Build culture based revenues by 2017). transformation (Q1 2015). excellence, transparency •Achieve 40% and 25% •Expand regional and and inclusivity. CAGR in equities and global engagement bonds turnover between including WFE member 2015-2019. status, MSCI ranking by •Launch technological Q1 2016. innovations for day trading, mobile and online trading. Our Proposed 2020-2024 Strategy The 2020-2024 strategy currently in formulation, is informed by our clients’ needs, our assessment of the global macroeconomic context, broad financial market services as well as more specific market infrastructure trends and developments, and by the global competitive context. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 47 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Summary Consolidated Statement of Profit & Loss & Other Comprehensive Income Income Operating income 626,191 607,438 552,164 663,903 691,736 Interest income 116,341 98,569 94,766 101,010 39,514 Other income 39,605 46,711 70,255 43,344 90,651 Total income 782,137 752,718 717,185 808,257 821,901 Expenses (560,300) (495,856) (487,291) (448,323) (403,831) Share of profit of associate 19,012 12,324 3,221 21,560 23,741 Profit before tax 240,849 269,186 233,115 381,494 441,811 Profit after tax & Other Comprehensive income 187,365 218,806 183,754 305,653 320,067 Summary Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Total assets Property, equipment & investment property 538,824 530,238 497,638 472,074 487,276 Intangible assets 159,257 152,729 168,084 157,048 135,216 Investment in associate company 127,581 111,374 99,134 100,703 82,457 Government securities & corporate bonds 91,643 330,619 214,730 125,076 192,088 Long-term restricted investments 156,521 148,391 143,204 135,921 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 693,097 418,073 479,359 444,035 640,655 Short-term restricted cash & investments 338,202 302,015 292,505 333,500 Other assets 113,263 114,781 119,091 149,878 147,412 Total assets 2,218,388 2,108,220 2,013,745 1,918,235 1,685,104 Shareholders funds Share capital 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 778,500 778,500 Share premium 277,185 277,185 277,185 277,185 277,185 Retained earnings 781,224 694,049 547,852 718,753 486,861 Revaluation & Other reserves (664) 2,649 105 319 516 Shareholders funds 2,095,748 2,011,886 1,863,145 1,774,757 1,543,062 Total liabilities 122,640 96,334 150,600 143,478 142,042 Total shareholders funds & liabilities 2,218,388 2,108,220 2,013,745 1,918,235 1,685,104 Key indicators Total dividend declared and proposed (Kshs’000) 127,155 77,850 70,066 95,366 73,957 Basic Earning Per Share Shs 0.73 0.83 0.71 1.18 2.13 Dividend per share Shs 0.49 0.30 0.27 0.49 0.38 Weighted average number of shares during the year 259,500,791 259,500,791 259,500,791 259,500,791 150,020,604 The current NSE dividend policy provides for a maximum dividend payout of 40% of eligible profit after tax as dividend. The proposed 2018 dividend includes a special dividend of Kshs 0.20 per share NSE share price Annual High (Sh.) 21.75 25.00 30.25 27.50 28.00 Annual Low (Sh.) 13.60 11.00 12.85 18.00 17.00 Share price at year end (Sh.) 14.55 19.70 14.65 24.75 20.50 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 48 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The directors present their Integrated Report t together with the audited financial statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE/the “Company”/the “Exchange”) and its subsidiary and structured entities (together, the “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2018, which show the state of affairs of the Company and the Group. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Company is the sole securities exchange licensed by the Capital Markets Authority to promote, develop, support and carry on the business of a securities exchange and to discharge all the functions of a securities exchange in Kenya. NSE Clear Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the NSE. The principal objectives of NSE Clear Limited are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to provide clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry out all activities that pertain to a clearing house. The license to operate a derivatives exchange was issued by the Capital Markets Authority to the NSE on 19 October 2015. No transactions in derivatives were carried out in the year ended 31 December 2018 as the market is expected to be launched in the 1st quarter of 2019. The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) are trusts whose main purpose is to strengthen the financial integrity of the derivatives market, ensure settlement of transactions in derivatives securities in case of default by a clearing member and satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the default of the trading members. The Board of Directors of the NSE Clear Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage and administer these funds. BUSINESS REVIEW In 2018, the Group achieved key milestones in line with its’s mission and corporate strategy. The NSE gained admission as a full member of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE). The membership will give the NSE the opportunity to participate in major decision making forums on policy and regulatory matters pertaining to global capital markets. The NSE launched its incubation and acceleration programme dubbed Ibuka, which means ‘‘emerge’’ in Kiswahili. Ibuka will play a critical role in enabling Kenyan businesses access the capital markets and thus ease their listing journey and experience. The NSE also launched its premium mobile application, the NSE App in an effort to democratize access to the NSE and also deepen the market. Additionally, the NSE hosted the inaugural National Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) Conference in partnership with the REITs Association of Kenya (RAK) to spur activity in the REITs Market. The Group’s profit after tax reduced by 12% from Kshs 216 million in 2017 to Kshs 191 million in 2018 due to increased administrative costs. Operating income increased by 3% from Kshs. 607 million in 2017 to Kshs. 626 million in 2018 mainly due to higher equity turnover. Interest income increased by 18% from Kshs. 99 million in 2017 to Kshs. 116 million in 2018 due to prudent management of funds and deposits despite the prevailing lower interest rates. Administrative expenses increased by 13% from Kshs. 496 million in 2017 to Kshs. 560 million in 2018 mainly arising from a salary review alignment that was done in 2018 and a revaluation deficit on the valuation of the NSE building. Total assets increased nominally by 5% from Kshs. 2,101 million in 2017 to Kshs. 2,218 million in 2018. Shareholder funds grew by 4% from Kshs 2,012 million in 2017 to Kshs 2,096 million in 2018. Return on equity decreased to 9.1% (2017 – 10.9%) and return on assets decreased to 8.6% (2017 – 10.4%). Cost income ratio increased from 66% in 2017 to 72% in 2018 due mainly to the salary review alignment and revaluation deficit on the building. DIVIDEND The Group profit for the year of Sh 190,678,000 (2017: Sh 216,250,000) has been added to retained earnings. The directors recommend the approval of a first and final dividend of Sh 0.49 per share amounting to Sh 127,155,000 comprising of an ordinary dividend of Sh 0.29 per share and a special dividend of Sh 0.20 per share (2017: Sh 0.30 per share amounting to Sh 77,850,000). DIRECTORS Dr. Winnie Nyamute, Mr. Jimnah Mbaru and Mr. James Mworia retired as directors on 30 May 2018. Mr. Paul Mwai, Ms. Risper Alaro and Mr. Kiprono Kittony were appointed as directors on 30 May 2018. The current members of the Board of Directors are as shown on page 6. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 49 DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Continued) DISCLOSURES TO AUDITOR The directors confirm that with respect to each director at the time of approval of this report: a) There was, as far as each director is aware, no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and b) Each director had taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director so as to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. TERMS OF APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS PricewaterhouseCoopers continue in office in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and Section 721 of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditor. This responsibility includes the approval of the audit engagement contract and the associated fees on behalf of the shareholders. By order of the Board John Maonga Secretary 22 March 2019 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 50 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT Statement of Group’s policy on directors’ remuneration a) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC The Board establishes and approves formal and transparent remuneration policies to attract and retain both executive and non-executive Board members. These policies clearly state remuneration elements such as Directors’ fees and attendance allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry. Non-Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting attended. They are not eligible for provident fund membership. The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share options or long term incentives to its nonexecutive Directors. The company has taken out insurance covers for the non-executive Directors covering Directors and Officers liability insurance cover and group personal accident covering death, permanent total disability and medical expenses. The Chief Executive is the only executive director on the Board and the company has in place a remuneration policy which is aimed at ensuring compensation is competitive and aligned to the company’s strategic objectives. The Executive Director’s remuneration and benefits consists of:• A monthly salary determined on appointment • An annual bonus based on the performance of the company, individual performance and general inflation considerations. • Contributory staff provident scheme • Non cash benefits relating to a company maintained vehicle and insurance cover. There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration policy during the year 2018. b) NSE Clear Limited A managing director or other executive officer shall receive such remuneration (whether by way of salary, commission or participation in profits, or partly in one way and partly in another) as the directors may determine. There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration policy during the year 2018. c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) In accordance with the Trust Deed of the Funds, the Board of Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints the trustees of the Fund subject to approval by the CMA. The number of trustees is set at a minimum of Three (3). Any person, whether or not domiciled, resident or carrying on business or in the case of a body corporate carrying on business in Kenya may be appointed and hold office as a trustee. There were no substantial changes to the trustees’ remuneration policy during the year 2018. Contract of Service a) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC In accordance with Article 93 of the Articles of Association of the Company, unless and until otherwise from time to time determined by an ordinary resolution of the Company, but always subject to the provisions of the Kenyan Companies Act (the Act) and the Capital Markets Act (CMA) regulations, the number of Directors (including the Chief Executive and excluding alternates) shall not be less than Seven (7) and not more than Eleven (11) in number and shall be elected in accordance with the Act, the Capital Markets Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. Two Directors are elected by the members from among or to represent the trading participants and a further two Directors are elected by the members from among nominees of companies listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange to represent the said listed companies. Any other directors are elected by the members in accordance with the Companies Act provided that at all times at least one third of the Directors must be non-executive Directors. If at any time the number of Directors falls below the minimum number fixed by or in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, the remaining Directors may act for the purpose of convening a general meeting or for the purpose of bringing the number of Directors to such minimum, and for no other purpose The Non-Executive Directors are not under contract but are subject to retirement by rotation at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). CMA regulations provide for fixed terms of office for the company’s Chairman and Chief Executive, which shall include a maximum term of office of two consecutive years for the Chairman and four years renewable once for the Chief Executive. The Chief Executive’s contract within the period under review was for a Four (4) years period running from 1 March 2015. Under the terms of the contract, either party may, not less than six months to the expiry of this contract, notify the other of their intention not to extend the contract, otherwise the contract shall be automatically renewed for a further final period of four years. This contract has been renewed for a further Four (4) year period with effect from 1 March 2019. Either Party may also terminate the Agreement without assigning any reasons, at any time, by giving to the other not less than six months’ notice in writing, or six months’ salary in lieu of notice, at the end of which the Agreement shall determine. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 51 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued) INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued) Contract of Service (continued) b) NSE Clear Limited In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), the directors have power at any time, and from time to time, to appoint any person to be a director, either to fill a casual vacancy, or as an addition to the existing directors, but so that the total number of directors shall not at any time exceed the number fixed in accordance with the Articles. Any director so appointed shall hold office until he is removed or his office is vacated, in each case in accordance with these Articles. The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of their body to the office of managing director, or to any other executive office under the Company, for such period and on such terms as they think fit, and, subject to the terms of any agreement entered into in any particular case, may revoke such appointment. The appointment of such managing director or other executive officer shall be automatically determined if he ceases from any cause to be a director. Other than the Managing Director, the Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at every Annual General Meeting (AGM). c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) The Trustees are not under contract. The office of a trustee becomes vacant if: the trustee resigns with a one month’s notice; becomes mentally or physically incapacitated; or by removal by the Board of NSE Clear Limited by a resolution. A trustee can also retire at any time by giving a three (3) months written notice to the Board. In the event of the number of trustees falling below three, the Board shall, subject to the approval of the CMA, appoint such additional trustees as shall be necessary to make their number upto three, save where there is appointed a sole corporate trustee. Statement of voting on the Directors’ remuneration report at the Previous Annual General Meeting a) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC During the Annual General Meeting held on 30th May 2018, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2017 by show of hands. At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th May 2019, approval will be sought from shareholders for the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2018. b) NSE Clear Limited During the Annual General Meeting held on 17th May 2018, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2017 by show of hands. At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14th May 2019, approval will be sought from shareholders for the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2018. c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) The Funds do not hold annual general meetings. The fees for the Trustees are approved by the NSE Clear Limited Board. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 52 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued) INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT The following table shows a single figure remuneration for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Executive Director in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31st December 2018 together with the comparative figures for 2017. Year ended 31 December 2018 Gross pay Provident Sitting + other scheme Fees allowances allowances contribution Total Name Category Kshs Kshs Kshs Kshs Kshs Samuel Kimani* Non-Executive 714,286 1,211,429 1,925,715 Bob Karina* Non-Executive 571,429 1,371,429 1,942,858 Dr. Winnie Nyamute* Non-Executive 214,286 714,286 928,572 Hosea Kili* Non-Executive 428,571 1,178,571 1,607,142 Sharon Maviala Non-Executive 428,571 885,714 1,314,285 Jimnah Mbaru Non-Executive 214,286 185,714 400,000 Nasim Devji Non-Executive 428,571 864,286 1,292,857 Michael Turner Non-Executive 428,571 750,000 1,178,571 James Mworia Non-Executive 214,286 321,429 535,715 Paul Vollant* Non-Executive 428,571 907,143 1,335,714 Paul Mwai Non-Executive 214,286 428,571 642,857 Risper Alaro Non-Executive 214,286 514,286 728,572 Kiprono Kittony Non-Executive 214,286 242,857 457,143 Geoffrey Odundo Executive 21,730,273 1,988,648 23,718,921 4,714,283 9,575,715 21,730,273 1,988,648 38,008,922 *Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2018 is amounts relating to fees earned for services rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below: Sitting Allowances NSE Clear NSE IPF NSE SGF Total Kshs Kshs Kshs Kshs Samuel Kimani 114,286 114,286 114,286 342,858 Bob Karina 114,286 114,286 114,286 342,858 Dr. Winnie Nyamute 57,143 57,143 57,143 171,429 Paul Vollant 85,714 85,714 85,714 257,142 Hosea Kili 57,143 57,143 57,143 171,429 428,572 428,572 428,572 1,285,716 Mr Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit). Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 53 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued) INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued) Year ended 31 December 2017 Gross pay Provident Sitting + other scheme Fees allowances allowances contribution Total Name Category Kshs Kshs Kshs Kshs Kshs Samuel Kimani* Non-Executive 714,286 1,031,429 1,745,715 Bob Karina* Non-Executive 571,429 1,092,857 1,664,286 Dr. Winnie Nyamute* Non-Executive 428,571 1,235,714 1,664,285 Hosea Kili Non-Executive 428,571 821,429 1,250,000 Sharon Maviala Non-Executive 428,571 514,286 942,857 Jimnah Mbaru Non-Executive 428,571 342,857 771,428 Nasim Devji Non-Executive 428,571 485,714 914,285 Michael Turner Non-Executive 428,571 864,286 1,292,857 James Mworia Non-Executive 428,571 300,000 728,571 Paul Vollant* Non-Executive 428,571 650,000 1,078,571 Geoffrey Odundo Executive 16,537,500 1,632,960 18,170,460 4,714,283 7,338,572 16,537,500 1,632,960 30,223,315 *Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2017 is amounts relating to fees earned for services rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below: Sitting Allowances NSE Clear NSE IPF NSE SGF Total Kshs Kshs Kshs Kshs Samuel Kimani 114,286 114,286 114,286 342,858 Bob Karina 85,714 85,714 85,714 257,142 Dr. Winnie Nyamute 114, 286 114, 286 114, 286 342,858 Paul Vollant 57,143 57,143 57,143 171,429 371,429 371,429 371,429 1,114,287 Mr Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit). John Maonga Secretary 22 March 2019 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 54 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of its profit or loss for that year. The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and Group keep proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Company and Group; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group; and that enables them to prepare financial statements of the Company and Group that comply with prescribed financial reporting standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act 2015. They also accept responsibility for: i Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error; ii Selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and iii Making judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Having made an assessment of the Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, the directors are not aware of any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast doubt upon the Company’s and Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility. Approved by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by: --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Mr. Samuel Kimani Ms. Risper Alaro Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo Chairman Director Chief Executive Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 55 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (“NSE”/the “Company”) and its subsidiary and structured entities (together, the “Group”) set out on pages 58 to 105, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2018 and the consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, together with the separate statement of financial position of the Company at 31 December 2018, the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company at 31 December 2018 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Kenya, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report. Other information The other information comprises the Corporate information, Directors’ report, Corporate governance statement, Statement of directors’ responsibilities and Director’s remuneration report which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report and the rest of the other information in the Integrated Report, which are expected to be made available to us after that date but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not and will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated If, based on the work we have performed on the other information we have received prior to the date of this auditor’s report we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. When we read the rest of the other information in the Integrated Report and we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. PricewaterhouseCoopers CPA. PwC Tower, Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road, Westlands P O Box 43963 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya T: +254 (20)285 5000 F: +254 (20)285 5001 www.pwc.com/ke Partners: E Kerich B Kimacia M Mugasa A Murage F Muriu P Ngahu R Njoroge S O Norbert’s B Okundi K Saiti INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (Continued) Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and Company’s internal control. •  Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors. •  Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or Company to cease to continue as a going concern. •  Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. •  Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the Group’s financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 Report of the Directors In our opinion the information given in the report of the directors on page 49 to 50 is consistent with the financial statements. Directors’ remuneration report In our opinion the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 51 to 54 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Certified Public Accountants 22 March 2019 Nairobi FCPA Richard Njoroge, Practising Certificate No. 1244. Signing partner responsible for the independent audit STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Group Company Notes 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Revenue 6 626,191 607,438 626,191 607,438 Interest income 9 116,341 98,569 100,977 84,358 Other income 10 39,605 46,711 39,605 46,711 Total income 782,137 752,718 766,773 738,507 Administrative expenses (560,300) (495,856) (556,263) (491,319) Share of profit of associate 15 (c) 19,012 12,324 19,012 12,324 Profit before income tax 7 240,849 269,186 229,522 259,512 Income tax expense 11 (a) (50,171) (52,936) (46,875) (50,470) Profit for the year 190,678 216,250 182,647 209,042 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation movements on buildings (3,208) 3,093 (3,208) 3,093 Deferred income tax on revaluation surplus 24 (453) (453) (3,208) 2,640 (3,208) 2,640 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Share of exchange differences from associate arising from translation of foreign operation 15 (c) (105) (84) (105) (84) Other comprehensive income for the year (3,313) 2,556 (3,313) 2,556 Total comprehensive income for the year 187,365 218,806 179,334 211,598 Sh Sh Earnings per share Basic and diluted 28 0.73 0.83 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 58 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notes ASSETS Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Non-current assets Property and equipment 12 228,942 229,635 228,942 229,635 Investment property 13 309,882 300,603 309,882 300,603 Intangible assets 14 159,257 152,729 159,257 152,729 Investment in associate 15 (b) 127,581 111,374 127,581 111,374 Investment in subsidiary and structured entities 16 130,000 130,000 Government securities 18 91,643 93,104 91,643 93,104 Long-term restricted investments 19 156,521 148,391 Deferred income tax 24 5,688 3,711 1,079,514 1,035,836 1,051,016 1,017,445 Current assets Trade and other receivables 20 (a) 80,526 92,346 78,126 92,346 Due from related company 29 (f) 4,023 622 Tax recoverable 11 (c) 27,049 22,435 24,155 19,695 Government securities 18 237,515 237,515 Fixed deposits 21 464,533 262,043 464,533 262,043 Short-term restricted cash and investments 21 338,202 302,015 338,202 302,015 Cash and cash equivalents 21 228,564 156,030 228,544 155,696 1,138,874 1,072,384 1,137,583 1,069,932 TOTAL ASSETS 2,218,388 2,108,220 2,188,599 2,087,377 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 23 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 Share premium 277,185 277,185 277,185 277,185 Retained earnings 781,224 694,049 755,388 675,890 Other reserves (664) (559) (664) (559) Revaluation reserve 3,208 3,208 Shareholders’ funds 2,095,748 2,011,886 2,069,912 1,993,727 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax 24 3,496 4,804 Tenant deposits 25 (a) 2,711 3,830 2,711 3,830 2,711 7,326 2,711 8,634 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 25 (b) 93,870 66,939 92,117 65,147 Dividends payable 26 23,859 19,869 23,859 19,869 Trading members’ contributions 2,200 2,200 119,929 89,008 115,976 85,016 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES 2,218,388 2,108,220 2,188,599 2,087,377 The financial statements on pages 58 to 105 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2019 and were signed on its behalf by: -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Mr. Samuel Kimani Ms. Risper Alaro Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo Chairman Director Chief Executive Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 59 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Share Share Retained Other Revaluation capital premium earnings reserves reserve Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Year ended 31 December 2017 At start of year 1,038,003 277,185 547,852 (475) 580 1,863,145 Profit for the year 216,250 216,250 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (84) 2,640 2,556 Total comprehensive income for the year 216,250 (84) 2,640 218,806 Transfer of excess depreciation 17 (17) Deferred tax thereon (5) 5 Transactions with owners: 2016 dividend declared in the year (70,065) (70,065) At end of year 1,038,003 277,185 694,049 (559) 3,208 2,011,886 Year ended 31 December 2018 At start of year 1,038,003 277,185 694,049 (559) 3,208 2,011,886 Impact of IFRS 9 and 15 transition adjustments: Additional loss allowance on adoption of IFRS 9 (note 17 b)) (7,130) (7,130) Deferred market access fees on adoption of IFRS 15 (note 2 b (iii)) (25,001) (25,001) Deferred tax thereon (note 24) 6,478 6,478 Profit for the year 190,678 190,678 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (105) (3,208) (3,313) Total comprehensive income for the year 190,678 (105) (3,208) 187,365 Transactions with owners: 2017 dividend declared in the year (77,850) (77,850) At end of year 1,038,003 277,185 781,224 (664) 2,095,748 The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property. Other reserves relates to the Group’s share of the translation reserve of the associate. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 60 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Share Share Retained Other Revaluation capital premium earnings reserves reserves Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Year ended 31 December 2017 At start of year 1,038,003 277,185 536,901 (475) 580 1,852,194 Profit for the year 209,042 209,042 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (84) 2,640 2,556 Total comprehensive income for the year 209,042 (84) 2,640 211,598 Transfer of excess depreciation 17 (17) Deferred tax thereon (5) 5 Transactions with owners: 2016 dividend declared in the year (70,065) (70,065) At end of year 1,038,003 277,185 675,890 (559) 3,208 1,993,727 Year ended 31 December 2018 At start of year 1,038,003 277,185 675,890 (559) 3,208 1,993,727 Impact of IFRS 9 and 15 transition adjustments: Additional loss allowance on adoption of IFRS 9 (note 17 b)) (6,623) (6,623) Deferred market access fees on adoption of IFRS 15 (note 2 b (iii)) (25,001) (25,001) Deferred tax thereon (note 24) 6,325 6,325 Profit for the year 182,647 182,647 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (105) (3,208) (3,313) Total comprehensive income for the year 182,647 (105) (3,208) 179,334 Transactions with owners: 2017 dividend declared in the year (77,850) (77,850) At end of year 1,038,003 277,185 755,388 (664) 2,069,912 The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property. Other reserves relates to the Company’s share of the translation reserve of the associate. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 61 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Group Company Notes 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 27 124,642 99,969 127,717 104,541 Tax paid 11 (c) (57,491) (29,789) (53,525) (24,485) Net cash from operating activities 67,151 70,180 74,192 80,056 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property and equipment 12 (40,846) (40,235) (40,846) (40,235) Purchase of intangible assets 14 (22,881) (2,283) (22,881) (2,283) Interest received 116,341 98,570 100,977 84,358 Dividend received from associate 15 (b) 2,700 2,700 Proceeds on maturity of corporate and treasury bonds 15,281 15,281 Net investment in fixed deposits (203,145) (262,043) (203,145) (262,043) Investment in restricted investments (8,635) (5,187) Decrease in tenant deposits (1,119) (1,119) Proceeds on disposal of equipment 551 32 551 32 Net investment in treasury bills 237,021 (131,170) 237,021 (131,170) Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 79,987 (327,035) 73,258 (336,060) Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 26 (73,860) (66,474) (73,860) (66,474) Net cash used in financing activities (73,860) (66,474) (73,860) (66,474) Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 73,278 (323,329) 73,590 (322,478) Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year 156,030 479,359 155,696 478,174 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 21 229,308 156,030 229,286 155,696 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 62 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 REPORTING ENTITY If the fair value of an asset or a liability is not directly observable, it is estimated by the Group using valuation techniques that maximise the The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc (NSE/the “Company”/the use of relevant observable inputs and minimise the use of unobservable “Exchange”), formerly known as the Nairobi Securities Exchange inputs (e.g. by use of the market comparable approach that reflects Limited, was incorporated in Kenya under the Companies Act and is recent transaction prices for similar items or discounted cash flow domiciled in Kenya. The NSE is licensed as an exchange by the Capital analysis). Inputs used are consistent with the characteristics of the asset/ Markets Authority (CMA) of Kenya and obtained a license on 19 October liability that market participants would take into account. 2015 to operate a derivatives exchange. The NSE currently has the primary market services as a main line of business. The consolidated Fair values are categorised into three levels of fair value hierarchy based financial statements of the Group at and for the year ended 31 on the degree to which the inputs to the measurements are observable December 2018 comprise the Company and its subsidiary and controlled and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its structured entities (collectively referred to as the “Group”) and reflect entirety: the Company’s interest in an associate company. Level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 2 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULTS OR Level 2 fair value measurements are derived from inputs other FINANCIAL POSITION than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these derived from prices). financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not a) Statement of compliance based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are recognised and in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards by the Group at the end of the reporting period during which the (IFRS), IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) applicable to companies change occurred. reporting under IFRS and the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The IFRS are issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. ii. Use of estimates and judgment b) Basis of preparation The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires the The financial statements comprise a profit and loss account (statement directors to exercise their judgment in the process of applying the of profit or loss and other comprehensive income), balance sheet Group’s and Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a (statement of financial position), statement of changes in equity, higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions statement of cash flows, and notes. Income and expenses, excluding and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed the components of other comprehensive income (OCI), are recognised in Note 4. in the profit or loss. Other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income and comprises items of income and iii.  Adoption of new and revised International expense (including reclassification adjustments) that are not recognised Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the profit or loss as required or permitted by IFRS. Reclassification adjustments are amounts reclassified to the profit or loss in the New and revised standards and interpretations current period that were recognised in other comprehensive income which have been issued but are not yet effective in the current or previous periods. Transactions with the owners of the Company in their capacity as owners are recognised in the statement of The Group has not applied the following revised standards and changes in equity interpretations that have been published but are not yet effective for the annual reporting periods ending 31 December 2018: i. Basis of measurement IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ will affect primarily the accounting by lessees and The measurement basis used is the historical cost basis except where will result in the recognition of almost all leases on balance sheet. otherwise stated in the accounting policies below. The standard removes the current distinction between operating and financing leases and requires recognition of an asset (the right to use Under the historical cost basis, assets are recorded at the amount of the leased item) and a financial liability to pay rentals for virtually all cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the consideration given lease contracts. An optional exemption exists for short-term and lowto acquire them at the time of their acquisition. Liabilities are recorded value leases. at the amount of proceeds received in exchange for the obligation or, in some cases, at the amounts of cash or cash equivalents expected to be The statement of profit or loss will also be affected because the total paid to satisfy the liability in the normal course of business. expense is typically higher in the earlier years of a lease and lower in later years. Additionally, operating expense will be replaced with interest For those assets and liabilities measured at fair value, fair value is and depreciation, so key metrics like EBITDA will change. the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 63 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 2 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULT OR liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It FINANCIAL POSITION (Continued) replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the b) Basis of preparation (continued) mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through OCI iii. Adoption of new and revised International and fair value through P&L. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) (continued) The basis of classification depends on the entity’s business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. Investments New and revised standards and interpretations in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through which have been issued but are not yet effective profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes (continued) in fair value in OCI not recycling. There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in Operating cash flows will be higher as cash payments for the principal IAS 39. portion of the lease liability are classified within financing activities. Only the part of the payments that reflects interest can continue to be For financial liabilities, there were no changes to classification and presented as operating cash flows. measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair The accounting by lessors will not significantly change. Some differences value through profit or loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge may arise as a result of the new guidance on the definition of a lease. effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. Under IFRS 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in hedging instrument and for the ‘hedged ratio’ to be the same as the one exchange for consideration. management actually use for risk management purposes. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning 1 January 2019. Provision has been made for either 12-month or lifetime expected credit Early adoption is permitted only if IFRS 15 is adopted at the same time. losses (ECLs) for all financial assets measured at amortised cost. The The Group is still assessing the impact of adoption of the standard. directors have opted to apply the general approach whereby lifetime There are no other standards that are not yet effective and that would ECL are provided for from inception. be expected to have a material impact on the Group in the current or As a result, additional provisions of Sh 7,130,000 have been recognized future reporting periods and on foreseeable future transactions. at 1January 2018 with a corresponding decrease, net of deferred tax, in retained earnings at that date. In accordance with the transition New and amended standards adopted by the Group requirements of IFRS 9, the results of prior periods have not been The Group has applied the following standards and amendments for restated. Further details of the transition adjustments are set out in the first time for the annual reporting period commencing Note 17. 1 January 2018: IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue •  Amendments to IAS 40, ‘Transfers of Investment Property’ recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information clarify that to transfer to, or from, investment properties there to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and must be a change in use. To conclude if a property has changed use uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts there should be an assessment of whether the property meets the with customers.. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 definition. This change must be supported by evidence. ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. • I FRIC 22, ‘Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance This core principle of IFRS 15 is delivered in a five-step model framework: Consideration’ addresses foreign currency transactions or parts of • Identify the contract(s) with a customer transactions where there is consideration that is denominated or • Identify the performance obligations in the contract priced in a foreign currency. The interpretation provides guidance • Determine the transaction price for when a single payment/receipt is made as well as for situations • Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations where multiple payment/receipts are made. The guidance aims to in the contract reduce diversity in practice. • Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. •  Annual improvements 2014-2016 cycle, impact IFRS 1 ’First-time adoption of IFRS’, regarding the deletion of short term Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognized when the Group satisfies the exemptions for first-time adopters regarding IFRS 7, IAS 19, performance obligation and transfers control of the services to the and IFRS 10. customer at the amount to which the Group expects to be entitled and that is allocated to that specific performance obligation. • IFRS 9, ‘Financial Instruments’. Based on the Group’s assessment on IFRS 15 transition, an adjustment • IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’. of Sh 25,001,000 has been made against retained earnings to recognise deferred revenue in respect of market access fees The Group changed its accounting policies and made certain retrospective adjustments following the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. Most of the other amendments listed above did not have any impact on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are not expected to significantly affect the current or future periods. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 64 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ii) Structured entities ACCOUNTING POLICIES The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund are trusts established under the Trustee Act 3.1 Basis of consolidation (Cap. 167) pursuant to the statutory obligations imposed on the NSE, as a licensed exchange, by the provisions of the Capital Markets The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 and clause 1.90 and 1.10 of of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc and its subsidiary, controlled the NSE Derivatives Rules. Clause 1.90 requires that the NSE, shall by structured entities and interest in associate company made up to 31 itself or through a clearing house, establish and maintain a Settlement December 2018. The subsidiary and structured entities undertakings Guarantee Fund to strengthen the financial integrity of the derivatives have been fully consolidated. market and ensure settlement of transactions in derivatives securities in case of default by a clearing member (CM). Clause 1.10 requires that the i) Subsidiary NSE shall establish and maintain an Investor Protection Fund to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of non-settlement Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by group has control. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed reason of the default of the trading members up to an amount specified to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity in the rules. and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is Management and administration of the assets and operations of these transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control trusts is done by a management committee formed by the NSE Clear ceases. Board of Directors. The Trustees of the funds act as the custodians and trustees of the assets of these Funds as defined in the trust deeds and The group applies the acquisition method to account for business rules of these Funds. The Fund’s assets are segregated from the assets of combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a the NSE and the NSE Clear Limited but are effectively controlled by NSE subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred Clear Limited. The NSE, by virtue of its role as the parent company of the to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the clearing house, NSE Clear Limited, has to consolidate the results of these group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or funds in its annual financial statements. liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business The subsidiary and structured entities are stated at cost in the separate combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. financial statements of the Company. Separate financial statements are prepared for the subsidiary and the structured entities, and independent The group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an external audits performed. acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s iii) Investment in associate identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Associates are those entities which the Group has significant influence, If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% to acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains 50% of the voting power of another entity. The results and assets and or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognised in profit liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements or loss. using the equity method of accounting. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group is recognised Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of an associate change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that in excess of the Group’s interest in that associate are recognised only to is classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations is accounted for within equity. The excess of the consideration or made payments on behalf of the associate. transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired 3.2 Transactions eliminated on is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, nonconsolidation controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in Intra-group balances and transactions and any unrealized income the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated the profit or loss. in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealized gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are The Group financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities and eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups’ interest results of the operations of the NSE Clear Limited, a company formed in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the same way to act as a central counterparty in all the derivative transactions. as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated of impairment. impairment losses. Details of NSE’s subsidiary are set out in Note 16. The accounting policies of the subsidiary have been changed where necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 65 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. POLICIES (Continued) Management services income is charged to the NSE Clear Limited based 3.3 Foreign currencies on direct and indirect costs incurred on staff assigned to the NSE Clear Limited and a proportion of office and administration overhead expenses. i) Functional and Presentation currency Market access fees are fees charged on the admission of a market participant as a member of the Group and are recognised over a period The financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured of three years. using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the “Functional Currency”). The financial statements are presented in Kenya Shilling which is the Group’s and the Company’s 3.5 Property and equipment Functional and Presentation Currency. Except as indicated, financial information presented in Kenya Shillings has been rounded to the The building is carried at valuation less any subsequent accumulated nearest thousand. depreciation. Revaluations are performed with sufficient regularity to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that ii) Transactions and balances which would be determined using fair value at the end of the year. The frequency of valuation is annual. Foreign currency transactions that are transactions denominated, or that require settlement, in a foreign currency are translated into the Motor vehicles and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated respective functional currencies of the operations using the exchange depreciation and any impairment losses. rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are Professional valuations on buildings are carried out in accordance with retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. the Group policy. The fair value is determined based on the market comparable approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar Foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement properties. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their current use. There has been no change of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates to the valuation technique during the year. of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss. Increases in the carrying amounts of property resulting from revaluation is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, Translation differences on non-monetary financial instruments, such as except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for the same equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part asset previously recognized in profit or loss, in which case the increase of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary is credited to profit or loss to the extent of the decrease previously financial instruments, such as equities classified as available-for-sale expensed. A decrease in carrying amount arising on the revaluation of financial assets, are included in other comprehensive income. buildings is recognized in profit or loss to the extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, held in the properties revaluation reserve relating to a 3.4 Revenue recognition previous revaluation of that asset. The Group recognises revenue as and when it satisfies a performance Each year the difference between depreciation based on the revalued obligation by transferring control of a product or service to a carrying amount of an asset (the depreciation charged to profit or loss) customer. The amount of revenue recognised is the amount the Group and depreciation based on the asset’s original cost is transferred from the expects to receive in accordance with the terms of the contract, revaluation surplus to retained earnings. and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as Value Added Tax. Depreciation is calculated on the straight line basis to write down the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as Transaction levy income is based on a percentage of the value of shares follows: traded and is recognised on the dates of the transactions. Motor vehicles 4 years Initial listing income is recognized in the year in which the listing Furniture, fittings and partitions 8 years company makes the flotation. Additional listing income is recognized Office equipment 4 years Computer equipment 4 years during the year in which the issuing company makes announcement of Buildings Over the remaining period the bonus/rights issues. of the lease Annual listing fee is computed on the basis of the daily weighted An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its estimated average capitalisation value of the listed securities for the 11 months recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its period between 1 January and 30 November. estimated recoverable amount. Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable Gains and losses on disposal of equipment are determined as the that the economic benefits will flow to the company and the amount difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a asset at the date of disposal and taken into account in determining time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective operating profit. Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of the interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts building are included in other comprehensive income in the period in estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial which they arise net of deferred taxes. asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 66 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 3.10 Financial Instruments POLICIES (Continued) I. Policies applicable up to 31 December 2017 3.6 Intangible assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: Intangible assets represent computer software which is stated at cost financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables less amortisation. Amortisation is calculated to write-off software on a and held to maturity investments. Management determines appropriate straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of 4 – 10 years. classification for its investments at initial recognition. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 3.7 Impairment of tangible and (FVTPL) intangible assets This category has two sub-categories: Financial assets classified as held At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether inception. there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are those which were estimated and an impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss whenever either acquired for generating a profit from short-term fluctuations the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. in price or dealer’s margin, or are securities included in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term profit-taking exists. Investments classified as fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at cost and 3.8 Investment property subsequently re-measured to fair value based on quoted bid prices or dealer price quotations, without any deduction for transaction costs. Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals, is stated at its fair value, at the reporting date as determined through its revaluation All related realised and unrealised gains and losses are included in the by external valuers on the basis of the highest and best use. Gains or profit or loss. Interest earned whilst holding held for trading investments losses arising from changes in fair value of the investment property are is reported as investment income. included in profit or loss in the year in which they arise net of deferred taxes. Loans and receivables 3.9 Restricted cash and investments Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable The Group classifies all cash, cash equivalents and investments that payments and are not quoted in an active market. After initial are not available for general use by the Group, either due to regulatory measurement at cost, receivables are subsequently remeasured to requirements or through restrictions in specific agreements, as restricted amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less allowance in the accompanying statement of financial position. for impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees and costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. Short-term restricted cash and investments As required by the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, Held to maturity investments 2015, the Group is required to maintain a minimum liquid net-worth capital requirement equal to one half of the total estimated operating Held to maturity financial investments are those which carry fixed costs for the next twelve (12) months period. At 31 December 2018, or determinable payments and have fixed maturities and which the this amount was Sh 338 million (2017: Sh 302 million). The amounts are Group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity. After initial reflected as short-term restricted investments (note 21). measurement, held to maturity financial investments are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less Long-term restricted cash and investments any allowances for impairment. The NSE has contributed Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and Sh 10 million Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or as seed capital to the subsidiary, NSE Clear Limited, and the structured premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the effective entities, NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and NSE Derivatives interest rate. The amortisation and losses arising from impairment of such Investor Protection Fund respectively. These amounts could be used in investments are recognised in the profit or loss. the event of a clearing/trading member’s default where the amount of the defaulting clearing/trading member’s initial, variation and additional Derecognition of financial assets margins and guarantee fund deposits are insufficient. These amounts together with related earned interest are held in bank deposits that have Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows been classified as restricted (note 19). from the financial assets has expired or where the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 67 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 3.10 Financial instruments (continued) I. Policies applicable up to 31 December 2017 (continued) Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities (including borrowings and trade payables) are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability, or (where applicable) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. Classes of financial instruments The Group classifies the financial instruments into classes that reflect the nature of information and take into account the characteristics of those financial instruments. The classification made can be seen in the table as follows: Class and sub class (as determined by the Category (as defined by IAS 39) Group) Financial assets and Financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets designated at fair value through liabilities profit or loss: Quoted shares Loans and receivables Long-term restricted investments Trade and other receivables Due from related company Short-term restricted cash and investments Cash and cash equivalents Fixed deposits Held-to-maturity investments Investment securities debt securities: Government securities Corporate bonds Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost Tenant deposits Trade and other payables Dividends payable Due to structured entity Trading members’ contributions II. Policies applicable from 1 January 2018 fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI). iii) All other financial assets are classified and measured at fair value a) Initial recognition through profit or loss (FVTPL). Financial instruments are recognised when, and only when, iv) Notwithstanding the above, the Group may: the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the a) On initial recognition of an equity investment that is not held instrument. All financial assets are recognised initially using the for trading, irrevocably elect to classify and measure it at fair trade date accounting which is the date the Group commits itself value through other comprehensive income to the purchase or sale. b). On initial recognition of a debt instrument, irrevocably designate it as classified and measured at fair value b) Classification through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency. The Group classifies its financial instruments into the following categories: v) Financial liabilities that are held for trading (including derivatives), financial guarantee contracts, or commitments to provide a loan i) Financial assets that are held within a business model whose at a below-market interest rate are classified and measured at objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash fair value through profit or loss. The Group may also, on initial flows, and for which the contractual terms of the financial recognition, irrevocably designate a financial liability as at fair asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly payments of principal and interest on the principal amount reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency. outstanding, are classified and measured at amortised cost. vi)  All other financial liabilities are classified and measured at ii) Financial assets that are held within a business model whose amortised cost. objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and for which the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, are classified and measured at Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 68 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING Business model: the business model reflects how the Group manages POLICIES (Continued) the assets in order to generate cash flows i.e. whether the Group’s objective is solely to collect the contractual cash flows from the assets or 3.10 Financial instruments (continued) is to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash flows arising from the sale of assets. If neither of these is applicable (e.g. financial assets II.  Policies applicable from 1 January held for trading purposes), then the financial assets are classified as part of ‘other’ business model and measured at FVTPL. Factors considered 2018 (continued) by the Group in determining the business model for a group of assets include past experience on how the cash flows for these assets were c) Initial measurement collected, how the asset’s performance is evaluated and reported to key management personnel and how risks are assessed and managed. On initial recognition: SPPI: Where the business model is to hold assets to collect contractual i) Financial assets or financial liabilities classified as at fair value cash flows or to collect contractual cash flows and sell, the Group through profit or loss are measured at fair value. assesses whether the financial instruments’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI test’). In making this assessment, ii)  Government securities, deposits with banking institutions and trade and other receivables are measured at their the Group considers whether the contractual cash flows are consistent transaction price. with a basic lending arrangement i.e. includes only consideration for the time value of money, credit risk, other basic lending risks and a profit iii) Trade and other liabilities are classified at their transaction price. margin that is consistent with a basic lending arrangement. Where the contractual terms introduce exposure to risk or volatility that are d) Subsequent measurement inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, the related financial asset is classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on: The Group reclassifies financial assets when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes. (i) the Group’s business model for managing the financial assets; and (ii) the cash flow characteristics of the asset. Based on these factors, the Group classifies its financial assets into one of the following three measurement categories: • A  mortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains/ (losses) together with foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss. • FVTOCI: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVTOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and recognised in other gains/ (losses). Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other gains/ (losses) and impairment expenses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss. • F  VTPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL. A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVTPL is recognised in profit or loss and presented net within other gains/ (losses) in the period in which it arises. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 69 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 3.10 Financial instruments (continued) II. Policies applicable from 1 January 2018 (continued) d) Subsequent measurement (continued) The measurement category of financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IFRS 9 is as follows: Financial assets and liabilities Classification under IFRS 9 Government securities Amortised cost Corporate bonds Amortised cost Trade & Other receivable Amortised cost Fixed deposits Amortised cost Short term restricted cash & equivalents Amortised cost Cash and cash equivalents Amortised cost Financial liabilities: Amortised cost Tenant deposits Trade and other payables Dividends payable Due to structured entity Trading members’ contributions e) Impairment The General Approach The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses (ECL) Under the general approach, at each reporting date, the Group on financial assets that are measured at amortised cost or at fair value determines whether the financial asset is in one of the three stages through other comprehensive income. below, to determine both the amount of ECL to recognise as well as how interest income should be recognised. The loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses for financial instruments for which: (a) the credit • Stage 1 where credit risk has not increased significantly since risk has increased significantly since initial recognition; or (b) there is initial recognition. For financial assets in stage 1, the Group will observable evidence of impairment (a credit-impaired financial asset). recognise 12 month ECL and recognise interest income on a gross If, at the reporting date, the credit risk on a financial asset other than a basis – this means that interest will be calculated on the gross trade receivable has not increased significantly since initial recognition, carrying amount of the financial asset before adjusting for ECL. the loss allowance is measured for that financial instrument at an • Stage 2 where credit risk has increased significantly since initial amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses. All changes in the loss recognition. When a financial asset transfers to stage 2, the Group allowance are recognised in profit or loss as impairment gains or losses. will recognise lifetime ECL but interest income will continue to be recognised on a gross basis. Lifetime expected credit losses represent the expected credit losses • Stage 3 where the financial asset is credit impaired. This is that result from all possible default events over the expected life of effectively the point at which there has been an incurred loss a financial instrument. 12-month expected credit losses represent event. For financial assets in stage 3, the Group will continue the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that result from default to recognise lifetime ECL but they will now recognise interest events on a financial asset that are possible within 12 months after the income on a net basis. As such, interest income will be calculated reporting date. based on the gross carrying amount of the financial asset less ECL. Expected credit losses are measured in a way that reflects an unbiased and probability-weighted amount determined by evaluating a range An asset is credit-impaired if one or more events have occurred that of possible outcomes, the time value of money, and reasonable and have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at asset. the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. The changes in the loss allowance balance are recognised in profit or loss as an impairment gain or loss. In applying the IFRS 9 impairment requirements, the Group follows one of the approaches below: The Simplified approach • The general approach Under the simplified approach, the Group measures the loss allowance • The simplified approach at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 70 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING • the average time between the identification of a significant increase in credit risk and default appears reasonable; POLICIES (Continued) • exposures are not generally transferred from 12-month ECL measurement to credit-impaired; and 3.10 Financial instruments (continued) • there is no unwarranted volatility in loss allowance from transfers between 12-month and lifetime ECL measurements. II. Policies applicable from 1 January 2018 Incorporation of forward-looking information (continued) The Group incorporates forward-looking information into both its e) Impairment (continued) assessment of whether the credit risk of an instrument has increased . significantly since initial recognition and its measurement of ECL. Definition of default It formulates a ‘base case’ view of the future direction of relevant economic variables and a representative range of other possible forecast The Group will consider a financial asset to be in default when: scenarios based on consideration of a variety of external actual and • the counterparty or borrower is unlikely to pay their credit forecast information. External information includes economic data and obligations to the Group in full, without recourse by the Group to forecasts published by governmental bodies and monetary authorities. actions such as realising security (if any is held); or • the counterparty or borrower is more than 90 days past due on any The base case represents a best estimate and is aligned with information material credit obligation to the Group. This will be consistent with used by the Group for other purposes, such as strategic planning and the rebuttable criteria set out by IFRS 9 and existing practice of the budgeting. The other scenarios represent more optimistic and more Group; or pessimistic outcomes. In assessing whether the counterparty or borrower is in default, the Measurement of ECL Group considers indicators that are: Qualitative: e.g. Breach of covenant and other indicators of The key inputs into the measurement of ECL are the term structures of financial distress; the following variables: Quantitative: e.g. Overdue status and non-payment of another • Probability of Default (PD) obligation of the same issuer to the Company; and • Loss given default (LGD) and Based on data developed internally and obtained from • Exposure at default (EAD) external sources. To determine lifetime and 12-month PDs, the Group uses externally Inputs into the assessment of whether a financial instrument is in developed PD tables based on the default history of obligors with the default and their significance may vary over time to reflect changes same credit rating. The Group adopts the same approach for unrated in circumstances. investments by mapping external credit ratings. Changes in the rating for a counterparty or exposure lead to a change in the estimate of the Significant increase in credit risk (SIICR) associated PD. When determining whether the credit risk (i.e. risk of default) on a LGD is the magnitude of the likely loss if there is a default. The Group financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition, estimates LGD parameters based on the history of recovery rates of the Group considers reasonable and supportable information that claims against defaulted counterparties. The LGD models consider the is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes structure, collateral, seniority of the claim, counterparty industry and both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis based on recovery costs of any collateral that is integral to the financial asset. the Group’s historical experience, expert credit assessment and forwardlooking information. EAD represents the expected exposure in the event of a default. The Group derives the EAD from the current exposure to the counterparty The Group primarily identifies whether a significant increase in credit and potential changes to the current amount allowed under the risk has occurred for an exposure by comparing: contract, including amortisation, and prepayments. The EAD of a financial asset is its gross carrying amount. • The remaining lifetime probability of default (PD) as at the reporting date; with As described above, and subject to using a maximum of a 12-month PD • The remaining lifetime PD for this point in time that was estimated for financial assets for which credit risk has not significantly increased, on initial recognition of the exposure. the Group measures ECL considering the risk of default over the maximum contractual period over which it is exposed to credit risk, even if, for The assessment of significant deterioration is key in establishing the risk management purposes, the Group considers a longer period. Where point of switching between the requirement to measure an allowance modelling of a parameter is carried out on a collective basis, the financial based on 12-month expected credit losses and one that is based on instruments are grouped on the basis of shared risk characteristics, lifetime expected credit losses. which include: instrument type; credit risk grading; collateral type; date of initial recognition; remaining term to maturity. The Group monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify significant increases in credit risk by regular reviews to confirm that: The groupings are subject to regular review to ensure that exposures within a group remain appropriately homogeneous. • the criteria are capable of identifying significant increases in credit risk before an exposure is in default; • the criteria do not align with the point in time when an asset becomes 30 days past due; Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 71 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 3.11 Cash and cash equivalents POLICIES (Continued) For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and demand deposits and other 3.10 Financial instruments (continued) short term liquid investments which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which were within three months of maturity when II. Policies applicable from 1 January 2018 acquired, less advances from banks repayable within three months from the dates of the advances. (continued) e) Impairment (continued) 3.12 Employee entitlements Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue Measurement of ECL (continued) to employees. A provision is made for the estimated liability for annual When ECL are measured using parameters based on collective modelling, leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the date of a significant input into the measurement of ECL is the external reporting. benchmark information that the Group uses to derive the default rates of its portfolios. This includes the PDs provided by rating agencies. 3.13 Segmental reporting Trade and other receivables The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the chief operating decision Expected credit losses are computed as a product of the Probability maker (Group management). An operating segment is a component of of Default (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and the Exposure at Default the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn (EAD). revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. Costs ECL = PD x LGD x EAD in the NSE are managed holistically across the Exchange and variances against budget are closely monitored. Information technology and f) Modification of contracts corporate overheads are not generally allocated to a particular segment. The Group rarely renegotiates or otherwise modifies the contractual cash flows of securities. When this happens, the Group assesses whether 3.14 Taxation or not the new terms are substantially different to the original terms. The Group does this by considering, among others, the following factors: Income tax expense represents the sum of the current income tax and • If the counterparty is in financial difficulty deferred income tax. • Whether any substantial new terms are introduced that affect the risk profile of the instrument Current income tax • Significant extension of the contract term when the borrower is The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable not in financial difficulty profit differs from profit as reported in the statement of profit or loss and • Significant change in interest rate other comprehensive income because of items of income or expense • Change in the currency the security is denominated in that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never • Inclusion of collateral, other security or credit enhancements that taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated significantly affect the credit risk associated with the loan using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. If the terms are substantially different, the Group derecognises the original financial asset and recognises a ‘new’ asset at fair value and Management establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of recalculates a new EIR for the asset. The date of renegotiation is amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. consequently considered the date of initial recognition for impairment calculation purposes, including the purpose of determining whether a Deferred income tax SICR has occurred. Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences If the terms are not substantially different and the renegotiation or between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial modification does not result in derecognition, the Group recalculates statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of the gross carrying amount based on the revised cash flows of the taxable profit. financial asset and recognises a modification gain or loss in profit or loss. The new gross carrying amount is recalculated by discounting the Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary modified cash flows at the original EIR. differences. g) Write off policy Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be The Group writes off financial assets, in whole or in part when it has available against which those deductible temporary differences are exhausted all practical recovery effort and has concluded that there utilised. is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include (i) ceasing enforcement Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the activity; and (ii) the Group is foreclosing on collateral and the value of temporary difference arises from good will or from the initial recognition the collateral is such as there is no reasonable expectation of recovering (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in in full. a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end The Group may write-off financial assets that are still subject to of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer enforcement activity. The Group still seeks to recover amounts it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or legally owed in full, but which have been partially written off due to no part of the asset to be recovered. reasonable expectation of full recovery Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 72 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3  UMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING S 3.20 Comparatives POLICIES (Continued) Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform to changes in the presentation in the current year. 3.14 Taxation (continued) Deferred income tax (continued) 4 ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the UNCERTAINITY asset realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. year. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including Current and deferred income tax for the year expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income The key areas of judgment and estimation in applying the entities or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also accounting policies are dealt with below: recognised in other comprehensive income. Taxes 3.15 Retirement benefit obligations The Group is subjected to numerous taxes and levies by various The Group operates a defined contribution provident scheme for all government and quasigovernment regulatory bodies. As a rule its employees. The scheme is administered by Britam Life Assurance of thumb, the Group recognises liabilities for the anticipated tax/ Company (Kenya) Limited and is funded by contributions from both the levies payable with utmost care and diligence. However, judgment is Group and employees. usually required in the interpretation and applicability of those taxes/ levies. Should it come to the attention of management, in one way The Group also contributes to a statutory contribution pension scheme, or the other, that the initially recorded liability was erroneous, such the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). The Group’s obligations under differences will impact on the income and liabilities in the period in the scheme are limited to specific contributions legislated from time to which such differences are determined. time. The Group’s contributions to these schemes are charged to the profit or loss in the year in which they relate. Valuation of financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments where no active market exists 3.16 Dividends payable or where quoted prices are not otherwise available are determined by using valuation techniques. In these cases, the fair values are Dividends payable on ordinary shares are charged to retained earnings estimated from observable data in respect of similar financial in the period in which they are declared. Proposed dividends are not instruments or using models. Where market observable inputs are accrued for until ratified in an Annual General Meeting. not available, they are estimated based on appropriate assumptions. Where valuation techniques (for example, models) are used to 3.17 Earnings per share determine fair values, they are validated and periodically reviewed by qualified personnel independent of those that sourced them. The Group presents earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary The directors believe that the chosen valuation techniques and shareholders in the financial statements. Basic EPS is calculated by assumptions used in the valuation of its investments are appropriate dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the in determining the fair value of financial instruments. NSE by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit Valuation of land and building or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average The fair value model has been applied in accounting for land and number of ordinary shares outstanding adjusted for the effects of all building. The Group commissioned external, independent and potentially dilutive shares. professionally qualified real estate valuers that hold recognised relevant professional qualification and have recent experience in the 3.18 Share reserves and share premium location and type of property valued to determine the fair value of the property as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 on the basis of open Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly market value. The current use of the portion of the land and building attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a accounted for as investment property equates to the highest and deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. best use. 3.19 Minimum liquid net worth requirement The valuation of the land and building is derived by making reference to recent comparable sales transactions in the relevant property The Capital Markets (Derivatives Market) Regulations, 2015 clause 15 (1) market. The Group’s land and building are valued by reference to a and 15 (2) require that a futures exchange have and maintain a minimum level 2 fair value measurement. liquid net-worth equal to one half of the estimated gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve (12) month period or such other liquid net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. The requirement is met as per Note 34. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 73 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 5 OPERATING SEGMENTS The Group entities are all domiciled in Kenya. The Group has two main business segments: • Cash equities and interest rate market segment comprises the equities and bond trading business. This includes other income comprising broker back office income, rental income, data fees and other incomes; and • Derivatives market segment comprises of the futures trading business. No transactions in derivatives were carried out in the year ended 31 December 2018 (2017: Nil) as the market is expected to be launched in 2019. Each business segment offers different products and services, and is managed separately because each requires different technology and a different marketing strategy. The information provided about each segment is based on the internal reports about segment profit or loss, assets and other information, which are regularly reviewed by Group management (the chief operating decision maker) and the Board. The segment results were as follows: Statement of Financial Position Cash equities and Interest rate market Derivatives market Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 2018 ASSETS Government securities 91,643 91,643 Long-term restricted investments 156,521 156,521 Short-term restricted cash and investments 338,202 338,202 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 693,077 20 693,097 Other assets 931,654 7,271 938,925 2,054,576 163,812 2,218,388 LIABILITIES Trade and other payables 92,117 1,753 93,870 Dividends payable 23,859 23,859 Tenant deposits 2,711 2,711 Trading members’ contributions 2,200 2,200 118,687 3,953 122,640 2017 ASSETS Government securities 330,619 330,619 Long-term restricted investments 148,391 148,391 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 417,739 334 418,073 Other assets 906,382 2,740 909,122 1,956,755 151,465 2,108,220 LIABILITIES Trade and other payables 65,147 1,792 66,939 Dividends payable 19,869 19,869 Tenant deposits 3,830 3,830 Deferred income tax 4,804 (1,308) 3,496 Trading members’ contributions 2,200 2,200 93,650 2,684 96,334 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 74 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 5. OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) Statement of Financial Position (Continued) Cash equities and interest rate market Derivatives market Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 2018 Additions to non-current assets 33,571 10,107 43,678 Non-current assets 921,016 158,498 1,079,514 2017 Additions to non-current assets 26,099 5,187 31,286 Non-current assets 887,445 148,391 1,035,836 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 2018 Revenue 626,191 626,191 Interest income 100,977 15,364 116,341 Other income 39,605 39,605 Total income 766,773 15,364 782,137 Administrative expenses (556,263) (4,037) (560,300) Share of profit of associate 19,012 19,012 Profit before income tax 229,522 11,327 240,849 2017 Revenue 582,338 582,338 Interest income 84,358 14,211 98,569 Other income 71,811 71,811 Total income 738,507 14,211 752,718 Administrative expenses (491,319) (4,537) (495,856) Share of profit of associate 12,324 12,324 Profit before income tax 259,512 9,674 269,186 All revenues are earned in Kenya. There are no revenues derived from transactions with a single external customer that amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s revenues. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 75 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 6 REVENUE Revenue recognized at a point in time Transaction levy 460,968 442,342 460,968 442,342 Initial listing fees 6,500 3,300 6,500 3,300 Application and additional listing fees 1,148 1,332 1,148 1,332 468,616 446,974 468,616 446,974 Revenue recognized over time Annual listing fees 81,621 84,168 81,621 84,168 Broker back office subscription 26,575 26,078 26,575 26,078 Market access fee 26,000 25,100 26,000 25,100 Data vending 23,379 25,118 23,379 25,118 157,575 160,464 157,575 160,464 626,191 607,438 626,191 607,438 7 PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX The profit before income tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting): Employee benefits (note 8) 228,170 183,719 228,170 183,719 Depreciation of property and equipment (note 12) 20,703 23,925 20,703 23,925 Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14) 16,353 17,638 16,353 17,638 Directors’ emoluments: Executive (note 29 a)) 23,719 18,170 23,719 18,170 Non–executive (note 29 a)) 14,290 12,053 13,004 10,939 Auditor’s remuneration 4,280 4,110 3,147 3,001 Gain on disposal of equipment (452) (24) (452) (24) Revaluation deficit on valuation of building 17,529 17,529 Decrease in impairment of financial assets: Measured at amortised cost (note 32 (b) (iii)) (1,737) (1,765) 8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Salaries and wages 191,194 164,598 191,194 164,598 Bonus 13,810 13,810 Leave pay expense 4,847 2,544 4,847 2,544 Provident fund contribution 17,598 15,869 17,598 15,869 Social security costs (NSSF) 721 708 721 708 228,170 183,719 228,170 183,719 The staff numbers as at 31 December 2018 were 49 (2017: 48). Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 76 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 9 INTEREST INCOME Financial assets measured at amortised cost: Interest on term deposits 82,731 75,255 67,367 61,044 Investments at amortised cost interest on treasury bonds and bills 32,999 21,704 32,999 21,704 interest on corporate bonds 994 994 Interest on staff loans and advances 611 616 611 616 116,341 98,569 100,977 84,358 10 OTHER INCOME Fair value gain on investment property (note 13) 9,279 13,205 9,279 13,205 Rental income 13,718 20,019 13,718 20,019 Miscellaneous income 3,868 1,014 3,868 1,014 Training fees 5,558 4,724 5,558 4,724 M-Akiba fees 8 3,063 8 3,063 Sale of publications and merchandising items 3,290 2,781 3,290 2,781 Private transfer fee 797 862 797 862 Nomad fees 550 575 550 575 Exchange gain/(loss) (265) 444 (265) 444 Gain on disposal of equipment 452 24 452 24 Annual members fees 2,350 2,350 39,605 46,711 39,605 46,711 11 TAXATION a) Taxation charge Current income tax Current year expense 52,980 55,524 49,065 52,010 Prior year under-provision on tax losses (103) 52,877 55,524 49,065 52,010 Deferred income tax (note 24) Current year credit (2,706) (2,120) (2,190) (1,540) Prior year under-provision on tax losses (468) (2,706) (2,588) (2,190) (1,540) 50,171 52,936 46,875 50,470 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 77 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 11 TAXATION (Continued) b) Reconciliation of taxation charge to the expected tax based on accounting profit Profit before income tax 240,849 269,186 229,522 259,512 Tax calculated at a tax rate of 20% (2017: 20%) 45,904 51,902 45,904 51,902 Tax calculated at a tax rate of 30% (2017: 30%) 3,398 2,934 Tax effects on expenses not deductible for tax 3,633 3,919 2,465 3,919 Tax effect on revenues not allowable for tax (2,661) (5,351) (1,494) (5,351) Prior year under-provision on tax losses (103) (468) Income tax expense 50,171 52,936 46,875 50,470 c) Current income tax movement At start of year (22,435) (48,170) (19,695) (47,220) Charge to profit or loss 52,877 55,524 49,065 52,010 Tax paid (57,491) (29,789) (53,525) (24,485) At end of year (27,049) (22,435) (24,155) (19,695) Made up of: Current income tax recoverable (27,049) (22,435) (24,155) (19,695) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 78 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 12 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (GROUP AND COMPANY) Motor Furniture & Office Computer Building vehicles fittings equipment equipment WIP Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 COST OR VALUATION At 1 January 2017 86,526 10,995 71,098 23,066 93,438 29,804 314,927 Additions 4,620 18,579 4,939 4,048 8,049 40,235 Disposals (3) (3,525) (11,331) (14,859) Transfer from investment property (note 13) 26,076 26,076 Revaluation surplus 3,093 3,093 At 1 January 2018 115,695 15,615 89,674 24,480 86,155 37,853 369,472 Additions 439 1,314 3,296 37,073 42,122 Disposals (2,003) (119) (1,167) (6,704) (9,993) Transfer from WIP 102 (102) Adjustments (1,276) (1,276) Revaluation deficit (20,737) (20,737) At 31 December 2018 94,958 13,612 88,820 24,627 82,747 74,824 379,588 Comprising: At valuation 94,958 94,958 At cost 13,612 88,820 24,627 82,747 74,824 284,630 Cost or valuation 94,958 13,612 88,820 24,627 82,747 74,824 379,588 DEPRECIATION At 1 January 2017 7,810 29,347 18,715 74,891 130,763 Charge for the year 2,344 9,562 3,735 8,284 23,925 Eliminated on disposal (1) (3,525) (11,325) (14,851) At 1 January 2018 10,154 38,908 18,925 71,850 139,837 Charge for the year 2,092 10,364 2,009 6,238 20,703 Eliminated on disposal (2,003) (70) (1,167) (6,654) (9,894) At 31 December 2018 10,243 49,202 19,767 71,434 150,646 NET BOOK VALUE At 31 December 2018 94,958 3,369 39,618 4,860 11,313 74,824 228,942 At 31 December 2017 115,695 5,461 50,766 5,555 14,305 37,853 229,635 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 79 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 12 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (GROUP AND COMPANY) (Continued) No depreciation has been charged in arriving at the result for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated equipment with a cost of Sh 85 million (2017: Sh 79 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had been charged during the year on the cost of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Sh 20 million (2017: Sh 19.4 million). The building has been stated at its revalued amounts, being the fair value at 31 December 2018 less any subsequent depreciation. The revaluation was done on the basis of market comparable approach reflecting the highest and best use by Tysons Limited, an independent registered valuer. 13 INVESTMENT PROPERTY (GROUP AND COMPANY) 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 VALUATION At 1 January 300,603 313,474 Fair value gain 9,279 13,205 Transfer to building (note 12) (26,076) At 31 December 309,882 300,603 The fair value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 have been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 by Tysons Limited and Kenstate Valuers Limited, respectively, independent registered valuers. The fair value was adjusted for in the books of the Group and Company. The fair value was determined based on the market comparable approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar properties. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their current use. There has been no change to the valuation technique during the year. The following table gives information about how the fair values of these non-financial assets are determined (in particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used) Relationship of Valuation Significant unobservable Fair value technique(s) and unobservable inputs to fair Fair value as at hierarchy key inputs inputs value 31/12/18 31/12/17 Sh’000 Sh’000 Market Buildings 130,118 129,397 Level 2 comparable N/A N/A approachHighest Investment property 309,882 300,603 Level 2 and best use Total 440,000 430,000 Building valuation includes Sh 35,160,000 (2017: Sh 14,288,064) relating mainly to costs of the fire exit and other building improvements that are held under WIP. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 80 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (GROUP AND COMPANY) Automated trading Broker Bond system Other back office software software software software license WIP Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 COST At 1 January 2017 61,169 31,125 67,931 38,191 104,014 302,430 Additions 643 1,640 2,283 At 1 January 2018 61,169 31,768 67,931 38,191 105,654 304,713 Additions 3,081 19,996 23,077 Transfer from WIP 3,435 (3,435) Adjustments (196) (196) At 31 December 2018 61,169 38,088 67,931 38,191 122,215 327,594 AMORTISATION At 1 January 2017 58,944 27,731 30,653 17,018 134,346 Amortisation for the year 1,122 2,084 6,794 7,638 17,638 At 1 January 2018 60,066 29,815 37,447 24,656 151,984 Amortisation for the year 245 1,677 6,793 7,638 16,353 At 31 December 2018 60,311 31,492 44,240 32,294 168,337 NET BOOK VALUE At 31 December 2018 858 6,596 23,691 5,897 122,215 159,257 At 31 December 2017 1,103 1,953 30,484 13,535 105,654 152,729 The work in progress relates to costs incurred on futures software and costs incurred to date on the ATS upgrade. No amortisation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated intangible assets with a cost of Sh 86.4 million (2017: Sh 86 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had been charged during the year on the cost of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Sh 12.8 million (2017: Sh 12.7 million). Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 81 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 15 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (GROUP AND COMPANY) The investment in associate represents an investment in Central Depository and Settlement Corporation Limited (CDSC). The Company held an ownership percentage of 22.5% at 31 December 2018 (2017: 22.5%). The proportion of the voting rights in the associate held by the Company does not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares held. a) Details of the associate at the end of the reporting period are as follows: Number of shares held by NSE Proportion of ownership interest Country of incorporation and operation @ Sh 100 per share and voting power held by NSE 2018 2017 2018 2017 CDSC Kenya 393,750 393,750 22.5% 22.5 % The principal activity of the associate is provision of automated clearing, delivery and settlement facilities in respect of transactions carried out at the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 b) The movement in the balance is as follows: At start of year 111,374 99,134 Share of profit for the year 19,012 12,324 Share of other comprehensive income for the year (105) (84) Dividends received (2,700) At end of year 127,581 111,374 c) Summarised financial information in respect of the associate Total assets 637,943 531,180 Total liabilities (70,918) (36,184) Net assets 567,025 494,996 Group’s share of net assets of associate 127,581 111,374 Total revenue for the year 355,276 335,552 Total profit for the year 81,715 54,447 Group’s share of profit of associate 19,012 12,324 Group’s share of other comprehensive income of associate (105) (84) 18,907 12,240 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 82 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 16 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES (COMPANY) Principal activity Holding 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Investment in subsidiary (note 16 a)): Investment in NSE Clear Limited Clearing house 100% 20,000 20,000 Investment in structured entities (note 16 b)): NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund Settlement guarantee fund 100,000 100,000 NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund Investor protection fund 10,000 10,000 110,000 110,000 130,000 130,000 a) Investment in subsidiary NSE Clear Limited was incorporated as a limited liability company on 4 February 2014 under the Companies Act (Cap. 486) with a share capital of Kenya Shillings One Hundred Thousand (Sh 100,000) divided into One Hundred (100) ordinary shares of Kenya Shillings One Thousand (Sh 1,000) each. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. The subsidiary is domiciled in Kenya. The principal objectives of the subsidiary are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to provide clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry out all activities that pertain to a clearing house. The license to operate a Derivatives Exchange was granted to the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited on 19 October 2015. No transactions in derivatives were carried out in the period ended 31 December 2018 as the market is expected to be launched in 2019. b) Investment in structured entities The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) Derivatives Rules. The main purpose of the Settlement Guarantee Fund is to settle specified claims by derivatives members arising out of transactions in derivative securities. The NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under the Trustee Act (Cap167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, the NSE Investor Protection Fund Rules and the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) Compensation Rules and Procedures. The main purpose for the Investor Protection Fund is to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the default of trading members. The two structured entities, which are domiciled in Kenya, are managed by a management committee formed by the NSE Clear Board of Directors which is responsible for their affairs. Investment in the subsidiary and the structured entities are all classified as non-current. None of these financial assets are impaired. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 83 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 17 IMPACT OF IFRS 9 TRANSITION ADJUSTMENTS a) Classification and measurement of financial instruments The date of initial application of IFRS 9 was 1 January 2018. This is the date at which the classification of financial assets and liabilities was reassessed. The following table sets out the changes in classification and measurement of financial instruments as a consequence of the application of IFRS 9: Original classification New classification Financial assets and liabilities under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 Government securities Held to maturity Amortised cost Corporate bonds Held to maturity Amortised cost Trade & Other receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost Fixed deposits Loans & receivables Amortised cost Short term restricted cash & Loans & receivables Amortised cost equivalents Cash and cash equivalents Loans & receivables Amortised cost Financial liabilities: Tenant deposits Trade and other payables At Amortised cost Amortised cost Dividends payable Due to structured entity Trading members’ contributions b) Expected credit losses As explained in Note 3.10, IFRS 9 requires impairment provisions to be made based on expected credit losses instead of incurred credit losses. The effect of this has been applied retrospectively, with comparative amounts being restated, as the directors are of the opinion that this was possible without the use of hindsight. 12-month expected credit losses have been recognised for government securities, bank deposits, trade and other receivables (not considered as impaired) and bank balances since all of these were assessed as being of low credit risk at 1 January 2018. Lifetime expected credit losses have been recognised for trade receivables that were considered to be impaired. The following table sets out the changes in measurement of financial instruments as a consequence of the application of IFRS 9: Carrying amount Carrying amount Transition under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 adjustment Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Group At 31 December 2017 Government securities 330,619 328,664 1,955 Long-term restricted investments 148,391 147,886 505 Trade receivables 42,015 40,526 1,489 Other receivables 14,196 12,414 1,782 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 418,073 416,674 1,399 Total 1,255,309 1,248,179 7,130 Company At 31 December 2017 Government securities 330,619 328,664 1,955 Trade receivables 42,015 40,526 1,489 Other receivables 14,196 12,414 1,782 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 417,739 416,342 1,397 Total 1,106,584 1,099,961 6,623 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 84 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 18 GOVERNMENT SECURITIES AT AMORTISED COST Treasury bills maturing: Within three months 176,896 176,896 After three months to six months 60,619 60,619 237,515 237,515 Treasury bonds maturing: After 1 to 10 years 92,901 93,104 92,901 93,104 92,901 330,619 92,901 330,619 Less: provision for expected credit losses (1,258) (1,258) 91,643 330,619 91,643 330,619 The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bills and bonds for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 10.2 % and 8.4 % respectively (2017: 10.4% and 7.9% respectively). 19 LONG-TERM RESTRICTED INVESTMENTS Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Fixed deposit and interest capitalized held with the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited and maturing within 180 days in the name of: NSE Clear Limited 20,052 20,080 NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund 124,396 115,791 NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund 12,608 12,520 157,056 148,391 Less: provision for expected credit losses (535) 156,521 148,391 The restricted investments relate to the seed capital contributions by the NSE on 19 August 2015 to the NSE Clear Limited, the NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and Sh 10 million respectively towards their operations. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 85 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 20 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES a) Trade and other receivables Trade receivables 31,729 42,015 31,729 42,015 Prepayments and deposits 32,177 34,947 32,177 34,947 Other receivables 15,799 14,196 15,799 14,196 Due from trading members 2,400 Receivable from non-trading brokers 154,056 154,056 Due from associate (note 29 e)) 1,188 1,188 82,105 246,402 79,705 246,402 Less: provision for expected credit losses (note 20 b)) (1,579) (154,056) (1,579) (154,056) 80,526 92,346 78,126 92,346 b) Provision for expected credit losses Movements in the provisions for expected credit losses were as follows: At start of year 154,056 154,056 154,056 154,056 IFRS 9 transition adjustment: additional credit losses (note 3,271 3,271 17 (b)) Write back of expected credit losses in the year (1,570) (1,570) Written off in the year (154,178) (154,178) At end of year (note 20 a)) 1,579 154,056 1,579 154,056 T  he brought forward balances on receivable from non-trading brokers of Sh 154.1 million represented amounts owed by Nyaga Stockbrokers Limited of Sh 121.1 million (on loan issued in 2008 and transactions levy receivable and expenses incurred for the year 2008) and Discount Securities Limited of Sh 33.0 million (on loan issued in 2008 and transactions levy receivable for the year up to March 2009). The firms were later placed under statutory management by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) in March 2008 and March 2009 respectively. The amounts were fully provided for in 2009. Attempts to recover these amounts have not been successful as the companies are not in operation and have no assets and the balances were written off in 2018. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 86 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM RESTRICTED CASH & INVESTMENTS Call deposits 102,119 102,472 102,119 102,472 Fixed deposits 900,680 562,580 900,680 562,580 Total short-term deposits (note 22) 1,002,799 665,052 1,002,799 665,052 Bank and cash balances 30,399 55,036 30,379 54,702 Total bank and cash balances and deposits 1,033,198 720,088 1,033,178 719,754 Less provision for expected credit losses on: Call and fixed deposits (note 22) (1,693) (1,693) Bank and cash balances (206) (206) 1,031,299 720,088 1,031,279 719,754 Split into: Short-term restricted investments (note 34) 338,202 302,015 338,202 302,015 Cash and cash equivalents 228,564 156,030 228,544 155,696 Fixed deposits – maturity of three months to six months 464,533 262,043 464,533 262,043 (note 22) 1,031,299 720,088 1,031,279 719,754 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows is comprised of: Cash and cash equivalents as per the statement of financial 228,564 156,030 228,544 155,696 position Add back: Provision for expected credit losses on cash and 744 742 cash equivalents 229,308 156,030 229,286 155,696 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 22 SHORT TERM DEPOSITS Maturing within three months: Fixed deposits 434,862 300,537 434,862 300,537 Call deposits 102,119 102,472 102,119 102,472 536,981 403,009 536,981 403,009 Less: provision for expected credit losses (408) (408) 536,573 403,009 536,573 403,009 Maturing after three months to six months: Fixed deposits 465,818 262,043 465,818 262,043 Less: provision for expected credit losses (1,285) (1,285) 464,533 262,043 464,533 262,043 Gross total call and fixed deposits (note 21) 1,002,799 665,052 1,002,799 665,052 Total provision for expected credit losses (1,693) (1,693) Net total call and fixed deposits 1,001,106 665,052 1,001,106 665,052 The deposits are classified and measured at amortised cost. The gross carrying deposits were held at the following institutions: Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited 211,582 232,475 211,582 232,475 Equity Bank Kenya Limited 199,878 154,379 199,878 154,379 Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited 184,547 146,072 184,547 146,072 Kenya Commercial Bank Limited 42,007 21,369 42,007 21,369 Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited 184,931 5,595 184,931 5,595 NIC Bank Kenya PLC 179,854 105,162 179,854 105,162 1,002,799 665,052 1,002,799 665,052 The weighted average effective interest rate on the deposits as at 31 December 2018 was 9.1% (2017: 8.4%). Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 88 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 23 SHARE CAPITAL Authorised share capital: At start and end of year: 375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each (2017: 375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each) 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 Issued and fully paid up: At start and end of year: 259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each (2017: 259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each) 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 24 DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income tax is calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a principal tax rate of 20% (2017: 20%) except for deferred tax on revaluation of buildings which is calculated using the capital gains tax rate of 5% (2017: 5%). The net deferred tax asset/(liability) is attributable to the following items: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Accelerated capital allowances 241 (1,845) 241 (1,845) Straight-lined rental income (1,101) (1,208) (1,101) (1,208) Unrealized foreign exchange loss 22 (61) 22 (61) Revaluation surplus on buildings (619) (619) Leave provision 728 592 728 592 Tax losses 1,816 1,308 Provision for expected credit losses 1,109 948 Deferred market access fees 5,000 5,000 7,815 (1,833) 5,838 (3,141) Revaluation of investment property (2,127) (1,663) (2,127) (1,663) 5,688 (3,496) 3,711 (4,804) The movement in the deferred income tax asset/(liability) is as follows: At start of year (3,496) (5,631) (4,804) (5,891) Credit to profit or loss (note 11 a)) 2,706 2,588 2,190 1,540 Charge to other comprehensive income (453) (453) IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 transition adjustment: expected credit losses 6,478 6,325 At end of year 5,688 (3,496) 3,711 (4,804) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 89 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 25 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES a) Non-current portion Tenant deposits 2,711 3,830 2,711 3,830 b) Current portion Accrued expenses 35,067 37,013 33,314 35,221 Trade payables 16,627 12,730 16,627 12,730 Other payables 10,681 8,599 10,681 8,599 Staff leave accrual 3,639 2,962 3,639 2,962 Amount payable to Capital Markets Authority 1,953 2,030 1,953 2,030 Annual listing fees received in advance 135 1,957 135 1,957 Tenant deposits 1,648 1,648 Amount payable to associate (note 29 e)) 767 767 Deferred market access fees 25,001 25,001 93,870 66,939 92,117 65,147 26 DIVIDENDS PAYABLE  The dividends payable represent the first and final dividend for the years ended 31 December 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 respectively not paid at year end. The movement in dividends payable during the year was as follows:Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 At start of year 19,869 16,278 19,869 16,278 Declared amount for prior years 77,850 70,065 77,850 70,065 Paid during the year (73,860) (66,474) (73,860) (66,474) At end of year 23,859 19,869 23,859 19,869 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 90 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 27 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before income tax 240,849 269,186 229,522 259,512 Adjustments for: Depreciation (note 12) 20,703 23,925 20,703 23,925 Amortisation (note 14) 16,353 17,638 16,353 17,638 Share of results of associate (note 15 c)) (19,012) (12,324) (19,012) (12,324) Interest income (note 9) (116,341) (98,569) (100,977) (84,358) Gain on disposal of equipment (452) (24) (452) (24) Gain on revaluation of investment property (9,279) (13,205) (9,279) (13,205) Deficit on revaluation of building 17,529 17,529 Working capital changes: Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 10,949 (21,425) 10,949 (21,425) Increase in short-term restricted cash and investments (36,187) (9,510) (36,187) (9,510) Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 1,930 (55,723) 1,969 (56,325) Due from trading members (2,400) Movement in related party balances (3,401) 637 Cash generated from operations 124,642 99,969 127,717 104,541 28 EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit attributable to owners of the Group (Sh’000) 190,678 216,250 Number of shares at 31 December (in thousands) 259,501 259,501 Basic and diluted earnings per share – Sh 0.73 0.83  The basic earnings per share is the same as the diluted earnings per share as there were no potentially dilutive shares at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  The Group and Company are related to various parties by virtue of common shareholding. The shareholders exercise significant influence over the operations of the exchange. At 31 December 2018, the Group had 9 stock brokers (2017:10) and 7 licensed investment banks (2017:7) who are shareholders. The following transactions were carried out with related parties: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 a) Directors’ emoluments Non – executive Directors sitting allowances (including committees) 14,290 12,053 13,004 10,939 Executive 23,719 18,170 23,719 18,170 Group and Company 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 b) Key management compensation Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 73,603 50,197 Other long term benefits 6,459 4,748 80,062 54,945 c) Transactions with shareholders The transactions carried out during the year with the brokers and investment banks who are related parties by virtue of shareholding are disclosed below:  The Group charges investors, through the brokers, a transaction levy of 0.12% (31 December 2017: 0.12%) of the value of equity securities traded at the Exchange. During the 12 months period ended 31 December 2018, the total turnover was Sh 208,254 million (31 December 2017: Sh 209,800 million) resulting in a transaction levy of Sh 250 million (31 December 2017: Sh 252 million). NSE also charges investors, through brokers, a transaction levy of 0.0035% (31 December 2017 – 0.0035%) of the value of fixed income securities traded at the Exchange. The turnover for fixed income securities for the 12 months period ended 31 December 2018 was Sh 778,007 million (31 December 2017: Sh 659,139 million), resulting in transaction levy of Sh 27 million (31 December 2017: Sh 23 million). Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Transaction levy on equity securities 249,905 251,760 249,905 251,760 Transaction levy on fixed income securities 27,230 23,070 27,230 23,070 Broker back office subscriptions 17,280 18,720 17,280 18,720 Data fee 516 516 Training 920 399 920 399 NOMAD fee 150 275 150 275 Membership fee 1,300 -1,300 Sponsorship fees 425 100 425 100 297,210 294,840 297,210 294,840 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 92 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) d) Transactions with companies related to directors  The Company’s memorandum and articles of association requires that trading participants and listed companies to have two representatives each on the Board. The transactions listed below were carried out during the period with companies who the aforementioned representatives are directors. Group and Company 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 (i) Stockbrokers and investment bank representatives Transaction levy on equity securities 19,786 32,311 Transaction levy on fixed income securities 3,424 3,939 Broker back office subscriptions 2,880 2,880 Training 360 100 NOMAD fees 50 50 Purchase of data 12 Annual fee 200 Sponsorship fees 75 100 26,775 39,392 Allowances to broker company directors sitting on Committees but are not Group Directors 86 (ii) Listed companies related to directors Annual listing fees 4,000 4,000 Advertisement 52 Interest income on bank deposits 11,253 11,936 Purchase of data 309 15,562 15,988 e) Transactions with associate During the period, transactions with CDSC Ltd were as follows:Income: Advertising 52 Expenses relating to: Share registrar services and depository levies 3,024 2,973 Dividend processing 785 984 Joint Board meetings 70 BAFM fees 105 Provident scheme expense 113 4,097 3,957 Net amounts (payable to)/receivable from associate (note 25 b) and note 20 a)) (767) 1,188 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) f) Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities Company 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 i) During the period, transactions with NSE Clear Limited were as follows: Expenses paid by the Company relating to: Audit and tax fees 755 532 Secretarial services 540 486 Market development expense 215 Board allowances 429 371 Income tax 665 Pilot testing – funding members 2,400 4,789 1,604 Amounts due from NSE Clear Limited 3,623 622 ii) D  uring the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) were as follows:Expenses paid by the Company relating to: Trustee allowances 429 371 Audit and tax fees 482 363 Secretarial fees 131 70 Income tax 21 Tax exemption application fees 116 355 1,158 1,180 Amounts due from the NSE Derivatives IPF 114 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 94 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) f) Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities (continued) Company 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 (iii) D  uring the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) were as follows:Expenses paid by the Company relating to: Income tax 972 3,134 Trustee allowances 429 371 Audit and tax fees 482 363 Secretarial fees 131 70 Tax exemption application fees 116 355 2,130 4,293 Amounts due from the NSE Derivatives SGF 286 g) Loans and advances to Executive Director At start of year 167 167 Advances made in the year 529 800 Loan made in the year 3,764 2,000 Repayments in the year (2,803) (2,800) At end of year 1,657 167 Interest income earned on loan 184 122 The balances are included in note 20 a) under Other receivables. The repayment period for the loans and advances are one year and three months respectively. Interest on the loans was at 10% p.a (2017 – 10% p.a). All terms are as per company policy. 30 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY) The Group and Company as a lessor: Lease rental income earned during the year was Sh 20 million (2017: Sh 20 million). At the end of the reporting period the Group and Company had existing contracts with tenants for the following minimum lease payments: 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 11,175 14,771 Receivable within 1 year 12,340 24,375 Receivable after 1 year but within 5 years 23,515 39,146 Rental income receivable relates to the lease rent receivable on the leased areas on the investment property. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 31 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY) Commitments at the end of the reporting period for which no provision had been made in these financial statements: 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Authorised but not yet contracted for 38,999 55,368 Authorised and contracted for 34,567 71,663  he capital commitments relate mainly to balances on ATS implementation, property improvements and other system infrastructure and T support. 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The main business risks faced by the Group and the Company in respect of its principal non-derivative financial instruments are market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The directors review and determine policies for managing these risks. a) Market risk The Group and the Company maintains a conservative policy regarding currency and interest rate risks and does not engage in speculation in the markets. In addition, the Group and the Company do not speculate or trade in derivative financial instruments. (i) Interest rate risk (Group and Company) The Group and Company’s investment in interest earning investments are at fixed rate hence there is no interest rate risk. Further, interest earning investments are not fair valued and therefore, fair value interest rate risk does not arise. (ii) Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company) The Group and Company undertake certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are however minimal as these only relate to income from data and interest income. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 96 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) a) Market risk (continued) (ii) Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company) (continued) At 31 December, the carrying amounts of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are as follows: 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Assets Cash and bank balances 2,843 1,879 Trade receivables 705 375 Fixed deposit 20,429 25,364 23,977 27,618 Liabilities Trade payables (6,280) (1,784) Other payables (12,739) (16,009) Net position 4,958 9,825  At 31 December 2018, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar with all other variables held constant, the impact on pretax profit for the period would have been Sh 496,000 (2017: Sh 983,000) higher/lower mainly as a result of translation of US dollar denominated balances. (iii) Price risk (Group and Company) The Group and Company do not hold investments that would be subject to price risk; hence this risk is not relevant. b) Credit risk (Group and Company)  Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss. Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. Credit risk mainly arises from financial assets, and is managed on a Group-wide basis. Credit risk on financial assets with banking institutions is managed by dealing with institutions with good credit ratings and placing limits on deposits that can be held in one institution. Credit risk on trade receivables is managed by ensuring that credit is extended to customers with an established credit history. The credit history is determined by taking into account the financial position, past experience and other relevant factors. Credit is managed by setting a credit limit and credit period for each customer. The utilization of the credit limits and the credit period is monitored by management on a monthly basis. In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly, the Group compares the risk of default occurring on the financial asset as at the reporting date with the risk of default occurring on that financial asset as at the date of initial recognition. In doing so, the Group considers reasonable and supportable information that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition and that is available without undue cost or effort. There is a rebuttable assumption that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued) For this purpose, default is defined as having occurred if the debtor is in breach of contractual obligations, or if information is available internally or externally that suggests that the debtor is unlikely to be able to meet its obligations. However, there is a rebuttable assumption that that default does not occur later than when a financial asset is 90 days past due. The Group and Company do not hold collateral or security to mitigate credit risk. The amount that best represents the Group and Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 is  made up as follows: (i) The gross carrying amount of financial assets with exposure to credit risk at balance sheet date was as follows: 12 – month expected credit Lifetime expected losses credit losses Total (a) (b) Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Group At 31 December 2018 Government securities 92,901 92,901 Long-term restricted investments 157,056 157,056 Trade receivables 30,936 793 31,729 Other receivables 15,113 686 15,799 Short-term restricted cash and investments 338,302 338,302 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 694,896 694,896 Gross carrying amount 1,329,204 1,479 1,330,683 Loss allowance (3,792) (1,479) (5,271) Exposure to credit risk 1,325,412 1,325,412 At 31 December 2017 Government securities 330,619 330,619 Long-term restricted investments 148,391 148,391 Trade receivables 42,015 42,015 Other receivables 14,196 14,196 Due from non trading – brokers 154,056 154,056 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 418,073 418,073 Gross carrying amount 1,255,309 1 54,056 1,409,365 Loss allowance (154,056) (154,056) Exposure to credit risk 1,255,309 1,255,309 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 98 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued) 12 – month expected credit Lifetime expected losses credit losses Total (a) (b) Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Company At 31 December 2018 Government securities 92,901 92,901 Trade receivables 30,936 793 31,729 Other receivables 15,113 686 15,799 Short-term restricted cash and investments 338,302 338,302 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 694,876 694,876 Gross carrying amount 1,172,128 1,479 1,173,607 Loss allowance (3,257) (1,479) (4,736) Exposure to credit risk 1,168,871 1,168,871 At 31 December 2017 Government securities 330,619 330,619 Trade receivables 42,015 42,015 Other receivables 14,196 14,196 Due from non trading – brokers 154,056 154,056 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 417,739 417,739 Gross carrying amount 1,106,584 154,056 1,260,640 Loss allowance (154,056) (154,056) Exposure to credit risk 1,106,584 1,106,584 Financial assets for which the loss allowance has been measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses have been analysed above based on their credit risk ratings as follows: a) financial assets for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are not credit impaired; b) financial assets that are credit impaired at the balance sheet date The above represents the worst case scenario of credit exposure for both years. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued) (ii) The loss allowances at end of each year relate to the following 12-month expected credit Lifetime expected losses credit losses Total (a) (b) Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Group At 31 December 2018 Government securities 1,258 1,258 Long-term restricted investments 535 535 Trade receivables 35 793 828 Other receivables 65 686 751 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 1,899 1,899 Total 3,792 1,479 5,271 At 31 December 2017 Due from non trading brokers 154,056 154,056 Total 154,056 154,056 Company At 31 December 2018 Government securities 1,258 1,258 Trade receivables 35 793 828 Other receivables 65 686 751 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 1,899 1,899 Total 3,257 1,479 4,736 At 31 December 2017 Due from non trading brokers 154,056 154,056 Total 154,056 154,056  Financial assets for which the loss allowance has been measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses have been analysed above based on their credit risk ratings as follows: a) financial assets for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are not credit impaired; b) financial assets that are credit impaired at the balance sheet date The above represents the worst case scenario of credit exposure for both years. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 100 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued) iii) The changes in the loss allowance during the year were as follows 12-month expected credit Lifetime expected losses credit losses Total (a) (b) Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Group Year ended 31 December 2018 At start of year 154,056 154,056 IFRS 9 transition adjustment on expected credit losses 3,962 3,168 7,130 Changes arising from whether the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month or lifetime expected credit losses (170) (1,567) (1,737) Changes due to financial assets written off during the year (122) (154,056) (154,178) At end of year 3,792 1,479 5,271 Year ended 31 December 2017 At start and end of year 154,056 154,056 Company Year ended 31 December 2018 At start of year 154,056 154,056 IFRS 9 transition adjustment on expected credit losses 3,455 3,168 6,623 Changes arising from whether the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month or lifetime expected credit losses (198) (1,567) (1,765) Changes due to financial assets written off during the year (122) (154,056) (154,178) At end of year 3,257 1,479 4,736 Year ended 31 December 2017 At start and end of year 154,056 154,056  Financial assets for which the loss allowance has been measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses have been analysed above based on their credit risk ratings as follows: a) financial assets for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition but that are not credit impaired; b) financial assets that are credit impaired at the balance sheet date The above represents the worst case scenario of credit exposure for both years. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) c) Liquidity risk (Group and Company)  rudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash to meet the Group and Company’s obligations. The Group and P Company manage this risk by maintaining adequate cash balances in the bank, banking facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. The table below analyses the Group and Company’s financial liabilities that will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity grouping’s based on the remaining period at the reporting period to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant. Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Group At 31 December 2018 Financial liabilities Tenant deposits 2,711 2,711 Trade and other payables 93,870 93,870 Dividends payable 23,859 23,859 Trading members’ contributions 2,200 2,200 Total financial liabilities 119,929 2,711 122,640 At 31 December 2017 Financial liabilities Tenant deposits 1,648 3,830 5,478 Trade and other payables 65,291 65,291 Dividends payable 19,869 19,869 Trading members’ contributions 2,200 2,200 Total financial liabilities 89,008 3,830 92,838 Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 102 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) c) Liquidity risk (Group and Company) (continued) Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Company At 31 December 2018 Financial liabilities Tenant deposits 2,711 2,711 Trade and other payables 92,117 92,117 Dividends payable 23,859 23,859 Total financial liabilities 115,976 2,711 118,687 At 31 December 2017 Financial liabilities Tenant deposits 1,648 3,830 5,478 Trade and other payables 63,499 63,499 Dividends payable 19,869 19,869 Total financial liabilities 85,016 3,830 88,846 d) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities IFRS 7 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether inputs used in the valuation techniques of financial instruments are observable or unobservable. Financial instruments are grouped into 3 levels based on the degree to which fair value data / input is observable.  i) Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active trading markets for identical assets or liabilities. ii) Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as a price) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Input data for this category is sourced mainly from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The external valuation of buildings and investment property has been performed using a sales comparison approach. i ii) Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). There are no financial assets carried at fair value (2017: nil). Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) (e) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (continued)  T  he table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value by level of the fair value hierarchy. 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Group Level 1 Financial assets Government securities 88,107 323,122 Level 2 Financial assets Long-term restricted investments 156,521 148,391 Short-term restricted cash and investments 338,302 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 693,097 418,073 1,187,920 868,479 Company Level 1 Financial assets Government securities 88,107 323,122 Level 2 Financial assets Short-term restricted cash and investments 338,302 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 693,077 417,729 1,031,379 719,744 There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement. i) Level 1 We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. ii) Level 2 The fair value of these balances is equal to their amortised cost. 33 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group and Company manage its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. At 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the Group and Company did not have any borrowings. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 104 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 34 MINIMUM LIQUID NET-WORTH REQUIREMENTS (COMPANY) 2018 2017 Sh’000 Sh’000 Estimated twelve months operating costs 676,404 604,029 Required minimum liquid net-worth at one half of estimated operating costs 338,202 302,015 Cash and cash equivalents and fixed deposits 694,976 417,739  To ensure that there is no significant risk that liabilities may not be met as they fall due, the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 requires a futures exchange to maintain minimum liquid net-worth requirements equal to one half of the estimated gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve (12) month period or such other liquid net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Capital Markets Authority. This has been met based on the above. Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC | Integrated Report and Financial Statements | 2018 105 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE is hereby given that the 65th Annual General Meeting of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) will be held at Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC), Tsavo Ballroom, Nairobi, on Thursday, 30 May 2019 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following business:ORDINARY BUSINESS 1. To read the notice convening the meeting, table the proxies received and confirm the presence of a quorum. 2. To confirm and adopt the Minutes of the 64th Annual General Meeting held on 30 May 2018. 3. To receive the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Report. 4. To receive, consider and, if thought fit, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, together with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon. 5. To approve a first and final dividend of Kshs. 0.49 per ordinary share comprising of an ordinary dividend of Kshs. 0.29 per ordinary share and a special dividend of Kshs. 0.20 per ordinary share in respect of the Financial Year ended 31 December 2018 and to approve the closure of the Register of Members at the close of business on 30 May 2019, for one day, for the purpose of determining the qualifying members entitled to dividends. 6. To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board as detailed in the Integrated Report for the Financial Year ended 31 December 2018. 7. Election of Directors: a) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Ms. Sharon Maviala (an Independent Non-Executive Director) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers herself for re-election; b) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Hosea Kimutai Kili (an Independent Non-Executive Director) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election; c) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Paul Vollant (a Non-Executive Director) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. 8. In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015: a)  The following directors, being members of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, be appointed individually to continue to serve as members of the said Committee: i) Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto ii) Mrs. Nasim Devji b) Subject to the following directors being re-elected under agenda item No. 7 above and, being members of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, be appointed individually to continue to serve as members of the said Committee:i) Ms. Sharon Maviala ii) Mr. Hosea Kimutai Kili 9. To re-appoint Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) as the auditors of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 721 of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the Directors to fix the Auditors’ remuneration for the ensuing Financial Year in accordance with the provisions of Section 724 of the Companies Act, 2015. ANY OTHER BUSINESS 10. To consider any other business of which due notice has been received. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD J L G MAONGA COMPANY SECRETARY DATE: 06 May 2019 NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Continued) Note: 1. In accordance with the provisions of Section 298 of the Companies Act, 2015, a member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his or her behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A Proxy Form may be obtained from the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke, the Registered Office of the Company, The Exchange Building, 5th Floor, 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100, Nairobi, or from the offices of the Company’s Shares Registrars, CDSC Registrars Limited, Occidental Plaza, 1st Floor, Muthithi Road, Westlands, P. O. Box 6341 00100, Nairobi; Email: registrar@cdscregistrars.com.  o be valid, a Proxy Form must be duly completed by the member and must be returned to the Company’s Shares Registrars on the above address T so as to arrive not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, failing which, it will be invalid. In the case of a corporate body, the Proxy Form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of duly authorised officer or an attorney of such corporation. 2. In accordance with the provisions of Article 159 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a copy of the entire Integrated Report and Accounts may be viewed at the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke. 3. In accordance with the provisions of Article 96 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a person seeking election at the Annual General Meeting should deliver to the Secretary at least seven (7) days prior to the day of the meeting, notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election and notice in writing signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected as per the nomination papers which may be accessed on the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC PROXY FORM Discover Opportunity I/We,……….................…......................……., of……………………….....….....…….., being a shareholder/ shareholders of the above-named Company, hereby appoint……………………………….., of………………………………., or failing him…………...…….……....……... of…………………...............… as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 30th May 2019 and at any adjournment thereof. As witness my/our hand this……………. day of …............……………2019 Signed………………………………………….. Signed………………………………………….. This Form is to be used *in favour of/against the resolutions. Unless otherwise instructed, the proxy shall vote as he thinks fit. *Strike out whichever is not desired. Agenda Item Resolution For Against 4. To adopt the audited Financial Statements for the FY ended 31 December 2018. 5. To approve a first and final dividend of Kshs 0.49 per share in respect of the FY ended 31 December 2018. 6. To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board in respect of the FY ended 31 December 2018. 7. (a) To re-elect Ms. Sharon Maviala (an Independent Non-Executive Director) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95. 7. (b) To re-elect Mr. Hosea Kimutai Kili (an Independent Non-Executive Director) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95. 7. (c) To re-elect Mr. Paul Vollant (a Non-Executive Director) in accordance with Articles 94 and 95. 8 (i) (a) To appoint Ms. Risper Alaro-Mukoto to continue serving as a member of Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 8 (i) (b) To appoint Mrs. Nasim Devji to continue serving as a member of Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 8 (ii) (a) To appoint Ms. Sharon Maviala to continue serving as a member of Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 8 (ii) (b) To appoint Mr. Hosea Kimutai Kili to continue serving as a member of Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee 9. To re-appoint Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers as the auditors for the FY ending 31 December 2019 and to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration. Note: i) To be valid, a Form of Proxy must be duly completed by the member and must either be returned to the Company Secretary, P O Box 73248 – 00200 Nairobi, Email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com or to the Shares Registrars CDSC Registrars Limited, Occidental Plaza, Nairobi so as to arrive not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, failing which, it will be invalid. ii) In the case of a corporate body, the proxy form must be executed under its commom seal Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS AN INDEPENDENT Discover Opportunity NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR I/We ……..…………………………………………………of P. O. Box ……………….………………. being a shareholder/shareholders of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2019, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to propose ……………………………….……………………............................... of P.O. Box …………......................………….................….. for election as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company at the meeting. SIGNED this ………….. day of ............................................…... 2019. SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF ) ) _____________________________________________ ) ) In the presence of: ) ) SEAL ) DIRECTOR ________________________ ) ) ) DIRECTOR/SECRETARY ________________________ ) PLEASE NOTE: 1) The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC define an “Independent Non-Executive Director” as a Non-Executive Director who, for the last 5 years, has not been employed by the Company in an executive capacity; has not been a director of a Trading Participant; has not been employed by a Trading Participant in an executive capacity; has no personal service contract(s) with a Trading Participant; is not a director or a member of the senior management of a company listed on the Company’s securities exchange; and does not own or hold shares in a Trading Participant. 2) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; Email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 p.m. on Wednesday, 22 May 2019. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC CONSENT FORM FOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CONSENT TO ACT AS AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF A COMPANY Discover Opportunity I ……………………...……………………….....………. of P. O. Box ……………………..……………. being the person in respect of whom ………………………………………….…………………. of P.O. Box ……………………………………....………………has given notice of intention to propose as a candidate to be elected as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2019, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected. SIGNED this ………….. day of ....................................................., 2019. .................................................................................... SIGNATURE PLEASE NOTE: 1) Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows:  “ No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.” 2) To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; Email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 p.m. on Wednesday, 22 May 2019. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Discover Opportunity I/We ………………………………………………………of P. O. Box ………………..………………. being a shareholder/shareholders of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2019, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to propose ………………………………………………………..………….…...….… of P.O. Box …………........ ..............………..….................….. for election as a Non-Executive Director of the Company at the meeting. SIGNED this ………….. day of……………………………, 2019. SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF ) ) ____________________________________________ ) ) In the presence of: ) ) SEAL ) DIRECTOR ________________________ ) ) ) DIRECTOR/SECRETARY ________________________ ) PLEASE NOTE: 1) A Non-Executive Director is any director other than an Executive Director, Independent Director, Trading Participant Director or a director representing listed companies in the Board of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. 2) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; Email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 p.m. on Wednesday, 22 May 2019. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CONSENT TO ACT AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Discover Opportunity I ……………………...…………………….....………. of P. O. Box ………………………………. being the person in respect of whom ………………………………………….…………………. of P.O. Box ……………………………………....……………….. has given notice of intention to propose as a candidate to be elected as a Non-Executive Director at the Annual General Meeting of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC to be held on the 30th day of May 2019, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected. SIGNED this ………….. day of ....................................................., 2019. .................................................................................... SIGNATURE PLEASE NOTE: 1) Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows: “No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.” 2) To be valid, this Consent Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com on or before 5.00 p.m. on Wednesday, 22 May 2019. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NOTES NOTES NOTES Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC Tel: +254 20 2831000 Email: info@nse.co.ke The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road Mobile: +254 724 253783 Website: www.nse.co.ke P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, Kenya +254 733 222007 122
