MTN Group Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 0 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 1 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact that your company does not participate in any way in the violation of human rights 2 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 About this report This Communication of Progress of the MTN Group Limited for the year ending 2018 aims to enable the United Nations Global Compact and our stakeholders to make an informed assessment of our commitment to the UNGC Ten Principles. The Report reflects how we have honoured our ethical or moral obligations towards our employees, our communities, society and the environment in the countries in which we operate. As Global Compact signatory, MTN recognizes that the ten principles within the four issues areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption are material to the organisation and that these reflect vital economic, social and environmental impacts. We also recognise that the decisions and assessments of our stakeholders are being influenced in crucial ways by the process and results of MTN’s integration of the ten principles into our operations and strategies. This report therefore provides a review of how we have given expression to the The Principles in our corporate endeavours. Scope and boundary This Communication of Progress covers the period 1 January to 31 December 2018. The structure and layout of this report draws on the United Nations Global Compact guidance and is aligned with the MTN Group’s Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Report for 2018. Supplementary information is provided in the following reports for the year ending 31 December 2018 (accessible on MTN’s website): • Our Integrated Report • The MTN Group sustainability Report • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Report • The MTN SA Foundation Annual Report 2018 We welcome feedback on this report at: MTNGroupEthics@mtn.com 3 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 About MTN Who we are MTN is an emerging market mobile operator with a clear vision to lead the delivery of a bold, new digital world to our 233 million customers across 21 operations. We are inspired by our belief that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. Ours is one of the most admired brands in Africa and is also among the most valuable African brands. MTN is one of the largest companies listed on the JSE in Johannesburg and had a market capitalisation of R168 billion at the end of 2018. We were established in South Africa at the dawn of democracy in 1994 as a leader in transformation. Since then, we have grown by investing in sophisticated communications infrastructure and by harnessing the talent of our diverse team of people across Africa and the Middle East. 4 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 What we offer We provide a wide range of communication services to customers across our footprint, and manage the business by market segment: consumer, enterprise and wholesale. Consumer Enterprise Wholesale MTN is transforming from a MTN is already the premiere MTN owns and runs the telecommunications provider voice and data (fixed and largest fixed and mobile into a digital services provider mobile) connectivity provider infrastructure network in which means we deliver not only to small and large enterprises. our region. To provide a highconnectivity (voice data and We use this base to offer quality service to customers SMS) but also the digital enterprises a richer set of and to take advantage of services customers use over that services including cloud and our scale, we have connectivity. We offer a unified communications. established a company full suite of mobile fintech Security underpins all of this. called MTN GlobalConnect products including mobile We are also a leader in IoT. to run and procure the wallets, payments, micro-loans We provide reliable, secure IoT infrastructure which is shared and micro-insurance that are connectivity and have invested between our markets and to universally accessible through in state-of-the-art IoT route the traffic between our our app or USSD. We also offer platforms to enhance our markets. The creation of this mobile commerce through our offering. Our fintech offering company has better enabled MTN marketplace and through also extends into the enterprise us to open up our infraour investments in other espace, particularly for structure to third parties, commerce platforms. We offer SMEs and SOHOs. including other telcos and our own digital lifestyle media tech companies to resell services including music, video excess capacity. and gaming (and soon messaging too), as well as digital marketing services. 5 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Where we operate Strong position in the right markets We operate in Africa and the Middle East – some of the world’s fastest growing regions for mobile communications. We are in three of the four largest economies in these regions and through our extensive investments have a leading share of the market – either number one or number two – in each of these countries. This ensures in-market scale that is the key to profitability. Exciting demographic opportunity The countries in which we operate have fast-growing, youthful populations that are forecast to grow by another 50 million over the next few years. Data and fintech adoption is low across our footprint and there is opportunity to develop strong positions in the enterprise and wholesale markets which are still at an early stage of maturity. 6 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN Operations whose SDG actions are covered in this Communication of Progress Afghanistan Benin Cameroon Congo Brazzaville Côte d’Ivoire eSwatini Ghana Guinea Bissau Guinea Republic Irancell Liberia Nigeria Rwanda South Africa Sudan Syria Uganda Yemen Zambia 7 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Contents 01 MTN Group Limited 2018 Statement of recommitment to the UNGC 9 02 Our vision, mission, core beliefs and BRIGHT strategy 10 03 Our market context 11 04 How we contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals 12 05 How we progressed on the Ten Principles 71 5.1 Human Rights 71 5.2 Labour 72 5.3 Environment 73 5.4 Anti-Corruption 74 8 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 9 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our vision, mission and core belief We believe everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. We have a vision of leading the delivery of a bold, new digital world to our customers. Our purpose is to make our customers' lives a whole lot BRIGHTER! Our strategy Our BRIGHT operational strategy serves as a bearing for all MTNers and is intrinsically linked to our core business principles and our values. It also sets out the six pillars on which we are focused to achieve our goals and sustainably build our business. Alignment of our conduct with the BRIGHT strategy Best Customer Experience B We aspire to treat our customers fairly and foster an environment that supports the best customer experience through fair engagements with our customers, subscribers, and with our competitors in the market. Our customers make our brand what it is today. R Returns and Efficiency We conduct our business activities in a prudent manner to ensure sustainability by investing in the right technologies to achieve our strategic goals. We develop the appropriate capabilities to deliver our strategies to maximise returns and efficiency for our shareholders. I IGNITE Commercial Performance We drive commercial performance by unlocking opportunities in the six consumer curves including subscriber growth, enterprise and wholesale revenues, through targeted channels. Our measure of success is objectively based on key performance indicators. G Growth Through Data and Digital We drive growth through meaningful engagements with our brand and the delivery of a bold, new digital experience. The convergence of modern technologies and a connected lifestyle enables our future growth. H Hearts and Minds We conduct our engagements with the highest ethical standards to fulfil our compliance obligations with the spirit of the laws and regulations in the markets that we operate in. We create an environment and build a culture that is open and transparent. T Technology Excellence We strive to be the leader in our field and a brand that champions innovation and technological excellence. We invest in technologies in light of the evolving information and communication technologies landscape. 10 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our market context Our market context and the environment in which we operate pose specific challenges but also opportunities to how we continue to honour the Ten Principles of the UNGC and increase our contribution to the attainment of the SDGs. Opportunities Opportunities 11 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN Case Studies SDGs 2018 12 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN and the Sustainable Development Goals The MTN prioritisation of the SDGs includes an alignment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This demonstrates the intention of the business to operate in a principles-based way that attends to human and labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. The prioritisation is also linked to the SDG targets that MTN is aligning to and the specific solutions, operations and initiatives that will drive action to deliver the 2030 Agenda. The SDGs are ambitious, and MTN's aim is to encourage and inspire participation to contribute to the attainment of the SDGs. The initiatives reported here vary greatly in their scope and reach: some are small and modest, others are ambitious and on a grand scale; all of them are inspiring and speak of our earnest zeal to make some contribution to sustainable development. Our contribution to specific SDGs is often directed by the varying national priorities and contextual realities in each of the countries in which we operate. In the period covered by this COP we provided aid during times of natural disasters, resource shortages and migrant population movements. For example, following the Adi Bududa landslides in Uganda, MTN donated school shoes and clothes to 1 000 children. In Afghanistan, the returnee support project assisted 500 people that had returned from neighbouring Pakistan. To solve water scarcity in West Darfur, we provided water facilities for about 450 homes, ensuring 2 250 people had access to drinking water. Given the food crisis in Yemen, our food aid support programme ensured over 20 000 people were able to overcome lack of food and adequate nutrition. In this section of our COP we introduce each SDG to which MTN has made some contribution. This we do by first acknowledging the global context through a UNGC fact sheet 1 on each of the SDGs we contribute to, followed by a concise description of micro case studies that demonstrate MTN’s commitment to that SDG. Sustainable Development Goals to which MTN has demonstrated its commitment in 2018 1 Source: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/ 13 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere While global poverty rates have been cut by more than half since 2000, one in ten people in developing regions are still living with their families on less than the international poverty line of US$1.90 a day, and there are millions more who make little more than this daily amount. Significant progress has been made in many countries within Eastern and South-eastern Asia, but up to 42% of the population in Sub-Saharan Africa continues to live below the poverty line. The United Nations defines poverty as more than the lack of income and resources to ensure a sustainable livelihood. Its manifestations include hunger and malnutrition, limited access to education and other basic services, social discrimination and exclusion as well as the lack of participation in decision-making. For these reasons the UN encourages economic growth that is inclusive, to provide sustainable jobs and to promote equality. Social protection systems need to be implemented to help alleviate the suffering of disaster-prone countries and provide support in the face of great economic risks. These systems will help strengthen responses by afflicted populations to unexpected economic losses during disasters, and this will eventually help to end extreme poverty in the most impoverished areas. MTN’s demonstrated commitment to SDG 1 – No Poverty in 2018 MTN Group Head Office, South Africa Serving homeless persons with dignity Collaborating with NGOs and a local clinic in the Witkoppen area, Johannesburg, the General Manager for Digital Marketing at MTN Group embarked on a mission to give back to less fortunate people in our MTN Group Head Office communities. They initiated a pop-up clothing store for homeless persons to “shop for free . The focus is on affirming the dignity of homeless persons by giving them choice according to their needs in a street store fitted out as a clothing shop, as opposed to handing out clothing gifts in which the recipient has no choice but to settle for what has been selected for them. MTN eSwatini Bushfire Festival benefitting the community MTN eSwatini's Bushfire Festival, in collaboration with Young Heroes, MTN eSwatini office donated E 157 775 (US$ 11 226) to the community of Mahlanya, where the MTN Bushfire Festival takes place annually. Each year proceeds from the festival are used to benefit the community. Since the inception of MTN Bushfire in 2006, close to E2 million (US$ 139 234) has been donated to Young Heroes, a non-profit entity that supports over 1 000 orphans and vulnerable children by providing for their health, education and food. Mobile lending A partnership between and MTN eSwatini and Letshego, a regional lending company in eSwatini, has made it possible to disburse approved loans through MTN Mobile Money. This offering is creating a more convenient way to cash out, and the partnership is improving turnaround time and convenience for beneficiaries. 14 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Proceeds from MTN eSwatini’s annual Bushfire Festival benefit local communities 15 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Child health • 17,000 fewer children die each day than in 1990, but more than five million children still die before their fifth birthday each year. • Since 2000, measles vaccines have averted nearly 15.6 million deaths. • Despite determined global progress, an increasing proportion of child deaths are in SubSaharan Africa and Southern Asia. Four out of every five deaths of children under age five occur in these regions. • Children born into poverty are almost twice as likely to die before the age of five as those from wealthier families. • Children of educated mothers—even mothers with only primary schooling—are more likely to survive than children of mothers with no formal education. Maternal health • Maternal mortality has fallen by 37% since 2000. • In Eastern Asia, Northern Africa and Southern Asia, maternal mortality has declined by around two-thirds. • But maternal mortality ratio – the proportion of mothers that do not survive childbirth compared to those who do – in developing regions is still 14 times higher than in the developed regions. • More women are receiving antenatal care. In developing regions, antenatal care increased from 65 per cent in 1990 to 83 per cent in 2012. • Only half of women in developing regions receive the recommended amount of health care they need. • Fewer teens are having children in most developing regions, but progress has slowed. The large increase in contraceptive use in the 1990s was not matched in the 2000s. • The need for family planning is slowly being met for more women, but demand is increasing at a rapid pace. HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases • 36.9 million people globally were living with HIV in 2018. • 21.7 million million people were accessing antiretroviral therapy in 2018. • 1.8 million people became newly infected with HIV in 2018. • 940 000 people died from AIDS-related illnesses in 2018. • 77.3 million people have become infected with HIV since the start of the epidemic. • 35.4 million people have died from AIDS-related illnesses since the start of the epidemic. • Tuberculosis remains the leading cause of death among people living with HIV, accounting for around one in three AIDS-related deaths. • Globally, adolescent girls and young women face gender-based inequalities, exclusion, discrimination and violence, which put them at increased risk of acquiring HIV. • HIV is the leading cause of death for women of reproductive age worldwide. • AIDS is now the leading cause of death among adolescents (aged 10–19) in Africa and the second most common cause of death among adolescents globally. • Over 6.2 million malaria deaths have been averted between 2000 and 2015, primarily of children under five years of age in sub-Saharan Africa. The global malaria incidence rate has fallen by an estimated 37 per cent and the mortality rates by 58 per cent. 16 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN’s demonstrated commitment to SDG 3 – Good Health and Well-Being MTN maintained its support for access to healthcare, enterprise development and areas of national priority. Through the Y’ello Hospital project in the Ivory Coast, we ensured the provision of vaccination rooms, as well as medical and computer equipment to seven community health centres. An electronic health solution which provides real-time health data and enables a digital medical filing system, will benefit more than 20 000 beneficiaries. The SMS Printer for Life project in Cameroon, in partnership with the Clinton Health Access Initiative, uses SMS printers to reduce the turnaround time for the return of laboratory results for early infant HIV diagnosis. Through this initiative, 11 838 laboratory results have been delivered and 633 new-born babies who had tested positive were enrolled in the program. Health campaigns in Nigeria ensure that basic medical services are made available to rural areas. In South Africa 24 hospitals received hospital beds, equipment and newly renovated maternity wards following our support for maternal health. In Ghana, we commissioned an ultra-modern 40-bed maternity block in the Tema General Hospital. Afghanistan Humanitarian aid for returning refugees On 2 September 2018 MTN Afghanistan Foundation launched the Returnees Support Project for Migrants at the Ministry of Refugees and Repatriation. MTN Afghanistan, Kabul The project is a humanitarian aid effort aimed at assisting 500 Afghans returning from the neighbouring country of Pakistan. Packs consisting of food and essential relief were distributed to the returnees. The event was also supported by senior officials of the Ministry of Refugees and Repatriation and members of the media. Cameroon Programme of free health and rural health caravans In 2018 MTN Foundation in Cameroon continued its programme of free health campaigns offered to communities living in rural areas in the country's ten regions. Close to 2200 people were treated in Logone-Birni on MTN Cameroon, Douala 1-2 December 2018 as part of this campaign. The inhabitants of this district of the Logone and Chari Division in the Far North left from several neighbouring villages to benefit from free consultations, medical examinations, teeth extractions, and minor surgeries and procedures. The treatment was provided by volunteers of the Association of Skills for a Better Life (ASCOVIME), led by Dr Georges Bwelle. ASCOVIME won the CNN Hero award in 2013 and was winner of the 78th Commonwealth Points of Light Award in 2018. From 24 25 November 2018, the town of Foumbot in the Noun, Western region, hosted a similar initiative where 1060 people were treated: 102 pairs of lenses distributed for 194 ophthalmological consultations, 48 surgical operations performed, and 51 dental extractions and scaling were carried out. HIV and Hepatitis B and C tests were also conducted free of charge. The rural health caravan offered by the MTN Cameroon Foundation made other stopovers as well, providing health care to more than 8,000 people as part of the partnership between the MTN Foundation and ASCOVIME. More than 26 000 people have benefited since inception of the free health campaign in 2014. MTN Cameroon also joined the global commemoration of the 30th World AIDS Day. MTN Cameroon organised a series of activities aimed at raising awareness among employees, including doctors visiting the offices to address staff and raising HIV/AIDS awareness. 17 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 “We are operating in a difficult environment. And it is even more difficult for the underprivileged population. We can’t just look on, we must act. This is therefore a duty of solidarity that we exercise through these campaigns.” Executive Secretary of the MTN Foundation, MTN Cameroon Congo Brazzaville Raising awareness on saving lives through blood donations On World Blood Day, MTN Congo Brazzaville Foundation embarked on various activities to raise awareness on the importance of donating blood MTN Congo Brazzaville to save lives. Côte d'Ivoire Raising cancer awareness On 31 October 2018 MTN Côte d'Ivoire commemorated Pink October. MTNers were educated about breast cancer through their exchanges with MTN Côte d’Ivoire cancer prevention and treatment specialists and professionals. 18 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Ghana Free health screening for older persons The MTN Ghana Foundation partnered with the Ark Foundation to provide MTN Ghana free health screening for older persons as part of its contribution towards the commemoration of International Day of the Aged. The health screening was one of the activities for the aged at the University of Ghana's Centre for Ageing Studies. This programme focused on the United Nations International Day for Older Persons' theme “Celebrating Older Human Rights Champions”, to emphasise the importance of the commitment to promoting the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by older persons. A campaign was also launched to create awareness on the need to assist the elderly. MTN Ghana supports children with heart defects MTN Ghana Foundation in partnership with the Foundation of Ghana TV3, recently launched the “Think Heart, save a Child” project which provides financial support to children who suffer from heart defects. Six children have already undergone successful surgery. Under the partnership, the MTN Ghana Foundation is providing a total of US$ 41 600 annually to support this project. MTN Ghana invests in maternal health MTN Ghana Foundation has built a fully furnished 40 bed maternity block for Tema General Hospital at a cost of GHC5.5 million (US$1.073 million). The maternity block will serve over 22 000 ante-natal patients who visit the Tema General Hospital annually. The facility is the single most valuable investment made by the MTN Ghana Foundation. MTN Ghana staff visit a mother at the Tema General Hospital Maternity Block 19 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Liberia Driving HIV/AIDS awareness On 01 December 2018 MTN Liberia in partnership with the Liberian National Aids Commission commemorated World Aids Day. Under this year’s theme of ‘Know Your Status’, MTN Liberia provided HIV/AIDS SMS awareness on how MTN Liberia individuals can check their status, protect themselves from infection and support those living with HIV/AIDS. There was also an option to donate to the cause via a dedicated Mobile Money payment option. Nigeria Helping children live healthy lives Close to 2000 children took part in the 2018 Lagos Kids Mini Marathon, an initiative of St. Saviour’s School Ikoyi Endowment Fund. The Lagos Kids Mini MTN Nigeria, Lagos Marathon, is the first child-focused marathon event in Lagos and was created to inspire children to be physically active from an early age, as well as to raise funds for charity. Free and accessible health care to mothers, children and the under-served population In 2018 the MTN Nigeria Foundation launched a new medical initiative called Market Doctor, which is part of its Mother and Child Cause. Market Doctor provides free and accessible health care to mothers, children and the under-served population in the marketplace. Because it literally brings healthcare services to the marketplace, the initiative also benefits SMME owners who tend to prioritise their attention to their businesses instead of traveling far and waiting long hours to see a doctor or nurse, which often results in the neglect of their health in order to generate income. The inaugural phase of this initiative kicked off in Rivers state in the southern region of Nigeria. Market doctor aids a mother and child in Nigeria 20 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Rwanda Inclusive health insurance The MTN Rwanda Foundation launched three CSI projects in the country’s MTN Rwanda southern province on 24 November 2018. The projects included providing health insurance for 1 500 residents who were unable to afford health care, as well as domestic livestock to 600 people. The handover took place in the Simbi sector, following community work by MTN Rwanda CEO, Bart Hoffker and staff, together with Huye District residents. MTN Rwanda CEO together with the Vice President of Rwanda Senate, MTN Foundation Board member and the Vice Mayor of Huye District presents MTN Rwanda’s FRW 10 million (US $1 125.58) donation Uganda Improving healthcare in Uganda The MTN Uganda Foundation has created the Access to Health Initiative (AHI) with the aim to improve the state of healthcare in the country. The MTN Uganda Foundation donated hospital necessities in three hospitals based in MTN Uganda, Kampala Mubende, Kyenjojo, and Bundibugyo. The donation included 65 beds, bed sheets, mosquito nets, and mattresses. Other hospitals that have benefited from the Access to Health Initiative donations were Kabamba Health Unit in Mubende and Kyenjojo Hospital in Kyenjojo, which received 20 units each. Bettering maternal healthcare in Uganda Proceeds from MTN Uganda's 2018 marathons went towards bettering maternal health care in different regions of the country to ensure safe childbirth for expectant mothers. MTN Uganda CEO handing over hospital necessities for hospitals 21 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Zambia ‘Make Zambia Healthy, Clean and Green’ campaign MTN Zambia joined the government at the relaunch of the ‘Make Zambia MTN Zambia Healthy, Clean and Green’ campaign, which focuses on cleaning up public areas. MTN Zambia’s support continues a strong partnership with the local authorities and city council to promote wellness and good health through a clean environment, which in turn aims to stop the spread of water-borne and communicable diseases. MTN Zambia supports the ‘Make Zambia Healthy, clean and green’ campaign MTN South Africa eHealth Programme (Source: MTN SA Foundation Annual Report 2018) Nurses constitute the largest group of the interactive whiteboards and servers for internet healthcare workforce and form the backbone of connectivity, while multimedia centres function the primary healthcare sector. Despite this, many as libraries and resource centres in which nursing colleges in South Africa continue to face students can conduct research and work on severe challenges, including overcrowding of their projects. students, shortage of equipment and learning In response to requests from our beneficiaries resources. Experience shows ICT can play an and lessons learnt from our own experiences important role in alleviating some of these working with health professional training challenges and improving the delivery of teaching institutions over the years, we also expanded the and learning within nursing institutions. It is for programme to provide each of the participating this reason that the Foundation has made a institutions, including those reached in earlier commitment to support nursing and healthcare years, with software and content for their training institutions through its e-Health multimedia centres, covering 200 priority programme. content. 2018 was a particularly exciting year after the In addition, we provided training to lecturers and programme, first piloted at the Chris Hani students on basic computer skills as well as on Baragwanath Hospital in 2014, reached an how to apply the content provided through the important milestone of supporting 10 institutions media centres to teaching and learning. As a across South Africa. These include result, lecturers are now able to use technology Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University in to update curricula and teaching resources, Ga-Rankuwa, where we invested over R800 000 to conduct research and assess the work of their build a 40-seater multimedia centre and the students. provision of digitised content for students in the health sector. We invested a further R1.8 million to The impact of the e-Health programme is upgrade servers and digitise learning material for undeniable. Academic performance and learning other provincial nursing colleges. Approximately outcomes have improved, as evidenced in the 10 000 nursing students benefited from this effort. pass rates at each of the institutions reached by the Foundation. Support provided by the Foundation also included the installation of multimedia centres complete with printers, air conditioning, security systems, 22 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 4: Quality education Obtaining a quality education is the foundation to creating sustainable development. In addition to improving quality of life, access to inclusive education can help equip locals with the tools required to develop innovative solutions to the world’s greatest problems. Over 265 million children are currently out of school and 22% of them are of primary school age. Additionally, even the children who are attending schools are lacking basic skills in reading and math. In the past decade, major progress has been made towards increasing access to education at all levels and increasing enrolment rates in schools particularly for women and girls. Basic literacy skills have improved tremendously, yet bolder efforts are needed to make even greater strides for achieving universal education goals. For example, the world has achieved equality in primary education between girls and boys, but few countries have achieved that target at all levels of education. The reasons for lack of quality education are due to lack of adequately trained teachers, poor conditions of schools and equity issues related to opportunities provided to rural children. For quality education to be provided to the children of impoverished families, investment is needed in educational scholarships, teacher training workshops, school building and improvement of water and electricity access to schools. • Enrolment in primary education in developing countries has reached 91 per cent but 57 million primary age children remain out of school. • More than half of children that have not enrolled in school live in sub-Saharan Africa. • An estimated 50 per cent of out-of-school children of primary school age live in conflictaffected areas. • 617 million youth worldwide lack basic mathematics and literacy skills. Our demonstrated commitment to SDG 4 – Quality Education in 2018 Our strategic intention is to drive the use of technology to enable access to education, with the goal of promoting and enabling digital teaching and learning. We funded initiatives that ensured the establishment of 53 multi-media centres, called Digital Schools or the School Connectivity project, in seven countries. This programme aims to provide students at schools or institutions of higher learning with computer and internet access through the installation of computer equipment and the provision of connectivity. The nature of the multimedia projects varied, depending on the needs of the areas in which we supported implementation. For instance, in Cameroon, we built 15 multimedia centres in secondary schools and universities across the country, aimed at offering support to at least 15 000 students. In South Africa, we ensured connectivity to meet the needs of nine schools educating close to 15 330 special needs learners. Digital education was also facilitated in other formats. In South Africa, we worked with the Department of Basic Education to facilitate the development of content for information technology textbooks, which will be made available in print and interactive digital format. To support educators in incorporating digital solutions into their teaching methods and to enhance existing teaching methods, ICT training was provided for teachers in at least four of the countries in which we operate. Over 1 700 teachers benefitted from our investments. Provision of educational scholarships to support disadvantaged students is one of the most common ways in which MTN supports the youth in communities to fulfil the education requirements. 23 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our twelfth annual 21 Days of Y’ello Care campaign ran between 1 and 21 June 2018. Each year we strive to improve the effectiveness of the campaign. In 2018, more than 9 000 employees dedicated their time and efforts to uplifting local communities, guided by the theme of “Creating a Brighter Future”, which focused education programmes for youth empowerment. Each MTN operation developed a programme comprising of three components: a main educational campaign focused on youth empowerment, a project aligning with the national priority of the country, and an educational career day. We held our first groupwide Global Y’ello Career Day to prepare young people for employment in a digital workplace. The objective of our first Global Y’ello Career Day was to provide youth in attendance with insights into the world of work, what employment could look like in a digital future, how data connects people to information and opportunities and how ICT and digital technologies are influencing the world of work, employment and entrepreneurship. 7500 students participated in the Global Y’ello Career Day programme. Entrepreneur education Given the importance of emerging enterprises in the markets in which we operate, we supported programmes that provided entrepreneurial skills for SMMEs. This included business and entrepreneur-ship support, the provision of micro-loans and equipment to specific education programmes aimed at improving entrepreneurial skills and business management knowledge. In South Africa, through our support for the Students for the Advancement of Global Entrepreneurship start-up programme, a university-based partnership on entrepreneurial skills development and an SMME ICT skills development programme, over 25 000 learners are estimated to have benefitted from our support for entrepreneur education. In Nigeria, we trained 100 entrepreneurs who face additional challenges due to their disabilities, ensuring they have access to opportunities for socio-economic inclusion. MTN Cameroon’s Digital Trades Job Fair, 2018 Benin Equipping school children with stationery The MTN Benin Foundation distributed school kits to various schools across Benin as part of their ‘Back to School’ campaign. The campaign, which started with the primary schools, saw hundreds of school kits comprising of school MTN Benin stationery distributed. 24 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Cameroon Digital Schools Programme On 08 November 2018 MTN Foundation, Cameroon, held the inauguration of the multimedia centre it had equipped and offered to Government Technical High School Douala-Koumassi as part of its Digital Schools programme. The multimedia centre is equipped with thirty new computers with high-speed internet connection. The state-of-the art centre functions with an innovative Cyber Cloud solution which has numerous advantages, notably the possibility to benefit permanent remote assistance. Back to School kits for orphans In 2018 the MTN Cameroon Foundation’s Back-to-School Caravan visited orphanages in the Douala, Littoral region and the West and Adamawa regions. In total, the MTN Cameroon Foundation and its partners donated school kits to 93 children at the orphanages. The Foundation is establishing mini libraries in these orphanages and disbursing scholarships to top performing primary school pupils. Cameroon Foundation Hackathon for students As part of its Y’ello Care activities, MTN Cameroon hosted a Hackathon in 2018. Students from seven universities and institutions of higher learning spent hours developing various solutions before presenting their work to the MTN Cameroon 2018 #YelloCare Hackathon jury. The University Buea winners of the MTN Cameroon Hackathon 2018 MTN Congo Brazzaville Coaching students for job interviews MTN Congo Brazzaville launched an innovative ‘Speed Dating’ session aimed at training 20 young Congolese students. The session encouraged students to gain more experience with regards to interview styles and preparation for a job interview. Human Resources representatives from the banking, communication, economic and entrepreneurship industries (including MTN Congo Brazzaville) guided and advised the students. Côte d'Ivoire Refurbished school libraries On 9 November 2018 the MTN Ivory Coast Foundation hosted a ceremony to hand over the keys of 5 refurbished libraries to their respective schools. The libraries were renovated as part of the Foundation’s Y’ello #Bibliothèque project. The Foundation donated more than 7 000 books, a desktop computer and furniture worth more than US$ 55 657. The donation is benefitting more than 5 000 pupils in the District of Abidjan. 25 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Ghana Science sets for junior high school pupils As part of efforts to enhance teaching and learning of science in the country, MTN Ghana Foundation in collaboration with Dext Technology has deployed over 2 000 science sets to pupils in 14 selected junior high schools in underprivileged communities across the country. Each school received sets depending on the student population. Comprehensive user-training was also provided to science teachers in these schools. MTN Ghana BRIGHT scholarships to youths in public tertiary institutions MTN Ghana Foundation financially supported 100 well-performing, needy students in public tertiary institutions to assist them in achieving their academic aspirations. The scholarship covers their tuition fees, accommodation, and a stipend of GHC500 per semester, which caters for books and other learning materials. The recipients included 10 persons with disabilities. The MTN BRIGHT scholarship Award seeks to support a total of 100 needy students annually for the next 3 years. MTN Ghana Foundation presented the scholarships to 100 young people currently pursuing courses in the field of Engineering, Sciences and Humanities. The MTN Bright Scholarship presentation ceremony was hosted in Accra and was attended by dignitaries from various universities, MTN Ghana Executives, and MTN Ghana's BRIGHT Scholarship Jury. Headstart Back-to-School Supply Drive As part of its commitment to improve education, MTN Ghana Foundation provided learning materials to over 300 school children in 2018. The items included exercise books, reading materials, pens, pencils, school bags and other relevant educational materials which were donated to the Awukugua Methodist Primary and Abiriw SDA Basic Schools in the Okere District. The donation formed part of the “Headstart, Back-to-School Supply Drive’’ and is an initiative of MTN Ghana Foundation in collaboration with the NGO, TopDog Foundation. Refurbished eLibrary In 2018 the MTN Ghana Foundation handed over a fully refurbished e-Library to the Takoradi Technical University (TTU) at the cost of GH¢375,196.00. The facility included 100 Desktop Computers, 35 UPS, 2 laptops and 100 chairs and is benefitting thousands of students studying at the University. The provision of the e-library was part of activities marking the celebration of MTN Ghana’s 11th anniversary. The refurbished e-Library Pupils with their science sets 26 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Nigeria Empowering youth in ICT 500 Nigerian youths were empowered in information communications technology (ICT) and business skills in an initiative by MTN Nigeria for youths in the southwestern Oyo State. The initiative, Preparing Oyo's 500 for the Future Global 500 , has expert facilitators from partners KPMG, Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), IBM and Oracle who conducted the training sessions at the University of Ibadan. Rwanda Fully-equipped computer labs in all districts MTN Rwanda Foundation has donated computers to four secondary schools in Rwanda. Each school received 24 laptops and free internet for a three-month period. Since this initiative was launched in 2012, 30 fully equipped computer labs have been built in all the districts of Rwanda. 27 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Sudan MTN Global Graduate Summit The third summit of MTN’s Global Graduate Programme (GDP) was hosted in Sudan in 2018. Thirtythree graduates from Manco Cyber Security, Group EBU, MTN Liberia, MTN Ghana, MTN Nigeria, MTN Sudan, MTN Swaziland and MTN Uganda participated in the summit, which focused on developing leadership skills for the MTN of the future. During the summit, graduates presented their Action Learning Projects (ALP) to a panel of Executives and General Managers from MTN Sudan and the MTN Group head office. 28 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN South Africa A school for deaf learners Source: MTN SA Foundation Annual Report 2018 Kutlwanong School for the Deaf Kutlwanong School for the Deaf is a special needs school catering to 246 learners with various disabilities including mobility, Down’s Syndrome, autism and epilepsy. For many years, the school lagged where technologically enhanced educational facilities were concerned. Where it existed, the ICT equipment at Kutlwanong was redundant and not disability friendly, rendering it practically unusable. It is for this reason that in 2018, the MTN SA Foundation donated a 20-seater multimedia centre to the school. The lack of adequate ICT equipment experienced by Kutlwanong is prevalent among schools for learners with special needs. This is echoed by Human Rights Watch which found that many children living with disabilities do not have equal access to primary or secondary education and face several forms of discrimination and other barriers when trying to get into school. This results in many of these children being denied access to inclusive education and remaining trapped in a cycle of poverty and deprivation. Having a deep understanding of this issue, MTN made a commitment to be part of the solution, and has provided specialised equipment, connectivity and customised learning material to more than 30 special needs schools across the country in the last year. The intervention at Kutlwanong was implemented in partnership with the Department of Social Development as part of the Social Development Month campaign aimed at improving social services in poor communities. The multimedia centre donated by the Foundation comprises thin-client computer stations, a data projector, interactive whiteboard, a camera, educational materials and a multipurpose printer. MTN also provided teacher training and data for connectivity. 29 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN South Africa Schools connectivity programme Source: MTN SA Foundation Annual Report 2018 The MTN SA Foundation has been implementing ICT initiatives in education for many years now, enabling us to learn some important lessons along the way. These lessons are fed back into our interventions and have resulted in us refining our model to ensure we make a meaningful and lasting contribution to the development of our country. For instance, we have realised the important role we have to play in supporting the most marginalised people in our society such as those with disabilities, by embedding policies and practices that remove barriers to their full participation in society. Connectivity and support in schools for learners with special educational needs (LSEN) Investing in education is at the core of MTN’s social investment strategy. In line with this, the MTN SA Foundation has identified a gap in the special needs learning environment and the urgency with which education should become more inclusive. Working with various stakeholders, including the Department of Education, the Department of Social Development and the National Development Agency, the Foundation has developed interventions through which it provides specialised equipment to learners with special needs. 30 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls While the world has achieved progress towards gender equality and women’s empowerment under the Millennium Development Goals (including equal access to primary education between girls and boys), women and girls continue to suffer discrimination and violence in every part of the world. Gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. Unfortunately, at the current time, 1 in 5 women and girls between the ages of 15-49 have reported experiencing physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner within a 12-month period and 49 countries currently have no laws protecting women from domestic violence. Progress is occurring regarding harmful practices such as child marriage and FGM (Female Genital Mutilation), which has declined by 30% in the past decade, but there is still much work to be done to complete eliminate such practices. Providing women and girls with equal access to education, health care, decent work, and representation in political and economic decision-making processes will fuel sustainable economies and benefit societies and humanity at large. Implementing new legal frameworks regarding female equality in the workplace and the eradication of harmful practices targeted at women is crucial to ending the gender-based discrimination prevalent in many countries around the world. • Globally, 750 million women and girls were married before the age of 18 and at least 200 million women and girls in 30 countries have undergone FGM. • The rates of girls between 15-19 who are subjected to FGM (female genital mutilation) in the 30 countries where the practice is concentrated have dropped from 1 in 2 girls in 2000 to 1 in 3 girls by 2017. • In 18 countries, husbands can legally prevent their wives from working; in 39 countries, daughters and sons do not have equal inheritance rights; and 49 countries lack laws protecting women from domestic violence. • One in five women and girls, including 19 % of women and girls aged 15 to 49, have experienced physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner with the last 12 months. Yet, 49 countries have no laws that specifically protect women from such violence. • While women have made important inroads into political office across the world, their representation in national parliaments at 23.7 per cent is still far from parity. • In 46 countries, women now hold more than 30 per cent of seats in national parliament in at least one chamber. • Only 52 per cent of women married or in a union freely make their own decisions about sexual relations, contraceptive use and health care. • Globally, women are just 13 per cent of agricultural land holders. • Women in Northern Africa hold less than one in five paid jobs in the non-agricultural sector. The proportion of women in paid employment outside the agriculture sector has increased from 35 per cent in 1990 to 41 per cent in 2015. • More than 100 countries have taken action to track budget allocations for gender equality. • In Southern Asia, a girl’s risk of marrying in childhood has dropped by over 40% since 2000. 31 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our demonstrated commitment to SDG 5 Gender Equality The future is increasingly digital, yet women are under-represented in this high-growth sector of the economy. Women's participation in the ICT sector in the countries in which MTN operates is very low. UN reports show participation at less than 30% in the sector globally, and in South Africa the situation is far worse. The MTN Women in ICT: Partnership for Change Awards is now in its third year and helps to close gender gaps, setting more women on course to lasting and exciting ICT careers. This is but one of a number of MTN initiatives aimed at driving gender equality and participation in the ICT sector. MTN Ghana Foundation recognised The MTN Ghana Foundation has won ‘Best Company in Women Empowerment’ at the 2018 Sustainability and Social Investment (SSI) Awards held in Accra. At the same event, the MTN Ghana Foundation also emerged Best Company in Economic Empowerment; Best Company in Project Providing Educational Facilities and Best Company in Health Facilities. In addition, the Foundation picked up the SSI Project of the Year Award in the health category, making it a total of five awards for the night. MTN Ghana’s five Sustainability and Social Investment (SSI) Awards Liberia Women finding their voice MTN Liberia recently launched an MTN Women Empowerment initiative, “Finding Your Voice”. The campaign is in line with the MTN Liberia’s aim to create a gender-balanced company that supports the goals of all its employees. Through the initiative, female MTNers are receiving career-enhancing advice and training through quarterly forums, mentorship, networking and career guidance. Liberian Vice President, H.E Dr Jewel Howard Taylor, was the keynote speaker at the event. She inspired the women with her career journey and advised them to speak up and find their voices within their chosen career paths. The event also included a workshop during which the women were asked to provide insights on challenges they faced and what it means to “find your voice”. MTN Liberia, with its first-ever triad of female leaders (board chair, CEO and Deputy CEO), also sponsored the first ever International SHEROES Forum in Liberia in 2018. The forum consisted of an assembly of dynamic women and men gathering to discuss how to advance women’s participation in leadership roles. MTN Liberia CEO, Uchenna Ofodile, was also a panellist and speaker at the event, where she talked about her journey to leadership, her experiences and her passion for nurturing leaders. Women from MTN Liberia attended sessions of their choice at the forum. 32 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Nigeria W@Y platform for MTN women to advance career growth MTN Nigeria launched the W@Y (Women at Y’ello), platform for MTN women, creating more opportunities, collaboration and networks while supporting them through their chosen career paths. W@Y is a platform that showcases, promotes and enables women, primarily those in MTN, to maximise their potential both in the office and in their personal lives. South Africa Women in ICT Awards The future is increasingly digital, yet women are under-represented in this high-growth sector of the economy. UN reports show participation at less than 30% in the sector globally, but the situation in South Africa is far worse. A major concern is that young women are not receiving the support or encouragement needed to enter the sector; the 2017 Global Gender Gap Report stated that only 13% of SA graduates in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) fields are women. The MTN Women in ICT: Partnership for Change Awards, now in its third year, aims to make a real difference by helping close gender gaps and setting more women on course to lasting and exciting ICT careers. The awards acknowledge women who make extraordinary contributions through outstanding performance throughout their careers. ICT Industry players and government give overwhelming support to the initiative, demonstrating how MTN's stakeholders value women’s contributions to ICT. Women are expected to continue to play a meaningful role in the industry, advancing all sectors and inspiring the next generation of ICT innovators. At MTN, we believe that gender diversity is crucial to growth in the ICT sector, and we are committed to help drive change. Young women, and those already in the profession, need strong mentors to inspire them, and importantly also to add their unique perspectives to the development of products. Without this perspective, future design and innovation will simply not be able to talk to the broader market out there, of which women are a key component, says Jacqui O'Sullivan, Executive for Corporate Affairs at MTN South Africa. The different areas of the market being rewarded include the: Leadership Recognition Award, which recognises senior female executives in the ICT sector whose proven depth of experience in leading change, influencing business outcomes and leading teams has impacted positively on the organisations they lead. The CEO's Award, meanwhile, recognises an MTN employee who has made a difference within the organisation with the use of ICT and technology. Growing and developing entrepreneurs and new businesses is crucial, and the SME Recognition Award recognises wholly owned, women-run enterprises that are viable businesses making inroads in the ICT sector. Nominations for this award are also being extended to internal MTN employees who drive small start-ups using ICT to enable their businesses. The Innovator Recognition Award, meanwhile, recognises women who have introduced new methods, ideas, or products that are contributing in one way or the other to the delivery of a bold, new, digital world. The need to get young women excited and studying towards careers in the sector is an imperative, says O'Sullivan. In this regard, the Graduate Award (Tertiary) recognises a top ICT graduate from a tertiary institution who finished top of her class. The award is open to young women who graduated in the immediate year preceding the awards ceremony. We believe that an even greater impact can be made if we work together towards unlocking the potential of women professionals in the sector. Initiatives like the MTN Women in ICT: Partnership for Change Awards is one way that we can contribute to this. 33 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 6: Ensure access to water and sanitation for all According to the UNGC clean, accessible water for all is an essential part of the world we want to live in and there is sufficient fresh water on the planet to achieve this. However, due to bad economics or poor infrastructure, millions of people including children die every year from diseases associated with inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene. The UNGC further emphasises that water scarcity, poor water quality and inadequate sanitation negatively impact food security, livelihood choices and educational opportunities for poor families across the world. At the current time, more than 2 billion people are living with the risk of reduced access to freshwater resources and by 2050, at least one in four people is likely to live in a country affected by chronic or recurring shortages of fresh water. Drought in specific afflicts some of the world’s poorest countries, worsening hunger and malnutrition. Fortunately, there has been great progress made in the past decade regarding drinking sources and sanitation, whereby over 90% of the world’s population now has access to improved sources of drinking water. To improve sanitation and access to drinking water, the UN advises that there needs to be increased investment in management of freshwater ecosystems and sanitation facilities on a local level in several developing countries within Sub-Saharan Africa, Central Asia, Southern Asia, Eastern Asia and South-Eastern Asia. • 1 in 4 health care facilities lacks basic water services • 3 in 10 people lack access to safely managed drinking water services and 6 in 10 people lack access to safely managed sanitation facilities. • At least 892 million people continue to practice open defecation. • Women and girls are responsible for water collection in 80 per cent of households without access to water on premises. • Between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of the global population using an improved drinking water source has increased from 76 per cent to 90 per cent • Water scarcity affects more than 40 per cent of the global population and is projected to rise. Over 1.7 billion people are currently living in river basins where water use exceeds recharge. • 2.4 billion people lack access to basic sanitation services, such as toilets or latrines • More than 80 per cent of wastewater resulting from human activities is discharged into rivers or sea without any pollution removal • Each day, nearly 1,000 children die due to preventable water and sanitation-related diarrheal diseases • Approximately 70 per cent of all water abstracted from rivers, lakes and aquifers is used for irrigation • Floods and other water-related disasters account for 70 per cent of all deaths related to natural disasters 34 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN’s demonstrated commitment to SDG 6 – Clean water and sanitation In 2018, MTN provided aid to alleviate the devastating effects of natural disasters, resource shortages and migrant population movements. For example, in Cameroon potable water access points were built by the MTN Foundation, and in Rwanda water tanks were supplied to schools to ensure reliable water supply. Cameroon Potable water access points built by MTN Foundation The United Nations Organization (UNO) notes that access to potable water and adequate sanitary systems still constitutes a challenge for populations worldwide, with over 2.4 billion people who still do not have access to potable water. The UN calls for a strong mobilisation for potable water in developing countries where this is crucial to sustainable development. Each day, an African or Asian woman covers an average distance of 5.9 km to fetch potable water, a situation that calls for urgent action. Sensitive to this, MTN Foundation, Cameroon, reaffirmed its commitment to ease access to potable water by the underprivileged population, while drawing their attention on the necessity to take care of water as a vital resource. The MTN Foundation, Cameroon, has already built 46 potable water access points which benefit roughly 170,000 people throughout the regions of the country. These potable water access points are deployed in priority in rural areas where access is still an enormous challenge for the population exposed to waterborne diseases. The potable water access points built by MTN Foundation are varied: manual-pump wells built in partnership with PEP Otélé (Otélé Water Project), boreholes built within the framework of several partnerships with organisations such as GIZ, entire potable water supply projects with a distribution network such as that in the locality of Nzemelem located some 25 km from Dschang in the West region, or the points undergoing construction in the villages of Young Farmers of the Ministry of Agriculture in Nlobesse (South Region) and Wassande (Adamawa Region). Water points have also been installed in schools built by the MTN Foundation. These water points are accompanied by latrines to ensure a better hygiene for students in particular, and the educative community in general. 35 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Rwanda Reliable water supply: Water tanks for schools In 2018 seven schools across Rwanda received water tanks with a capacity of 10 000 litres, as part of MTN Rwanda’s Y’ello Care initiatives. The schools now have a more reliable supply of water, boosting sanitation and hygiene. MTN South Africa Luna Primary School On Monday, 12 March 2018 Lumka Mthethwa left home to attend classes at Luna Primary School in Bizana in the Eastern Cape. She would never return. When the driver of the scholar transport meant to take her home at the end of the school day could not account for her, a search was immediately conducted throughout the village, with some members of the community even sleeping at the school, hoping Lumka would return. She was later found drowned in one of the pit latrines at the school. The incident, which followed the much-publicised death under similar circumstances of Michael Komape, sparked outrage and prompted resident Cyril Ramaphosa to ask Education Minister, Angie Motshekga, to conduct an audit of school ablution facilities throughout the country and present a plan to rectify challenges within three months. Government also invited the private sector and civil society to step forward and contribute to improved school infrastructure. MTN SA responded to this call by installing 29 toilets at Luna Primary School. While Department of Basic Education regulations stipulate that all pit latrines in public schools need to be eradicated and a two-year sanitation improvement plan has been formulated in the wake of Lumka’s death, the country still lags behind. The government cannot meet this challenge and it is here where responsible corporate citizens like MTN can play a role. (Source: MTN South Africa Foundation Annual Report 2018) 36 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy Energy is central to nearly every major challenge and opportunity the world faces today. Be it for jobs, security, climate change, food production or increasing incomes, access to energy for all is essential. Working towards this goal is especially important as it interlinks with other Sustainable Development Goals. Focusing on universal access to energy, increased energy efficiency and the increased use of renewable energy through new economic and job opportunities is crucial to creating more sustainable and inclusive communities and resilience to environmental issues like climate change. The UN Global Compact states that there are approximately 3 billion people who lack access to clean-cooking solutions and are exposed to dangerous levels of air pollution, while slightly less than 1 billion people are functioning without electricity and 50% of them are found in Sub-Saharan Africa alone. Fortunately, it is reported that progress has been made in the past decade regarding the use of renewable electricity from water, solar and wind power and the ratio of energy used per unit of GDP is also declining. However, according to the UNGC, the challenge is far from being solved and there needs to be more access to clean fuel and technology and more progress needs to be made regarding integrating renewable energy into end-use applications in buildings, transport and industry. Public and private investments in energy also need to be increased and there needs to be more focus on regulatory frameworks and innovative business models to transform the world’s energy systems. • 13% of the global population still lacks access to modern electricity. • 3 billion people rely on wood, coal, charcoal or animal waste for cooking and heating. • Energy is the dominant contributor to climate change, accounting for around 60 per cent of total global greenhouse gas emissions. • Indoor air pollution from using combustible fuels for household energy caused 4.3 million deaths in 2012, with women and girls accounting for 6 out of every 10 of these. • The share of renewable energy in final energy consumption has reached 17.5% in 2015. MTN’s demonstrated commitment to affordable and clean energy Benin Solar-powered lamps for rural areas As part of its 10-year anniversary activities, the MTN Benin Foundation in 2018 distributed solar powered lamps to rural areas in northern Benin. Energy is a major issue in the country and many people living in rural areas do not have access to electricity. The solar-powered lamps give up to 12 hours of light at a time, literally making the lives of those living in these communities a whole a lot brighter. 37 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Sudan Contributing to driving the renewable energy agenda in Sudan In 2018, MTN Sudan, in partnership with the Institute of Environmental Studies and the Meteorological Agency, organised the 11th edition of the Environment Forum, themed “Renewable Energy in Sudan: Potential & Challenges”. The forum was attended by approximately 5 000 participants. MTN Sudan attaches much value to environmental issues and is therefore increasingly using solar energy in its operations as an alternative to fuel, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and minimise the risks of climate change. MTN Operations Solar energy for digital and financial inclusion Against the backdrop of energy poverty and the cost of accessing digital services in many of our operating countries, MTN has partnered with lease-to-own solar product manufacturers to offer affordable, environmentally responsible and safe solutions that enable people to keep their phones and other electronic devices charged and connected to digital services. We first launched this solution in Uganda in 2014, and it is now available in five markets, with plans to launch in Benin in 2019. We estimate that we have positively impacted around 2,3 million lives, from children who are able to study for longer hours at night to small businesses able to extend their trading hours and offer MTN Mobile Money Services. Families are now able to generate income from charging phones, LED lightbulbs and other devices, and can live safer, healthier lives by reducing the use of kerosene, diesel generators and other sources of fossil fuel-based energy. Over 1.9 million kilowatt hours of energy was produced in 2018 (assuming 1,5 charge cycles per day). We estimate savings of between US$0.15 and US$0.48 per day in energy costs for users, depending on the country in which they live. We replaced more than 10 million litres of kerosene with safe, clean and renewable energy. (Continued on next page) 38 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Prepaid solar systems have increased MTN Mobile Money usage, enabling entrepreneurial revenue and financial inclusion. Test results in 2018 on a sample base of 20 000 customers showed an increase of 104% in MTN Mobile Money flows through bill payment in the three months after the acquisition of the solar system. In addition, funds sent and received in mobile money transactions increased by 18,4%. Prepaid solar energy solutions increase affordability and access to digital communications, enhances financial literacy and provides a revenue stream for entrepreneurs. It does so in a way that addresses energy and environmental challenges responsibly. This is one of the ways in which MTN is creating value in the countries in which we operate. (Source: The Global Compact Network South Africa’s report, Private Sector Contribution to South Africa’s 2019 Voluntary National Review on Sustainable Development Goals) 39 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 7: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all The UN Global Compact state that roughly half the world’s population still lives on the equivalent of about US$2 a day with global unemployment rates of 5.7%. Yet having a job doesn’t guarantee the ability to escape from poverty in many places. This slow and uneven progress requires us to rethink and retool our economic and social policies aimed at eradicating poverty. The UNGC further asserts that a continued lack of decent work opportunities, insufficient investments and under-consumption lead to an erosion of the basic social contract underlying democratic societies: that all must share in progress. Even though the average annual growth rate of real GDP per capita worldwide is increasing year on year, there are still many countries in the developing world that are decelerating in their growth rates and moving farther from the 7% growth rate target set for 2030. As labour productivity decreases and unemployment rates rise, standards of living begin to decline due to lower wages. Sustainable economic growth will require societies to create the conditions that allow people to have quality jobs that stimulate the economy while not harming the environment. Job opportunities and decent working conditions are also required for the whole working age population. There needs to be increased access to financial services to manage incomes, accumulate assets and make productive investments. Increased commitments to trade, banking and agriculture infrastructure will also help increase productivity and reduce unemployment levels in the world’s most impoverished regions. • The global unemployment rate in 2017 was 5.6%, down from 6.4% in 2000. • Globally, 61% of all workers were engaged in informal employment in 2018. Excluding the agricultural sector, 51% of all workers fell into this employment category. • Men earn 12.5% more than women in 40 out of 45 countries with data. • The global gender pay gap stands at 23 per cent globally and without decisive action, it will take another 68 years to achieve equal pay. Women’s labour force participation rate is 63 per cent while that of men is 94 per cent. • Despite their increasing presence in public life, women continue to do 2.6 times the unpaid care and domestic work that men do. • 470 million jobs are needed globally for new entrants to the labour market between 2018 and 2030. How MTN supported SDG 8 – Decent work and Economic Growth Increasing Connectivity Co-operative partnerships with vendors and orther organisations that share our vision of digital inclusion are a critical means of driving social and economic transformation in our markets. MTN developed the CHASE framework to address the needs of lower-income segments and customers based in rural areas. These customers typically face five key barriers to internet access, i.e. Coverage, Handsets, Affordability, Service bundling and Education. Programmes are being designed to improve network coverage in rural and lowincome markets and has identified ways to increase the affordability of mobile handsets and data services. MTN has simplified how services are bundled to enable customers to manage their costs and access their data services more easily. 40 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Increasing Coverage For coverage we partnered with Facebook on the Telecom Infra (TIP) OpenCellular Project and Rural Africa programme to explore the application of cost-effective network technologies from start-up vendors working to meet the connectivity and data coverage requirements of people in sparesely populated and lo income areas. Laboratory trials with partners on 2G and low capacity infrastructure are also set to address constraints. Affordable Handsets The development of a 3G smart feature phone through a partnership with China Mobile, UNISOC and KaiOS technology intends to make the smart feature phone affordable for the majority of MTN customers. The MTN Smart 3G feature phone is on the market for US$20 and offers several smartphone-type services and functions enabling internet connectivity, it is more affordable than other smart feature phones and has a long battery life. Sustainable, renewable, accessible electricity MTN has partnered with lease-to-own solar product manufacturers to offer affordable, environmentally responsible and safe solutions that enable people to keep their phones and other electronic devices charged and connected to digital services. This includes simplification of how data services are bundles. MTN has introduced app-specific bundels and time-based bundles that are easier to understand and use in several markets. Digital literacy and understanding how ti use computers, tablets and cellular phones effectively, to improve connection with other people and enhance life is a challenge. MTN has focused on ‘education included marketing campaigns’, educational events and upskilling our on-the-ground sales force. 41 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Fintech Innovative digital technology is replacing traditional financial services, enhancing financial inclusion: Allowing free access Connects We continue to Merchants can for developers and customers of any drive access to digitise their entrepreneurs to financial affordable payments and innovate and offer service providers financial solutions expand their mobile financial at low cost, directly from businesses solutions leveraging to accelerate your mobile wallet online MTN’s platform financial inclusion (Source: The Global Compact Network South Africa’s report, Private Sector Contribution to South Africa’s 2019 Voluntary National Review on Sustainable Development Goals) 42 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Supporting programmes that provide entrepreneurial skills Given the importance of emerging enterprises in the markets in which we operate, MTN supports programmes that provide entrepreneurial skills for SMMEs. This ranges from business and entrepreneurship support and the provision of micro-loans and equipment to specific education programmes aimed at improving entrepreneurial skills and business management knowledge. • In South Africa, through our support for the Students for the Advancement of Global Entrepreneurship start-up programme, a university-based partnership on entrepreneurial skills development and an SMME Information Communication Technology (ICT) skills development programme, over 25 000 learners thus far have benefitted from our support for entrepreneur education. • In Nigeria, we trained 100 entrepreneurs who face additional challenges due to their disabilities, ensuring they have access to opportunities for socio-economic inclusion. • In 2018 we also held our first group-wide Global Y’ello Career Day to prepare young people in several of the countries in which we operate for employment in a digital workplace. The objective of our first Global Y’ello Career Day was to provide youth in attendance with insights into the world of work, what employment could look like in a digital future, how data connects people to information and opportunities and how ICT and digital technologies are influencing the world of work, employment and entrepreneurship. 7500 students participated in the Y’ello Career Day programme. • 2000 young learners and lecturers converged at the amphitheatre of the Faculty of Industrial Engineering at the University of Douala, to participate in MTN Cameroon’s Y’ello Career Day, where various career opportunities were presented to learners. • MTN South Sudan hosted 1000 learners from 10 schools at their career day. • Learners were educated on topics ranging from ICT, digital technology and the future of work, to entrepreneurship. • MTN Afghanistan hosted a special programme at their head office to introduce young people to the telecommunications industry. Benin Internship programme and a pool of young talent In 2018 MTN Benin launched the 4th edition of its Internship Programme, with 45 students from 7 universities and high schools getting the opportunity to work at MTN Benin. Students work in different departments under the supervision of dedicated coaches for a three-month period. At the end of the internship, the students were incorporated into the young talent pool for job opportunities within MTN Benin. Congo Brazzaville Guidance to students for a career in the digital space MTN Congo Brazzaville Foundation in collaboration with the Ministry of Higher Education and Marien Ngouabi University hosted a campaign for students in 2018 which was aimed at informing them about the career options available in the digital space. During the campaign provided opportunities for MTNers to share their telecom expertise as well as details of the educational platform WIDGE. 43 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Congo Brazzaville MTN BizApp helping SMMEs transition to the digital world In 2018 MTN Business Congo Brazzaville launched MTN BizApp which assists small and medium-sized businesses to transition to the digital world with the services provided in the app. MTN BizApp is a free mobile app targeted for use by SME subscribers to the MTN network. The mobile app primarily creates a business account for a business owner on Facebook and Instagram and provides ease of management of their social media accounts from the comfort of a mobile phone while leveraging the MTN platform. It also integrates the essentials of SME prepaid products and services that the user subscribed to, enabling seamless access via mobile phone. MTN BizApp is free and provides a central place where a business owner can market their business using social media and messaging, interact with other businesses and get quick access to MTN’s services and support. The app is specifically designed to foster online awareness of a business, and to aid in the marketing of its goods and services through social media and messaging. MTN BizApp has been designed to be a simple, intuitive self-service solution, putting the business owner in full control of their online marketing strategy and campaigns. eSwatini Africa’s best music and arts festival promotes corporate social responsibility MTN BUSHFIRE is Swaziland’s internationally acclaimed music & arts festival that celebrates creative expression whilst promoting social responsibility, stimulating the economy and drawing talent and tourists from across Africa and around the world. CNN has called it one of the “7 African music festivals you really have to see”. Each year a multi-generational global community of more than 20,000 “bring their fire” to the scenic farmlands of the Malkerns Valley in eSwatini (formerly known as Swaziland) to experience the threeday event renowned for eclectic and multi-dimensional programming rooted in world music. The MTN Bushfire Music & Arts Festival includes theatre, poetry, dance, art exhibits and installations, story-telling, puppetry, film, and themed workshops. A handcraft market, family-friendly performances and Kid Zone as well as an interactive art and dialogue space, The Barn, which all combine to create an eclectic three-day entertainment experience. Profits support local charities and help to grow the arts & culture and tourism sectors throughout the region. It has generated over R29 million (US$2 million) in publicity in 2018, and with 29 000+ admissions to the festival, MTN Bushfire helps to promote sustainable tourism that is creating jobs and that promotes local culture and products, positively impacting economic growth. A training centre to equip the youth with vocational skills MTN eSwatini Foundation in partnership with two government ministries and 16 private companies constructed a vocational training centre at Mpaka worth E18 million (US$ 1 333 260) as part of this year’s 21 Days of Y’ello Care. The project was jointly launched by the Ministry of Education and Training in collaboration with the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development and seeks to equip young people with vocational skills to respond to the challenge of youth unemployment. 44 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Guinea Bissau Promoting access to useful and affordable financial products and services In 2018 MTN Guinea Bissau, in partnership with the Central Banks of West African States (BCEAO), commemorated the International Week to Promote Financial Inclusion. Celebrations included activities that brought together commercial banks, insurance companies and institutions that offer electronic financial transactions. The aim of the campaign was to promote strategies and policies that will allow individuals and businesses to have access to useful and affordable Guinea Bissau Minister of Public Works financial products and services that meet needs in a and Infrastructure visits MoMo booth responsible and sustainable way. Liberia Mobile Money agents improve their lives Lonestar Cell MTN’s Mobile Money platform has provided significant economic opportunities which have empowered and transformed the lives of many Liberians since it launched in the country. During Mobile Money month, which took place in September 2018, MoMo agents who have benefitted from the platform expressed their gratitude and encouraged others to take advantage of the opportunity to change and improve their lives. Through MoMo, many agents have been able to further their own education, send their kids to school and purchase property. 45 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Liberia Lonestar Cell MTN's annual employee volunteerism campaign – 21 Days of Y’ello Care was celebrated from 1 21 June 2018. The campaign included workshops and a career fair to provide young people with key skills to enter the workplace, as well as highlighting the impact ICT has on the future of work for young people. The workshops were conducted in partnership with the Monrovia Consolidated School System (MCSS) and the Booker Washington Institute. MTN Namibia Masterclasses to empower SMEs The MTN SME Masterclass is an initiative of MTN Namibia aimed at building an ecosystem for SME operators to share knowledge about the obstacles and opportunities faced in today's digital economy by providing a platform to network and establish beneficial business linkages, while enabling and equipping them on how to become viable and sustainable through the use of technology. MTN Business Namibia launched its SME Masterclass in April 2018, offered as a series of engagements targeted at small and medium enterprises from across the country at the Ongwediva Trade Fair centre Nigeria 1000 Scholarships and an MTN Scholarship Alumni Programme In 2018 MTN Nigeria awarded 1 000 scholarships during a ceremony held in Abuja. The ceremony doubled as an induction for former graduates of the scheme into the MTN Scholarship Alumni programme, which empowers young Nigerians with knowledge to assist in their career growth paths MTN Foundation has provided 8 000 scholarships to exceptional Nigerian University students since 2011. MTN Nigeria also offered scholarships to blind students. 46 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Nigeria Encouraging the growth of SMMEs With over 35 million registered Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria, the need to empower and encourage the growth of small businesses in Nigeria has led MTN Nigeria to collaborate with Google to train owners of SMEs in different parts of the country. The training took place in October 2018 in Abuja where over 40 entrepreneurs were trained on how to grow their businesses using digital tools such as owning business websites, running business ads, and leveraging social media, amongst others. Speaking to the needs of SMEs capability development, access to markets and business networks across Africa In addition, MTN Nigeria and Microsoft Nigeria have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to collaborate on the creation of sustainable and scalable initiatives aimed at driving growth within the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) segment of the Enterprise Business in Nigeria. The partnership leverages Microsoft’s technologies and MTN’s innovative expertise to create strong value propositions for the SMEs segment. These propositions speak to the needs of SMEs around capability development, access to markets and business networks across Africa, and address some of their challenges through the creation of innovative solutions. Syria Supporting students in the field of technology In 2018, MTN Syria sponsored the Syrian Collegiate Programming Contest in partnership with the Ministry of Higher Education and the Syrian Computer Society. The sponsorship is part of MTN Syria's commitment to support students in the field of technology, and to give Syrian students the opportunity to present their talents, creativity and scientific abilities as well as stay abreast of the latest technologies. MTN Syria also distributed free 3G lines to the students, with information being shared on how available products and services can further aid students. 47 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Uganda MTN MoMo Virtual Card to open access to products and services MTN Uganda entered into a partnership with Mastercard and UBA to launch the MTN MoMo Virtual Card in 2018. Through this partnership, MTN MoMo customers are now able to use a virtual card to shop or make payments at the vast network of global outlets accepting Mastercard payments. The launch of the virtual card (known as the MTN MoMo card) will enable MTN customers to access to products and services previously limited to physical credit card holders. The partnership will result in a wide range of cutting-edge digital payment solutions being introduced in Uganda, helping to connect more Ugandans to new forms of commerce. Zambia A mobile money ecosystem for financial inclusivity Partnerships between banks and mobile money operators are fundamental in the mobile money ecosystem. MTN Zambia serves more than 1.1 million mobile money customers, making MTN MoMo the largest mobile money platform in the country. MTN considers financial services to the unbanked to be a huge responsibility that demands constant innovation. This forms the basis for a partnership entered into in 2018 between MTN Zambia and Barclays Zambia, using JUMO, a mobile financial services platform for mobile network operators and banks. Zambia’s level of financial inclusion is approximately 40 percent at present. 48 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN South Africa ICT access and skills to empower the youth Enterprise Skills Development Empowering our youth As an organisation with a deep understanding of to attend an intensive four-day Entrepreneur the important role that small, medium and micro Boot Camp, during which entrepreneurship enterprises (SMMEs) play in stimulating experts shared their knowledge and experience. economic growth and generating employment To date, the Step Up to a Start Up initiative has opportunities, the MTN SA Foundation continues exposed over 60 000 youth to entrepreneurship, to focus on its goal of using entrepreneurship to paid out over R100 000 in seed funding to foster self-reliance among vulnerable businesses that are in development phase and communities. contributed more than R150 000 towards In 2018, we partnered with Datacomb bursaries to fund further education of the Development Hub, the University of the Free winners. State and Hodisang Dipeu Holdings to run a The annual Enactus and SAGE programmes are business support programme that imparts additional examples of the entrepreneurship much-needed skills to small businesses in the initiatives we supported in 2018. The ICT sector. This partnership dates back to 2013 interventions have given young people from when the Foundation teamed up with Datacomb across the country the rare opportunity to to run a 12-month accelerated business showcase their entrepreneurial talent and development programme for SMEs. The develop homegrown solutions that contribute to programme continued in 2018, working with 50 a more sustainable world. These locally entrepreneurs in Soweto, Alexandra, Thembisa, developed solutions were then taken into global Bloemfontein, Welkom and surrounding areas in competitions, exposing young South Africans to the Free State, equipping them with the tools bigger platforms and additional opportunities. they need to run successful businesses. The SMMEs supported by the programme range from app developers, ICT skills training academies, web and software developers, to small businesses responsible for the roll-out of fibre networks. The MTN SA Foundation also supported the Step Up to a Start Up programme, which aims to inculcate an entrepreneurial mindset among school-going teenagers. This was achieved by giving these young people the practical skills required to start a business and realise their entrepreneurial ambitions. The 2018 programme kicked off with the screening of an educational movie called: “Think Tech, Do Business” across the country. The movie documents the life of a young person who discovers technology and starts a business that transforms her life and that of her community. The screening was then followed up with the distribution of a toolkit designed to assist participating learners to implement the skills learnt from the experiences of the movie’s lead character. Thereafter, learners were entered into a business plan development competition with the top nine entries winning an opportunity (Source: MTN SA Foundation Annual Report 2018) 49 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Wendy Nkosi Step Up to a Start Up MTN SA Foundation has been partnering with Step Up to a Start Up activities have helped in Primestars for the past six years through its Step Up developing Wendy’s confidence and leadership to a Start Up programme. The initiative is aimed at skills. “Before I joined the programme, I had some fostering an entrepreneurial mindset among high ideas of projects I wanted to start but after school learners. One such learner is Wendy Nkosi, participating, I got a better understanding of what who participated in the 2018 cycle of the programme, it actually takes to succeed as an entrepreneur when she was a Grade 12 learner at Pace and even started a community-based Commercial Secondary School in Soweto. organisation,” she says. The organisation came about after Wendy identified a shortage of extraIn addition to taking part in the business idea mural activities and after-school support for competition and watching the entrepreneurshiplearners in her community. As a result, many themed movie which was screened at Maponya Mall, would end up not doing their school work, getting Wendy was invited to represent her school and poor marks, having to repeat some grades or even present her business idea at the launch of the 2018 getting involved with substance abuse. Through Step Up to a Start Up programme. The idea centred her youth club, Wendy now helps young people on an educational app designed to provide high with their studies and other school-related things, school students with information to assist them with but also to discover their talents and other university enrolment, accessing bursaries and interests. applying for scholarships. (Source: MTN SA Foundation Annual Report 2018) 50 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation The UNGC emphasises that Investments in infrastructure – transport, irrigation, energy and information and communication technology – are crucial to achieving sustainable development and empowering communities in many countries. It has long been recognized that growth in productivity and incomes, and improvements in health and education outcomes require investment in infrastructure Manufacturing is an important driver of economic development and employment. At the current time, however, manufacturing value added per capita is only US$100 in the least developed countries compared to over US$4,500 in Europe and Northern America. Another important factor to consider is the emission of Carbon Dioxide during manufacturing processes. Emissions have decreased over the past decade in many countries, but the pace of decline has not been even around the world. Technological progress is the foundation of efforts to achieve environmental objectives, such as increased resource and energy-efficiency. Without technology and innovation, industrialization will not happen, and without industrialization, development will not happen. There needs to be more investments in high-tech products that dominate the manufacturing productions to increase efficiency and a focus on mobile cellular services that increase connections between people. • Basic infrastructure like roads, information and communication technologies, sanitation, electrical power and water remains scarce in many developing countries • 16% of the global population does not have access to mobile broadband networks. • For many African countries, particularly the lower-income countries, the existent constraints regarding infrastructure affect firm productivity by around 40 per cent. • The global share of manufacturing value added in GDP increased from 15.2% in 2005 to 16.3% in 2017, driven by the fast growth of manufacturing in Asia. • Industrialization’s job multiplication effect has a positive impact on society. Every job in manufacturing creates 2.2 jobs in other sectors. • Small and medium-sized enterprises that engage in industrial processing and manufacturing are the most critical for the early stages of industrialization and are typically the largest job creators. They make up over 90 per cent of business worldwide and account for between 50-60 per cent of employment. • Least developed countries have immense potential for industrialization in food and beverages (agro-industry), and textiles and garments, with good prospects for sustained employment generation and higher productivity • Middle-income countries can benefit from entering the basic and fabricated metals industries, which offer a range of products facing rapidly growing international demand • In developing countries, barely 30 per cent of agricultural production undergoes industrial processing. In high-income countries, 98 per cent is processed. This suggests that there are great opportunities for developing countries in agribusiness. 51 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN’s demonstrated commitment to SDG 9 – Industries, innovation and infrastructure MTN Group Mobile wallet inter-operability In November 2018 Orange Group and MTN Group announced a joint venture, Mowali (mobile wallet interoperability), to enable interoperable payments across the continent. Mowali makes it possible to send money between mobile money accounts issued by any mobile money provider, in real time and at low cost. Mowali will immediately benefit from the reach of MTN Mobile Money and Orange Money, bringing together over 100 million mobile money accounts and mobile money operations in 22 of subSaharan Africa’s 46 markets. Mowali enables interoperability between digital financial service providers beyond MTN and Orange operations and markets, to support the existing 338 million mobile money accounts in Africa. Mowali is a digital payment infrastructure that connects financial service providers and customers in one inclusive network. It functions as an industry utility, open to any mobile money provider in Africa, including banks, money transfer operators and other financial service providers. The objective of Mowali is to increase the usage of mobile money by consumers and merchants, enabling money to circulate freely between mobile money accounts from any operators in all countries. A customer can therefore pay or receive money anywhere from their mobile account regardless of their operator. The system will unlock further innovation in the digital financial space within the continent. Côte d'Ivoire Digital literacy for 400 educational supervisors In 2018 the MTN Ivory Coast Foundation organised a training seminar on digital literacy for 400 educational supervisors of the Ministry of National Education, Technical Education and Vocational Training. During the sessions, participants were trained on the use of programs that will enable them to improve ICT in education as well as promote media and information literacy. Ghana Rural Telephony Project A partnership between MTN Ghana, Ghana Investment Fund for Electronic Communications (GIFEC) and Huawei Technologies Limited saw the launch of the Rural Telephony Project in Abenaso in the Eastern Region, Ghana. In 2018, one hundred (100) rural telephony sites were constructed and activated to over 400 communities which did not have access to mobile services. The deployment of voice and data connectivity to 200 sites has also commenced. 52 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Guinea Bissau Platform for retailers to pay their taxes through the MoMo Wallet MTN Guinea Bissau recently launched a platform for retailers to pay their taxes to the Bissau Municipal Council through the Mobile Money wallet. This innovation is in response to the challenges faced by retailers, who previously travelled long distances and often had to wait in queues to pay their taxes at the bank. Many also had to close their shops during this period, which resulted in loss of revenue. Retailers are now able to pay their dues using a short code and the unique identification number attained during registration. Liberia Education taking advantage of digital technologies Lonestar Cell MTN has partnered with the Ministry of Education to launch an innovative school fees payment service for public schools via the Mobile Money platform. Many students face long queues at banks to make registration and tuition payments. This service enables students, parents, sponsors and guardians to make payments with ease, from anywhere and at any time. The initiative enables the education system to take advantage of the digital technologies that provide convenience, efficiency and accountability. Nigeria Upstart and aspiring content creators rewarded MTN Nigeria has rewarded upstart and aspiring content creators with N10.6 million at the 2018 digital conference ceremony in Lagos. The MTN Shortz platform (launched in July 2017) allows content creators to upload their short form video content of not more than five to fifteen minutes long. Users can find, watch and stream entertaining short videos in most genres. MTN Shortz does not only allow users to watch and stream videos, but they may upload and monetize their content as content creators. Ultra-modern Ferry Terminal to attract new investors, boost water transportation and reduce vehicle traffic on Lagos roads MTN Nigeria donated an ultra-modern Ferry Terminal to Lagos State in 2018. The terminal, formerly a dump site, now serves as the headquarters of the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA). It enables the harnessing of the potential of the water transport sector for the overall benefit of residents. The completion of the project contributes substantially toward the overall development of the water transport sector in Lagos State. The water transportation sector in Lagos had remained largely underdeveloped, accounting for less than one per cent of the overall traffic in the state. The terminal is expected to attract new investors, boost water transportation and reduce vehicle traffic on Lagos roads and also complement the efforts of the Lagos State government towards promoting an intermodal transport system. 53 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Rwanda Milestone on financial inclusion: 2 million active MTN Mobile Money users In 2018 MTN Rwanda celebrated reaching 2 million active MTN Mobile Money users. This achievement was driven by the recent MoMo month awareness campaign, which promoted the use of MoMo across the country. Mobile money gives millions of previously unbanked people access to financial services. South Africa Solar powered cell towers for rural areas In far-flung communities with only a few thousand inhabitants, a standard tower costs about $100,000 to set up; a mobile operator will usually have to wait 10 years to see a return on its investment, as traffic on these networks is limited. For that reason, mobile operators have focused on more profitable urban areas in their initial network rollouts, which means close to 1 million people are still without coverage in SA. MTN is testing a cell tower made specifically for rural areas, which entails perching antennas on top of wooden or metal poles. This cuts the upfront cost to approximately $10,000. Operating expenditure is also lower, as the mast runs on solar power rather than diesel generators. In rural areas, cell masts usually consume about $10,000 worth of diesel a year. Rather than the current method of using relatively expensive satellite signals for the backhaul portion of the network, the antenna uses cheaper 4G signals. The specialised towers were developed in Ghana and will also be launched at a trial site in rural KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. The towers have cut the cost of deployment by about 60% and operating expenditure by about 40%. This initiative promotes digital inclusion and counters the risk of leaving vulnerable and marginalised groups of society behind, which further marginalises them. Zambia Mobile digital lending platform for financial inclusion Over five million clients have benefited from the MTN Zambia mobile digital lending platform between 2016 to date as part of its commitment to accelerate financial inclusion in the country. Zambia’s level of financial inclusion is approximately 40 percent. The MTN digital lending product is called Kongola and is being operated in partnership with Barclays Bank Zambia and Jumo Mobile Money. The digital financial platform provides real-time access to credit and savings and has registered about 1.5 million customers. 54 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 9: Reduce inequality within and among countries The UN Global Compact notes that the international community has made significant strides towards lifting people out of poverty. The most vulnerable nations (i.e. the least developed countries, the landlocked developing countries, and the small island developing states) continue to make inroads into poverty reduction. However, the UNGC remains concerned as inequality persists, and large disparities remain regarding access to health and education services and other assets. There is growing consensus that economic growth is not sufﬁcient to reduce poverty if it is not inclusive and if it does not involve the three dimensions of sustainable development – economic, social and environmental. According to the UNGC, income inequality has been reduced both between and within countries. At the current time, the per capita income of 60 out of 94 countries with data has risen more rapidly than the national average. There has been some progress regarding creating favourable access conditions for exports from least developing countries as well. The UNGC emphasises that to reduce inequality, policies should be universal in principle, paying attention to the needs of disadvantaged and marginalised populations. There needs to be an increase in duty-free treatment and continuation of favouring exports from developing countries, in addition to increasing the share of developing countries’ vote within the IMF. Finally, innovations in technology can help reduce the cost of transferring money for migrant workers. • In 2018, over 64.4% of products exported by the least developed countries to world markets faced zero tariffs, an increase of 20% since 2010. • Evidence from developing countries shows that children in the poorest 20 per cent of the populations are still up to three times more likely to die before their fifth birthday than children in the richest quintiles. • Social protection has been significantly extended globally, yet persons with disabilities are up to five times more likely than average to incur catastrophic health expenditures. • Despite overall declines in maternal mortality in most developing countries, women in rural areas are still up to three times more likely to die while giving birth than women living in urban centres. • Up to 30 per cent of income inequality is due to inequality within households, including between women and men. Women are also more likely than men to live below 50 per cent of the median income How MTN has contributed to SDG 10 – Reduced inequality within and among countries Given the importance of economic growth – and specifically economic inclusion – for sustainable development, MTN supported programmes in 2018 that provided entrepreneurial skills for SMMEs; this also recognises the potential contribution of emerging enterprises in the markets in which we operate. Our programmes included business and entrepreneurship support, the provision of micro-loans and equipment, as well as specific education programmes to improve entrepreneurial skills and business management knowledge in the SMME sector. In South Africa, through our support for the Students for the Advancement of Global Entrepreneurship start-up programme (a university-based partnership on entrepreneurial skills development and an SMME ICT skills development programme), over 25 000 learners have benefitted from our support for entrepreneur education. In Nigeria, we trained 100 entrepreneurs who face additional challenges due to their disabilities, ensuring they have access to opportunities for socio-economic inclusion. 55 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Côte d'Ivoire 2nd edition of #Handibusiness project launched, focusing on disabled entrepreneurs In November 2018 the MTN Ivory Coast Foundation, in partnership with the Cameroon Department of Social Protection, handed over installation kits to 15 entrepreneurs with disabilities, selected as part of its #Handibusiness Project. The entrepreneurs also underwent training to help ensure they can effectively implement their respective projects. #Handibusiness entrepreneurs Zambia Awarded for creative and innovative financial inclusion efforts MTN Zambia has been named the Most Innovative Digital Financial Service Provider and the Agent Value Chain Development Company of the year at the 2018 Chikwama Awards organised by the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF). The Most Innovative Digital Financial Service Provider Award recognises digital financial service providers that exhibit creativity and innovation in the design and implementation of products and services, while the Agent Value Chain Development Award recognises service providers that have dedicated significant resources to the training and development of Mobile Money agent networks and fostering the agent value chain. Judges at the awards praised MTN Zambia’s commitment to increasing financial inclusion in the country. MTN Zambia at the 2018 Chikwama Awards hosted by the UNCDF 56 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN South Africa Sizwe School for the Deaf receives ICT equipment Sizwile School for the Deaf is located in Dobsonville, Soweto. Established in 1978, the school caters to 272 learners between the ages of 3 and 18 years. Eighty-three of these children stay in a hostel on the school premises. Sizwile was identified as one of the 40 South African schools which would go on to receive ICT equipment through the Department of Social Development’s public-private partnerships initiative. The initiative was launched in commemoration of youth month under the theme: “Live the legacy: Towards a socio-economic empowered youth”, with the goal of addressing the lack of technologically advanced and user-friendly educational equipment in schools for learners with special needs. As a long-standing collaborator of the department, the MTN SA Foundation was invited to participate in the initiative, culminating in the donation of ICT equipment and a computer laboratory to the school. The donation was handed over by the Deputy Minister of Social development on 8 June 2018. (Source: MTN SA Foundation, Annual Report 2018) Sizwile School for the Deaf “For us at MTN, the significance of these centres is the impact they have on learners and teachers. Some of our initial schools have gone from a 0% pass rate to 100% pass rate. We realised that we have been short-changing a community that is powerful in our society. Disability does not mean people are unable, it just means they also require the right tools, and technology is one of the key enablers.” MTN SA Foundation’s General Manager, Kusile Mtunzi-Hairwadzi (Source: MTN SA Foundation, Annual Report 2018) 57 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 11: Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable The UNGC describes cities as hubs for ideas, commerce, culture, science, productivity, social development and much more. Cities have enabled people to advance socially and economically. The UNGC observes that with the number of people living within cities projected to rise to 5 billion people by 2030, it’s important that efficient urban planning and management practices are in place to deal with the challenges brought by urbanisation. Many challenges exist to maintaining cities in a way that continues to create jobs and prosperity without straining land and resources. Common urban challenges include congestion, lack of funds to provide basic services, a shortage of adequate housing, declining infrastructure and rising air pollution within cities. Rapid urbanisation challenges, such as the safe removal and management of solid waste within cities, can be overcome in ways that allow them to continue to thrive and grow, while improving resource use and reducing pollution and poverty. The UNGC cites the increase in municipal waste collection as one such example. There needs to be a future in which cities provide opportunities for all, with access to basic services, energy, housing, transportation and more. • Half of humanity – 3.5 billion people – lives in cities today and 5 billion people are projected to live in cities by 2030. • 95 per cent of urban expansion in the next decades will take place in the developing world • 883 million people live in slums today and most them are found in Eastern and SouthEastern Asia. • The world’s cities occupy just 3 per cent of the Earth’s land, but account for 60-80 per cent of energy consumption and 75 per cent of carbon emissions. • Rapid urbanisation is exerting pressure on fresh water supplies, sewage, the living environment, and public health • As of 2018, 90% of urban dwellers have been breathing unsafe air, resulting in 4.2 million deaths due to ambient air pollution. More than half of the global urban population were exposed to air pollution levels at least 2.5 times higher than the safety standard. How MTN contributed to SDG 11 Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Nigeria Developing grassroots communities through collaboration MTN Nigeria has launched the third phase of the “What Can We Do Together” project, an initiative geared towards developing grassroots communities through collaborative effort. The project is fulfilling MTN Nigeria's commitment to improve the quality of lives in communities through the MTN Foundation. The first two phases of the campaign have seen 400 communities in 347 local government areas benefiting from the initiative, with 40 communities receiving 500KVA transformers and another 40 communities receiving 650 ft boreholes. 58 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 59 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Uganda MTN Uganda Foundation charity drive for landslide victims After the Bududa landslides in Uganda had resulted in 43 lives being lost and 139 households being destroyed, MTN donated Shs50m (US $ 13 339) towards the Uganda Red Cross Society’s relief efforts for landslide victims. The MTN Uganda Foundation also delivered relief items to the community, collected through an internal campaign, #StandWithBududa. MTN employees collected clothing and other non-food items for those affected, and collected items were delivered to the Uganda Red Cross at the Bukalasi Primary School & Suma Junior School. 60 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 15: Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss According to the UNGC, forests cover 30.7 per cent of the Earth’s surface and, in addition to providing food security and shelter, they are key to combating climate change, protecting biodiversity and the homes of the indigenous population. By protecting forests, we will also be able to strengthen natural resource management and increase land productivity. At the current time, thirteen million hectares of forests are being lost every year while the persistent degradation of drylands has led to the desertification of 3.6 billion hectares. Even though up to 15% of land is currently under protection, biodiversity is still at risk. Deforestation and desertification – caused by human activities and climate change – pose major challenges to sustainable development and have affected the lives and livelihoods of millions of people in the fight against poverty. The UNGC notes that efforts are being made to manage forests and combat desertification. There are two international agreements being implemented currently that promote the use of resources in an equitable way. Financial investments in support of biodiversity are also being provided. Forests • Around 1.6 billion people depend on forests for their livelihood, including 70 million indigenous people. • Forests are home to more than 80 per cent of all terrestrial species of animals, plants and insects. • Between 2010 and 2015, the world lost 3.3 million hectares of forest areas. Poor rural women depend on common pool resources and are especially affected by their depletion. Desertification • 2.6 billion people depend directly on agriculture, but 52 per cent of the land used for agriculture is moderately or severely affected by soil degradation. • Arable land loss is estimated at 30 to 35 times the historical rate • Due to drought and desertification, 12 million hectares are lost each year (23 hectares per minute). Within one year, 20 million tons of grain could have been grown. • 74 per cent of the poor are directly affected by land degradation globally. Biodiversity • Illicit poaching and trafficking of wildlife continues to thwart conservation efforts, with nearly 7,000 species of animals and plants reported in illegal trade involving 120 countries. • Of the 8,300 animal breeds known, 8 per cent are extinct and 22 per cent are at risk of extinction. • Of the over 80,000 tree species, less than 1 per cent have been studied for potential use. • Fish provide 20 per cent of animal protein to about 3 billion people. Only ten species provide about 30 per cent of marine capture fisheries and ten species provide about 50 per cent of aquaculture production. • Over 80 per cent of the human diet is provided by plants. Only three cereal crops – rice, maize and wheat – provide 60 per cent of energy intake. • As many as 80 per cent of people living in rural areas in developing countries rely on tradit ional plant‐based medicines for basic healthcare. • Micro-organisms and invertebrates are key to ecosystem services, but their contributions are still poorly known and rarely acknowledged. 61 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN’s demonstrated commitment to SDG 15 – Life on Land MTN Business, Kenya Trees for Kajiado County MTNers led by Kenya Forest Service representatives, local administration and school children, showed their support to their local government’s initiative towards food security by planting 500 trees in the remote Kajiado County. MTN Business MTN’s anti-rhino poaching solution saving rangers’ lives As the global conservation community commemorated World Ranger Day on 22 September 2018, rhinos and their ranger protectors have within their reach a powerful new tool in the war against animal poaching. This Internet of Things (IoT) anti-poaching solution has been delivered by MTN Business and has been piloted in the Welgevonden Nature Reserve, in Limpopo. The project has been running for 11 months and is in partnership with Wageningen University (based in the Netherlands). MTN’s anti-poaching solution brings together the best of nature and technology and has proven to be a valuable safeguard at the Welgevonden Nature Reserve. The solution will help predict threats and combat the poaching of endangered rhinos at Welgevonden Game Reserve in South Africa, with the aim to expand the solution to other reserves in future. This project is a profound breakthrough in the creation of connected wildlife solutions, a wildlife management concept that harnesses IoT technology to better manage and protect wildlife and other assets. With the solution designed for Welgevonden, MTN, along with its partners for the project, can better predict and anticipate potential poaching activity. This allows the ranger to take pre-emptive action before any threat happens. (Source: TechCentral) 62 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 16: Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies The UNGC notes that the threats of international homicide, violence against children, human trafficking and sexual violence are important to address to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development. They pave the way for the provision of access to justice for all and for building effective, accountable institutions at all levels. While homicide and trafficking cases have seen significant progress over the past decade, there are still thousands of people at greater risk of intentional murder within Latin America, SubSaharan Africa and around Asia. Children’s rights violations through aggression and sexual violence continue to plague many countries around the world, especially as under-reporting and lack of data aggravate the problem. The UNGC urges that to tackle these challenges and build a more peaceful, inclusive societies, there needs to be more efficient and transparent regulations put in place and comprehensive, realistic government budgets. One of the first steps towards protecting individual rights is the implementation of worldwide birth registration and the creation of more independent national human rights institutions around the world. • Among the institutions most affected by corruption are the judiciary and police. • Corruption, bribery, theft and tax evasion cost US$1.26 trillion for developing countries per year; this amount of money could be used to lift those who are living on less than $1.25 a day above $1.25 for at least six years. • Birth registration has occurred for 73 per cent of children under 5, but only 46% of SubSaharan Africa have had their births registered. • Approximately 28.5 million primary school age who are out of school live in conflictaffected areas. • The rule of law and development have a significant interrelation and are mutually reinforcing, making it essential for sustainable development at the national and international level. • The proportion of prisoners held in detention without sentencing has remained almost constant in the last decade, at 31% of all prisoners. MTN’s demonstrated commitment to SDG 16 – Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions MTN volunteers empower civilians enduring strife MTN staff operating in trying conditions rose to the challenge to make a difference to people’s lives during 21 Days of Y’ello Care 2018, the company’s annual employee volunteerism programme. Staff at some countries beset by civil strife, joined their colleagues from around the world in commemorating 21 Days of Y’ello Care. MTN Syria held Ramadhan Iftar for more than 300 orphans in Damascus, while MTNers in Afghanistan worked together to launch a capacity building centre. 63 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Ghana MTN partners with E-Crime to train the Judiciary MTN Ghana, in partnership with E-Crime Bureau (a cyber security company), organised a capacity building workshop for judges in Accra in 2018. The training focused on educating the judges on the intricacies of various forms of Mobile Money scams, to help them appropriately act against those Members of the judiciary of Ghana attending training responsible. on Mobile Money fraud in Ghana, October 2018 Informed judges can help expedite prosecution of Mobile Money fraudsters. This initiative is part of a programme to bring all the players within the eco-system together to understand the complexities of Mobile Money fraud in Ghana. Partners in the training were the Ghana’s eCrime Bureau and the Ghana Police Cybercrime Unit. Ghana MTN funds for victims of “Ponzi” scheme MTN Ghana in 2018 finalised modalities for the disbursement of funds to victims of the Savannah Brokerage Investment Limited “Ponzi scheme”. The decision for the payment was taken after the management of Mobile Money Limited met with representatives of the victims of Savannah Brokerage Investment Limited “Ponzi” scheme, the Ghana Police CID and the Regulator. In line with this, the police CID has initiated the process to secure a court order to unfreeze the wallets to facilitate the disbursement. MTN uncovered the suspected Ponzi scheme in 2018 and took steps to safeguard the interest of its customers by reporting the case to the Regulator and the Police. MTN Group head office Ethics Office Handbook Since embarking on our journey of ethics management, MTN has experienced that it is possible to manage ethics, and that there is a structured way to do so. This requires a dedicated and competent ethics office. For this reason, the MTN Group Ethics Office contributed to and funded the publication of The Ethics Office Handbook, which we believe will become an indispensable tool in enabling organisations to raise the standard of ethics management. The handbook considers the rationale for an ethics office, its mandate and enabling structures, the ethics office and ethics management, and running an effective ethics office. Each MTN Ethics Officer and Ethics Champion is receiving a copy of The Ethics Office Handbook, and we are looking forward to an enriched ethics conversation as we continue our journey to deepen our ethical culture. 64 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Global Ethics Day in MTN Opcos On 17 October 2018 MTN Group became one of a few organisations across the African continent who joined organisations across the globe in celebrating Global Ethics Day. This is a celebration of the contribution of organisations to the upliftment of society, protection of the planet, and our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals. The Group Ethics Office developed a Global Ethics Day toolkit for MTN operations to join in the celebrations, and Global Ethics Day was celebrated at the head office using various media channels. Examples of Global Ethics Day messaging communicated to MTN head office employees on 17 October 2018 65 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FACT SHEET Goal 17: Revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development A successful sustainable development agenda requires partnerships between governments, the private sector and civil society. The UNGC advises that these inclusive partnerships built upon principles and values, a shared vision, and shared goals that place people and the planet at the centre, are needed at the global, regional, national and local level. Urgent action is needed to mobilise, redirect and unlock the transformative power of trillions of dollars of private resources to deliver on sustainable development objectives. Long-term investments, including foreign direct investment, are needed in critical sectors, especially in developing countries. These include sustainable energy, infrastructure and transport, as well as information and communications technologies. The UNGC further advises that the public sector will need to set a clear direction. Review and monitoring frameworks, regulations and incentive structures that enable such investments must be retooled to attract investments and reinforce sustainable development. National oversight mechanisms such as supreme audit institutions and oversight functions by legislatures should be strengthened • Official development assistance stood at $146.6 billion in 2017. This represents a decrease of 0.6 per cent in real terms over 2016. • 79 per cent of imports from developing countries enter developed countries duty-free • The debt burden on developing countries remains stable at about 3 per cent of export revenue • The number of Internet users in Africa almost doubled in the past four years • 30 per cent of the world’s youth are digital natives, active online for at least five years • But more than four billion people do not use the Internet, and 90 per cent of them are from the developing world MTN’s demonstrated commitment to SDG 17 – Partnerships for the Goals MTN has aligned business activities to both sustainable development goals and also the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The company has entered into multiple partnerships and collaborations with other organisations and governments to enable accelerated access to ICT products including handsets, networks, products and services. In particular, we highlight a collaboration with a next generation solar energy company, where the MTN mobile money platform, combined with access to its bricks and mortar distribution network, has enabled people in Uganda to move away from non-renewable kerosene to the use of sustainable solar power. This initiative was a catalyst for positive impact, enabling access to financial services, driving entrepreneurial opportunity and access to technology that is directing improved well-being and quality of life. As innovations such as artificial intelligence, the use of big data and automation continue to be showcased in real-world applications daily, we are excited by the ability for humanity to realise breakthrough solutions for improving our lives and resolving real world challenges. Some of these challenges include fighting poverty and inequality, creating opportunities for income-generation and self-employment, and improving access to quality education and healthy food. In mobile financial services MTN is closing the fintech divide. It wants to reduce the number of people that are still unable to access banking and other financial services in sub-Saharan Africa and our other markets. 66 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 To achieve this, MTN is leveraging the natural relationship between financial services and mobile telecommunications. MTN is exploring and building powerful ecosystems of services through partnerships with regulatory authorities, financial service organisations, merchants and other stakeholders. However, our Partnerships for the Sustainable Development Goals not only centre on core-business related initiatives, but also on endeavours that give expression to our role and moral obligations in society. To this end, we have partnered with the University of Johannesburg (UJ) Art Gallery on “Continuing Conversations” – an art exhibition where the focus is on portraits depicting concepts of power, the juxtaposition of power and powerlessness, identity and body politics, perceptions of the other and the exotic, memory, and the masks we wear. These art works are by participants in UJ and MTN’s Emerging Artists Portrait Development Programme. MTN Group Joint efforts for the SDGs In 2018 MTN partnered with the following entities in pursuit of the SDGs covered in this report. This list is therefore not exhaustive: MTN (CHASE FRAMEWORK) MTN eSwatini MTN Nigeria • Facebook • Young Heroes NGO • Digital Bridge Institute • Telecom Infra (TIP) • Regional lending company • IBM OpenCellular project Letshego • Oracle • Rural Africa Programme • Ministry of Education and • Google • China Mobile Training • Microsoft Nigeria • UNISOC • Ministry of Economic MTN SA • KaiOS Technology Planning and Development • Orange Group • Department of Education MTN Ghana • Department of Social MTN Business • The Ark Foundation Development • Wageningen University, the • The Foundation of Ghana • National Development Agency Netherlands TV3 • NGOs and a local clinic in • Dext Technology Witkoppen, Gauteng, South MTN Group • NGO TopDog Foundation Africa • The Ethics Institute (TEI) • Ghaa Investment Fund for • Datacomb Development Hub • The Ethics Practitioners Electronic Communications • The University of the Free Association (EPA) (GIFEC) State • Huawei Technologies • Hodisang Dipeu Holdings MTN Afghanistan Limited • 50 Entrepreneurs in Soweto, • The Ministry of Refugees • E-Crime Bureau Alexandra, Thembisa, and Repatriation • Ghana Police Cybercrime Bloemfontein, Welkom Unit MTN Cameroon MTN Sudan MTN Guinea Bissau • Association of Skills for a • Institute of Environmental Better Life (ASCOVIME) • Central Banks of West Studies • Otélé Water Project African States (BCEAO) • The Meteorological Agency • GIZ • Mastercard MTN Liberia • UBA MTN Congo Brazzaville • Liberian National AIDS MTN Syria • Ministry of Higher Commission Education • International SHEROES • Ministry of Higher Education • Marien Ngouabi University Forum MTN Zambia • The Monrovia Consolidated MTN Côte d’Ivoire School System (MCSS) • The Zambian government • Cameroon Department of • The Booker Washington • Barclays Bank Zambia Social Protection Institute • Jumo Mobile Money • The Ministry of Education 67 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 MTN SA Partnership to enrich the lives of our communities To enrich the lives of the communities in which we operate, we have established a partnership with the University of Johannesburg (UJ) Art Gallery. Over the years we have seen this partnership broaden the pool of accessible services and resources to the arts fraternity, facilitate meaningful mentorships and avail platforms by which information and communication technology (ICT) solutions for art education, expression and knowledge sharing can be explored. In 2017, this collaboration brought to life a successful exhibition entitled Shifting Conversations, featuring works from both the MTN Art Collection and the UJ Art Collection. This was followed in 2018 by another successful collaborative exhibition titled Continuing Conversations. The focus in ‘Continuing Conversations’ is on portraits depicting concepts of power, the juxtaposition of power and powerlessness, identity and body politics, perceptions of the other and the exotic, memory, and the masks we wear. While also collaborating with the UJ’s Faculty of Art Design and Architecture, three of the most promising students were selected to receive training and mentorship in curatorial practice and exhibition management. This included them providing logistical assistance, conducting general administration, designing the exhibition catalogue and educational supplement, and managing the educational programme for disadvantaged schools from the surrounding area. The Grahamstown National Arts Festival organisers have invited the MTN Foundation and the UJ Art Gallery to feature Continuing Conversations at the world-famous festival in Grahamstown in 2019. 68 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 69 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Progress on the Ten Principles Human Rights MTN’s business is to facilitate communications in the digital age. We recognise that the innovation revolution taking place in the information and communication sector is helping break down social, economic and community barriers, and is a catalyst for positive socio-economic development. Information technology has developed far more rapidly than any global laws required to support it, and this situation in unlikely to change in the foreseeable future. One of the results of this development has been greater access to personal information and communications by governments or any other group of organisations or individuals, often not accompanied by legal or regulatory due process. Digital human rights predominantly relate to freedom of expression, access to information, privacy, and security of information. MTN Group’s Freedom of Expression, Privacy and Security (Human Rights) Policy sets out the principles which MTN applies to safeguard the communication privacy and security rights of customers. It does this in a manner that is consistent with internationally recognised standards and legal requirements on freedom of expression, access to information, privacy and security of information, while ensuring that we remain compliant with the terms of our licence conditions and prevailing laws. The Group’s policy is informed by the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and also takes into consideration some of the views expressed within the United Nations Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, and by the GSMA and various industry groups working on this matter. The following principles underlie MTN’s position on human rights: • We believe in the rights of all people to freely communicate and share information, and to enjoy the right to privacy and security in their use of digital, telephonic and internet-based communications. • While acting in accordance with prevailing laws and licence conditions, we will use our best endeavours and scope of influence to protect, respect and ensure these rights of all customers using our ICT solutions where laws and licence conditions may not appropriately recognise the rights of our customers. • We will take reasonable steps to maintain data transmission and storage confidentiality and security. • We will only gather customer data for legitimate commercial businesses and as permitted by licensing and legal obligations. The policy is supported by other key documentation relating to the Group’s code of ethics, and information security and information provision governance. Learn more about how MTN promoted human rights in 2018, refer to the MTN Group Sustainability Report (pp. 27-36). 70 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Labour MTN goes to great lengths to create a positive, vibrant working environment that supports learning and development, that enables work-life balance, and that promotes innovation and creativity. We support and respect the human rights of our employees, and therefore we provide a healthy, safe and nonthreatening workplace to each employee. We treat all people with respect and dignity and expect of our employees and our business partners to do the same. We do not tolerate harassment and intimidation, and we guarantee our employees the right to freedom of association. We make reasonable accommodations for all employees’ religious observance and practices, and respect our employees’ privacy and the confidentiality of their personal information. MTN’s inclusive workplace standards and expectations: • MTN is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which includes the promotion of equality and prevention of unfair discrimination. • In 2018, we committed to the articles of the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination against Women. • The MTN Group Conduct Passport requires employees to respect colleagues, suppliers and those we serve, regardless of gender, race, religion, culture, mental and physical abilities, and to treat them with dignity, respect and compassion. The MTN BRIGHT strategy pillar that directs our labour practices is HEARTS & MINDS. The four focus areas of this pillar are: • Ensuring that our employees are engaged and supported to help us realise our strategic objectives and deliver to stakeholders’ requirements • Ensuring our people have the correct skills to serve the current and future needs of our customers effectively • Designing around employees’ requirements for a workplace that rewards them in a fair manner • Ensuring employees are informed and involved in business plans and strategies through impactful communications Learn more about how MTN promoted labour principles in 2018 please note the MTN Group Sustainability Report (pp. 48-52). 71 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Environment In terms of managing our impact on the environment we apply necessary precautions. We have adopted and implemented environmental management policies that ensure we remain compliant with the applicable laws and regulations of the countries where we operate. We further expect of our suppliers to support our environmental objectives through responsible conduct as described in our Supplier Code of Conduct which must be endorsed by all suppliers as a prerequisite for doing work with MTN. Our impact through savings Future actions • Development of a group energy management strategy. Efficient energy use and increased use of renewable energy • Increase number of energy partner engagements. We aim to actively partner with companies that have technical solutions that can help us extract further energy efficiencies, or that offer innovative solutions to harnessing renewable energy for network sites. • Update group EMF guidelines: The group EMF guideline review and compliance process will be completed in 2019. The outcomes will be used to inform the development of an EMF compliance policy. To learn more about MTN’s environmental management activities, case studies and results, refer to MTN Group Limited 2017 Sustainability Report (pp. 37-46) 72 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 Anti-Corruption MTN believes that its efforts in fighting corruption begins with ethical leadership. MTN has a vested interest in ensuring that it provides effective leadership based on an ethical foundation. We believe that fraudulent and corrupt activities threaten our sustainability and reputation. What we achieved in 2018 • We implemented a model of three lines of defence across our footprint. This was a major step towards MTN’s improving ethics management maturity. • Appointed ethics functionaries are required to formally qualify as ethics officers. This is a critical step towards ensuring that each MTN operation develops its ethics office capability to the desired level. A total of 38 ethics officers certified by the Ethics Institute now ensure institutionalisation of MTN’s ethics management strategy. • Our code of ethics and ethics position statements are shared on our website and are referenced in employee and supplier contracts. • We developed an employee conduct passport, which elaborates on the principles set out in the code of ethics, enabling our employees to align their conduct with our business strategy. • MTN continued its zero-tolerance approach to fraud, bribery and corruption, and we are constantly striving to improve our efforts to prevent these activities. • We began to track the impact of ethics management efforts in our various operations. • We conducted an annual audit of the group’s culture, to assess employees’ perceptions of MTN. The group culture audit (GCA) dimension on MTN’s corporate integrity increased by 3%. This indicates that our employees believe MTN is making progress in addressing issues of ethics and integrity across our business. • On 17 October 2018, MTN joined the Global Ethics Day initiative to celebrate the contribution of organisations to the upliftment of society, the protection of the planet, and to the UN SDGs. • All MTN operations conducted customised ethics awareness campaigns based on their objectives with respect to institutionalising ethics locally. MTN South Africa’s extensive “Press Pause” campaign encourages employees to reflect on the ethical dimensions of professional, business and personal decisions. • Our employee recognition platform, MTN Shine, was expanded to recognise and applaud desired ethical behaviours. This platform aims to promote and reward behaviours that result in heightened corporate integrity that exceed compliance requirements. The number of reported incidents of recognition have more than doubled since the introduction of recognition for 73 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 behaviours that promote corporate integrity, suggesting increased awareness of ethical behaviour and its importance. • We held supplier and partner workshops to create awareness and understanding of our supplier code of conduct. This resulted in a significant increase in partner endorsements of the code, from 175 vendor endorsements in 2017 to 1 197 in 2018. • It is important to us to support meaningful efforts to improve the level of public trust and ethical practices globally. We therefore funded the release of the Ethics Office Handbook, published by The Ethics Institute (TEI). 8 673 100 401 11 1 197 instances that suppliers/partners employees trained new certified ethical conduct endorse Supplier on ethics Ethics Officers was recognised Code of Conduct MTN SA 94 MTN Sudan MTN Corporate wins The Ethics Integrity ratings runner-up in the Institute’s Ethics up by Ethics Institute’s Calls to the Initiative of the Ethics Initiative of 3% whistle-blower line Year Award the Year Award Future actions • Launch MTN conduct passport: For employees and entities engaged in business with MTN, this is a single point of reference on our standards of ethics and conduct that must be met. • Complete new ethics risk assessment: We will be revising our three-year strategy after a new ethics risk assessment is completed in 2019. • Continued focus on fraud management: Our 2019 to 2021 efforts will be focused on aspects such as the occurrence of fraud, the control environment, active communication of ethics codes and standards at all levels of the organisation, consistent tone at the top, implementation in all operations and improved reporting. • Conduct annual conflict of interest disclosure process: All employees are required to declare annually if they have any relationships from which they or a person associated with them may derive personal benefit because of their relationship with MTN. • Implement ethics management outputs: The ethics management outputs dashboard and assessment process are the tools we will use to improve our understanding and insights into the effectiveness of ethics management in our operations. This will be implemented in our operations in 2019. More information on our key focus areas for 2019 may also be found in the social and ethics committee report on www.mtn.com. Learn more about ethics at MTN • https://www.mtn.com/who-we-are/ethics/ Our Ethics Position Papers • To learn more about MTN’s position on ethics, anti-corruption and related matters, refer to https://www.mtn.com/who-we-are/ethics/ethics-positions/ 74 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018 www.mtn.com Tel: +27 83 912 3000/+27 83 869 3000/+27 11 912 3000 Innovation Centre 216 14th Avenue Fairland, 2195 South Africa 75 MTN Group Limited UNGC Communication of Progress for the year ended 31 December 2018
