1 TABLE OF CONTENTS About the Report 4 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 20 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 65 Message from the Chairman R&D and Innovation 22 Climate Change and Efficient of the board 5 Intellectual Rights and Patents Management of Energy 66 Message from the CEO 7 Touching The Life 22 Water Management 69 Our Products and Services 25 Waste Management 69 Good Practices 71 GRI Index 72 TABLE OF CONTENTS CORPORATE PROFILE 9 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 33 About Turkcell 11 Communication With Our Partners 34 Operation and Financial Information 12 Employees 38 Highlights in 2018 13 Re-Thinking Human Resources 39 Partnership Structure and Senior Turkcell Academy 47 Management 13 Customer Experience 50 Corparative Governance 14 Customer Health and Safety 53 Bussines Ethic and Our Ethical Principles 14 Customer Privacy and Information Security 53 Corporate Risk Management and Business Supplier Relations and Procurement/Supply 53 Countinuity 15 Social Investment Programmes 56 Our Material Issues 16 Sponsorships 60 Turkcell and Sustainability 17 2 INTRO DUCTION 01 About the Report Message from the Chairman Message from the CEO 3 ABOUT THE REPORT 01 Our focus points that we set for our Sustainability Report are key to all stakeholders, and shared transparently in order to be informative and instructive. “Turkcell” and “Company” phrases indicated throughout the report have been fundamental principle to create common value for sustainable development used instead of Turkcell Iletişim A.S.. The report includes the sustainability with our stakeholders. For the purpose of moving our sustainability management approach of the company, Turkcell Iletişim Hizmetleri A.S., within performance to the top, we have included stakeholder opinions throughout the scope of Turkey operations, sustainability activities from 1 January 2018 till the report, since it is important for us that our stakeholders convey their views, 31 December 2018 and its environmental, social and economic performance, suggestions and feedback about the activities carried out by us. You can and their achievements. As Turkcell, we aim to carry forward our performance forward your feedback on our reports and our activities mentioned in the every year by promising to annually report our sustainability activities in the report to us via e-mail address kurumsalsosyalsorumluluk@turkcell.com.tr. forthcoming years. Our report is the 10th Statement of Progress of the United Nations Global Compact signed in 2007, prepared as a guide to the activities of global companies. Within the scope of the principles, we share our activities that we have already carried out in the fields, and we protect our commitment to business principles. At the same time, you can find all of the activities carried out by us towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and the contribution we make to the achievement of these goals, in the relevant sections of the report. As Turkcell, we adopt the power of technology and communication as a TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 4 Message from the Chairman of the Board Dear Stakeholders, over the past 24 years, we have continued to introduce our customers We are in a period in which digital transformation and technological to innovative products and services by deepening and diversifying our innovation are key trends, developing rapidly and transforming our expertise based upon the latest technologies. sector as well as the world. Innovative digital technologies that address We continue our work with 1,000 R & D personnel in the field of technology, community needs and access to these technologies contribute to inclusive which is our main activity sector, without slowing down. We crowned economic growth and global development. As Turkcell, we believe that our success with our 8 patents in 2018. We believe in the innovative and economic growth is not sufficient for human welfare and happiness, and transformative power of digitalization. We are realizing the modernization we perform all of our activities in the focus of the human development of our 2G and 3G fields through the digital transformation process on a index. We address sustainability with a holistic approach in terms of social, global scale. We have continued our leadership that we achieved by GÖRSEL environmental and economic aspects, and serve sustainable development goals with all our employees and stakeholders. implementing the 4.5G network by preparing to improve the 5G network. We continuously work to position ourselves in the best possible way for 2018 was a year in which we successfully continued to gain the satisfaction the Industry 4.0, and to offer our customers a rich customer experience. of our customers, provide economic benefits to our investors and We keep the data of our all services in Turkey in line with our approach shareholders and create value for our country and society with our high of ensuring that “Turkey’s data remains in Turkey”. Besides our world-class value-added, innovative and reliable digital services that we offer in the data center in Gebze equipped with the latest technology and security telecommunications sector that we are a pioneer of. We continued to facilities, which we launched in 2016; this year data center we also opened contribute to the welfare and sustainable development of our society with in Izmir, enabling us to offer more powerful services in terms of geographical the projects we carry out within the scope of Sustainable Development redundancy and capacity. We now export this model, which has recently Goals. made a strong contribution to our growth, to the world with our Lifecell We have embraced the responsibility of being Turkey’s first mobile operator, Ventures subsidiary. Over the coming period, we will expand our digital Ahmet AKÇA and a group that introduces customers living in our countries of operation export efforts, which we started in early 2018, and continue to contribute The Chairman of the Board to the advantages of the communication world.And so, to growth of our country through our digital services. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 5 consumption approach and show our sensitivity to the use of limited natural resources. We steadily continue our efforts to reduce our environmental impact in the fight against climate change. Being environmentally conscious, we are aware of the needs of future generations and we pay attention to the most effective Over the coming period, we will expand our digital management of our environmental impacts, responsible resource use and development of environmentexport efforts, which we started in early 2018, and friendly business processes in our activities and operations. Within the context of our modernization project we have been upgraded with components that are used continue to contribute to growth of our country in infrastructure, products with higher energy savings. As a result, in 2018, we achieved energy savings of through our digital services. up to 35% with new generation products in these areas. In the coming period, we will continue to develop innovative products and services that fully meet the meaning and responsibilities of the Turkcell brand with the strength and confidence we derive from our roots and our leader position in the sector. As we contribute to the economic and social development of our country with the employment opportunities we provide to more than 20,000 people and exports to 15 countries, we will provide our services with a responsible, ethical and environmentally sensitive approach Besides sustainable economic development, we are aware of our responsibility in to all the communities we interact with. We will also continue our investments to make our competitive increasing social welfare and in working against environmental problems. advantage sustainable on a global scale. We aim to bring our social responsibility projects to a point where they create stronger, We present to you, our dear stakeholders, our activities that contribute to sustainable development and more effective, efficient, transparent and higher social benefit. In this context, one of the economic, environmental and social performance that we focus on for a sustainable future through 2018 most important developments of 2018 was the establishment of Turkcell Foundation. As Turkcell Sustainability Report. I hope you to read our report with pleasure and thank you on behalf of in previous years, in 2018, we allocated one percent of our revenues to social benefit. Turkcell Family that will continue its path with more confidence with your support and pride. With our social investments, we have provided equality in opportunity for handicapped, refugees and women entrepreneurs. On the other hand, we have continued to support the training of our special talented students, who are the assurance of our future. As Greetings and best regards, Turkey’s largest communications and technology company, we are aware of our responsibility to facilitate communication, which is the most basic need of living together, Ahmet AKÇA and continue to develop applications for refugees. The Chairman of the Board We are aware of the environmental damage has left non-recoverable traces on our only living space without alternatives. As Turkcell, we maintain our responsible production and TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 6 Message from the CEO Dear stakeholders, In 2018, we expanded our digital product portfolio, which is one of the most important bases of our digital operator journey, and enriched it with new features. As the leading actor in the telecommunications sector in Turkey, We saw 169 million downloads of our digital services, receiving a higher share we are aware of our responsibility for sustainability. In this respect, creating greater and more value for them within our customers’ minutes. we manage sustainability, which we see as a fundamental With the driving force that we receive from products and services developed by part of our business strategy, in the light of the Sustainable us, especially BiP, fizy, Yaani, Playcell, TV +, Dergilik, Lifebox and Upcall, we now Development Goals, on the basis of the approach to inclusive consider ourselves “the World’s first Digital operator”. economic growth, development of technology, industry and We utilized our technology and strength to contribute to the growth of the countries infrastructures, decent work, strong institutions, quality education, in which we operate, primarily of Turkey as well in 2018. In accordance with our equal opportunity, women empowerment, combating climate motto “Turkey’s data should remain in Turkey”, we took steps to increase the change, peace and justice in societies, and societal development. competence of our country to store and process data, and transform processed We consider sustainability with its environmental, social and data into meaningful insight which will enable economic growth. We became economic aspects, we consider human welfare and happiness Turkey’s largest data center operator in June with the opening of our new data as our priority. center in Izmir. We invest in human beings with our aim of decent work and We have equipped the new Istanbul economic growth, and we always keep human welfare and Airport, which ranks among the happiness at our focus in our activities. In order to increase the major projects to support Turkish quality of life in our societies, we offer the best technology as economy, with the latest technology. a service. We have left behind a successful year, in which we We feel proud of putting first local believe that effective use of digitalization will have a decisive base station ULAK, developed with Turkey’s data should impact on the world of the future. In this direction, we manage our contribution, into service in various remain in Turkey digital transformation, the global trend we focus on, with the regions of our country within thescope Murat ERKAN goal of creating value for every minute of our customers’ lives. of the Universal Project. CEO TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 7 We believe that investing in future means investing in human capital. Accordingly, we welcomed 232 The near future will be shaped by technologies such as 5G, artificial intelligence, blockchain, and young friends to the Turkcell family within the scope of our GNCYTNK Project. Moreover, with the augmented and virtual reality all over the world. As Turkcell, we have launched strategic alliances Whiz Kids project, we support the education of our gifted children, while also supporting education with leading technology companies and universities domestically and abroad for the past two of children overcoming obstacles through the Education without Boundaries Project. We cooperate years with respect to our studies into 5G; related activities continued in 2018. with DQ Institute in the area of DQ Digital Intelligence, and we help children to develop digital In order to minimize our impact on the environment, we adopt the principle of responsible use of awareness in order to become confident digital citizens. natural resources. We take care to ensure that the wastes generated as a result of our operations We support entrepreneurship through various projects and applications, primarily Beehive, our and operations are recycled, if possible, before disposal. crowd funding platform. This year, we launched a separate program for our female entrepreneurs In accordance with our vision of globalization, we aim to expand our digital footprint not only in the as part of our “Developers of the Future” platform and provided mobile application development countries where we have operations, but throughout the wider world, by cooperating with other training to 1,400 women across Turkey. While a number of the participants progressed towards operators entrepreneurship, 100 participants joined our workforce, as user experience testers of Turkcell’s 10 I would like to thank all our stakeholders, primarily our shareholders, for their unyielding support most popular applications. during 2018, where we crowned our transformation process into a digital operator with notable “Merhaba Umut”, our application dedicated to serving our Syrian guests in Turkey, has reached nearly achievements. I sincerely believe that our success story will continue with the trust and support of 1 million downloads. We will continue to work for the masses who need the most communication in all our stakeholders in the upcoming period. order to realize our responsibility to facilitate communication as a communication and technology company, which is the basic necessity of living together. We have supported the digital transformation of sectors ranging from agriculture to health, and from Yours Sincerely, smart cities to transportation. We increased the number of projects to which we provided digital Murat ERKAN integration services to 550. We feel proud that Yozgat City Hospital, the information technology Chief Executive Officer infrastructure of which was established and operated by Turkcell, is the first and only hospital in Europe to have received “Level 7 Fully Digital Hospital” certification, considered the peak of HIMSS (Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society), the world’s most respected society for health technologies. Within this framework, the Turkcell Vakfı, which we have established by taking another important step, will make efforts to increase the employment opportunities of the country by educating the scientists and skilled workforce that the society needs in every field. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION 8 CORPORATE 02 About Turkcell PROFILE Operation and Financial Information Highlights in 2018 Partnership Structure and Senior Management Corparative Governance Bussines Ethic and Our Ethical Principles Corporate Risk Management and Business Countinuity Turkcell and Sustainability CORPORATE PROFILE 02 Our Vision Our Target Our Strategy Digital Operator Turkcell Global Leadership Strengthening our position in Turkey (The Digital Operator) with Digital Services Expansion in existing new markets Developing the digital services Focusing on a sustainable shareholder profit TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 10 About Turkcell Turkcell is a digital operator based in Turkey that provides digital services, audio, data, and TV services over mobile and land networks. While we sustain our vision in leading the digitalisation of Turkey, we also carry out activities in Ukraine, Belarus, North Cyprus, and Germany. From February 1994, for our customers to make the most of our latest communication and digital services, we pioneer the sector and continue to provide various products and services to a total of 48.9 million customers, 36.7 million of which in Turkey. As of 31 December, 2018, Turkcell’s 2018 turnover and total asset value was TRY 21.3 billion and TRY 42.8 billion, respectively. As of July 2000, Turkcell shares have been traded on both NYSE and BIST and Turkcell is also the only Turkish company listed on the NYSE. In addition, we have been in the BIST Sustainability Index since 2014. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 11 48.9 MILLION CUSTOMERS IN 5 COUNTRIES, TRY 42.8 BILLION IN ASSETS WORLDWIDE In 2018, our total number of mobile subscribers has been 36.7 million, with a net subscriber gain of 1.2 million, which is the highest rate of the last 7 years. The total rate of postpaid subscribers in Ever since we launched our LTE services on April 1, 2016, we are serving in 81 provinces in Turkey the total subscriber base has been 55.7%. by using LTE-Advanced and 3 carrier merge technologies and provide fiber data transmission On the fixed side, the number of our customers has increased to 1.385 million fiber and 905 thousand for residences at speeds up to 10 Gbps per second. ADSL customers in 2018. Moreover, our IPTV customer base has increased by 146 thousand to 506 May 2018 Global Condition Report, in which Gigabyte LTE networks are taken as reference and thousand. the fastest download networks are announced, shows us as one of the 2 fastest operators globally, as being the first digital operator in the world, with a speed of 1.2 Gbps. As Turkcell, we are accelerating the transformation process in Turkey and in the world, and we Operational Costs 2017 (Million TL) 2018 (Million TL) are pioneering for the digital transformation with R&D activities and investments carried out in in order to fulfill our customers wants by taking customer feedback in consideration. 17.632 21.292,5 1.979 2.021 Operational and Financial Information 1.669,8 1.884,5 As Turkcell, we have reached a total of 48.9 million customers including 36.7 million customers in Turkey and made them a part of our family. To maintain our position in the market, at the end of 51,4 the year, we have had 20.8% growth with a turnover of TRY 21.3 billion, and EBITDA has showed an increase of 41.1% to TRY 8.7 billion and our EBITDA margin has been 41.3%. 571,7 495,4 TURKCELL INCOME (MILLION TL) 15.045,1 16.053,6 21.292 2018 8,1 9,3 2017 17.632 You can access detailed information on your financial performance from our 2018 Annual Report. https://s.turkcell.com.tr/hakkimizda/tr/yatirimciiliskileri/InvestorReportLibrary/Turkcell-FR2018-TR.pdf The Growth of 20.8% TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 12 Highlights in 2018 Partnership Structure and Senior Management As of 31 December 2018, the main shareholder of Turkcell is Turkcell Holding A.S., which owns 51% of the company. The main shareholders of Turkcell Holding A.S. are TeliaSonera Finland Oyj (Sonera), Çukurova Group and Alfa Telecom Turkey Limited (Alfa) according to the information RECORD REVENUE AND EBITDA obtained from public sources. • Group revenues have reached TRY 21.3 billion with an annual increase of 20.8% and EBITDA TRY 8.8 billion with an increase of 41.1%. Partnership Structure (31 December 2018) 41.3% EBITDA MARGIN • On a two-year cumulative basis, with a 90.2% EBITDA increase, EBITDA margin became 41.3% 566.7 MOBILE MULTI-PROPOSAL SUBSCRIBERS Nominal Value Shareholder Share Ratio • While the share of mobile multi-proposal subscribers has reached 66.7% by an annual increase (TRY Thousand) of 10.9 points, TV multi-gaming customers increased by 4.2 points to 48.6%. TURKCELL HOLDING A.S. 1.222.000 51,00% 4.5G SUBSCRIBER PENETRATION OF 91% CUKUROVA HOLDING A.S. 996 0,05% • Smartphone penetration of 74%, 80% 4.5G-compatible smartphones. NPS PUBLIC SHARES 1.077.004 48,95% • According to the Net Promoter Score (NPS), which shows customer satisfaction, in 2018, Turkcell TOTAL 2.300.000 100,00% has been determined as the company with the highest customer satisfaction in its sector FASTEST 4.5G WITH 1.2 Gpbs • Turkcell is shown as one of the two fastest operators in the world. The company’s business relationships are managed by the Board of Directors (BoD), which 8.0 GB DATA USE represent the shareholders and is responsible towards them. The Board of Directors consists of • Monthly average data usage of 4.5G subscribers has scaled up to 8 GB as of December 2018. 6 individuals, 3 of which are independent and the Chairman of the Board of directors has no STRONG SHAREHOLDER RETURN executive function. • Since 2010, we have distributed approximately 60% of our net profit to our shareholders. The Board of Directors, which approves business strategies, establishes the institutional vision, 15% INCREASE IN MOBILE ARPU evaluates financial performance and approves the budget, is supported for its activities by the • Mobil ARPU has increased 15%. Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Nominating Committee and the Committees for Early Diagnosis of Risks. Detailed information about our members, structure, process and independence of the Board of Directors can be found in our website: https://www.turkcell.com.tr/en/aboutus/investor-relations/corporate-governance. Ortaklık 2 Except M2M Yapısı ve Üst Yönetim TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 13 Corporate Governance Business Ethics and Our Ethical Principles As a company which provide integrated communication and technology services that is established From the beginning till the end stage of our activities, we are committed to transparency, honesty and in Turkey, today, we operate our products and services in 5 countries. We are aware that making reliability at every stage of our activities and we base our work ethic approach on these principles. our business practices sustainable comes from effective corporate governance. With this mindset, With this approach, we disclose our ethical rules composed by our Ethics Committee through the while sustaining our practices in Corporate Governance, we continue our activities by adhering to internal guidelines of Turkcell Common Values and Code of Business Ethics, and we expect all of our the principles of corporate governance in every field. stakeholders, employees and suppliers to comply with these rules. As Turkcell, we manage our business relationships under the direction of the Board of Directors, which represents the shareholders of the Company and is responsible towards shareholders. The In order for Turkcell Code of Business Ethics to be adopted by our employees through various channels, responsibility and authority of the Board of Directors, such as but not limited to, are to establish the we provide trainings named as Turkcell Common Values and Code of Business Ethics (TODIEK), and vision of our company, to approve national and international business strategies and to set short and raise the awareness of our employees regarding the matter. long term goals. Considering that we may be held responsible for the acts of the business partners acting on behalf We hold regular General Assembly meetings at certain periods of time. At the same time, in order to of the Turkcell Group or serving the Group in violation of the principles and rules, business partners meet the specific needs of the Board of Directors, we also hold additional Board meetings to fulfilll are expected to know “Turkcell Common Values and Business Ethics Rules”, and expected to know, the responsibilities. understand, precisely implement and act accordingly to the rules foreseen in this Policy with relevant We share our performance in the field of corporate management and our activities that we sustain internal regulations and procedures. every year through our Reports on Compliance with Corporate Governance Principles in our Annual Reports. Turkcell Group Internal Audit team, has been awarded the ETIKA 2017 Turkey Ethics Award within the scope of Turkey Ethic Awards that evaluates institutions in regards to work ethic and commitment to ethics. This way, our company became the first company in the sector to receive this award. Our employees have the opportunity to inform the Turkcell Ethics Committee about the circumstances which are inconsistent with the regulations in the Turkcell Common Values and Code of Business Ethics Manual, which contain rules and regulations, or their reasonable doubts and feelings on which Kurumsal Yönetim such an inconsistency may occur, via the Ethics Line (532 210 4444). At the same time, our employees have the opportunity to inform indirectly or directly by the company Kadrosu Görseli intranet, internal forms, telephone, e-mail (etikbildirim@turkcell.com.tr) or the Ethics Committee (auditcommittee@turkcell.com.tr) of the issues and processes that are illegal and ethically inappropriate to the Company. In addition to our employees, our customers and suppliers can also report the Company’s non-compliant and ethically inappropriate transactions to any of the two Committees through notice and complaint. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 14 Corporate Risk Management and Business Continuity As the Turkcell Group, we collect our corporate risks under the titles of information security, financial, business continuity, operational, market, strategic and legal risk that will affect the realization of our targets and strategic initiatives, and conduct detailed evaluation of financial and non-financial risks such as and the information loss/leakage, cyber-attacks, economic indicators, internal and external events, ineffective management of third parties, employee error, bribery and corruption, customer, competition, litigation and liability. In this framework, we have an Enterprise Risk Management (CRM) process that includes implementation of risk analysis and evaluation studies, planning actions to be taken, reporting results 31000 Risk Management Standard as well as different methods such as workshops, brainstorming and sharing them with the company management and their follow-up, by determining risks and sessions, studies conducted together with risk contacts, interviews and research reports. In this context, opportunities on the departmental basis. we create added values such as competitiveness, sustainable growth, customer satisfaction and increasing share value. The corporate risk management process is coordinated by the Corporate Risk Management Unit within the Group Internal Audit Directorate. Turkcell Business Continuity Management continues to work by taking Turkcell Group companies The Committee for Early Detection of Risks, which was established by us in 2012 and, from that and suppliers into the scope. Turkcell Group Business Continuity Management System has been time on, managed by the Board of Directors, supports the management by pre-identifying the risks structured and certified in a way that enables continuity of voice, messaging, internet, server services, that will affect the company’s existence, development and continuity, taking necessary precautions data centres and community security services, in accordance with the international “ISO 22301, “Business related to the identified risks and conducting risk management activities. The risk reporting made by Continuity Management System” standard. We conduct regular exercises to ensure that our business the committee every two months is sent to the independent audit company as well as the Board of continuity plans work in emergency and disaster situations. Directors. The Board of Directors regularly evaluates the risks identified after the report. You can find detailed information about Turkcell’s Corporate Risk Management, Business Continuity We continue the process of defining, evaluating and managing the risks carried out under our company and internal audit activities from our 2018 Annual Report: using risk management procedures in compliance with COSO’s Risk Management Framework and ISO https://s.turkcell.com.tr/hakkimizda/en/yatirimciiliskileri/InvestorReportLibrary/Turkcell-AR-2018-ENG. pdf TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 15 Our Materials Issues Materiality Matrix Economic Performance Public Policies Market Asset Energy Socio-economic Adaptation High Stakeholder Dialogue Indirect Economic Impacts Anti-competetive Practices Employment Emissions Customer Conﬁdentiality Human Rights Assessment Inﬂuence on stakeholder Customer Health and Safety Prevention of Discrimination Education and Training assessments & decisions Fight Against Corruption Occupational Health and Safety Purchasing Practices Waste Variety and Equality Opportunity Marketing and Product/Service Tagging Water Child Labor Materials Low Low High signiﬁcance of the economic, environmental and social impacts 16 Turkcell and Sustainability The world’s population is rapidly adapting to the emerging telecommunications trends with technology. value with our stakeholders and all the communities where we operate. We carry out every process, The effective use of mobile services increases the number of mobile users day by day and the starting from project preparation to product development and service delivery, by considering our services provided by these devices are gradually becoming an indispensable part of daily life. Mobile stakeholders. communication is a practical structure for all segments of the We aim to reach more people in every project we implement, increase society; with the spread of societies and cultures towards the impact we create and turn environmental and social risks that both digitalization. It facilitates access to needs such as health, Turkey and the world is facing into opportunities. education, security and emergency response, making it effective Thanks to our understanding of decent employment, entrepreneurial and easily accessible, and has a direct impact on accelerating support, efforts to reduce inequalities and investments, we contribute to industrial processes and reducing costs. a more balanced and sustainable economic development. We are aware that access to information and communication technologies is one of the most important parameters determining In 2018, we have delivered solutions for many issues with various the level of development of the country, and that differences in projects we have implemented and carried on in line with the Sustainable access levels to these services and lead to increasingly deeper Development Goals. With the Merhaba Umut (Hello Hope) application, gaps in society. We are aware that by enabling all segments of we contribute to the reduction of social inequalities by facilitating society to benefit from technological opportunities at an equal the integration of Syrian refugees to Turkey. In Digital Zeka (Digital level and alleviating the digital gap, we are at the forefront of Intelligence) application; we offer playful trainings to ensure that the achieving the Global Sustainable Development Goals. As a digital development of children between the ages of 8-12 is healthy. With company that offers integrated technology services, we are the Zeka Gücü (Intelligence Power) application; we provide technology, putting efforts to bring all of our stakeholders, including employees, artificial intelligence and robotic coding trainings for students. In Hayal customers, suppliers, environmental and social NGO’s, into our Ortağım (My Dream Partner) application; we offer indoor navigation, sustainability strategy, by making the opportunities equal and visual description of vision films and intelligent transportation technologies accessible for all. for the visually impaired. In Sign Language application; we offer instant sign language translation technology for the hearing impaired for their social development. We internalize sustainability as an assistance to achieve our goals, and set our strategies in line with it, and we internalize it for every shareholder we work with to Through Hayal Ortağım and Sign Language applications, the services and solutions that people see this phenomenon in line with our view regarding the matter. without visual and hearing impairments can access without effort; we also support equal and In order to minimize the impact on the environment and society while providing integrated technology unhindered access of visually and hearing impaired people with the help of technology. With the services, we successfully carry out our business model on a strong foundation by creating long-term İçimdeki Hazine (Treasure Within Me) application, we offer gamified trainings for children with autism, their families and teachers. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 17 Sustainable Development Goals and Turkcell’s Contribution NO QUALITY DECENT WORK AND POVERTY EDUCATION ECONOMIC GROWTH 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 5 GENDER EQUALITY The Whiz Kids Project The “Women Writing the The Merhaba Umut Future” Project Inclusive Zeka GücüEmployment Zeka Gücü (Hello Hope) Project Women Power for Economy Women Merhaba Writing Umut the Merhaba Umut Barrier-Free Turkcell Business Partner Future Kardelenler / Turkcell Smart City H Training Program Candidacy Program Merhaba Umut Turkcell Akademi Turkcell Akademi Education Scholarships Turkcell Academy Turkcell Arıkovanı (Beehive) Kardelenler / Kardelenler / The “Women Writing the Kardelenler / Turkcell Turkcell Academy Future” Project Education Scholarships GNCYTNK TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 18 Sustainable Development Goals and Turkcell’s Contribution REDUCED CLIMATE INDUSTRY, INNOVATION INEQUALITIES ACTION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 12 17 RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS 11 CONSUMPTION SUSTAINABLE CITIES FOR THE GOALS AND PRODUCTION AND COMMUNITIES Turkcell Business Partner Turkcell M2M Technology Candidacy Program The Merhaba Umut Use of renewable energy Turkcell Arıkovanı (Beehive) (Hello Hope) Project in base stations Turkcell M2M Technology Barrier-Free Training LEED Platinum certified National and International Turkcell Technology Program Kopilot Dergilik Headquarters Institutions Platform R&D Center Turkcell Patents Touching City Hospital Turkcell Filiz LEED Gold certified Cooperations Turkcell Gebze Data Center the Life Cooperation With Kopilot Gebze Data Centre Turkcell Patents Touching Turkcell Dialogue Museum the Life Turkcell Academy Municipalities TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CORPORATE PROFILE 19 OUR ECONOMIC 03 IMPACT R&D and Innovation Intellectual Rights and Patents Touching The Life Our Products and Services OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 03 In the telecommunication sector that we lead in, we contribute people in 2018, by sustaining its “contribution to employment” in increasing the gross domestic product (GDP) by means of our mission. superior technology, innovative investments and R&D studies we We make improvements in the quality of our business and service present in the field of telecommunication, our ideas we carry to by offering the young generation the opportunity to improve the commercial dimensions, our innovative products and services and talents in the working life. in increasing the employment opportunities in the country with With the telecommunication infrastructures which we have new business opportunities created by us. built in many regions within the geography we live in as well as investments that expand the call center network and improve DECENT WORK AND Ensuring that all men and women, ECONOMIC GROWTH Creating Inclusive and Indirect Employment intelligent network including young people and the disabled, have access to full and We believe that it is important to create decent business productive employment and opportunities in order to contribute to the country’s economy and create sustainable value for society. In consideration of this has provided decent jobs until the year 2030. understanding, we are contributing to employment across the employment to 352 people in country with our human resources policies, which are based on humanitarian business practices and equality in opportunity we 20,120 people have created. 2018 We are committed to ensuring that full and productive employment is addressed to all segments of the society, in the activities employed conducted by us in order to create decent workplaces and provide under the Turkcell Group inclusive economic growth in line with Sustainable Development systems and communication between machines, we revive the Goals. We aim to create a human power that can deliver solutions economy in the regions we carry out activities. As of the end of 2018, the number of Turkcell employees is 4,065, to the needs of the modern age and to provide economic benefit We fulfill our obligation for economic and social development by while the number of Turkcell Group employees has reached 20,120. by providing equal opportunity for all. making uninterrupted functioning of the basic public services such Turkcell Iletişim Hizmetleri A.S. has provided employment to 352 as health, education and transportation possible. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 21 R&Dand Innovation to present their ideas. Horizon Program 2020 events and apply for new projects. Our R&D activities mainly focus on Smart Cloud Platform, Mobile As Turkcell Technology, we are taking the first step towards Research and development works, which are seen as a building Marketing Solutions, Data Analysis and Platform Based Solutions, applying to our new projects by acquiring information about the block in the private sector, aim to create a common value for the Artificial Intelligence, IoT Solutions, Business Intelligence research fields, graduate programs, research laboratories and society by pioneering transformation in other sectors. R&D and Applications, Mobile Communication Solutions, Mobile Marketing priority research topics, research Project portfolios and incentive Innovation, which is the focus of sustainable development and Solutions and 5G Infrastructure Projects (CAP, EWATCH, projects of the universities. As Turkcell Technology R&D Center, we growth strategies, enables the dynamic potential of the young SOLOMON, MEASURE, SPEAR, PARFAIT, SOMEDI). While we offer different products and services to approximately 15 other population to be utilized, to reduce costs, to increase accessibility, keep these activities at the center of our business strategy, we countries together with our companies. We are also working on to develop entrepreneurial spirit and to take such opportunities strengthen our activities with our collaborations in local and 54 national and international projects, 36 of which are supported further. international areas. We continue to carry out our partnerships by TÜBITAK. In 2018, we applied to TÜBITAK with 20 new projects As Turkcell, we pursue in our research and development activities under the European Union’s international R&D and innovation and continued our innovative approach. are in compliance with the principles of productivity, creativity and network, EUREKA, which supports the projects for the development sustainability, and resulting from our efforts in developing products of products and processes which are market-focused, highly and production processes that take into account economic, suitable for commercialization in a short term. While working Intellectual Rights and Patents Touching the Life environmental and social impacts and improve sustainable in the field of software in the ITEA cluster of EUREKA, we are production technologies. Accordingly, we operate our activities also participating in infrastructure-intensive projects in the CELTIC Competition in the world of technology has now begun to set in line with reducing our carbon footprint. cluster of EUREKA; thanks to the experience we have with the patents rather than new products and services. In this respect, our With all our people-oriented activities, by increasing our projects we have got involved, we are also encouraging other patent application process has an important role in the fact that competitiveness, we continue to take a more active role in Turkish companies to participate in the collaborations in this area. Turkcell Technology’s products, services and infrastructures are international markets with our high value added products and Since we are in the board of directors in both clusters, we can innovative, distinctive and competitive, and carry export potential. services that we export abroad. While we strengthen our give a direction to the Europe’s innovation and technology focus In 2011, we introduced the Patent System in order to spread the leadership in the telecommunications sector, we also provide areas. patent culture within the company and to increase awareness in benefits for society and the economy at the same time. We As Turkcell, with the awareness of being a Pioneer in the sector, order to prevent our products, services and infrastructures from are getting involved in activities that support creativity with 894 we continue to offer new products, services and infrastructures being blocked or imitated with the intellectual rights owned by R&D employees who aim to make the innovative approach one to our customers within the scope of R&D and innovation. Some other companies in national and international markets with our of the most important parts of our corporate culture. We value of those; Turkcell Kopilot, Turkcell Filiz, Turkcell CDN, Super CAM, patents. all of our stakeholder views and suggestions, support initiatives Enhanced Voice Biometry, ONEDESK, Portout Artificial Intelligence, We believe that access to patent research channels through they are pursuing and act in a manner which encourages them Document Rejection, Real Time Trend Monitoring, Real Time Action, the Patent System will enrich our innovation environment and Vending Machine, FEEDUP, Retail Mode, PERISKOP Companies as increase their patent commercialization potential. Especially in R&D Center, we offer services with different products. the fields we operate, it is opening a strategic door to become a 894 R&D Employees We participate in the European Union’s R&D and Innovation global company and to carry out new activities on vacant issues TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 22 Patents 2016 2017 2018 Turkcell’s Total Patent Applications 0 0 1 1135 Patents Granted to Turkcell 8 8 8 TTECH Patent Applications 275 353 453 Patents Granted to TTECH 194 312 369 Patents without patent applications. channels after determining which type of sound is. After receiving In 2018, a total of 1135 patents belonging to Turkcell, which has this notification, the telephone user will be able to re-enter the 523 made great contributions to our country’s R & D and innovation system and train the system according to the accuracy of the process with new technologies with high added value, were notification. Thus, as usage increases, the system will become entered into the system, 523 inventions were approved by the smarter, and will continue to be trained with each input, resulting patent Committee and many applications were completed. in much more precise results. This system is intended to address the many challenges that Invention An Information Individuals System for Hearing With the spread of smartphone usage and therefore mobile Impaired hearing-impaired people face in their daily lives. A System Which Automatically Determines Daily application usage, many of the hearing impaired people started Situation Information of Children Visiting Pre-school to carry these phones. As long as the phone is switched on, Educational Institutions smart phones will detect outside sounds with sound sensors, The Ministry of National education (MoNe) has banned systems classify these sounds with the intelligent system running at in nursery and kindergartens that allow parents to monitor the back, and will be able to inform the user through various their children with cameras over the Internet. The Ministry took TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 23 this decision by citing reasons such as the use of the system measurement values to be analyzed, and the relevant health at the latest and asks if there is any need for assistance and for the wrong purposes, misconduct of ill-minded persons, personnel to be informed about the patient when necessary. notifies the emergency units in case of need or in case of no adverse effects on teachers, dismissal of children from friends response. and colleagues, and negatively affecting children’s personality Disaster Victim Locator Software development. With this system, it is aimed for parents to get the With the software we developed, we have made it possible System and Method Providing Cardholder daily situation information of their children in a more detailed and to determine the location information of our subscribers who Authentication in Chip Cards more objective way with pre-determined rules. This is a system have been trapped in the wreckage or disaster area and to We have developed a system that enables mobile signatures where results obtained via camera surveillance for determining automatically transmit to the related units. to be used to validate cardholder in using chip cards in PoS situations of children such as analysis of the emotional state, devices, by aiming at providing users with time-efficient use speaking in the crowd, movement status and communicating Control from One Centre and possibility to spend.. with the crowd; clear and prospective behaviors are collected Thanks to the system we have developed, we provide you and interpreted. possibilities such as the ability to define their own devices, share devices, security, sending commands, files, content to An Earthquake Information System the connected device, giving reaction to any command by This is a method that will instantly detect the precursor, the connected device – applying the command, possibility to earthquake and aftershocks with the earthquake seismic manage the devices connected to the users from anywhere sensors to be added to the base stations of Turkcell, forward through the notification generated by the connected device, the location and earthquake information to a central system, by making possible to easily monitor and manage your own guide them to the disaster meeting areas previously defined in connected devices via a single system. the system when certain criteria are met, and recommend (the shortest/ the fastest/ the easiest) route. Turkcell which is active in the every region of Turkey and provides non-stop service In-Vehicle Information and Emergency Aid Device and (7days/24 hours) Turkcell aimed, with this system, to use existing Service base stations more effectively and within the scope of social CWe have developed this system for drivers or passengers responsibility. as a response to the need to get location-based information without stopping the vehicle and without using the hands and Remote Patient Management Device the phone while driving the car. Another function of this device With our device developed for patients with chronic diseases, is that it detects any collision and report it to the call centre via we have put the Remote Patient Management Device into the damage sensor. The call centre worker calls through the use, which allows periodic controls to be easily performed, the microphone and loudspeaker on the device within 1 minute TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 24 OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES To ensure our customers’ access to the best digital and communications solutions of our time, we’ve worked to innovate new products and services annually for the past 25 years. In the process, we’ve made our mark with many firsts in the industry. Today, we proudly provide products and services competitive on a global level. We acknowledge our responsibility to provide an unrivalled customer experience, and will continue to develop services and products to address every expectation of our customer base. Concomitantly, we will continue the investments which have granted us a sustainable competitive advantage. In the process, we strive to create new applications to boost the living standards of our customers, and our society. To date, we have developed 12 of these applications: BİP, fizy, Paycell, lifebox, Djital Operatör Playcell, Goller Cepte, Turkcell Academy Online, Turkcell TV +, Yaani, Filiz, and Upcall. BİP 34,6 192 MILLION Setting off with the idea of a live broadcast mobile quiz show with cash prizes, Vipme accomplished a first for Turkey with the “Hadi Live Quiz” as the strategic COUNTRY DOWNLOADED partner of BiP. The ‘Hadi Live Quiz’ channel appearing under the Discover category of BiP with its flexible and BiP is our digital life and communications platform, Nearly 4 billion messages are sent monthly through BİP, advanced capabilities, reached more than 2 million offering both one-on-one and group communication and nearly 20 million calls are made with over 2 million followers. services centered around messaging, voice calls, and hours of talk-time. BİP swiftly continues to expand aboard. The first video calls. In 2018, Under BİP’s explore platform/tab, over 200 services are international stop of our application, which had its followed by more than 50 million consumers. name mentioned in the most trendy media outlets We added new features to the BiP application, including worldwide, was the United States, the country of its money transfers and the option to use the application closest competitor. from two different phones. BiP has gained popularity We have further developed the digital services offered First ever video call from BİP was made at the launch for daily improvements in its services, with users in 192 to the private sector, public institutions, and corporate of “Commissioning of ULAK Base Stations” in 2018. countries, over 34.6 million downloads, and 11.5 million clients. In addition to work productivity applications, active users. the Explore BİP feature provides corporate users easier access to their clients. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 25 Paycell Paycell is Turkey’s most comprehensive e-payment platform, enabling all users to complete transactions through different payment methods by using their mobile phone. By using Paycell, our customers can use any credit card from any bank, or use a Paycell prepaid card, to make secure and instant transactions at all partner locations. Today, Paycell provides over 3,000 businesses and 5 million users a fast and easy payment feature. We aim to increase these numbers further through development and innovation in the years to come. Fizy 21 Million Downloaded fizy is Turkcell’s music platform, providing continued to project its influence aboard, users access to millions of songs and music launching in Belarus in May and launching videos, hundreds of playlists, Turkey’s favorite in Germany by sponsoring Turkish pop star radio stations, and exclusive content—all Tarkan’s 6-concert tour in March. In 2019, we without the use of mobile data. To date, plan to launch fizy worldwide, and continue over 21 million fizy users have streamed an to work on perfecting fizy’s features. average of 7 million songs daily. Each of our 3.2 million active users spend an average of 48 minutes on fizy daily. In 2017, fizy expanded abroad by launching its radio features in Ukraine. In 2018, fizy has TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 26 Dergilik 12,5 Million Active Users Dergilik is Turkey’s most popular digital magazine and newspaper reading platform. Through its numerous features, Dergilik has promoted the desire to read and is on track to become Turkey’s strongest digital retailer of magazines and newspapers. In 2018, our Dergilik application was downloaded 10.5 million times, and an average of 522,000 magazines and newspapers were read through the application daily. Dergilik has added foreign newspapers to its portfolio, and has led to the night-time issues of Turkey’s newspapers being published once again. In the fourth quarter, the active user base Digital Operator 19.2 million active users (on a 3-month basis) of Dergilik reached 12.5 million (on a 3-month in the 4th quarter. Our customers made an basis). average of over 300 million updates to their 19,2 Million accounts every month through the Hasabım We have also worked to create exclusive content for Dergilik users. We publish the Users application. sports magazine TURKSPORU every three months. The first instalment of In February 2019, we added new features to TURKSPORU, coupled with the special Our Hasabım application, developed to the Hesabım application, and renamed the instalment “Turkcell Gelibolu Marathon”, address the needs and digital expectations application “Digital Operator”. We continue was read more than 40 thousand of our customers, has become one of the to develop Digital Operator on a daily basis times. most preferred channels of our customers. to provide the best customer experience Hesabım enables users to monitor their data possible. usage, and make changes to their current mobile data plan without the need to contact our Turkcell call centre. In 2018, Hesabım was downloaded 38.3 million times, and had over TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 27 UpCall UpCall’s features provide customers with an Upcall has been downloaded a total of 5 enhanced voice calling experience, displaying the million times, and will soon provide service names of callers outside their contacts list while to the subscribers of all digital operators. enabling them to add Emoticons and stickers when initiating their calls, making for a more enjoyable calling experience. Other features of UpCall include easy access to emergency numbers, group calling, searching for topics or images, Lifebox “Arayana Ne Dinletsem”, and the ability to find unknown phone numbers 3,5 Billion or numbers of places by providing names. The “Arayana Ne Dinletsem” Stored File feature enables users to pick from a number of pre-recorded messages to lifebox facilitates the backup and safe storage we aimed to help our customers recall their notify a caller at times when they of phone, tablet, and computer data. Currently, memories by automatically creating stories are busy. Exclusive to UpCall is over 3.5 million backup documents are stored from users’ lifebox archives. We also the Operator Name Settings in our servers—and this number has recently redesigned the entire user interface of lifebox feature, which enables users increased to 9.6 million. to provide an improved user experience. to customize the operator To facilitate user experience, lifebox provides Lifebox provides service in Turkish, English, name show on their phone “Face and Object” recognition features, and Arabic, German, Russian, Ukranian, Romanian, screens. automatically groups photographs by faces and now Spanish to attract a larger user base and objects. Another feature released in 2018 abroad. is “Automatic Story Creation”. With this feature, TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 28 SUPERCAM Introduced in July 2018, SUPERCAM provides indoor and outdoor monitoring/video systems to ensure the home and office safety of our customers. SUPERCAM 3,4 Million attracted significant praise and attention within a short period of time, and has been bought by Active Users hundreds of customers. SUPERCAM attained a user base of over 1000 several months after its release, and continues to provide peace of mind to homeowners and office managers customers through its smart, globally competitive features. Turkcell TV+ sporting events and magazine programmes. To grow our viewer TV+ provides users access to their favorite movies and television access to the NBA games, as well as Formula 1, and MotoGP count, we continue to provide new content such as E-Sports, programmes, and has 3.4 million active users, playing an important channels for lovers of motorsports. TV+ has also provided coverage equestrian sports, live commentary shows, and football broadcasts. role in Turkcell’s vision as a digital operator. In 2018, we added We continue to develop our infrastructure to best address the new content to TV+, including both national and international of Wimbledon and the FIBA Champion’s League. demands of our customers, align our services with emerging television channels, and both HD and UHD channels. In doing so, We have also begun to feature Hollywood blockbusters, the we achieved the status of Turkey’s largest UHD media platform. world’s most acclaimed films and TV shows, and the most popular works of Turkish Cinema through TV+. global trends, and improve the performance of TV+ on a dayAlongside the British Premier Leagues and the German Bundesliga— today basis to provide the best television and video-viewing the most prestigious football leagues in the world—TV+ provides In addition, TV+ now provides access to numerous live concerts, experience possible. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 29 Lifecell Lifecell provides users access to a variety of we were nominated for the Silver and Bronze data plans designed to suit the needs of all our “Kristal Elma” awards. In 2018, we were also the customers, and has a total of 2.5 million users. first digital operator to bring 4.5G technology In 2018, we added new digital services to the to Ukraine. Lifecell application, which now provides nearly 30 features, and continues to facilitate the communication experience of our customers. Lifecell data plans enable users to make voice/ video call through BİP, listen to their music over fizy, preserve their media through Lifebox, and access their favorite movies and TV shows through Turkcell TV+. Yaani As the result of our Lifecell Mix “Yiyosa Gelin” (translated as “come if you can” with a word 7,6 Million We have designed Yaani with regard to the habits of our customers, and we hope our play on the “if you can” part also meaning, “to eat”) campaign, lauded for the integrated Downloaded service enables them to quickly find answers to communications solutions it provided to users, their questions, thereby satisfying their curiosity. Yanii is our local search engine, and has been downloaded over 7.6 million times with over 3 million active users since its launch in 2017. Yaani users conducted an average of 2.7 million searches daily. Yaani now provides the “Vertical Shopping Search” service, enabling users to compare products on the bases of price and suppliers without leaving the search engine page, thereby enhancing their online shopping experience. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 30 Turkcell KOPİLOT – Your Vehicle, Safe As of July 2018, the vehicle tracking systems used by corporate fleets are now made available for individual use through Turkcell Kopilot (Co-pilot). The Turkcell Kopilot device attaches to the OBD2 vehicle control socket found in automobiles, and contains an IoT SIM card to enable the tracking of vehicle data from the user’s mobile phone. Kopilot is the first service of its kind in Turkey, and the unmatched flexibility/features provided by Kopilot facilitate travel while making for a safer driving Goller Cepte experience. First unveiled in the 2018 World Mobile Congress (GSMA), Goller Cepte is custom designed for fans of Turkcell Kopilot provides a superior driving experience for Turkish soccer. In 2018, our platform provided users, transcending/surpassing the services provided by football fans the ability to get the latest updates typical vehicle tracking systems and promoting smart on their favorite teams, follow match goals, view and safe driving by providing key vehicle information to live scores from world football leagues, monitor drivers. league standings, and watch match highlights through our GollerCepte 1903, GollerCepte 1905, GollerCepte 1907, and GollerCepte 1967 applications. Turkish Super League matches have started to First By use VAR (Video Aided Referee) as of the 20182019 season and Turkcell has accomplished Use a first by using VAR video in TURKSPORU ve GollerCepte.. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 31 Hızlı Giriş Hızlı Giriş provides mobile authentication services, both with and without passwords, according to the security needs of service providers. In doing so, the application provides fast and safe access to mobile applications, web sites, and online services. To date, Hızlı Giriş has been downloaded by 20.5 million users, and has been used over 385 million times for authentication purposes. Hızlı Giriş is also compatible with the Mobile Connect service provided by the GSMA. In, 2018 Hızlı Giriş became the first global application to meet t h e GSMA criteria for commercial sustainability. E-Şirket (e-Business) In 2018, Turkcell E-Şirket was nominated for “the year’s best cloud-based service” award by the IDC Cloud. The application provides users features such as accounting, e-billing, electronic archiving, and e-Notebook to digitalize the workplace and Filiz to reduce dependence on paper. By using the cloud-based e-Şirket, businesses can manage their financial procedures at We created Filiz in November 2018 to facilitate any time and at any location through all devices connected to digital agriculture. Filiz enables farmers to easily the internet. monitor their fields and crops, and provides e-Şirket enables our customers to track the financial standing an online database of information regarding of their organization in real-time, and create necessary reports watering and fungal disease prevention, thereby without delay. By reducing the consumption of paper, our increasing agricultural productivity. application promotes a green, environmentally sustainable work environment, while reducing shipping and storage costs for paper products and negating the probability of lost invoices. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 32 04 OUR SOCIAL Communication With Our Partners IMPACT Employees Re-Thinking Human Resources Turkcell Academy Customer Experience Customer Health and Safety Customer Privacy and Information Security Supplier Relations and Procurement/Supply Social Investment Programmes Sponsorships OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 03 Communication with our partners We believe that direct and indirect relations with our partners are essential to continue providing the highest quality of service. Accordingly, we maintain consistent dialogue with all of our partners through distinct communication channels, and We ensure the sustainability of our supply chain by actively aspire to design our procedures around their suggestions and expectations. communicating and interacting with our internal and Therefore, we identify the partners that contribute to our development in line with the 17th Collaboration for Goals clause of the Sustainable Development Goals; external partners, such as our employees, our customers, our stakeholders. The demands and suggestions made by our partners shape our process of management and Customers innovation. Employees Investors and Shareholders Affiliates/ Subsidiaries Public institutions Non-governmental organizations/ Sports federations / Museums International organizations Suppliers and business partners Proje Görseli Media and Social media Universities/academia Those we have engaged with through our (Corporate) Social Responsibility Projects TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 34 Customers Investors and Shareholders In order to best meet the demands of our customers and provide We maintain communication with our investors and shareholders through our them the highest quality of service, Turkcell references and adapts the investment relations department in order to provide the greatest flexibility to our customer suggestions made through communication channels such as investors and shareholders, increase the market value of our firm and trading Global Intelligence, Turkcell communication centres, Turkcell call centres, volume of our shares, and maintain our leadership within Turkey and our regional social media, BiP, web chat, and e-mail, which drives development in operations. Through the notifications found on our investor relations page, our press our services. We continuously work to diversify the communication releases, our presentations of financial and operational data, our teleconferences, platforms that consistently connect us to our customers. and our quarterly financial reports, we ensure that our investors are up to date on all information and developments concerning Turkcell. We participate in meetings with investors and analysts, conferences, seminars, panels and road shows along with legislative explanations on all issues related to corporate governance and Employees public disclosure. For further information, please visit our Investor Relations webpage: To ensure the satisfaction of our employees and bring their ideas to life, http://www.turkcell.com.tr/tr/hakkimizda/yatirimci-iliskileri?place=footer we use channels such as Employee Engagement surveys, communication meetings, and programmes such as “Söz Sende” (“Your Voice”), “İnovasyon Platformu” (“Innovation Platform”) and “İşte Buna Ödül Verilir” (“Now This Deserves a Reward”). In this way, we aspire to create a better working Affiliates/Subsidiaries environment and boost the motivation of our employees. Platforms such as Social clubs, Turkcell Social Activity Groups, “White Shadow”, Inside, As Turkcell, we carry out our technology and communication activities with a broad Pinkcell, our Mentorship System, and our Mobilim application provide range of local and foreign affiliates. Detailed information regarding our affiliates additional channels of communication to maintain dialogue with our may be found on both our webpage and our annual reports. employees and strengthen ties with our workers. For further information, please visit our Affiliates webpage: http://www.turkcell.com.tr/tr/hakkimizda/genel-bakis/istiraklerimiz?place=footer Turkcell Çalışanlarının Fotoğrafı TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 35 Public Institutions Suppliers and Business Partners To bring our projects to life and develop communications and technology infrastructure throughout We choose our suppliers and business partners with care, and see them as an important part of the Turkey, we work with public institutions to attain the necessary permissions, undergo the required Turkcell ecosystem. Through various supplier applications, we assist our suppliers in improving their inspections, and make the necessary investments for our projects. All our activities are in line with performance. To maintain a direct and sustainable relationship with our suppliers, we have created local laws, policies and regulations. We form and maintain valuable partnerships with ministries to the Turkcell Suppliers Portal, through which we make the necessary announcements regarding our collaborate in social investment, specifically with the Ministry of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and ethics regulations, our purchasing criteria, and other important topics. Communications, as well as Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology and Ministry of Youth and Sports. Media and Social Media Non-governmental organizations/ Sports federations / Museums With the social projects in line with our products and, we are active in the media both in Turkey and abroad. Through press meetings, advertisements, announcements, interviews, and news reports, we As Turkcell, we believe in the importance of collaborating with non-governmental organizations, and provide our partners with important information and developments regarding Turkcell. In addition to we conduct joint projects in a variety of different fields. We collaborate with local and international traditional media, we utilize social media to communicate swiftly and interact individually with our NGOs in fields such as informatics, economics, and consumer rights, while making social investments customers and partners. with the consultation of experts in the field. We are a signatory of the Humanitarian Crises Communication Contract. While maintaining our contributions to the Turkish football federation and Universities and Academia the Turkish National Football Team for the visually impaired, we also act as the communications and technology sponsor to the Sakıp Sabanci museum, thereby enabling/providing a higher standard To increase our competencies and discover the talents of tomorrow, we maintain consistent of service to the museum’s visitors. In addition, we sponsor and financially support a number of communication with universities. As a result of our collaboration with Özyeğin University, we support institutions, foundations, and societies. For detailed information on our projects with NGOs, sports our projects in the research, development, and innovation fields with data acquired from academic federations, and museums, please refer to the social investment section of this report. research in the post-graduate level. International Organizations We work with international organizations to conduct projects throughout our region of operation and İlgili Görsel influence. We have taken part in the US Private Sector Forum and the WEF annual meetings, where we discussed our communication and technology projects for socio-economic development. On a regional level, we have initiated a partnership with EUREKA, the international R/D and innovation platform of the European Union. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 36 Our Board Members; Local and international NGOs we have developed institutional partnerships with; NGO Our board member ACC IIC TELAS BGD (Information BURHANETTİN AL AKÜDER IPTV TELKODER Security Association) ATC ITU TİDE M-TOD (Mobile Operators MURAT ERKAN AUSDER ISO TİM Association) BELINFOCOM İTO TKYD GSMA (GSM ASSOCIATION) MURAT ERKAN BGD KALDER TOBB BİED KMD YUİD CEO CLUB MOBİSAD TUYAD CSR MTOD TUSİAD ÇMD MÜSİAD TUYİD DEİK ÖDED WEF EBA PERYÖN UAPR ECTA PCAOB YASED GSMA RVD YES INTERNET ŞİKAYETVAR.COM SECURITES IAB TEİD TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 37 Employees Employee Commitments We believe that we can achieve our goal of being the Turkcell İletişim Hizmetleri Turkcell Group industry leader in the integrated telecommunications A.Ş. employees: 4,065 employees: 20,120 sector by communicating regularly and effectively (as of 31 December 2018) with our employees. We believe our employees are our most valuable asset, and therefore we strive to listen, understand, and emphasize with their needs and suggestions. To provide a quality environment for our employees, we strive to take steps towards the sustainable development goals on an annual basis, and continuously improve our services. To provide the best work experience for our employees, our most valuable resources, we provide them an extensive value package. These values comprise our Employee Commitments. To improve the values we provide, we conduct employee surveys, and regularly renew and develop our services according to their suggestions. Existing Employees 2016 2017 2017 Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of employees 1.200 2.670 1.190 2.777 1.722 3.633 Turkcell Çalışanları Percentage of employees %31 %69 %30 %70 %32 %68 Average age 35 37 35 36 Fotoğrafı Total average age 36 36 35,4 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 38 New Employees 2016 2017 2018 Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of employees 301 707 273 511 265 474 Turkcell Çalışanları Percentage of employees %30 %70 %30 %31 %36 %68 Fotoğrafı Average age 31 32 30 31 29 31 Total average age 32 30 30 New Employees 2016 2017 2018 Female Male Female Male Female Male Re-thinking Human Resources As the Human Resources department of Turkcell, we are well aware of our responsibility Employees taking maternity leave 108 98 59 to create an unrivalled, inspiring work environment for all of our employees. This year, we Employees returning to their previous continue to perfect the work experience of our employees through the 2016 Re-thinking HR jobs following maternity leave 107 98 programme. The Re-Thinking HR initiative is headed by nearly 800 employees of diverse ranks and functions. Through regular meetings and surveys, we assess and evaluate our HR resources with reference to employee feedback, thereby developing resources to reflect the address the needs of our workers and create value. Our seamlessly coordinated teams innovate new resources and practices, unmatched in the world. New procedures undergo a trial period, and the procedures that pass our criteria are put into effect. As an institution where talented employees yield successful results, we’ve declared it our mission to nurture and enhance the talent of our team. DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all by 2030. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 39 Breakdown of Employees Difference in Average Wage Career Management Equality of Opportunity and Respect for Human Rights Difference between the average wages of Female Male To develop valuable resources that reflect the female employees and male employees value we place on the employee experience, we Our operations are conducted with sensitivity have initiated our Career Management Project. As M 79,35% 79,35% -6,72% and respect to human rights and the equality a part of this project, our employees are granted P 66,20% 66,20% -6,15% access to advising throughout their career, as well of opportunity. We do not permit or tolerate the discrimination of our employees on the basis of Total 67,60% 67,60% -13,50% as access to opportunities that will assist them in discovering their potential. gender, age, beliefs, religion, ethnicity, nationality, marital status, health, physical capacity, or sexual For those who strive to excel in their fields: Performance and Talent Management orientation, and none of these attributes are an Our Apprenticeship Programme influencing factor in our hiring process. To connect talented employees with more demanding and rewarding tasks, we assist them in We strongly oppose any discrimination or assault Our apprenticeship programme is another developing expertise in their chosen fields. In this way, we invest in our workers while simultaneously directed towards our employees, inside and outside resource designed to accompany Turkcell developing human capital and using our workforce more efficiently through crowdsourcing. employees throughout their career and assist of the workplace, and stand with our workers in We continue to increase our success in internal promotion rates by implementing backup plans them in discovering their potential. Deemed their times of need. As a company with respect through our “Talent Management” process for intra-group management positions. “inspirational” by Turkcell employees, the doorfor human rights, we do not permit under any opening apprenticeship programme enables circumstances the employment of child workers, every Turkcell employee to work with another Turkcell Backup System and do not permit forced labour. The following is team for a week-long period as an “apprentice”. a clause form our supplier contract: “Child labour: In this way, we ensure that employees working in management positions (C-Level, General Manager, The program enables employees from different departments and different teams to appreciate The Firm must not permit, under any circumstances, Director, Manager) and critical specialist positions are backed up with internal and/or external and develop sympathy for the work and needs child labour. No individual who has yet to complete resources for business continuity and sustainable performance of the company. of one another. As a result of our internship their mandatory primary education and under the programme, Turkcell employees work more age of 15 (or the minimum age for employment FLEX Performance System cohesively and gain the ability to work as a team as enacted in local legislation) may be employed, even in the most challenging of situations. In 2018, as established in Clause 138 of the International In line with our strategic goals, we have picked “Performance Coaches” (employees can consult and 95 employees were provided the opportunity to Labour Organization Agreement. Workers under work with) from select business lines in order to support our employees and set targets in accordance work in different departments of Turkcell, and granted new perspectives to their adoptive teams. the age of 18 may not be assigned dangerous with SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, Timely) definition with the Flex Performance tasks, and may not work night shifts that interfere system that is based on the dynamics and needs of each business we carried out in 2017. with their education.” Respecting the right to SMART targets can be timely evaluated through the continuous feedback feature of the system. Thus, unionize and collective bargain, we implement all our employees can continuously monitor the impact of their work on their performance. our human resources policies and processes by adopting these fundamental principles. 2016 2017 2018 Internal Promotion Rate %57,35 %66,99 %87 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 40 “FLEX” Human Resources for the Digital More Effective, More Efficient Human teams has encouraged us to further benefit effectively from them, and we Age Resources through FlexSourcing have started to offer project-based internal crowdsourcing opportunities under FlexSourcing. We are in an era of excitement for all, with the world FlexSourcing has been launched as a practice enabling our employees to work on moving from a capital to a platform economy, projects that are beyond their responsibilities, there by expanding their impact, while as companies rapidly undergo the process of allowing us to use our talent pool more effectively. While FlexSourcing increases digitalization. inter-team interaction, the formation of agile teams serves better those projects As Turkcell Human Resources, we have adapted set to carry our company a step forward, and has now became a routine part of our practices for the digital era and the younger our business. generation. Maintaining our leadership in the area of technology and innovation is only possible if we take a leading role in every field, including As Turkcell Group Human Resources, we work with the management of our human resources and a flexible and agile organization. Aimed at taking FlexTalent: The Right Talent, the Right Team, for the Right Project the setting of our vision. For this very reason, we full advantage of the talents and experience of approach our HR practices at Turkcell with a wholly our employees, in 2018, we increased our number To ensure our access to maximum reliable data on the talents, experiences, and innovative approach, viewing them as a flexible of agile teams by 20% to 85, and employees in interests, of our employees, we designed and initiated our FlexTalent platform. platform. We have named this” Flex,” and we are agile teams by 44% to 900. In addition, in 2018 for FlexTalent is our professional and social platform, on which all Turkcell employees implementing a more effective management the first time, we established agile teams working have a profile page. approach with our one-of-a-kind practices. cross functions, creating an agile coach role to Our Flex HR application enables nearly all the support those teams. Our employees share all kinds of information about themselves on their FlexTalent services provided to our employees to be The progress achieved in 2018 with these agile profile page, from their position in the Company to their professional experience, personalized and shaped to fit their needs. from the project groups they are involved to the awards they receive, from the In 2018, we have taken many important steps foreign languages they speak to the instruments they play, and from the teams towards becoming the “Digital Human Resources they support to the pets they keep. Department of the Digital Operator” with efforts Aimed at taking full advantage of the on both the technology and working culture fronts. talents and experience of our employees, in 2018, In addition, with FlexTalent, it is possible to reach out to Turkcell employees regarding We prioritized the digitization of our processes, we increased our number of agile their expertise on any topic through “T-Search” (the Turkcell Search Engine) integrated while we further developed our Flex platform by teams by 20% to 85, and employees in agile within FlexTalent, and establish professional work teams or social activity groups. creating value from data derived from our new teams by 44% to 900. digital tools. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 41 With GNCYTNK, We Attract the Talent of the Future In 2018, tens of thousands of successful young people applied for GNCYTNK, Turkey’s first and most comprehensive young talent recruitment program. 62 thousand candidates applied to the program, with its enriched application, evaluation and recruitment processes through methods such as mobile platforms, as well as gamification and video interviewing. Our young employees who started working through Reaching New Height with YUPO the GNCYTNK program underwent an efficient orientation process, including applications that bring We believe that Turkcell employees who pursue success at Turkcell, and who proactively strive to Turkcell into the virtual reality environment, activities create benefit for their customers, their country, their team, and themselves, deserve a motivational that combine games and learning, and social privilege. For this reason, in 2018, we initiated YUPO (High Potential), which we will continue to run responsibility projects. throughout 2019. YUPO is a system based on the volunteer principle. We designed YUPO to reach out to Turkcell employees with distinctive talents, and who reflect their talents with their strong performance. These individuals will determine Turkcell’s future by realizing this performance in harmony with the culture Among the applicants, and values of the company. 232 young people were YUPOs enjoy priority in attending the certificate programs of international universities, as well as domestic and international apprenticeship programs, conferences and seminars. In addition, they GNCYTNKs who started professional life placed to full time roles in are able to increase their impact through various networking opportunities provided to them, and at Turkcell in September 2018, were includedin Turkcell. gain access to platforms in which they can share their know-how. an intensive training program prepared by Turkcell Academy, in order to quickly Our Leadership Programme and Mentorship System adapt them to Turkcell. We believe that developing the skills of our current workforce is important as identifying the talents of our new employees. Through our Leadership Development programme, we aim to assist the career development of our current and prospective managers. Based on our annual plans, we develop opportunities such as mentorship systems, distance learning, and access to MBA programmes readily available to our employees. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 42 In addition to our Leadership Programmes, our new managers are provided access to both in-class safety groups; network employees, office employees, and vehicle operating field employees. In all and distance education programmes to enhance their knowledge of finance, law, and human our work areas, we provide personal protective equipment to our staff, provide training on the use resources systems. Our experienced managers undergo training based on their skill development of personal protective equipment, and maintain warning signs consistent with HSE regulations. In needs, and attend projects that include one-on-one coaching sessions. addition, we ensure a safe working environment in high-altitude working conditions by maintaining vertical lifelines. Our managerial staff have access to distance education opportunities from the Harvard Business We increase the health and safety awareness of our employees through OHS training sessions, School, as well as GetAbstract which is the world’s largest online library. each custom-designed to account for the potential hazards in their workplaces. We provide additional training on working at high altitudes and safe driving to our employees with potentially Through our mentorship programme, we promote community learning and leadership dangerous responsibilities. development throughout Turkcell, by pairing future leaders with current executives. We manage the quality, completeness, and member engagement of this programme through Turkcell Academy. . We demand that our solutions partners to meet the standards of our HSE policy, and enact regulations to ensure they maintain these standards. Through our HSE experts, we closely follow/ Happy and Safe Work Environment monitor all internal and external accidents in our work spaces. We see our employees as our most important assets, and strive to create a fun and healthy work environment throughout our institutions. Through our safety measures, worker training programmes, and risk management studies, we believe that work-related accidents, injuries, and illnesses may 2016 2017 2018 be prevented for all. Female Male Female Male Female Male The Employee Health and Safety division of the Turkcell Group is responsible for monitoring/ tracking our HSE. In accord with our Workplace Health and Safety policy, we closely follow legal Total hours of OHS Training 1.590 3.380 2.826 6.102 928 1013 developments regarding HSE regulations, monitor our compliance to these regulations, and ensure Injury Rate (IR) 2,67 2,67 3,9 1,67 2,37 1,85 our measures meet the necessary criteria. *Includes yearly updating trainings To ensure our compliance to HSE regulations and responsibilities, we maintain 11 HSE Committees throughout our Küçükyalı, Maltepe, Kartal, Levent, Teknoloji, Beyoğlu, İzmir, Ankara, Adana, Antalya, and Bursa offices. Under the leadership of employer representatives, the HSE committees hold Our statistical projects, based off our incident reports, are an important tool for determining the regular meetings to identify HSE risks, and take proactive measures to account for potential issues cause of each accident, and preventing future incidents. The risks identified in our reports, which and maintain obligations. we provide monthly to higher management, are carefully evaluated and play a key role in our future work plans. The Turkcell HSE Portal enables all our employees to access the necessary legal regulations and procedures regarding our HSE policy. We engage in year-round HSE risk assessments in Turkcell’s network areas, take precautions based on these analyses, and conduct monitoring activities. We evaluate our workers in three distinct TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 43 The Turkcell OHS Policy At the heart of our OHS policy lies the value we place on human life, and therefore our employees. As a leader in the communications and technology sector, Turkcell closely and carefully monitors legal developments concerning its HSE obligations, fulfils all HSE criteria, and closely follows HSE activities to ensure their quality. The health, well-being, and happiness of our employees is a key consideration in the pursuit our By maintaining a proactive approach to workplace health and safety, we detect risks early, strategic goals of expansion, profit, and new opportunities and ensure the happy, healthy, and safe development of the Turkcell ecosystem through our constant approach to development and innovative practices. Connecting our Workers To provide an unrivalled employee experience, we strive to improve 79 Farewell for Soldiers our work spaces, promote work-life balance, diversify our social 260 Welcome Baby platforms, and strengthen our communications platforms. To 175 Wedding Gift develop our employee benefits to the highest level, we stand by 45 Gift for Promotion our employees and create applications which will ensure that they feel special. Turkcell Müzik Odası, As Turkcell Turkey, we realized that we needed to unite all Turkcell In our annual Worker Engagement Evaluation Survey, developed employees everywhere. Our human resources department started Hobi Atölyesi vs. site visits, which we named “BirlİKteyiz” (BirlİKteyiz means We Are with the inputs of our employees, we measure employee satisfaction and engagement. We evaluate survey results with Görüntü Together, while the capital letters IK stand for HR in Turkish). In the scope of the BirlİKteyiz, we contacted Turkcell employees in 30 upper management, identify areas for improvement, and track the success of our resulting action plans different locations for a total of 621 times in 2018. The Turkcell experience is not just about working at Turkcell; We’re a big family. Each Turkcell employee experiences precious moments of their lives and key milestones under the Turkcell roof. As Human Resources, we work for them to recall these experiences in the most beautiful way possible, and ensure that all Turkcell employees feel like they belong to a giant family. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 44 Flexible Working Motherhood as a Turkcell Employee To make life easier for our employees, we’ve utilized our fast inWe are aware that the quality time mothers spend with their children home internet connections to facilitate independent work at home, have positive impacts on their personal performance and professional no matter the time or place. We have adopted independent lives. Therefore, we provide several opportunities to our mothers: working as an innovative new working model and freed our employees of commitments to the workplace. Turkcell employees ▯ New mothers are only required to work from the office between can use our messaging service BiP to communicate in real-time, 10:00-15:00 every day until their child is 16 months old. This way, we and can access their Turkcell email and databases anytime and ensure the work-life balance of our employees while increasing their anywhere using our VPN service. Through our “Mobile Working”, work efficiency. “Planning the Day”, “Part-time Working”, and “Officestation” Additional Benefits applications, we enable employees to work in different office ▯ Our mothers are granted special leave to be with their children on locations, thereby providing them the opportunity to work more In addition to our flexible working, health, and mindfulness the first days of school. effectively and efficiently. resources, we provide employees extra benefits to ensure their With our “Planning the Day” application, our employees have the happiness and improve their quality of life. We provide special In addition, this year we have provided our mothers a special opportunity to determine their own office hours, on the condition off-days on birthdays, access to special bargains from partner Maternity Leave guide and a Work Models guide, while preparing that they meet the minimum office hours per day. Our “Mobile firms, and a “renewal” programme that will aid our employees in our expats comprehensive orientation packages. Working” application enables workers to work from wherever living a healthier life. they desire 4 times every month. The “Officestation” application Employee Platforms enables our workers to work in an area designed especially for ▯ Our flexible benefits programme Flex Menu provides them in any Turkcell location. advantages ranging from gift cards, vacation packages, and To better understand the needs of our workers, innovate new interim retirement payments to healthy life bundles. Our employees ideas, and provide the highest quality of service, we place Health and Mindfulness are free to combine these offerings in the way that best suits their great importance on maintaining constant communication with needs. our employees. We share information with our staff and our We value the health of our staff, and organize regular seminars ▯ Our individual retirement plan caters to all our workers, and management team through special meetings such as Infotoday, on a wide array of health and fitness topics. Our employees have we make payments ranging from 2% to 3% of every employee’s Leaders’ Conference, Communication Meetings, Quarterly access to office exercise sessions, dieticians to combat obesity salary towards their retirement plan. Presentations, and Allhands. By regularly inviting experts to our and aid in weight control, Pilates sessions designed to preserve ▯ Employees who have worked with Turkcell for 7 years or longer offices, we organize seminars in a wide array of topics such spine health, and yoga-zumba classes to aid in mindfulness. In have the opportunity to take a “Renewal Leave”, a 3-month break as work life, family, personal development, and social life for addition to these benefits, all our employees have access to eye from work, and invest this spare time into whatever they deem our employees. We invite many experts from diverse fields to and dentist appointments, and spinal health examinations. appropriate. the “Salı Pazarı” and organize seminars designed to stimulate TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 45 discussion and introduce our employees to new perspectives. Through our employee-led travel and hobby clubs, we support travel, art, and sports activities for our workers while organizing events In addition, our employees have access to diverse social clubs with our music and theatre teams, thereby further strengthening our social bonds. such as Mothers & Fathers, Bloggers, Sports, Animal Lovers, With the Turkcell Advantages platform, which provides our employees significant discounts on a variety of goods and services, we Motorsports, Cinema, and Turkcell Social Activity Groups (TSAG), provide socio-economic privileges to our employees outside the workplace, in a broad range of fields. where they can collaborate with other employees to plan activities in their interest areas. Celebrating success together is an inseparable part of our workplace culture, and employees who demonstrate exceptional performance are rewarded our CEO and CXO awards by our Board of Directors and Deputy Director Generals. Through our instantaneous rewards platform, all our managers can provide instantaneous benefits and rewards to their employees through our mobile application. We reward the members of innovative and valuable projects through our “Now This Deserves an Award” programme. Through our “Innovation Platform”, we gather the opinions of our workers on issues determined by the business departments, and reward those with the most innovative suggestions. Employees who complete their 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th years are awarded a specially prepared thank-you package, and are honoured in our Seniority Awards ceremony. Our institutional sports teams, comprised of our employees, provide our workers the opportunity to exercise with the discipline of a sports team and represent the Turkcell brand with success in competitive leagues. Through our Turkcell Görevlileri Fund, comprised of regular donations from all Turkcell workers with a salary, we initiate volunteer projects to raise curious, active, analytical, tech-savvy, communicative, and environmentally conscious youth. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 46 Turkcell Academy With world class, innovative learning systems, we are developing the skills of our workforce Turkcell Akademi Fotoğrafı As Turkcell Academy, the corporate university of Turkcell, we work to spread a culture of life-long learning among our employees to provide them opportunities to renew, change, and transform their careers. We introduce our employees to new skills, professions, fields of work, and fields of expertise, based on the technological innovations shaping our institutional business plans. In doing so, we prepare our workforce for the jobs of the future. We strive to pride equal access to education for all During the program, 25 participants selected by MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) received training on IoT, the our staff, and train all our employees irrespective of their rank or position. main source of future technologies from leading professors at MIT. With the training received, our participants will continue to create global solutions by producing innovative products and services across many areas such as health, agriculture, logistics, With the Turkcell Digital Masters program, we have education and the environment, not only for our customers but also for Turkey. launched the largest in-house digital transformation initiative in the world With our “Developers of the Future” programme, the largest coding community in Turkey, we are Having focused on developing pioneering products and services that will educating and strengthening our community. shape the future world with the new generation technologies, Turkcell maximized the level of expertise of its employees in this area with the Developers of the Future has been providing free software, training, development and attainment opportunities since 2013. Digital Masters program. In the context of Digital Masters Program prepared In order to develop lives through technology, and contribute to the realization of the dreams of all segments of society, we in cooperation with Udacity and Turkcell, online trainings were provided eliminate the digital divide, inequality of opportunity, financial impossibilities, insufficient supply and lack of role models. We in the fields of Data Foundation, Introduction to Programming, Business strive for Turkey to become a leading country in software development. With the Turkcell Developers of the Future Platform, Analyst, Data Analyst, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. During we strengthen Turkey by offering an integrated training and development solution in many areas that add value to the society, the 8 month program, 721 out of 1,093 participants were granted Udacity primarily Women Developers of the Future, Tester Women and Children. Nanodegree certification by completing the training and projects. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 47 Through technological innovation, we prepare Women Developers of the Future Operator, prepare Turkcell Group leaders as pioneer leaders for Turkey for the future With the “Women Developers of the Future Project” initiated in the new World through collaboration with leading universities and We have signed agreements with Turkish content providers, all cooperation with Turkcell and the TOBB Women Entrepreneurs institutions around the World and in Turkey. experts in their fields, in order to attract those people working across Council, we provided women with 6 months of software training These programs are implemented in six different leadership levels, diverse technologies to our Developers of the Future community, in 18 cities, and supported them to develop mobile applications. 319 ranging from aspiring managers to C-Level, focusing on the and to present the most up-to-date content. In this respect, the out of 761 women who completed the in-class and remote Mobile development of approximately 700+ Turkcell Group Leaders. Developers of the Future Platform will possess important content Application Development trainings, developed mobile applications The “Digital Business Transformation” program, the focus of the pertinent to the current agenda, such as database training, web with 203 project ideas. Of the 660 women who successfully IMD Global Leadership Program, and provided to directors by IMD training, game programming training, data science, machine completed the training process in the Women Developers of the Business School in 2017, was designed for all of our managers this learning and deep learning. Future Project, 100 were employed by Turkcell to carry out end-user year to support Turkcell’s vision of becoming a digital operator. The program was delivered by 15 volunteer directors, who had tests of Turkcell products and services. Every day, 100 expert test completed the IMD Global Leadership Program, to a target group women, from 21 cities of Turkey, experienced Turkcell products and We have touched the of nearly 500 managers. 100 4 lives of 4 million people. services end-to-end with the possibility of remote working, shared improvements that need to be made from the perspective of a The “Building Leaders” certification program was designed and Country Million real end-user, and contributed to the development of products and implemented with the collaboration of Koç University for aspiring Users To date, 4 million users from 100 countries have benefited for services. On November27, at the Ankara Presidential Convention managers and new manager target groups. This eleven-day program is intended to develop the Strategic Thinking, Strategic Centre, we launched Women Developers of the Future project. We 400 thousand hours from the Marketing, Networking, Finance and Digital Transformation focus aim to reach more women this year with more comprehensive Developers of Future portal, which includes content for adults and of the target group.. content. children related to new technologies, and primarily Turkish mobile and web programming. On the Developers of the Future Platform, Turkcell Academy GNCYTNK Programme We Equip Children with 21st Century Skills. which has 137 thousand registered users, 17 thousand people have successfully completed the online trainings and received 37 Through the GNCYTNK With Turkcell’s Children Developing the Future Project, we taught thousand certificates of achievement. We do not only offer an programme, Turkcell Academy coding to 660 children aged between 7-18 in an entertaining fashion online training platform, but have also become Turkey’s largest through the Scratch and App Inventor trainings developed by Code. provides newly employed youth a software community, providing face-to-face mobile application org, MIT. We lead the translation of the MIT Scratch coding platform year-long customized education development training for 10 thousand students at 105 universities, in actively used by 33 million children around the world, to develop programme. Comprised of 6 the TRNC and across the 81 provinces of our country. . games, animations and stories into Turkish. modules Turkcellliler Burada, Müşteri Burada, Teknoloji Burada, We Raise the Leaders of the Future. Yeni İş Dünyamız Burada, Kültür Burada, and Girişimci Liderler 100 women Burada-GNCYTNK provides hundreds of educational methods employed amongst 660 Leadership Development Programs based on Turkcell’s initiatives including digital learning, experience-based learning, and one-onand strategies, together with Turkcell’s vision of being a Digital one learning to nurture the talents of tomorrow. , TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 48 HAP+ completed their developmental journey by receiving their in-class of artificial intelligence with scholarships, we play an important role in training in Turkey and implementation trainings in China. generating a qualified workforce for the information sector through Through HAP+ trainings that will benefit the personal development 18 certificate programs through which we have shared our knowof Turkcell employees, we provided our employees with new how with thousands of university students. At 10 of Turkey’s most perspectives and broadened their visions through methods such We contribute to employment and labor prestigious universities, we have planned Mobile Communications as experiential learning and distance learning in addition to facedevelopment in Turkey with the country’s most Technologies and Software Testing courses together with our Turkcell to-face learning with seminars and in-class trainings. advanced technology certificate programs. Academy trainers. Through these courses, we both introduce youth in Turkey to the technology sector and support our employees’ CX Lab know-how and background development. In addition, we ensure Since 2016, we aimed not only to increase the technical competencies the participation of our managers, who are experts in their fields, in With the “CX Lab Customer Experience Development Program,” of our employees, but also to serve our customers better and the activities planned by university students, to conduct information we enabled our customer experience teams to design Customer provide the best customer experience with the Technology Retailing sharing sessions, and support the development of our students with Experience journeys with a “Design Focused Perspective”, providing Certificate Program, through which we provided trainings to develop our short-term training programs. In 2018, we had the opportunity them the opportunity to improve this perspective and the way of competence and behavior. We have prepared our employees for to reach out to almost 10 thousand students.. doing business, in Turkcell. their transformation to the field by combining many trainings from orientation to trainings on focus in line with business strategies. 10,000 employees have become more equipped experts through the Technology Development Programme Turkcell Academy Certificate. In addition to the Basic Certification, we continue to deepen the vertical expertise of our employees with In parallel with developing technologies and Turkcell’s strategic Development of Employees by Numbers 2018 the Advanced Certificate Program, IOT, Turkcell Financial Services, priorities, we focused on the topics of Big Data, Hadoop, iOS & Digital Services and Solutions Certificate Programs. Android, Business Analysis, UX, IoT, Virtualization, LTE, 5G and Security Total Number of Training Participants 3.889.094 in our “Technology Development Programs.” We provided 123 Total Hours of Training 2.084.035 thousand hours of training for our 2,500 employees through online We Support Promising Youth in Technology. Number of Academy Instructors 600+ training platforms and in-class trainings. Percentage of Online Trainings 93% among all Trainings While we support the studies of local and national research Number of Education Partners 400+ The “NT Expert Program” aimed to ensure rapid adaptation to the groups, we help young people to become better equipped for changing Turkcell Network World, and to develop competencies new business areas during their development journey through the in the main domains of the Network. In the scope of this program, technology programs we prepared with the expertise of Turkcell. organized with Huawei, 34 people selected among Network teams While we support the research of PhD students working in the field TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 49 Customer Experience Turkcell Çağrı We are well aware that our Merkezinden Görüntü leadership position in the communications and technology sector is thanks to the satisfaction and trust of our customers. Personal Mobile, Personal Fixed Line, Enterprise Mobile & Fixed Line, Financial Solutions, Traditional Channels, Digital Channels, Program and Performance management. Each team is tasked with designing, evaluating, and improving our customer experience. Our customers are perhaps our greatest partners, and their satisfaction and We regularly record the satisfaction of our employees through surveys, use these surveys to develop our procedures and praise regarding our services and their customer experience is always among services, and aspire to provide perfect service to customers in all our segments. our priorities. From product development to pricing, we incorporate customer suggestions into our procedures and design our plans to To provide an unrivalled customer experience, we utilize employee and account for their expectations. Through a variety of channels such as Digital Operator, social media, application advisor, managerial teams who address the individual needs and expectations of our chat, My Business, and other digital channels, we obtain customer opinions, suggestions, and complaints regarding our customers quickly, safely and reliably. In this manner, we strengthen our position services, and analyse these suggestions to improve the services provided by our employees to the greatest level possible. in Turkey while gaining the opportunity to expand into new markets. By listening to the “voice of our customers”, we believe that we can find the most appropriate solutions for their wants To address the ever-changing needs and expectations of our customers, and and needs, we provide customized deals to our customers based on their requests, needs and expectations, and maintain account for changing world standards, we prioritize positive interaction and our support to customers through post-transaction support. In 2018, we analysed and evaluated the statements of over communication with our customers and develop solution-oriented strategies. 23.2 million customers through our call centre, social media, chat, and digital communications channels. To ensure long-term partnerships/relationships with our customers, strengthen To further improve our products, services, and procedures, we take customer advice at all points of contact with customers. our bonds, and ensure their interest in employing our services for years to come, Approximately 200,000 customers provide us their suggestions, and share with us their experiences. With this feedback, we continue to provide quality good service, innovative products, and valuable we aim to elevate our services to new heights. service offers. To provide the highest quality of service in our interactions with customers, we maintain a Customer Relations Department specialized in managing client relations. The customer experience team is comprised of seven sub-teams: TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 50 The Turkcell Promise to our Customers The satisfaction of our customers is what has enabled Turkcell to attain and maintain leadership in policy, and we promptly address complaints in three stages, through the communication channels the communications and technology sector. We improve our services on a day-to-day basis, and from which they were received; ensure that providing an unrivalled customer experience is the first priority of our employees and 1. Our front office unit records customer complaints. managers. 2. Complaints with immediate solutions are directly addressed by the Front Office. We pledge to provide services unrivalled in safety and performance throughout all of Turkey, further 3. For complaints that cannot be resolved immediately and require comprehensive investigation: develop our customer relations at every opportunity, and innovate new solutions for our clients in the complaints are ranked in order of their importance and transmitted to the back office. The back years to come, just as we do now. office takes the necessary actions to address the concern, provides constant updates throughout the complaint resolution procedures, and reports customer satisfaction at the end of the resolution Turkcell Global Inform process. We regularly monitor the channels used for customer suggestions and complaints, identify areas for Turkcell’s customer services are primarily operated by our subsidiaries Global Information Marketing improvement, and make the necessary changes to further improve our services. Once a complaint and Call Centres A.Ş., or “Turkcell Global Inform”. Turkcell Global has been received and addressed, we conduct root cause analysis to prevent further complaints of Inform provides a 24/7 call centre service and answers nearly a similar nature. 130 million calls annually. Our communication and customer We prioritize the digitalizing our communication with customers, and invest in online self-service assistance policies are put into practice by Turkcell Global Inform. channels to this end. Through the Digital Operator application, our primary online self-service portal, In addition to the services Turkcell Global Inform provides in the Turkcell customers can now schedule appointments at our stores and follow their inquiries. Telecommunications sector, the subsidiary caters to our diverse In addition, customers can make use of the online chat portal on our website, or the chat feature portfolio of customers by developing expertise in fields such as law, finance, energy, and retail. Global of our Digital Operator website to communicate with Turkcell representatives. We proactively ask Inform also provides solutions in fields such as telemarketing, technical support, customer retention our customers if they require assistance when they seem to struggle with making transactions or and loyalty, collection, customer value development, customer information management, and analysis, purchasing products on our website. placing customer experience at the heart of all its activity. We acknowledge the efficiency benefits of technology, and employ an AI Chatbot named “Turkcell Turkcell Global Inform also facilitates communication with customers through channels such as call Assistant” to address basic customer inquiries. Now over 75% of billing inquiries are handled solely centres, Turkcell communication centres, turkcell.com.tr, Superonline.net, social media, BiP, web chat, by Turkcell Assistant, freeing up staff for more complicated issues and enhancing our customer email, and face-to-face communication, while developing custom solutions for customers through experience. its design team in a way which encapsulates all stages of service. Among the customer satisfaction measurement techniques we utilized in 2018, the Net P Score, one of the most popular and internationally acknowledged techniques, suggested improvements in We conduct customer satisfaction management in line with the ISO 10002 standards. Our call customer satisfaction in every quarter.. centres provide uninterrupted service in Turkish and foreign languages. To ensure that all customer suggestions are evaluated, we have integrated complaint management to our customer satisfaction TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 51 Enhancing customer experience through AI TURKCELL EVREKA As the customer experience team, we accelerated our artificial intelligence projects in 2018 to minimize human effort in our We test the customer experience through Turkcell Evreka with our customers and channel employees, tackling any problems, processes and increase customer satisfaction. 4 of the 30 projects and evaluating developmental areas and innovative concepts for our products and services. that we determined as priorities went live in 2018. With these four We invite users to contests through SMS or BiP channels. In exchange for their ideas, feedback and problem determinations, Artificial Intelligence projects, we saved TRY 12.1 million in total, TRY participating users compete with each other for various prizes thanks to Turkcell Evreka’s gamification 2.6 million of which will be saved every year. Together with the +15.000 infrastructure. financial benefits, we also provide significant improvements in Share customer experience. We listen to the Voice of the Customer through the Turkcell Evreka platform, which we designed based on the Crowdsourcing model, and save on traditional testing and research resources. Customer Experience Performance Management Thirteen different contests were completed in the first year of our gamification platform and more than 15 thousand posts were shared. We monitor the experience that our customers had on a daily 13 Different Among these, we continue to monitor over 1,500 actions that will either improve customer experience, basis through the Customer Experience Dashboard, with over Competition or provide a cost advantage. 400 metrics that we have determined, and an automated data infrastructure. On this platform, we ensure that the experience metrics that all functions throughout Turkcell Group are responsible for are clearly demarcated, and that specific actions are taken based on them. We aim to reduce the complaints and improve the level of our customers’ satisfaction by defining the improvement needs in detail on a map of Turkey for each province and district separately. İlgili Görsel İlgili Görsel TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 52 Customer Health and Safety These teams conduct detailed analyses to ensure that our procedures meet the standards of the Protection of Personal Data We prioritize procurement from local suppliers throughout our operations. In this way, we ensure We believe it is essential to provide projects designed to preserve act.Abiding invariably to the mandates of data privacy legislations that all of our ICTA responsibilities are fulfilled, the health and safety of our employees and customers. In line with is one of our primary responsibilities. and maintain a sustainable ratio of local to SME this, we initiate architectural projects throughout our franchises and purchases. By meeting with local SMEs during our SME Days, we conduct joint projects and aid in the all our stores. In addition, in 2018, we did not experience any incidents Supplier Relations and development of SMEs. In 2018, 20% of our purchases of violation of regulations regarding the health of our customers, including the impact of our products and services on them. Procurement/Supply were from domestic suppliers. We give importance to ensuring our supplier relationships built on Through our Procurement Ethics Regulations, which we publish mutual trust, that are managed to provide long-term benefits, active both online through our supplier portal and in print, we thoroughly Customer Privacy and communication, transparency, and sustainability. To this end, we detail our stance on issues such as legal obligations, bribery, child labour, assault, working hours, compensation, anti-discrimination, Information Security conduct all our operations with the goal of working more closely with our suppliers and ecosystem partners, work in broader fields health, safety, and environmental sustainability. Through our Supplier while addressing larger audiences, and impacting the lives of more Management System, we check the commitment of our partners individuals. to legal obligations and our Purchasing Ethics regulations, supervise We conduct all our operations with significant care for the information them regularly and evaluate them accordingly. security of our customers, be they individual, corporate, or stable. In 2008, as the first telecommunications service to attain the ISO Through the Turkcell Supplier Portal established in 2013, we maintain one-on-one communication with our partners and ensure that Should our supervisions reveal a failure to abide by our policies, we 270001 Information Security and Management System Consulting our relationships remain sustainable and uninterrupted. Suppliers contact the supplier and demand an action plan for the resolution certificate, we promoted employee knowledge and awareness of who want to work with Turkcell can apply over this platform. After of the problem. We monitor the actions taken by the supplier to information security practices through informative sessions such as prospective suppliers are evaluated for conformity to the Turkcell address the issue throughout the resolution process. e-leaning platforms, educational videos, employee portals, in-class workshops and similar initiatives. Group Ethical Purchasing Guidelines, they are added to our portfolio, provided that they meet all our criteria. By transmitting our “Fight Following our adoption of the Personal Data Protection Law, we Against Bribery and Corruption” policy and educational documents have initiated our Personal Data Compliance programme. As a part through the Supplier portal, we ensure that they are clearly received of the Personal Data Compliance Programme, our customer data and understood. processing procedures are closely monitored by our work and legal teams. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 53 implementation of determined strategies in an environment-oriented manner that makes businesses more resilient and gives CIPS: The World’s Most Respected Certificate in them competitive advantage. Procurement and Supply Operations Our supply chain management is comprised of three focus areas: green procurement, forward and reverse logistics, and green material management. We monitor these steps of our supply chain thoroughly and regularly to meet our sustainability With over 100,000 corporate responsibilities. members/partners, the Through our green procurement procedures, we check that the materials we source meet our list of environmental criteria, thereby Chartered Institute of Purchasing reducing the environmental impacts of our products as much as possible. In this context, we evaluate certain traits of materials and Supply (CIPS), based in such as energy efficiency, and only procure materials that are energy-efficient and low in carbon emissions. the UK, is the world’s largest Throughout our procurement process, our Procurement Team evaluates whether materials meet our green procurement professional body serving principles, alongside the traditional criteria such as cost and quality. In this context, we: procurement and supply chain operations. Turkcell is the first ▯ Take care to ensure the energy efficiency of our network equipment. Our cellular towers feature stations which generate their business in Turkey to meet the qualifications to earn the CIPs own electricity. Corporate Procurement and Supply Certificate. In 2017, we were the ▯ Renew the cooling systems in our data centres, as well as their energy infrastructure to use the latest and most energy efficient first firm to renew the CIPs certificate after receiving approval in the technology. “Leadership and Organization”, “Strategy”, “People”, “Procedures and ▯ Purchase green office products, to fulfil our corporate needs, such as green appliances, sensor-fitted faucets, and stationery Systems”, and “Performance Management” criteria, demonstrating made from recycled plastic. our services to be of international standards. ▯ Have developed electronic work systems such as My Mobile and My Expenses to reduce the use of paper in the office. Through our e-archive system, we ensure that our paper consumption levels remain low. ▯ Have ensured the recycling and re-selling of over 5,253,255 kg of waste originating from our cell towers. In 2018, we were nominated for two awards in Through our energy planning procedures, established as part of the ISO 50001 Energy Management System, we review our the “Supply Management Awards 2018 Europe”, planning, operations, and procurement procedures, and develop our procurement practices on a day-to-day basis by making organized in Prague by CIPS. revisions as needed. Green Supply Chain Activities in Turkey The need to innovate to meet the demands and challenges of changing global conditions increases on a daily basis. Preserving our ecosystems and our natural resources while fulfilling the demands of our customers is one of our key priorities as a business. Reducing energy expenditure and investing in environmentally friendly products are among current trends, as well as the TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 54 GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN Green Logistics Procedures: Through green logistics procedures, we design the most efficient and effective distribution chain in our logistics web management, thereby reducing distribution costs and Green Materails Management carbon emissions from transport vehicles. ▯ Reusing Reverse Logistics: Through reverse logistics operations, we ensure ▯ Recycling that return procedures are managed in the most efficient way possible, and that the returned equipment is recycled or repurposed. We publish the carbon reduction we have achieved through these measures in our Sustainability Reports and CDP platforms. In 2014, we were the first institution in Turkey to be granted the ISO 14064 certificate following our efforts to report and address greenhouse gas emissions in the GSM sector. Re-Logistics Green Materials Management: Through green materials ▯ Combined management, we strive to re-use the materials not used in our operations, and evaluate the recycling and repurposing of these Transportation materials. We aim to use our materials in the most efficient way possible Equipment ▯ Storage with Close until the end of their lifecycle. To do so, we oversee the testing and Procurement Proximity repairs of faulty equipment and reduce the costs of procurement. ▯ Reducing Energy ▯ Reverse Logistics Expenses ▯ Logistics Processes ▯ Picking Advanced Technology Products ▯ Picking Products that Generate Less Waste TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 55 SOCIAL INVESTMENT Women We design projects to provide women equal opportunity in access PROGRAMMES to information, and strive to develop solutions which will provide them equal work, pay, and the opportunity to make differences in As Turkcell, we contribute to our society by integrating technology their society. into the daily lives of Turkish citizens, and supporting social projects. Since the day of our establishment, we have centred our social Women Developers of the Future responsibility projects around the equalizing power of technology, initiating social inclusion projects designed to provide everyone with In collaboration with TOBB and the TOBB Women Entrepreneurs equal access to information and concomitantly equal opportunities. Foundation, we have initiated the Women Developers of the Future Today, we continue to initiate projects that empower the women, project. Through this project, we provide women training in coding, children, disabled persons, and refugees in our community, and in and support them in developing mobile applications. We aim to 5 our area of operations as a whole. By supporting entrepreneurship in increase the employment opportunities of women in the technology GENDER sustainable business models, we contribute to our local community sector, and nurture female entrepreneurship. The target audience of EQUALITY while laying the long-term groundwork for a more liveable, our project is high school graduates, university students, and recent REDUCED sustainable world. graduates in their late teens, with aspirations for working in the INEQUALITIES At Turkcell, we believe that as society develops, so does our business mobile technology industry, and bringing their ideas to life through and as our business develops, so does our society. Accordingly, the medium of technology. we collaborate with non-governmental organizations to initiate Our participants receive online and in-class instruction on mobile projects and programmes with high-value, permanent benefits for coding, developing their skills while learning entrepreneurial skills our communities. Every year, we invest 1% of our revenue in social under the guidance of their mentors. In the process, they receive the investment projects.. skills necessary to realize their ambitions and create their products. 1st year 1.359 Through a competition between the participants, 100 of the most talented attendees are hired by Turkcell as testing experts to Strengthen and promote 2nd year 1.510 conduct end user tests. Our project provides 46,000 hours of online social, economic and APPLICATION instruction, and over 1,800 hours of in-class instruction. The project political inclusion of all by has received 1,359 applicants in its first year, and 1,510 applicants in 2030, regardless of age, Achieve gender equality DECENT WORK AND its second year, demonstrating the ambition and preparedness of gender, disability, race, ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable and empower all women in Turkey to excel in the field of coding. To date, over 300 ethnicity, religion, economic economic growth, full and productive women and girls by women have developed over 200 mobile applications and written or other status. employment and decent work for all by 2030. 2030. 2.3 million lines of code as part of this initiative. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 56 CHILDREN To ensure that children are producers and not consumers within the digital attend seminars and workshops on artificial intelligence, coding, astrology, world, that they take advantage of the significant advantages provided by robotics, smart home, and cloud Technologies. technology, and that they grow up to be digitally responsible citizens, we strive to In the second phase of our Whiz Kids project, we’ve granted participants access develop projects which will boost their competencies, and to create educational to the Open edX platform used by institutions such as Stanford, Harvard, and MIT, platforms which will enable them to discover their potential.. providing all students access to the new Power of the Mind Mobile Application and Education Platform. Through these platforms, we will continue to offer new Whiz Kids online courses through these platforms. To date, our project has provided training QUALITY to over 30,000 exceptional students EDUCATION In collaboration with the Turkish Ministry of Education, we have launched the “Whiz Kids” project, an initiative to connect talented students with technology, grant them technological fluency, and develop their skills at a young age. in 7 provinces, through 33 laboratories. Over 22,000 Maker coding In our Whiz Kids Laboratories, students are allowed to experiment with laptops, Kits have been distributed in 81 provinces, and one-on-one education 3D printers, smartboards, electronic/robotic coding systems, and toolkits. Children has been provided to over 6,000 students. Our project is expected to touch the lives of 20,000 more kids before 2020. Digital Intelligence Ensure inclusive and Technology and the digital word may provide remarkable benefits to our equitable quality children; however they also pose various threats. Students use the power of the education and promote internet and mobile technologies to communicate and learn-however, reliance lifelong learning on these platforms has led to the discussion regarding the risks of technology, opportunities for all ranging from cyberbullying and privacy issues to the spread of false, fake, or misleading information. To protect our youth from these detriments, we have developed the Turkcell DQ (Digital Intelligence) application, designed to promote productive time practices and safe browsing habits, and made the application available for free to children between the ages of 8-12. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 57 HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUALS HThrough our “My Dream Partner”, “My Sign Language”, “Dialogue ▯ My Dream Partner: My dream partner is Turkey’s largest platform for visually-impaired Museum”, “Boundless Education”, and “My Gem Inside” projects that individuals, with over 75,000 users. are brought to life with the “Engel Tanımayanlar” program (An initiative directed towards helping handicapped individuals; meaning “those ▯ My Sign Language: The first and most comprehensive Turkish sign language dictionary, who don’t recognize and give into barriers”), we aspire to provide the the My Sign Language application has over 115,000 users. resources for disabled individuals to utilize their full potential, make active contributions to society, and gain complete autonomy. Our “Partner to ▯ Dialogue Museum: We raised awareness around visual and auditory impairments in QUALITY over 220,000 visitors. Dreams” application, enables visually impaired individuals to maintain a EDUCATION social life equal to those of others, our Sign Language application acts as a bridge between hearing-impaired individuals and their friends/ ▯ The No Barriers Education Programme: We have reached more than 30,000 family. students in 104 schools with custom-made classrooms for hearing-impaired, visually-impaired, and intellectually disabled individuals. We also strive to break down stereotypes of disabled individuals. We regularly support the Dialogue Museum, in which non-disabled persons experience being disabled for a short period of time, and nurture empathy and understanding. Under “Engel Tanımayanlar”, we provide an array of services and Ensure inclusive and equitable quality contribute to diverse social responsibility projects. Our Education without Projeden Görsel Boundaries platform provides custom-made classrooms for disabled education and promote individuals, thereby supporting their education and the development of lifelong learning their skills. In our schools for those with learning disabilities, we provide opportunities for all students with accommodation, travel, food, and workshops in arts/crafts, graphic design, computer technologies, along with music workshops. For our visually impaired students, we provide Braille-print books and the Orbit Reader notetaking device. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 58 REFUGEES Hello Hope Hello Hope is a two-pronged humanitarian project in the Kahramanmaraş Temporary Refugee Centre, comprised of the Hello Hope Technology Centre and the Hello Hope application. The Hello Hope Application: To assist temporary Syrian refugees in adapting to Turkey, and to aid them in learning the Turkish language, we have developed the Hello Hope mobile application. The application provides refugees with feature such as Turkish education, voice translation, valuable information, 1 Million education, and relevant news. The application is free, has approximately 30,000 monthly users, and has been downloaded 1 million times as of 2018. Downloaded The Hello Hope Technology Centre: 30.000 The Hello Hope Technology Centre began operations in 2016 September, in the Active Users Kahramanmaraş Temporary Refugee Centre. The centre contains 5 classrooms equipped with IPTVs and Turkcell tablets, in addition to free fibre internet for all Syrian refugees. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 59 SPONSORSHIPS We Expanded Our Support for Disabled Sports Leagues to Include All Sports and Operations. We believe that contributing to societal development is one of our primary responsibilities. Accordingly, we sponsor and support projects In 2018, we continued to support our initiatives to integrate disabled in diverse fields such as arts, culture, and sports. individuals into daily life through our sponsorship of sports in Turkey. We maintain collaboration with the Disabled Sports Federation in over 18 We Continue our Support for the Development of branches, sponsoring both national teams and leagues. Our efforts were Sports in Turkey. recgognized by the IPRA Golden World Awards, the most respected global awards in public relations. Turkcell has maintained its pioneering efforts to develop sports in Turkcell At the Physically Disabled Sailing branch in Turkey, Miray Ulaş, the winner Turkey and help Turkish athletes and National Teams in their journey of gaining both national and international recognition for many sponsorluğunda of 5th place in the world, and Hüseyin Akbulut, the winner of the 1st place in the Silver Group made us proud at the Sheboygan 2018 Paralympic years. In 2018, we continued our support for our National Teams in the fields of football, athletics, and swimming, as well as sailing and görünürlüğü olan World Sailing Championship. physically disabled sports. In the scope of individual amateur sports, görsel we continued our support for the disciplines of running, fishing and golf, organizing events under our name throughout the year. From the day of our establishment, we have supported the development of sporting activities in Turkey through our TURKSPORU platform. Our athletes have been honoured as World and European Champions, attesting to their spectacular performance. We support each federation’s Our sponsored Turkish athletes won the World and Europe both National Teams and championships with the support of Turkcell in 2018. We Maintain our Contribution to Football leagues. Having committed to being the “Official Communication Sponsor” in 2002, we have maintained our sponsorship of the A National Football Team, as the “main sponsor” since 2005. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 60 Our Amputee A are the Second-Best in the world! SWIMMING AND ATHLETICS PROJECTS EIn the Amputee Football World We Provide the Greatest Private Sector Support to Amateur Turkcell 1 Million TL Success Cup in Mexico, our National Amputee team outpointed their Sports in Turkey. sponsorluğunda Bonus rivals, winning the 2nd place. We plan to invest a total of TRY 28 million in the swimming and görünürlüğü olan As Turkcell, with our vision of athletics projects initiated in 2013, under the auspices of the Turkish contributing to the development Ministry of Youth and Sports until 2020. With this project, we have görsel of TURKSPORU and with awareness of supporting the development been providing the greatest and longest term support to amateur of disabled sports in Turkey, we granted our athletes a TRY 1 million sports to date in Turkey. success bonus. In the coming years, we will continue our support, We are actively involved at every step of the project, which aims to to experience this pride in other disability sports branches. increase the number of active athletes in swimming and athletics, category, becoming European Champion. Meanwhile, and targets success in the international arena. We work with the Yasmani Capello brought a silver medal to our country in the Athletics and Swimming Federations across many areas, ranging 400 meter hurdles finals. We won bronze with Yasemin Can from the implementation of innovative and modern management in the 5,000 meter women’s category. At the 100 metermen models and expansion of the pool of young athletes, to continuity of finals, Jak Ali Harvey added another bronze to our medal elite athlete development, corporate and technological development. collection. We successfully ended the tournament with the We began to see achievements in the semi-finals and finals in Silver Medal that our national team won in the 4x100 meters accordance with the objectives of the Swimming and Athletics category. Performance Projects that we initiated in 2013. At the 2018 European Swimming Championship in Glasgow, V. Zeynep Güneş made it to the finals in the 200 meter women’s mixed category. In addition to this success, our national swimmers successfully swam for our country in four semi-finals in the same tournament. We have supported the growth of the number of the licensed athletes which recently reached to 224,076. In athletics we have Reached over 32 thousand reached out to over32 thousand young athletes in 78 races that had our name and support. young athletes through We crowned the successful performance of 2017 with achievements 78 races. in the European Athletics Championships in Berlin in 2018. Ramil Guliyevranked second fastest of all time in Europe in the 200 meter TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 61 We Conducted the 4th Turkcell Gelibolu Marathon, the First Shaping the future of sport in Turkey Thematic Marathon in Turkey, With Over 5,000 Athletes. The Turkey Athletic Talent Screening and Orientation to Sports Project, officially sponsored by Turkcell, the lead supporter of TURKSPORU, and initiated together with the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of National Education, continues to We organized the 4th Turkcell Gallipoli Marathon, train the champion athletes of the future. 46,884 athletes, who are qualified from among 423,557 students during the first phase Turkey’s first thematic marathon, in the unique screening kicked off in May, started to the second training module of 4 months. atmosphere of the historical Gallipoli Peninsula October We have supported Foundational Movement Skills workshops in 81 provinces. We maintain our support for Sports Education 14. Over 5 thousand athletes participated in the programmes which emphasize a wide array of disciplines and branches. In addition, we have assisted in the completion of the marathon. second phase of student screening for the largest infrastructure project in the history of Turkish Sports. As a result of this initiative, over 100,000 athlete-students in the 3rd grade and above were identified, and invited to receive Foundational Movement Skills Training. To date, we have scanned the physical data of over 1 million kids. TThrough a dedicated marathon channel aired within BiP, we enabled participants to register for the event, sharing related information through one-to-one communication with them. We provided free fizy for our runners with chips, enabling them to listen to the Turkish/foreign jogging lists custom made for the marathon. In addition, our participants were able to purchase advantageous travel packages throughout the whole trip. We enlarged the Turkcell Peace forest, which we created in previous Turkcell years by planting 20 thousand trees in the Güzelyalı and Çınarlı region, by planting additional 10 thousand new seedlings. sponsorluğunda We will continue our support for the marathon which provides görünürlüğü olan athletes and sports fans a unique running experience, over the years to come. görseller 20 thousand trees in the Güzelyalı and Çınarlı region, by planting additional 10 thousand new seedlings. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 62 We set sail for freedom with the Turkcell Bosphorus Cup! Turkcell sponsorluğunda The Turkcell Platinum Bosphorus Cup 2018, one of Turkey’s key sporting events in the international arena, saw its 16th outing on görünürlüğü olan September 29-30, 2018 this year, attended by over 100 boats from around the world. After two days of uninterrupted excitement, the görseller team to lift the grand cup this year was “Istanbul Cerrahi Cheese” led by Levent Peynirci. With the Turkcell Platinum Golf Challenge, we united golflovers in Turkey The Business world went fishing with Turkcell in Çeşme Over 100 golfers competed in the tournament held in Bodrum this year for the second time in the scope of the Turkcell Platinum Golf Turkcell Challenge. The two-day tournament was attended by the President of the Turkish Football Federation Yıldırım Demirören, Turkcell CEO sponsorluğunda The Turkcell Platinum International Fishing Tournament was held in Seferihisar on September 20-23, and in Port Alaçatı on October Kaan Terzioğlu, and key figures from the business world including görünürlüğü olan 4-7. The tournament which outsets an international atmosphere Fikret Öztürk and Cemal Kalyoncu. due to the significant interest from the foreign participants, since After Bodrum, Turkcell Platinum united golf lovers in Samsun on görseller its inception hosted numerous contestants from across the world September 1-2, 2018. Nearly 100 golfers competed in the tournament once again this year. held this year for the first time in Samsun in the scope of the Turkcell Platinum Golf Challenge. As part of the tournament, the golf course in Samsun was opened. The Turkcell Platinum Golf Challenge was held at the Kemer Country Golf Club in Istanbul on October 19-20-21. Close to 300 golfers participated in the three day tournament, being held for the fourth time this year. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 63 ARTS AND CULTURE fizy High School Music Competition Reached 825 2.4. Million thousand We perceive culture and the arts as pertaining to Turkey’s most The 21st anniversary of the high school music contest was held with View important values. With the desire to both support and raise these the sponsorship of fizy. The contest featured intense participation people values, we became the Communication and Technology sponsor from 557 high schools in 49 provinces. of Sakıp Sabancı Museum in 2014. The audition videos posted on the fizy High School Music Contest platform, visited by 2.8 million users, had received over 291 thousand We will continue to support culture and the arts by integrating our technology that improves and facilitates life into museums. votes within 3 weeks. The Karabük Safranbolu IMKB Fine Arts High School won first prize in the event among 35 high schools Geceden Görüntü competed on the final day. Introducing fizy to Germany The fizy Istanbul Music Week Brought Pop and Turkish Our cooperation that started in Turkey last year with Tarkan, Turkey’s Music under the Same Roof and Shaped the Music Scene megastar, has expanded overseas. We continued our cooperation in Turkey with 7 concerts in 6 German cities, organized as part of fizy’s launch in that country. We provided privileges to fizy users during concerts fizy Istanbul Music Week took place for the first time in Turkey, watched by 50 thousand people. combining popular culture and Turkish pop music under one roof, Our cooperation with the megastar continued in Turkey at the same which hosted five signing days, 36 concerts and 300 musicians on pace. We released 2 new video clips in March and October, and five stages. 25 thousand people participated in the six-day event. achieved record viewing figures by presenting them for the first The fizy Music Awards Night, where the “top” individuals of the Turkcell Starry Nights and only time, for fizy users to view for a period of 2 weeks. digital platform in 2018 were awarded, has set the music agenda in Istanbul and Turkey with live broadcasts, 13 full-fledged panel With Turkcell Starry Nights, which took place between August 30 discussions and 47 speakers. and September 10, 2018, music lovers enjoyed a wonderful series of Lansman summer concerts. While 55 thousand people enjoyed the concerts at the Harbiye Open Air Theatres, they were broadcast live on fizy, 50 hours of musical performance took place on the Turkcell Stage, Turkcell Platinum Stage, Studio and AMFI within the Zorlu Görüntüleri and watched by over 400 thousand people. Performance and Arts Center through 36 concerts given by over 300 musicians. In addition to 25 thousand participants, fizy Istanbul Music Week concerts were watched by 210 thousand fizy users through a live broadcast of nearly 12 hours in total. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 64 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL 05 Climate Change and Efficient IMPACT Management of Energy Water Management Waste Management Good Practices OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 05 We are aware of the need to protect the environment in which we interact to sources and applications that will reduce energy consumption. leave a livable world for future generations. In our activities, we manage the use We take a focused approach to responsible consumption of resources, effective of natural resources by considering the needs of future generations, and we pay management of waste and recycling. attention to effective and responsible management of environmental impacts and the development of environmentally friendly business processes. Climate Change and Efficient Management of Energy In addition to our aim to reduce our environmental impact, we pioneer our competitors Climate change, which is regarded as one of the most important environmental, through our practices with the awareness of our responsibility to contribute to social and economic threats of our age, requires the reduction of carbon emissions the fulfillment of environmental responsibilities of the business world. We produce that have been continuously increasing from the past to the present, and also the use solutions to reduce our environmental impact in base stations, data centers and of natural resources more efficiently. As Turkcell, we are aware of our responsibility office buildings that we use in our operations and operational processes. to combat climate change and manage the risks of climate change. The steps we In the regular and continuous monitoring of our environmental impact arising from have taken are in the direction to realize SDG 13 ”Climate Action” and we aim to By 2030, upgrade our operations, we determine our impact areas and aim to reduce these impacts best fulfill our duty by integrating climate change awareness into all our processes. infrastructure and retrofit under control. Within this scope, we focused on efficacy and efficient use of energy. In the regular industries to make them monitoring of our energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, we invest sustainable, with increased Our senior management, which prioritizes sustainability, undertakes the audit of our in providing energy efficiency and reducing our carbon footprint and develop resource-use efficiency and environmental sustainability activities in the light of our Environmental Management environmentally friendly technologies. We continue to reporting on the CDP (Carbon greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound Policy, which we set in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. In these activities, Disclosure Project) in order to transparently share our climate change performance. technologies and industrial we prioritize the determination of our environmental performance to the greenhouse In 2018, we realized total electricity consumption of 146.6 million kWh. As a result of the processes, with all countries gas emissions resulting from our activities within the scope of combating climate energy efficiency and saving practices we have incorporated in our processes, we taking action in accordance change. have achieved a reduction of approximately 15 million kWh in electricity consumption with their respective In order to reduce our environmental impact, we implement technology and compared to the previous year. During the year, we realized our energy consumption capabilities investments for the productive use of energy at every stage of our business processes. from non-renewable resources as approximately 8.1 million m3 of natural gas and Within regular monitoring of our carbon footprint, we invest in renewable energy 205.4 tons of diesel fuel. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 66 In every stage our of our work procedures, we play an active role in the preservation communication units also contributed to the energy savings we achieved. We do of the environment and the reduction of Turkey’s energy consumption through our not limit saving to infrastructure only, and we turn it into a lifestyle. energy-efficient technologies. Our energy saving applications include Inventer Air Conditioner, Field Without Air Conditioning, Efficient Rectifier, Free Cooling, Outdoor With our modernization activities , we provide energy savingsas well as Cabinet, Cell Sleep Mode (Energy Saving Algorithm Applications) and Renewable improvements in capacity and customer experience, accelerating the transition to Energy. Due to the efficiency and savings solutions we implemented throughout a high-quality infrastructure ready for next generation communication technologies. 2018, we achieved energy savings of TRY 58 million, exceeding 96 million kWh. This amount corresponds to the total electricity consumption of 36 thousand households Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) for one year. Turkcell’s investment in environmentally friendly systems in 2018 reached TRY 20 million. CLIMATE Year Scope 1 Scope 2 ACTION Turkcell is the First Mobile Operator with ISO 50001 and ISO 14064 Certification 2016 10.054 tCO2e 357.080 tCO2e In Turkey, although the first mobile operator Energy Management System Standards 2017 28.544 tCO2e 360.053 tCO2e ISO 50001 and ISO 14064 Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions certificates have 2018 54.453 tCO2e 381.341 tCO2e Calculation and Reporting, auditing and certification of these updates are done regularly. Improve education, We pioneer the sector with our efforts to increase environmental awareness and to Detailed information about our climate change performance can be found in our awareness-raising and make efficient use of energy resources. Due to the high energy consumption rate in CDP reports: human and institutional the data centers, we aim to provide energy efficiency in all areas starting from these capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, points. By using innovative energy-efficient equipment in our base stations and office https://www.turkcell.com.tr/en/aboutus/corporate-social-responsibility/ impact reduction and early buildings, we save energy and reduce our carbon footprint, while also contributing sustainability warning to the country’s economy. Within the scope of our infrastructure investments, we continue our preparations for 5G network and our investments in 4.5G network. On the other hand, we are modernizing our 2G and 3G fields and making them ready for new technologies. As a result, in 2018, we achieved energy savings of up to 35% with new generation products in these areas. Within the scope of our modernization project, we renewed the components used in the infrastructure with products that provide higher energy savings. Due to the newly installed solar panels and wind turbine installations, renewable energy TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 67 Base Stations We reduce electricity consumption through improvements in energy consumption and innovative practices. We intend to continue to increase the use of renewable While our base stations are the operation area where we need maximum energy, energy in our base stations by closely following the technological developments in they are also a key point in our efforts to combat climate change. At our base renewable energy applications in the coming years. stations, we are working to increase energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In these efforts, we aim to meet the current and future needs of our Our Energy Consumption Works and Amounts in 2017 customers without compromising our service quality. We monitor energy consumption in our base stations regularly and continuously, ERİŞİLEBİLİR AFFORDABLE VEAND and prevent energy loss as a result of maintenance, repair and renovation works. TEMİZ CLEANENERJİENERGY In addition to these activities, we are reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by opting for renewable energy sources to meet the needed energy. While determining our strategies for base stations, we determine the needs for 4.5G network and 5G network to be used in the near future within the scope of factors such as performance feedback from our customers, investment analysis and geographic structure where cells are located. We carry out all processes regarding our base stations in accordance with national and international standards and regulations. For human health and safety, which is Significantly increase the among our priorities, we strive to minimize our environmental impact at all stages, share of renewable energy from planning, design, installation to operation and maintenance of base stations. in global energy resources by 2030 We ensure that our base stations are serviced in a very safe manner by means of control and electromagnetic field strength measurements before and after installation. We continued our energy saving efforts with energy efficient on-off inverter air conditioner exchanges, passive cooling systems and efficient outdoor cabinets implemented at our base stations. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 68 Water Management In order to transfer water, which is one of the most important natural resources, to the next generations, we pay importance to the efficient and responsible consumption of water. We are developing projects to reduce our water consumption and use water resources efficiently for the sustainable management of water that we see among our priority environmental responsibilities. With the efficiency and savings projects that we implement in our office buildings, where our water consumption is the most, we reduce water consumption and continue to work for the recovery of our waste water and its use in different areas. . Total Water Consumption (m3) Waste Management We manage the environmental impact of waste generated as a result of our operations and Year Mains Water activities in a way that minimizes our environmental impact. With the minimum waste generation and maximum waste recycling approach we adopt in all our processes, we carry out our processes 2016 112.761 in full compliance with the relevant waste regulations and regulations. With this approach we adopt, we integrate systems that reduce waste generation and use of 2017 89.567 natural resources into our operations, decompose wastes that we cannot prevent at source and 2018 105.958 recycle them. We develop activities to reduce the materials we use in our office buildings, such as paper, and segregate any waste such as paper, plastic and household waste. We direct the recycling of these wastes to the recycling facilities with the works we carry out jointly with the provincial and district municipalities where our company buildings are located and the related institutions. We prevent the resulting oil wastes from being mixed with domestic waste water by holding them with separate oil retaining systems. As a result of our activities, we share hazardous waste such as batteries, electronics, cables and supplies with licensed and competent recycling companies within the framework of the regulation and prevent the interaction of hazardous waste with the environment. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 69 Network-based Wastes We follow the sectoral innovations and trends regularly and in this sense, we update our systems accordingly. We renew the devices we use in our base stations with advanced and high energy efficient devices to meet the innovative and technological needs. We evaluate the possibility of re-use of our products resulting from this change and sell them as second hand in order to provide more revenue to our company. We also contribute to the protection of our own resources with the devices we re-use. We carry out recycling activities for non-reusable devices in compliance with laws and international regulations. Total Waste Amount (Ton) Type of Waste 2016 2017 2018 Domestic waste* 563,3 1290 1255 Oil waste** 5,7 12 15,5 Paper* 55 90 85 Electronic waste (Battery)* 1,1 3 2,6 Medical waste 0,27 0,15 0,24 *In the reporting year, the amount of household waste, electronic waste and paper waste has decreased due to the closure of Balıkesir and Denizli buildings. ** In the reporting year, due to the increase in the number of transformers and generators in Ankara Plaza and maintenance of DC generators in the Gebze facility, waste oil generation increased. TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 70 Good Practices economy along with the widespread use of digital signatures. With our eco-friendly Safe Digital Signature application, we aim to In July 2018, we launched the project for the disposal of organic become paperless in all our stores, while enabling our customers wastes on site within the scope of Zero Waste Project in Küçükyalı to carry out their paperwork in a safer, faster and practical way, Plaza, our Head Office building. Within the scope of the project, while at the same time preventing waste of paper and saving organic wastes such as vegetable and fruit wastes and tea and water and energy. We also reduce the processing time by 60% coffee pulps produced in our cafeterias are processed in our using the Secure Digital Signature application. compost unit and become organic fertilizer. Since July 2018, we In this respect, we achieved savings of TRY 22 million as a result have produced 2,196 kg of compost from 5,185 kg of organic waste. of completing 15 million transactions with digital signatures. When We give away the compost we produce to our employees and the digital signature conversion is completed at all our service evaluate it in our soil areas in our terrace areas. Through the project, points, we expect to save TRY 40 million in cost and digitize 150 we aim to create environmental awareness in our employees and million pages of documents. In this way, 20 thousand adult trees, to ensure the recycling of our waste. 342 thousand tons of water. E-Fatura ve SMS Fatura M2M TECHNOLOGY We aim to ensure that our customers’ invoices are always sent in a Intelligent solutions offered by the machine-to-machine safe, timely and transparent manner. In this regard, we contribute communication (M2M) technology that enable devices to to the protection of nature by making the invoices reach our exchange and process information without human intervention customers quickly by using the digital sending channels of invoices continue to facilitate human life and increase productivity. and by sending the invoices from digital media. In 2018, we came As Turkcell, we support the reduction of environmental impacts in first in the world among telecom companies for environmental with the M2M solutions we offer. We also contribute to the more billing subscription ratio by reaching 97% for Individual Mobile, 88% efficient use of M2M technology across the country with the speed for Corporate Mobile, 96% for Fixed Individual and 95% for Fixed we provide with our 4.5 G infrastructure. With M2M technology that Cumulative categories. can be used in many different fields including logistics, agriculture, water and electricity meters, white goods sector and residences, Safe Digital Signature businesses can instantly monitor their energy consumption. In this context, we support significant energy and economic savings by With Safe Digital Signature, we are making a first in Turkey. We facilitating energy management. expect to reach about 300 million of contribution to Turkey’s TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 71 GRI INDEX 72 GRI INDEX GRI Standard Notifications Page Number GRI 100 GRI 101: Basic 2017 Standards Strategy GRI 102: General 102-14 Declaration of Standard Notices the highest Message from the Chairman of the decision-making Board authority Organisational Profile 102-15 Providing a Corporate Risk Management and description of lock Business Continuity influences, risks and 102-1 Establishment About the Report opportunities name 102-2 Primary brands, Products and Services Code of Ethics and Principles products and services 102-3 Place where the Turkcell Küçükyalı Plaza, Aydınevler headquarters of the 102-16 Values, establishment is Our Business Ethics and Ethics located principles, standards Principles and behavioral norms 102-4 The number of About Turkcell countries in which the organization operates 102-17 Report internal Our Business Ethics and Ethics and the names of the and external Principles countries concerned mechanisms such as with the help lines or advice specific activities of the lines for advice on organization or with ethical and legal respect to the topics of behavior and sustainability described corporate honesty in the report issues. 102-5 Nature of Partnership Structure and Senior Property and legal Management structure 102-6 Markets served Governance About Turkcell by us 102-18 Management Partnership Structure and Senior 102-7 Scale of the Employees organisation Management establishment Operational and Financial Information 102-8 Information on Employees Partnership Structure and Senior employees and other 102-22 Composition of workers the highest governance Management body and committees Supplier Relations and 102-9 Supply Chain Procurement/Supply 102-23 Notify the Partnership Structure and Senior President of the highest Management governance body at 102-10 Changes in There has been no significant change in the organization and supply the size, structure, ownership or supply chain chain of the company. same time whether he The Chairman of the Board does not is an executive director have an executive role. 102-11 Prudential (and if so, the function approach or prudence Corporate Risk Management and Business Continuity of the person in principle question and the reasons for this adjustment). 102-12 External initiatives Sponsorships 102-13 Association Communication with our partners membership 73 Stakeholder Participation 102-52 Reporting About the Report 102-40 List of Communication with our partners frequency stakeholder groups 102-53 Contact 102-41 Collective Communication with our partners information for About the Report bargaining agreements questions about reports and content Communication with our partners 102-54 Compatibility About the Report option selected according to GRI Standards 102-43 Stakeholder Communication with our partners engagement 102-55 GRI Content approach GRI Index Index 102-44 Key issues and Communication with our partners concerns 102-56 External No external audits were received for Assurance the report. Reporting Material GRI Standard Page Number 102-45 All institutions Issues About the Report included in the consolidated balance sheets or equivalent GRI 200 GRI 201: Economic Performance documents Economic Standards Series About the Report 102-47 List of priority Our Material Issues 103-1 Explanation of Operational and Financial Information topics Priority Issues and Limits Limits 102-48 Information Our Material Issues rearranged according 103-2 Management Operational and Financial Information to previous reports approach and components 103-3 Evaluation of Operational and Financial Information 102-49 Changes in management report approach 201-1 Produced and Operational and Financial Information 102-50 Reporting periodA bout the Report distributed economic value 102-51 Date of previous 1st January 2018 – 31st December 2018 report 74 GRI 202: Market Asset GRI 205: Fight Against Corruption 103-1 Explanation of Corporate Governance 103-1 Explanation of Business Ethics and Our Ethical Priority Issues and Priority Issues and Limits Principles Limits 103-2 Management Corporate Governance approach and 103-2 Management Business Ethics and Our Ethical components approach and Principles components 103-3 Evaluation of Corporate Governance management 103-3 Evaluation of Business Ethics and Our Ethical approach management Principles 202-2 Employment Corporate Governance rate of top 205-2 Communication Business Ethics and Our Ethical management from and training on Principles local community anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 206: Reciprocity Contrary Behavior 103-1 Explanation of Business Ethics and Our Ethical 103-1 Explanation of Our Products and Services Priority Issues and Principles Priority Issues and Our Contribution to National Economy Limits Limits 103-2 Management Business Ethics and Our Ethical approach and Principles 103-2 Management Our Products and Services components approach and Our Contribution to National Economy components 103-3 Evaluation of Business Ethics and Our Ethical management Principles 103-3 Evaluation of Our Products and Services management Our Contribution to National Economy 206-1 Total number of Business Ethics and Our Ethical 203-1 Supported lawsuits related to Principles infrastructure Our Products and Services anti-competitive investments and Our Contribution to National Economy behavior, trust and services monopoly activities and their results Our Products and Services Our Contribution to National Economy GRI 204: Purchasing Apps 103-1 Explanation of Supplier Relations and Priority Issues and Procurement/Supply Limits 103-2 Management Supplier Relations and approach and Procurement/Supply components 103-3 Evaluation of Supplier Relations and management Procurement/Supply 204-1 Percentage of Supplier Relations and expenditure on local Procurement/Supply suppliers 75 GRI 300 GRI 305: Emissions Environmental GRI 301: Materials Standards Series 103-1 Explanation of Climate Change and Effective Priority Issues and Management of Energy 103-1 Explanation of Waste Management Limits Priority Issues and 103-2 Management Climate Change and Effective Limits approach and Management of Energy 103-2 Management Waste Management components approach and components 103-3 Evaluation of Climate Change and Effective management Management of Energy 103-3 Evaluation of Waste Management management 305-1 Direct Climate Change and Effective greenhouse gas (GHG) Management of Energy 301-3 Percentages of Waste Management emissions (Scope 1) recycled products and packaging materials 305-2 Indirect energy Climate Change and Effective greenhouse gas (GHG) Management of Energy emissions (Scope 2) GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of Climate Change and Effective Priority Issues and Management of Energy Limits 103-2 Management Climate Change and Effective approach and GRI 306: Waste Management of Energy components 103-3 Evaluation of Climate Change and Effective management Management of Energy 103-1 Explanation of Waste Management Priority Issues and Limits 302-1 Energy consumption within Climate Change and Effective 103-2 Management Waste Management the organization Management of Energy approach and components 302-2 Energy Climate Change and Effective 103-3 Evaluation of Waste Management consumption outside Management of Energy management of the organization 306-2 Waste by Waste Management tapping and disposal GRI 303: Water method 103-1 Explanation of Water Management GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Priority Issues and Limits 103-2 Management Water Management approach and 103-1 Explanation of Our Environmental Impact components Priority Issues and Limits 103-3 Evaluation of Water Management management 103-2 Management Our Environmental Impact approach and components 303-1 Source-based Water Management 103-3 Evaluation of Our Environmental Impact total water management withdrawal 303-3 Recycled and Water Management 307-1 Major penalties Our Environmental Impact reused water imposed due to non-compliance with Environment Law and regulations 76 77 78 79
